Would you turn in your copy of God's word now to Joshua? Well we'll be in chapter five again and I believe that's on page two hundred and thirteen of your Pew Bibles. For context, I'll begin at verse 1, but we will be in verses 13 through 15 this evening. Let's give attention once again to the very word of God. Joshua chapter five As soon as all the kings of the Amorites who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites who were by the sea heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel until they had crossed over. Their hearts melted, and there was no longer any spirit in them because of the people of Israel. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, make flint knives and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time. So Joshua made flint knives and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeoth Ha-Aaroth, Ha-araloth. And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt. Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised. But the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished because they did not obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord swore to them, that he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give to us, a land flowing with milk and honey. So it was their children whom he raised up in their place, that Joshua circumcised For they were uncircumcised, because they had not been circumcised on the way. When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed. And the Lord said to Joshua, Today I've rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. And so the name of that place is called Gilgal to this day. Well the people of Israel who were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the 14th day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho. And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land, unleavened cakes and parts of grain. And the manna ceased the day after they ate of the produce of the land. And there was no longer manna for the people of Israel. but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year. When Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing before him, with his drawn sword in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said, Are you for us or for our adversaries? And he said, No. But I am the commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshipped And said to him, What does my Lord say to his servant? And the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy And Joshua did so. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. You pray with me. Father our God, we come to a passage which Maybe difficult to understand. It certainly is not an experience that we have had. And so we ask, Holy Spirit, that you'd work in our hearts. That you would edify each of us tonight. That you would use this, your word, your special revelation. In every single way that you have planned and purposed to use it. Have your way with us, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How are your doubt doubts? Affecting your walk with Jesus Christ. We read a passage earlier this evening from John's Gospel, John chapter 6. In that passage, Jesus had just finished feeding the 5,000. Performing a supernatural act, bringing enough bread and fish out of a few to feed five thousand plus women and children. And then as he anticipates that they were going to take him to become king, he withdraws himself to a mountain alone. And then we read that it as it becomes dark, the disciples set out in their boat. They're headed across the sea, they're going to Capernaum. And John records, it was now dark, and Jesus had not yet come to them. We also know that the wind and the waves pick up. They're blowing Strong and the disciples aren't getting to their destination. They'd only rode about three or four miles. Imagine the doubts of the disciples as they're straining at the oars, not getting to where they had desired to go, possibly thinking and and and wondering in their minds if they would make it, wondering if the boat would sink. Wondering if the ministry with Jesus would ever continue, or maybe would they ever see Jesus again? Possibly many doubts swirling in their heads as the waves battered the boat and the winds were whistling past their ears. We know the account tells us that Jesus does come walking on the water, calling out to the disciples, do not be afraid. And as soon as they take him into the boat, John records that they're immediately at their destination. We can just wonder and speculate as to how the doubts were affecting the faith of the disciples that night. That's a bit of what we have tonight in the text in Joshua. The Israelites have now crossed over the Jordan. God has separated the Jordan so that they can walk through on dry land, knowing that the people in Jericho have melted hearts because the spies have brought that information back to them. And so they're going over in confidence Even in more confidence is the Jordan has now separated, and they've walked on dry land as the ark preceded them. That being the sign that God was with the Israelites. He was present. And the presence of God was made known by the separation of the waters of the Jordan. And now as the crossing is complete, 40,000 were prepared for war, yet they were not yet circumcised, as we read tonight. They needed to be so. Even as the twelve stones were set up as a memorial to remember what God had done that day, the the warriors, the males, needed to be circumcised before they could then begin the fight. And so now they're waiting. Their healing has begun, and they're waiting. Passover has been celebrated. As they've been circumcised, and now the produce of the land is being eaten by the people. The manna has stopped falling, and we get to this text before us this evening. Joshua, outside of Jericho, now lifts up his eyes and sees a man with a sword drawn. And he asks a question, are you for us or for our adversaries? And the man responds, No But I'm the commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. Immediately Joshua falls down and worships or bows down. And ask that question, what does the Lord say to my servant? It doesn't seem that Joshua's yet understanding who this is that's standing before him, and yet he's in submission. And the response is, take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you're standing is holy. That's our text tonight. On its face It's rather straightforward. But there's much in this passage that we need to dig out. Indeed, we might sum this up by saying the believers foil against doubt. is the work of remembering the promises of God, the believer's foil against doubt. Is the work of remembering the promises of God. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, doubt is nurtured as believers forget the promises. Secondly, belief is increased as the word is proclaimed, and finally worship is the result as faith replaces doubt. As we go through these few verses tonight, I'd like you again to be asking yourself that question: how are my doubts affecting my walk with the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, first, doubt is nurtured as believers forget the promises. Again, Jericho is before Joshua. He's standing outside of Jericho. Joshua knows that this will be the first attack, the first battle of the Israelites, as they are now poise to not only enter the promised land as they already have, but occupy the promised land. And Jericho will be the first city attacked and purged of its occupants. such that the Israelites can now begin to dwell in the land. And so we have this picture of Joshua standing outside the fortified city, outside of that first battleground. the first city to be taken. It's as if the commander of the Israelites, the leader is now scanning the battlefield in advance of the battle, and you could almost envision he's got these binoculars, although they didn't exist back then And he's just scanning the the battlefield, looking over it as the leader, the head, the captain, to determine how he will command his army. To approach the enemy and attack. And then, seemingly out of nowhere, he lifts up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing before him with his drawn sword in his hand. So Joshua is now confronted with a man. You only have these two in this passage right now, just Joshua and this man, one like Joshua. One that appears to Joshua as a man, one that Joshua can approach as a man. Joshua as a man himself. Can expect to receive and speak to this one as a man and receive a word back from this one who's like him, and so he approaches One who, at least from the reader's perspective and probably Joshua's perspective, has suddenly appeared out of nowhere. That's the only context we have. Joshua was by Jericho. He lifted up his eyes, looked, and behold, a man was standing before him. But not just standing. He has a sword drawn. It's quite an amazing picture. We read nothing of Joshua having his own sword. We read nothing of Joshua drawing a sword. We read nothing of Joshua having a shield. But nonetheless, we read that Joshua now approaches this man who has his sword drawn, not knowing the man's intentions. And certainly we give the impression, the man gives the impression that he is ready for battle. The only question in Joshua's mind is apparently whether this one is going to fight for Israel or fight for Israel's adversaries. So it's a confrontation. But a confrontation of words. Listen to Joshua's question. Are you for us or for our adversaries? The question seems really appropriate. From Joshua's perspective, there are only two involved. In this forthcoming battle, it's the Israelites and it's the Jerichoites, if we can refer to them that way. the adversaries of the Israelites. That's it. There are no others, just the Israelites and the men who occupy that portion of the promised land. And Joshua refers to them as our adversaries. That's Joshua's belief. That was his assumption. That was his worldview. That was his attitude. And so he asks the question based upon that assumption, which side are you on? There are only two. Man with the sword drawn, which side? For us or for them? You must have come for the battle. You got your sword drawn. Who are you for? Who are you against? See, this is how we tend to see our battles in this world, isn't it? In our lives today, we tend to think that it's us Christians the good people against everyone else. We tend to think that those are the only two groups, us and those who are not of us We tend to think that our adversaries are men, women and children who are not part of us. We tend to think that our battles are waged here in this world. And so we watch the news and we hear of persecutions of Christians and immediately identify our adversaries as those who would persecute Christians. We hear of those who would promote and encourage abortions, and we label them as our adversaries. We hear of those who would ban prayer or the Bible. In public schools, and we think the battlefield is there. That's the battlefield we are to engage. There are two sides: us and them. But this mindset completely negates God and his promises. It completely negates the engagement of God in our battles. It completely forgets who our adversaries really are. But this question of Joshua appears on his face to have forgotten just that. The promise and the evidence of the presence of the living God. Remember, Joshua was told by God himself that he would be present with Joshua just as he was present with Moses. It's the fifth verse in this book. So I will be with you. I will not forsake you or leave you. Not only did Joshua have that promise But Joshua had witnessed the very presence of God. Here is how you shall know that the living God is among you and that he will not without fail Drive out from before you the Canaanites and everybody else. The waters of the Jordan shall be cut off from flowing. That's how they, Israelites, would know that God was present with them. The waters of the Jordan would be cut off This powerful act done in the middle of the Jordan as God separates the waters of Jordan from the waters of Jordan. So that the Israelites could pass through on dry ground. Joshua himself passed through on the heaped up dry ground, meaning the heaped-up waters on either side. He experienced the presence of God. And so you might be thinking at this point, how is it that Joshua could ask this question? Are you for us or for our adversaries? Where was God in Joshua's question? Us, our adversaries. Only two No reference to the Lord who had brought them across the Jordan. No reference to God who had brought them through the wilderness. No reference to the Lord who had Brought them to the Red Sea, who had delivered them from the Egyptians, who had promised to be their God, and to bring them into this land flowing with milk and honey, had Joshua forgotten Forgotten his promises, forgotten his presence. The question seems to suggest that. Have you forgotten? How often do we think like Joshua? How many times do we need to be reminded of the promises of God? How often do we rehearse the presence of God in the history of redemption? Isn't that why we consider our battlefield to be here in this world? With men and women and children who appear to be our adversaries, because we forget the promises of God, because we we neglect To rehearse the ways in which God has demonstrated His presence with His people, the way in which He's demonstrated His presence with us? Brothers and sisters, we need to ask the Spirit to help us. Remember, Joshua was was standing outside of Jericho, but probably within the site of those twelve stones that have been placed as a memorial An everlasting memorial for the children of God to look upon and say, you know, why are those there? So that the parents could relate to their children? This is why they're there. Because God was present with us and brought us across the Jordan on dry ground. Supernatural event. His presence is with us even now. Joshua had that. Yet he appears to neglect it completely. Oh, we need the Spirit. To work so powerfully in us to remind us of the promises of God and the presence of God. Every day That brings us to our second point. Belief is increased as the word is proclaimed. The answer given by the man with the sword is quite surprising if we think of it, and also very insightful. Joshua asked that question: Are you for us or for our adversaries? And the answer given by the man is no From our limited human perspective and finite abilities to grasp all things, it seems that the man just didn't understand the question. No, I'm not for you. I'm not for your adversaries If the man had stopped there, we can imagine that Joshua would have been scratching his head and wondering, what is this guy doing out here outside Jericho with his sword drawn? If he's not for us, if he's not for our adversaries, why is he here? What's he doing? Why does he have a sword? And why is it drawn? But he didn't stop there. No, but I am the commander of the army of the Lord. So now we have an identity. The commander or captain. The man with a sword drawn now has identified himself as the commander or the captain of the Lord's army. What a title! What a description we have before us this evening. What does it mean? First it must mean that Joshua was wrong. There's a third group, at least the way I would understand this passage. Others may take it a different way. But it seems to me that there's this third group, a third party involved in the coming battle. The Lord's army. I don't think this is a reference to the Israelite army. I think it's a reference to the army of God The Lord's army will be involved in the battle, just like that army that Elisha's servant was able to see, if you remember that passage in in Kings and and and they're coming after them the army is coming after Elisha. And his servant is very nervous, very concerned because he sees this human army. And Elisha prays that the servant would be able to see the army of God that's surrounding. And his eyes are opened. And he sees that there are more with Elisha than are with them. His eyes were opened. So here the commander speaks of the army of the Lord and not just another another army, but the Lord's army. Jehovah's Army. And the one who leads that army, the one who guides that army, the one who directs that army is present now with Joshua. He's the one who's responsible for gaining the victory. He's the one who knows the enemy and his strengths and weaknesses. He's the one who knows his warriors and and their abilities, but he's also the one who's obedient to the king. Isn't that what we know about commanders and captains? They're obedient to the one who commands them, the king He receives orders from the king. The commander is guided by the will of the king. Remember, it's the army of the Lord, not the army of the commander. So the commander is receiving his direction from God Himself. He's commanding the army of the Lord and it fights really not for Israel. It fights not against the adversaries of Israel. No, the commander fights for the Lord. The battle's the Lord's. Isn't that what David said to Goliath? As Goliath is taunting the army of the Israelites, David gets up to him that's Philistine and says, You come to me with a sword and sword spear and with a javelin, but I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel whom you have defiled. The battle is the Lord's, and He will give you into our hand See, that's what Joshua didn't understand yet. That's what was missing in Joshua's heart. Joshua needed to be led by another. And so the other is now here. Commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. Amazing language. Now I've come. This man utters these critically important, significant words. Now I have come. These words seem to be the centerpiece of this passage. The commander has come, the captain of the army of the Lord has come. And the army has come. The commander of the army wouldn't be there unless the army was with him. Joshua needed to hear this. You see, apparently seeing was not sufficient. He lifts up his eyes, he sees the man with the sword drawn, he takes it all in, but that wasn't sufficient. His first question reveals that truth. Joshua needed to hear the word from this man. He needed to hear it from this one with the sword, this commander, and here it is, very simply, now I have Come. Meaning at least that he had not previously come, but but now he had this one, this commander was present. And he had taken up his post, his position. And this truth is proclaimed very clearly, very concisely, very plainly, now I have come. That was enough. Did you see Joshua's reaction? Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshipped. The New American Standard says he bows down. There's a change in Joshua immediately. There's recognition and submission. And it took the very Word of God to bring Joshua to the ground in submission and servanthood. See, one who thinks that he's alone in battle will not bow down. He will not submit himself. Joshua did. Do you see the power of the word? Joshua begins apparently doubting the presence of God. And thus feeling alone, believing he's alone, and leading the Israelites, but upon hearing the word, confirming the presence of God through his commander To his army, Joshua's whole outlook has changed. The one who was assuming his independence is now believing that he is not alone, that God will fight And that he, Joshua, must follow. That's the power of the word. As Paul puts it, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. You might be asking yourselves that question, well why now? Now I've come You must begin to see the divine nature of this one, this man, this commander. Commander of the army of the Lord. Consider that God is holy, holy, holy, and remember the Israelites have been in sin. Forty years is their birthing male children, not circumcising a single one. They were in sin, outward, flagrant sin by failing and refusing to circumcise their sons born in the wilderness. And that sin clung to them such that they couldn't eat the Passover. They couldn't enter into battle. They were unable to be in the presence of God until they were circumcised. So now that's taken place. As blood has been shed, as his scourge has been removed from by the removal of the foreskin. This man, this commander of the Lord's army, this forerunner of the God man, was able to come and thus say, now I've come. Now that you're circumcised, now that you're part of the covenant. Now have come. But there seems to be another reason. Victory was impossible The Israelites were about to engage in their first battle in the promised land. They were about to engage in the first war to take that which was pictured as an eternal kingdom. And there was no possibility of these Israelites, this nation under God, to secure victory without this captain, without this commander of the Lord's army. Coming. Impossible really doesn't even describe it. Without him, without the Lord's army, they were destined to fall and to be destroyed. With him With this captain, with this commander, with the army of the Lord, victory was sure, victory was certain. And so the need for the commander and his army of the Lord was to come now. Consider for a moment how Joshua was doing before he lifts his eyes and beholds the man with the sword. We're not told, but we can sense that Joshua was feeling the weight of the upcoming battle. It was on his mind and he was feeling and he was thinking that he was alone. Consider the disciples as they were battling the wind and the waves and the boat, rowing and rowing and rowing, and not getting anywhere. When Jesus had not yet come to them. How were they doing? Not well. It was dark. The winds and waves were whipping by their ears. They were losing alone. They were unable to get to their destination. Without Jesus, the disciples were powerless to battle the winds and the waves, the darkness to get to the other side. And that verse is terrifying. Jesus had not yet come to them. But then he did. Now I've come. And as soon as he did, what happened? The boat arrives. It gets to the destination. Just like the Israelites, seeking to enter the promised land. A place of rest, the only place where they could dwell with the living God. But to do so, they had to fight against all those who would oppose them, their adversaries, and they needed, Joshua needed the commander. The Israelites needed the army of the Lord. You're seeking a place of rest tonight. A place of eternal rest, an eternal dwelling place with the Lord, with the living God. And you need Jesus. Got to see how this text points so clearly to your need for Jesus to come. The question is, has he come? Has he come for you? Has he changed your heart? Has he drawn you to himself? Have you lifted up your eyes and beheld him? The one whom you know you can't enter into battle without. Because you're destined to fail without him. But with him. With him. As he, in a sense, takes you to the cross with him, as he takes your sins to the cross. He defeats them. Each and every one. It's his victory on the cross. Which you need, you must have, if you're going to enter into that eternal dwelling place with the Lord, with the living God. Has he come? If you're here tonight, if you're listening and you're thinking, No, he hasn't come. Oh pray. Ask. Plead with him. Plead with him. Acknowledge your sins before him. Ask him to come and penetrate your heart. Ask him to come and change your heart. From stone to flesh that he might come and dwell with you by and through his spirit. Plead with him to come. Come to me, Lord Jesus. That brings us to our third point. Worship is the result as an increase in faith replaces doubt. You consider Joshua's reaction As soon as this commander tells him, Now I have come, Joshua falls on his face to the earth and worships and asks, What does the Lord say to his servant? And the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take off your sandals. from your feet for the place where you are standing is holy. Does that sound familiar? It's exactly what Moses was told that the bush which was burning, which was not consumed, as he was about To lead the Israelites out of Egypt across the Red Sea. And now Joshua is told the same thing. As he is about to lead the Israelites into that place of rest. And Joshua did so. You see, Joshua worships, or at least he bows down. It's difficult to know exactly what was happening based upon the the text here. But that's the only thing that Joshua can do. He bows down before the commander, the captain of the Lord's army, and it seems as though he worships as the promises of God are unfolding in real time before Joshua in his sight. The word of God has been spoken through this man with the sword drawn, this commander, and Joshua's understanding that they're not alone. That God continues to be with the Israelites, with them, and through his commander, through his captain, who's leading the Lord's army, and that called for worship. Those words called for praise and adoration, a bowing down before the greater one. And if we haven't gotten it yet, we we're asking that question, well, who is this greater one? Was his worship even appropriate? And we have to think that there are many descriptors in here which tell us who this one was. He's a man, but doesn't stop there. He's got his sword drawn, so he's a warrior. The sword doesn't remain in its sheath, and and so every impression that Joshua has that we have is that this one is a warrior. He has a sword which he intends to use, knowing that Jesus came bearing a sword. But not a physical one. He's being the sword of his father's word The word of God is living and acting sharper than any two-edged sword piercing to the division of soul and spirit. And when Jesus returns, he will have a sword. From Revelation 19, then I saw heaven open and behold a white horse. The one sitting on it is called faithful and true. And in righteousness he judges and makes war. From his mouth comes a sharp sword. We also have the descriptor of the Lord's army. This one bearing the unsheathed sword is the commander of the Lord's army. And finally. Finally, we have the fact that the ground has become holy, upon which Joshua stands. How could that be? Only because this commander, this warrior, was also God himself. All these descriptors point to this being a pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ, making Joshua's worship very appropriate. And so as a result of hearing the word, the word of God, Joshua submits himself to the word, to the commander, and he becomes his servant. What does my Lord say to his servant? So if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, you have become his servant Isn't that what Paul writes in his letter to those in Rome? Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you're slaves of the one to whom you obey? Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness See, as you submit yourself to the Lord Jesus Christ, as Joshua submitting himself to the commander, what happens? You've been set free from sin. You're a slave now of the Son of God. He's calling you to produce that fruit, that sanctification, which leads to eternal life. Do you see the power of the word? Do you see the submission of Joshua's heart as he hears the word As he believes that he indeed was standing on holy ground and that he needed to obey and remove his sandals so that he could be in the presence of this holy one. As you trust in Jesus Christ, you become his servant as well. And as you become his servant, you're pursuing righteousness. All by the work of the Spirit. Just as Joshua is now submitting himself to the true commander. And as Joshua would then follow the lead of this one who was directing the army of the Lord, even Jesus Christ. Joshua was now secure in victory, wasn't he? Because the commander of the Lord's army was fighting To ensure that God's plan would come to pass, and that means salvation Do you see? You see, that's why the commander could say, no, no, not for you, not for the adversaries. I'm for God. I'm for God's plan, and God's plan is to save a people for himself. Isn't that what you want tonight? As you cry out to Jesus, isn't that what you're asking for? Lord Jesus, please. Please ensure that God's perfect plan comes to pass. Save your people. For your glory. Yes, the believers foil against the creep of doubt Is the work of remembering the promises of God. As the disciples were straining at the oars and going nowhere, it's unlikely that they were remembering the promises of God. Certainly as Jesus gets into the boat, that helped them, and they arrive at the other side, the destination. We haven't gotten there yet, but Jericho's walls are about to fall down. And the Israelites will be singing praises to their God. Brothers and sisters, this passage is a call for us to sing praises to our God tonight. May we do so. Give him the worship that only he deserves. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage which calls us to remember your promises To remember that you are present with us, that you have promised never to leave us nor forsake us, and that we have experienced Not only read about your presence among the Israelites, but we have experienced your presence among us. Help us, Lord God. Holy Spirit, cause us to remember your promises. To remember our experience of your presence among us so that the doubts which Satan keeps on sending our way would be cast off and crushed. under the weight of the increase in faith that you give us as you give us your word. We thank you, Heavenly Father, for the power of your word. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.