Reading of God's word comes to us from Acts chapter 1, verses 12 through 36 or 26. Acts chapter 1, verses 12 through 26. We are in the second half of Acts chapter 1. We saw, you know, in the section before this, we saw the Lord Jesus Christ go up into heaven, go up in into a cloud, and disappear from the sight of the disciples. We saw that he He had given them before he left, he had given them the expectation that the Spirit would come upon them, that they would be his witnesses to the ends of the earth. And now here in the rest of Acts chapter 1, you know, one of the main things that happens here is one of the disciples, you know, Judas, who had previously been a disciple, is going to be replaced. And he's going to be replaced by another one who fills his office. So that is, you know, the heart of what is happening here in Acts chapter 1. Acts chapter 1, verse 12 through 26. Listen to the reading of God's word. Give your attention to it. Then they returned to Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is near Jerusalem, a Sabbath day's journey. And when they had entered, they went up into the upper room where they were staying. Peter, James, John, and Andrew, Philip and Thomas, Bartholomew and Matthew James, the son of Alphaeus, and Simon the zealot, and Judas, the son of James, these all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women and Mary, the mother of Jesus, and with his brothers. And in those days, Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples. Altogether, the number of names was about 120 And said, Men and brethren, this scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke before by the mouth of David concerning Judas, who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus. For he was numbered with us and obtained a part in this ministry. Now this man purchased a field with the wages of iniquity, and falling headlong. He burst open in the middle, and all his entrails gushed out. And it became known to all those dwelling in Jerusalem. So that field is called in their own language Akhel Dama, that is, field of blood For it is written in the book of Psalms, let his dwelling place be desolate and let no one live in it, and let another take his office. Therefore, of these men who have accompanied us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John to that day when he was taken up from us. One of these must become a witness with us of his resurrection. And they proposed two Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justice, and Matthias. And they prayed and said, You, O Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which of these two you have chosen to take part in this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell That he might go to his own place. And they cast their lots, and the lot fell on Matthias, and he was numbered with the eleven apostles. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it and may he add his blessing to his preaching this morning. Well it's clear that what happens here is that uh Judas's spot among the twelve is getting repopulated by Matthias. Judas, who was taken away from the twelve by means of taking his own life, Judas, whose office was taken away from him as he betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ. This Judas gets replaced. And this Judas gets replaced by another apostle. This apostle who is named Matthias. Now it's clear in this text that There's some reason, it seems, why the number of apostles needs to be twelve. We see that the number, when Judas was uh was removed from office, we see that the number went from twelve down to eleven. And it seems like there is a clear concern in this passage that that number that came down to eleven needs to get right back up to twelve. And that's what leads to this one, Matthias, being chos chosen. He gets chosen as the twelfth who replaces Judas. Matthias is now number twelve. The number had gone down to eleven. It goes back up to twelve when Matthias is put in the position of being an apostle. But the question is, why? Why twelves? Why does there need to be twelves? What's wrong with just leaving it at 11, right? So so we lost Judas? We lost one of the twelve Why not just stick with the eleven that we already have? Why not put aside that twelfth? Why not just be okay with having eleven? We see that twelve is an important number. Twelve seems to be an important number. So important that there is a need to replace the twelve. with yet another twelfth. This necessity is seen in the fact that Peter even looks at this whole ordeal as a matter of the fulfillment of God's plan. He mentions the fulfillment of the scriptures, the fulfillment of these Psalms that he quotes from in the passage, and he sees it as part of God's plan that Judas was taken out of his office. And yet also part of God's plan that the one who was taken out is should be further replaced. So there's something significant about that number twelve. There's something significant about there being twelve of the apostles. Now we see how Judas died here in our passage. You know, one of the ways it's described that Judas died, you know, part of his death is described in this passage. Now there's a different description of his death elsewhere in the Gospels And yet this description is uh uh showing us another side of what happened after he died. Now, part of his death involved here in verse eighteen. He had purchased this field with the wages that he had received from selling out the Lord Jesus Christ. And this field he had purchased, he ends up His body ends up falling headlong so that his body bursts open in the middle and all the entrails gush out in verse 18. Very vivid description, maybe more than we would prefer to hear, perhaps. And yet this is how Judas came to his death. And yet, when Judas came to his death, he not only was taken out of the land of the living, but he also lost his office as an apostle. As we see in our text in verse 7, there was a time during which he was numbered with the rest of the apostles and had obtained a part in the ministry of the apostles. And yet, because of the way that he sold out the Lord Jesus Christ, the way that he became a guide to those who had arrested Jesus Therefore, he ends up losing his life. This is a sign of God's curse. It's a demonstration of God's curse. That he who has opposed the plan of God Is given his just dessert, and that just dessert is no dwelling place in the land of the living. Instead, his body falls upon the earth, and his body spills out some of its contents. onto the earth. And this is God's truly just judgment of the one who has who has betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ. So now we see some of this reflected in the language of the Psalms. So for example in verse 20 Verse 20 refers us back to Psalm 6925, a general psalm of David, a prayer for deliverance, a prayer for deliverance from false accusations and from those who are opposing him. And yet David expresses, let his dwelling place be desolate and let no one live in it. So we're seeing Judas receives the just desserts of his betrayal of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those who oppose the plan of God, the just desert, is to be cursed by God, to be removed from the land of the living. and for the place where he lives to be occupied and lived in by no one. So David was praying that prayer concerning enemies who were seeking his harm. And yet it is appropriately applied also to the one here who has betrayed the true son of David. So Judas has betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ And so this curse is applied to him, and the curse comes upon him in his death, as he dies, and as his his body bursts open into that field. Well, also we see yet another curse applied to him in Psalm 109, verse 8. And that curse is that another will take his office. So again, this apostle, Judas, he had a share in the ministry. He had a share in the apostleship for a time. And yet, because of the way he used his office to betray the Lord Jesus Christ, another is to replace him, and another is to replace him, just as was said in Psalm 109. Verse eight. So again, um it's clear that uh you know Judas had done something by betraying the Lord Jesus Christ that warranted his removal from office, also warranted him receiving Um death as the the just dessert for what he had done and as God's curse upon him. But again, the question we are still faced with is why twelve? So okay, Judas is removed from office. There are now eleven instead of twelve. But again, the question is why twelve? What's the meaning of twelve? Now, there are other reasons to ask why twelve in addition. Um, you know, why did there have to be just twelve? Could there have been far more than twelve who were qualified to fill this office of apostle? For example, um You know, in our text, it speaks of as many as 120 names who are recorded among the names of the disciples And among those one hundred and twenty couldn't there have been far more than twelve? Um we see in verses twenty and twenty twenty-one and twenty-two One key qualification for the man who will become the next apostle is that he has to be someone who has walked with Jesus from the very beginning of his ministry. Someone who walked with Jesus from the beginning of the time when he was baptized by John, and yet has continued to walk with Jesus all the way up until the present day in our text. So all the way up through the time when he was put to death, but then all the way up until the time so that he is still presently with the disciples at this moment. And still presently with them in the moments when they see him resurrected in his flesh. And when you think about all the people who might have followed Jesus during the days of his earthly ministry, Surely there are far more than only twelve who might have fit that qualification. So for example, back in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 10, back in Luke, chapter 10. We read about as many as either 70 or else 72 disciples of Jesus, whom Jesus has sent out. Back then Jesus sent out either seventy or seventy-two disciples who were with him from the earliest days. Wouldn't you think that possibly Some of those, if not all of those, were still with Jesus at this present moment in Acts chapter 1. So again, that question is raised, why 12 in particular? Why not 70? Why not seventy-two? Or why not more of those who were present among the 120? Why not pick both of the men who have been put forward? Why not go from eleven to thirteen? Why twelve? Why not say the more the merrier? Going from eleven to thirteen. Why should we get focused on twelve? And in addition, there are also other men who become apostles later on, so it's not like twelve is an absolutely strict limit. on the number of apostles apostles there can possibly be. We know that even when the twelve gets um you know when we get back up to twelve, we know there are still others who become apostles later on, who or who are known as apostles later on. We know Paul becomes an apostle. We know James, the brother of Jesus, is referred to as an apostle. So what is so special about that number twelve here in our text So again, that's the question that this passage really raises for us. You know, Jesus chose twelve to begin with during his earthly ministry. Eleven of those twelve are still followers of him at this point after the resurrection and after the ascension. But now that Judas is out of the picture, why is it so important that we have to get right back up to twelve? But what is the significance of the number 12? What is the meaning of the number 12 elsewhere in the scriptures? Well, the significance of 12 is surely hinted at. Earlier in the ministry of Jesus, it's referred to in Luke chapter 22, verse 30. Back in Luke 22, verse 30. In the coming kingdom of Jesus Christ, how many thrones are there? Well, the scriptures seem to show us that there are twelve thrones that are in the coming kingdom of Jesus Christ. There are twelve thrones. Why twelve thrones? Twelve thrones seems to coincide with twelve sons of Israel. So Luke 22, verse 30 hints at the fact that There are thrones that are set up in judgment over the twelve tribes. And Matthew nineteen twenty makes it clear that there are actually twelve thrones. And the implication in these verses, Luke 22, 30 and Matthew 19. 28, is that the number of the disciples The twelve disciples has something to do with a connection to the twelve tribes of Israel, or actually the twelve sons of Israel. So you understand how the people of Israel came about in the scriptures. You understand how they were twelve sons, initially born to the patriarch Jacob. Jacob, the grandson of Abraham. You know, Abraham received these promises. These promises were passed down to Isaac. These promises were also passed down to Jacob, who became known as Israel. He was renamed Israel by the Lord himself. And this man, Jacob, or Israel, then had twelve sons. The twelve sons grew and became twelve tribes. They became a people through whom God's blessing comes to the world. Now, why is it significant then that there are now in our text, in Acts, twelve apostles? The fact that there are twelve apostles shows us. That's what God will do through these men is a continuation of the purpose He had in calling Israel. Twelve apostles means that the church that is founded upon these apostles is a church that is a continuation of what God intended for Israel. It is either a new Israel or a renewed Israel. That God is bringing about through bringing twelve men. Twelve in apostleship. Twelve are the new twelve. Originally it was twelve sons. Now it is twelve apostles. Now that's significant. The Lord in calling Israel had a purpose. The Lord is going to carry on that same purpose through the new Israel or the renewed Israel, the Israel that is renewed through the apostleship That is numbered twelve. And remember God's main purpose for Israel. Now here we are helped by the passage that we heard earlier in the service. So Genesis chapter 12, especially verses 2 and 3, remember. The blessing that comes to Israel and the blessing that comes through Israel. Here was God's purpose for Israel. His long-range purpose for Israel was what he told Abram. And that long-range purpose is also fulfilled in what God is doing through these twelve, the twelve apostles, who are a renewed form of Israel. So now listen to the words once again of Genesis twelve. God had told Abram, I will bless you and make your name great, and you shall be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and I will curse him who curses you, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. God takes Abraham, God makes his descendants into a great nation, he makes them into the people of Israel, descended from the twelve sons of Israel of the twelve tribes of Israel. But this great people, Israel, what is God's purpose in calling Israel? What is God's purpose in raising up Israel? It is that all the families of the earth should be blessed. So Israel receives the blessing of God. Israel passes on the blessing that they have received. This was God's long-range purpose for Israel. Well now this purpose carries over to the new or the renewed Israel. The Israel that is founded now not on twelve sons, but now on twelve apostles And again, it's significant how this comes about. These twelve apostles are now no longer connected through family relations. It's no longer twelve sons of the same father. Even though all twelve, we understand, are Jewish. But at the same time, these twelve are united not by bonds of family. But what is it that defines the twelve this time? What it is that now defines the twelve is what they have seen and whom they have seen. The Lord Jesus Christ. So yes, they are related in the sense that they're all Jewish. But in another way, what actually ties them together is that they are witnesses to the risen Christ. So now the New Israel, the renewed Israel, God's purposes for Israel as He is fulfilling them in the days of the New Testament, are no longer as strictly tied to genealogical descent And isn't this appropriate? Isn't this the way it should be? Because the main way that God blessed the world through Israel in a genealogical way is that it was through Israel that he brought about the line of the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who was born the Son of God. So, but now that Christ has been born, now that he has been born of the line of Abraham and of the line of David, his promises are no longer so dependent upon genealogical ancestry. Now, there is still a form of ancestry, there is still a form of passing on that takes place, but in under the New Testament, it's less genealogical in the biological or familial sense And it has more to do with the genealogy of the message that you have heard. So what defines the new Israel? What defines the blessing of God that comes into the world through the new Israel and to the new Israel? What defines the new Israel is now that you can trace You can trace your faith to the message that these twelve men testified to. These twelve men testified to that message. They were there and they saw the risen Christ. So in some way, shape, or form, we can all trace our faith back to what these twelve men spoke. So again, it's no longer being part of Israel in the physical sense, but now it's having some form of, you know, in a in a certain way you could, as a figure of speech, say that there is a form of dissent. Where our our faith has somewhat descended from the message that we have heard from these men. And as this message is carried on, as this message continues to be proclaimed to the ends of the earth, God is continuing his purpose is for Israel. God is continuing to bless. God is continuing to spread his blessing to the ends of the earth. The same blessing that we receive, we spread to the ends of the earth. The same blessing that was given to Israel, Israel was meant to spread to all families in the earth, eventually, through the Lord Jesus Christ. Here is the fulfillment. A new Israel has come. A renewed form of God's purposes of Israel is being fulfilled as Christ sends his apostles forth as witnesses of his resurrection. This is why it is so important. There'd be twelve. This is why there can't just be eleven. This is why there can't just be thirteen. This is why there can't be seventy or seventy-two. This is why there God is indicating by this act that he intends to continue that work that he began through Israel. The church, in some ways, is a new Israel. The church, in some ways, is a renewed Israel. And yet again, the church is defined no longer by genealogical descent primarily. But primarily as the gathering around the message of the Twelve. We are those who have received the message of the Twelve. We have received their testimony. We have received their testimony that Christ is risen indeed And that he has been raised for our justification and for the salvation and blessing that come through him. We have received that blessing, but not only have we received it. It is also our task to spread it. It is also our task to pass it on. Just as Israel, um similarly, you know, in Genesis 12, the stock of Abraham They were to receive God's blessing, but they were also meant to pass it on. Well, that is our task. That is what we are called to as a church And so let's hear and receive what God has revealed in this section. Again, this section points to the importance of the twelve They are witnesses to the risen Christ. We are called to receive their testimony. We are called to pass on that which we have received. We are also warned. We're also warned that we should not be like Judas. We're also warned because Judas was someone who failed to receive What was given to him. You know, the message of salvation and blessing in Christ was available to him. He had a greater privilege than most. He had a front seat there with the one who came to bring that blessing into the world. And yet he failed to do the right thing with it. He failed to answer it with appropriate faith. And repentance. So we are warned that just because you are in the midst of the true Israel and the renewed Israel does not mean that your share in that blessing is guaranteed. But we are warned through the example of Judas, yet at the same time that we are warned, you know, this is the warning that calls us to To respond in the right way, to therefore cling to the one whom we have in front of us offered to us. Jesus Christ is offered to us. It's important that we take hold of him, that we receive him That we receive him in the way that Judas did not receive him, but then also in receiving him, and once we receive him, we pass him on. We pass him on. And this is the picture of the church we get in Acts chapter 1. They are those who received the blessing of God. They received the blessing of God in Christ. So they were also called to to bear witness to it and to pass it on to the ends of the world. Well let's now um respond appropriately by coming to our God in Christ and by asking him for his grace, asking for h his help. Oh Father, today we come as people who have received your blessing in Christ. At least He has been offered to us, He has been put in front of us. By means of your word. The word speaks to us of Jesus Christ. The word shows us clearly Jesus Christ, who was crucified and raised for our salvation. Yet, Lord, help us to look to Him, not the way that Judas did. Help us to be quick to receive and to take hold of that which is testified about in your scriptures. But also grant that we as your church would be faithful to the task and the calling you've given to us, to pass on what we have received There is a blessing we have received in Christ. He himself is the blessing, and the Spirit is the blessing. Yet we pray, use us to pass on that blessing to others. For you have stated this as your will, that it is your will that through the line of Abraham all the families of the earth should receive The blessing. So we pray that you use us to that end. Use us to the end that you gather many elect people. Many elect people from a fruitful field of harvest. Um Father, we know this comes not by us, not through our strength, for it is you who does the work, it is you who accomplishes the good things. We ask for your blessing. We ask for your grace. We ask for your enabling ability that comes through the Holy Spirit. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.