If you could uh remain standing for just a a brief minute more, I want to read uh the passage we're gonna be looking at. We're not gonna look at the the whole section, but uh this is in the book of Joshua And uh uh it's uh it's right before the famous Battle of Jericho, chapter six. We're actually going to go into chapter 6, but we're going to start in chapter 5 of Joshua at verse 10. Read down to verse 5 of chapter 6 and then just snippet at the end of chapter 6. This is God's word from the book of Joshua, starting at verse 10, chapter 5. While the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal, they kept the Passover on the 14th day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho. And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land, leavened cakes and parched grain. And the manna ceased the day after they ate. the of the produce of the land. And there was no longer manna for the people of Israel, but they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year. When Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing before him with his drawn sword in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said to him, Are you for us, or for our adversaries? Excuse me. And he said, No. But I am the commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and worshiped, and said to him, What does my Lord say to his servant? And the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy. And Joshua did so. Now Jericho was shut up inside and outside because of the people of Israel. None went out and none came in. And the Lord said to Joshua, See, I have given Jericho into your hand, and its king and mighty men of valor. You shall march around the city, all the men of war, going around the city once. Thus you shall do for six days. Seven priests shall bear seven trumpets of ram's horns before the ark. On the seventh day you shall march around the city seven times. and the priests shall blow the trumpets, and when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, when you hear the sound of the trumpet, then all the people shall shout with a great shout. And the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall go up, everyone straight before him. And then down to verse 20 20 and verses 21. So the people shouted, and the trumpets were blown. As soon as the people heard the sound of the trumpet, the people shouted a great shout, and the wall fell down flat. So the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they captured the city, and he devoted all the city to destruction, both men and women, young and old, oxen, sheep and donkeys, with the edge of the sword. This is God's own word. Please do have a seat. Now I I usually uh try to start out uh with something for young people uh to kind of hold on to. But there there are three things, uh, because I read a book about preaching this week and it made me feel guilty, so I'm gonna try to try to pay attention to what he talked about. First of all, the sermon is going to be about how God fights the battle for us. He's the one who plans it, he's the one who executes the battle. Secondly, I'm hoping that by the end of the sermon you're going to be thinking about Jesus and thinking about Jesus in a greater way, seeing him in his glory. But uh the third thing is, it's a very simple application. We get scared in this world by the powers around us But the battle is the Lords. We've got to remember that the battle is the Lords. And you want an application. When you get scared, you think about who is in charge. Now, for you young people, let me tell you, when I was growing up we went camping a lot. And uh we had this big green wall tent. I don't know where my dad got it, but uh we have six cuts, you know, that we slept on all in a row. There was hardly any room for for me and my uh three siblings and my mom and dad, but uh my dad was in charge. My dad knew what to do. And so uh anytime there was a problem when we went camping, I always looked at my dad. And sometimes we go camping out in Shenandoah National Park and it would rain and the wind would blow and for me growing up it was a scary thing because this tent was only held by these Ropes, you know, there wasn't much holding it up. My dad would go out and in the middle of the rainstorm he'd make sure that the tent didn't fall on our heads. And so I knew that as long as my dad was with me, nothing would ever hurt me. Nothing would ever fall down on me. He would figure out a way to keep me safe. As you grow up in this world, you're going to be scared sometimes. The world can be a scary place. But you have to remember that you have a Savior, Jesus. who's always powerful, who's always in charge, who can always be with you no matter how bad and scary things look. So I hope you'll think about that. Let's pray and ask God to help us think now about His word. Father in heaven, please sustain my voice. Give us hearts to desire. to see Christ. Desire to trust you. Because Father, you know the truth. We always want to take control. We always want to be the ones who have the power in our own hands. Help us to remember that we come to you because you truly are God. We're not. Help us to be content with that, happy with that. And thankful that we have a Savior who can make everything safe around us, no matter how chaotic and crazy and scary it is, He is always there for us. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Um Let me get myself uh oriented here for a moment and uh I've been fighting a cold. My wife had bronchitis. I got something from her. I gave it back to her. She got it again. So that's sharing. So In 1865, the American poet Walt Whitman wrote a poem, O Captain, My Captain. He wrote it because Abraham Lincoln had been assassinated. And um and through the years of the Civil War, everybody in the North looked to Lincoln to kind of keep the boat on course. And here it was the end of the war and Lincoln The war's over. And uh and he's got a line in the poem about how the ship had come safely into the harbor, but he looks there on the deck, and on the deck is the dead leader, Abraham Lincoln and and he's still and cold and and he he he pictured I think pretty well what happens when we're looking always to some human leader to make us feel safe. Whether it's our dad's, because my dad's dead. My dad's in heaven now. He can't help me in trials of life. Uh we we can't look to the bosses of our companies or or the governors of our states or the president. We we can't look to them to to keep us safe. And and we feel uncertain because it feels unstable. I I don't know about you, but uh and I think uh Ken referred to it kind of the the the uncertainty we feel about our times. It's it seems like everything's up in the air. You know? Um We had the the church shooting in Charleston, South Carolina. A church shooting. Somebody went to a church and killed people. And just a few weeks ago we had something in Sutherland Springs. Texas. Church shooting. People are just there to worship Jesus and somebody comes in and kills them. And and if you followed any of that stuff You know that the atheists thought, well, your prayers did a whole lot. Yeah, you prayed to God and and you were asking God to protect you and and some guy came into your church and killed you And they they even use that opportunity to mock Christians. So so we wonder sometimes when it seems like there's instability in in government and media, you know, Hollywood and all that stuff that's going on. We wonder, how are we going to find any protection, any safety, any hope and confidence in our day. When uh Whitman pictured Lincoln, he said, My captain's lips are still and cold. Lincoln Couldn't help. Who can help us? We want to believe what the Bible tells us. That it's Jesus who can help us, that Jesus is in charge. And now you look at this passage and This passage at the end of chapter 5 in Joshua is fascinating. It's mysterious, but I hope it's going to be encouraging to you. I hope you'll be thinking about it as you think about your life. As you think about the world in which you live. Now, here are God's people. They've been in the wilderness for 40 years They've lived on the manna. You hear that there in those verses that the manna stopped. They had been eaten manna for forty years. And now the manna's gone, they're eating the produce of the land. And and they're wandering for forty years because of their sin. They had disobeyed God. They'd had early on they'd had the spies go into the land and the spies were ready to to uh report back and and ten of those spies said We can't conquer these people. These people are like giants. These people are huge. They're powerful. We don't have the power to overcome them. And yet there were a million, a million of the people of God, a million in the nation Uh they had fought battles already. They they had defeated kings. Uh it's not like they hadn't done anything, but now they're coming to the the time where they Actually got to go in and take possession of what God said is yours. You know, in our lives, there are things God has told us that are ours Jesus has already already got them for us. He's already won the battle for us. But we've got to take possession. We've got to hold on and receive the blessings that God's got. So how's Israel gonna fight these warrior tribes? These tribes that are individual nations, these little cities, you know, and they got a little kingdom there and and they're fighting against each other, and they're used to war and Now here's Jericho, and Jericho is at the entrance to the Promised Land. You cross the Jordan, you have to go through Jericho, and you have to go through Jericho if you're going to go north and conquer the whole land. You've got to come to Jericho. And look at verse one in chapter chapter six. You see Jericho's like a city that's shut. It's a city you're gonna have to besiege, you're gonna have to do something different than go into the field of battle like they did. So So what's God going to do? And as we look at verses uh 13 to 15, that's where we're focusing our attention. We're going to look at three things. What had Israel done up to this point? Why is that important? What had Israel done up to this point? Then what did God really supply to them? What did God really give them? And finally, what did God do with what he promised to do? So uh think about think about this. What what had Israel done? Now you have to take this back to the end of the book of Deuteronomy because something traumatic happened. Moses died. Moses had led them for 40 years. Moses had been the man who stood up to Pharaoh and using all the power that God had given him, he led the people out And he guided them, he taught them. He prayed for them, he interceded for them. He's the he's the one who went up on the mountain and and met with God and and got the Ten Commandments. Moses has always been there, and now Moses is gone. The leader that you had looked to and trusted in, the leader you had hoped in, is no longer there. And isn't it true that A lot of times we look to human leaders. We we think this is gonna be the solution. We just get this person elected, we just have this pastor, we have this elder, we have this boss, or whatever it is, we're gonna have everything okay And then God shows us no, we can't trust in in human princes like the psalm we actually sang. We look in vain At human leaders. We're disappointed every time, really. So this is the challenge that Joshua's going to face because he's got to step in. Moses is dead, but he's got to lead. He's not Moses. He knows he's not Moses. Matter of fact, you read the first chapter of the book of Joshua and you find that Joshua is really, really feeling what it's like to step into Moses' shoes. Several times. God has to tell him, be strong and very courageous. He's got to be courageous because he's got to not look at himself and look at his own weakness. He's got to go ahead and obey what God has given them to do. So so God does a number of things to show that Joshua is the right man in the right place at the right time. One of the things he does is he shows that Joshua is the new Moses. And this is how he does it. Moses was there at the Red Sea. Moses stands at the Red Sea, takes the staff of God, holds it up, God parts the Red Sea. The people of God go through the water. They come to the river Jericho, uh Jordan. It's in flood stage. How are they going to get across the river into the land? God uses Joshua. Joshua leads them over the waters, through the waters, just like he did with Moses. And then the people have to begin to say, If we're going to conquer this land, we've got to be obedient to God. Now at the beginning, we didn't read the verses, but at the beginning of chapter 5, something significant happened You see, the people in the land are uncircumcised. They're pagans. They don't believe in God. They're not following the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. They're not circumcised, and they are following their idols. But you know what? Israel wasn't circumcised either. Forty years they had to do that one thing that God had told them to do, the the sign of the covenant in the Old Testament was circumcision. They had failed to do that. They had 40 years. Forty years to do it and they didn't do it. I don't know why. I I I never saw any explanation. But the covenant sign that God had given back in Genesis 17, they had the following And so they now do something very dangerous. If you see what happens here, uh in verses eight and nine, you see that they were circumcised, the men were circumcised Now, you're surrounded by hostile enemies. You're going to incapacitate yourself for a period of time so you can't fight. When you got the enemies surrounding you. But they did that in obedience to God because they wanted to go in as God's obedient people. Now the second thing they did is they observed that the uh Passover. You can see that in verses 10, and following what that we read. Now why did they do that Again, they hadn't been doing what God had called them to do, but the Passover was given by God to cause them to remember his delivering power. Remember what the Passover was about? There they are in Egypt. They're slaves in Egypt. They have no power to deliver themselves from Pharaoh's hand. They can't do it. So God tells them, take the lamb, take the blood of the lamb, put it on the doorpost, the the top, the lintel of your doors. And my angel will pass over your house, and all the firstborn of all the people in Egypt who are not protected will die. Even the firstborn of the cattle. From Pharaoh's house on down to the slave in Pharaoh's service. They're all going to die. The firstborn's all going to die. But you will survive And they're to remember the Passover, how God delivered them, how God acted when they couldn't save themselves, and God brought them out because he passed over them and brought them into a place of blessing. And now they're going to celebrate that because they need to remember that God is a God of deliverances. God is a saving God. God's got the power to take people who have no power in themselves to free themselves, and He can bring them into the land now And conquer enemies that are too big for them, too strong for them. That's what they had taught 40 years before when the slaves went in, when the spies went in. So now Israel is being obedient to God. Now they're ready to follow God into the land and what does God do? How does he supply what they need at this point? And that's where we want to pick up on verses 13 to 15. So you can picture Joshua. Joshua is the commander, and he's got to look at the battlefield. Now they had other battles before. They had fought against uh uh the Amalekites, they had fought against the king of uh the Canaanite king Erid, they defeated Sihon and Og, they defeated um uh of the the Midianites and all that. But now Joshua has to go and look at a besieged city. How are you gonna do that? They don't have siege anything. They don't they don't have the power to to break down walls with catapults and all that kind of stuff. They have to have a battle plan. So Joshua's going out to look and survey the territory, look at the land. and see what's going to happen. And he runs into this man. Let me read verses 13 to 15 again. When Joshua was by Jericho, he lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, a man was standing before him with his drawn sword in his hand. And Joshua went to him and said to him, Are you for us or for our adversaries? And he said, No, but I am a commander of the army of the Lord. Now I have come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth and worshiped and said to him, What does my Lord say to his servant? And the commander of the Lord's army said to Joshua, Take off your sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy, and Joshua. Now, you probably know that in the Old Testament, that phrase, the Lord of hosts, appears a lot of times. Actually, it appears almost uh 280 times. It's a very, very common phrase. But you know that in the whole Old Testament, this is the only place here in these verses where you hear this phrase, the commander of the host of the Lord. It's the only place. So God is the Lord of hosts, but here is the commander being introduced, the commander of the Lord of hosts. Now he's a warrior commander Look at verse 13. He's got a drawn sword in his hand. He's not a general who's sitting in some remote place with a battle plan spread out on a computer screen. He is there ready to lead the battle because he's already drawn his sword and he's ready to lead his people into battle, to lead the host into battle. Israel now has to look to who is really commanding it. Who's really commanding their army Joshua had assumed that he was the commander of the army. He had done that before. If you remember all the way back, I think it's in chapter 17 of Exodus. There's a battle with the Amalekites. And Joshua is leading the battle. Joshua had spent four years as a military commander. He assumed that he was going to be the commander, and now he finds out that he's not the commander. He's going to be the second in command. Look what he says there. He says, are you for us or for our adversaries? You see, he doesn't know if somebody from the city From Jericho had come out to spy on him and the people of Israel. He doesn't know who it is. So he says, Are you for us or for our ad uh adversaries? And look at the response that he gets. It's a one-word response. No. I'm not for your adversaries. I'm not for you. No. The one person who can lead them into victory has to lead them according to the plan he has in mind, not the plan that Joshua might come up with. And Joshua immediately submits. Now, in the history of the church, as as this passage has been interpreted, the I guess the majority of commentators have said this mysterious person is none other than Jesus. Jesus before he was incarnated. We've got to talk about this and think about this. We know that he's not an angel Because he receives worship. Look what happens. Joshua falls on his face and worships. You know, in the Bible, when you meet an angel, you might think that you're meeting God, because the angels are glorious and powerful. And you read further into the book of Revelation, and uh and uh John sees an angel and and he falls down at his feet, and and this is what the angel said. You must not do that. I am a fellow servant with you and your brothers who hold through the testimony of Jesus, worship God. You don't worship angels You don't fall down before angels and say, You're worthy of worship. So that's the first clue that we've got to pay attention to. Then you see in verse 15, he tells Joshua to remove your sandals because the ground on which You were standing his holy ground. Now, if you think back to Exodus chapter 3, that's what happened. happens to Moses. Moses sees the burning bush. An angel of the Lord, the angel of the Lord, speaks to him out of the burning bush and says, Moses, take off your sandals because the ground which you were standing is holy. So you see there's a parallel between the commissioning of Joshua and the commissioning of Moses. That God has brought both of them into his presence, just like Isaiah. Remember Isaiah Isaiah 6? Isaiah there is in the temple, and God says, Who will go for us? Who will I send? And Isaiah says, Send me, because he's seen the Lord high and lifted up. And now Moses and Joshua both are brought into the presence of God, the holy ground, and it's holy because any place where God is becomes holy. This is what, you may not think about this, but this place is holy. This place is holy because Jesus promised to be with you He is present by his Holy Spirit here in this place. Because where God is present, it becomes present. And so now Joshua understands that he's standing in the very presence of God. And the final clue that we get is in chapter 6, verse 2. If you look at verse 2 and chapter 6 You've got to pay attention to how it's said. And the Lord, that's the word Yahweh, said to Joshua, see it's not somebody else has appeared, it's the commander of the host of the Lord who's the Lord, who's Yahweh. And so you put all these things together and you see that what we have pictured for us is the person who's being addressed He is Yahweh. He's the Lord. He's God. The I am that I am. He's a person who accepts Joshua's worship. And Joshua looks at that and he falls down in his seat. Unquestioning, he says, I'm going to do whatever you say. And just like with Moses, the place where God is becomes So that's why I think it's right for us to say that the commander of the Lord of hosts here is none other than Jesus in his pre-incarnate state before he becomes man. Jesus is there, and Jesus is ready to lead. The second person of the Trinity is the commander. He's the king. He's the one who's in charge. Revelation chapter 19. And this is probably the same picture that you get in Daniel chapter 7, verse 14, where one approaches the Almighty on the throne, and he's a Son of Man, and He's glorious. Jesus is the one who in the Garden of Gethsemane said, I could call twelve legions of angels, an almost uncountable number of angels, to fight for me. This is what theologically is called a theophany. And it's so overwhelming that Joshua now is ready to do anything. He's ready to serve. He's ready to completely obey. And brothers and sisters, the great thing for us is we don't have just one appearance here and there. We have Jesus, who is now at the right hand of the Father. Father. Our captain, the commander of the Lord's army, is interceding for us already at the throne of God, and he is in charge of all things on behalf of his church. He rules over all things for the sake of his church, for this church. Do you feel weak and powerless sometimes? Who even knows the Trinity's here? Who even knows what the OPC is? If you feel weak and powerful, powerless. You've got a commander, the Lord's host, who's your king, who's the heat king and head of the church. He's our commander. Now, he comes with a battle plan because if someone is going to take charge, they have to have an idea. There are people who just want power and they don't come with any plan and they usually mess things up. But if you have a leader who understands and has a plan, they'll bring it to pass. They'll bring it to bear if they're like this. And so this is what God's going to do. And this is the picture that you see in verses 3 to 5. Everything about the Battle of Jericho is going to hinge on simply God working. Because Israel can't do a thing. Israel is not able to do anything. It hangs, hinges, depends on God actually following through. God brings about spiritual victory In battles that seem utterly impossible. I love the story in 2 Kings 6. Here is the prophet Elisha, and he is in the city of Dothan. The city is surrounded by the armies of Syria. And Elisha is there, and He's got a young man who's his servant and he wakes up Elisha and says, Look, the Syrian army is all around us. What are we going to do? And he's full of panic. He says, Alas, my master. But Elisha is calm, and this is a great, great passage in 2 Kings 6. Elisha says this, do not be afraid. For those who are with us are more than those who are with them. Then Elisha prayed and said, O Lord, please open his eyes that he may see And the Lord opened the eyes of the young man, and he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Doesn't that give you chills? Doesn't it just stop you a little bit? They are more that are with us than with our enemies You think about the battles you face in your life, you know. My brother uh has been diagnosed with melanoma. He's a Christian. And uh easy to know that more powerful is the one who's with him than cancer. Cancer is the No problem for Jesus. The answer is no problem for God. God can do anything He wants. God's presence and power assures us of victory always, that spiritual overcoming that will finally deliver us from this fallen, sinful world. Here's the walled city of Jericho. People can't get in, go out. And God is going to take the city and he's going to destroy the city with without Israel doing anything extraordinary. There's the city of Dothan, surrounded by the Assyrian army. It looks like they're trapped and they can't do anything. We're next to The most what arguably is the most powerful city in the world, Washington, DC. Probably one of the most corrupt cities in the world, right? In love with power? Do we think we have as God's people Can we fight against the secularism? Against the unbelief? Against the materialism of our country? Can we fight against the spiritual degradation that That we've seen displayed people in power, using their power for terrible things. Do we think that we have any power? God had promised to bring his people into the land He had promised because he was going to do it to glorify his name, to show that it was his land, and he would give it to whom he chose to give it. And he was sending his people in to judge in the conquest the pagan nations. Now it may seem extreme to us what you see there in verses 20 and 21. They devoted all the city to destruction. But you know why they did that? Because it was a wicked pagan city. Jesus is going to come back. He's going to destroy all his enemies and our enemies. He will do it. Because he's King, He's Lord, He's Almighty. All those who oppose Him, no matter where they are, no matter how powerful they are, no matter what their title is, they're going to lose. Because ultimately Jesus is The only victor there is. Well, God tells Joshua something, or Jesus, the commander, tells Joshua to do something that makes absolutely no sense. They're to worship. Try to spend six days, seven days actually, worshiping. Go around the city You've got the people of Joshua uh of Jericho on the walls, and they're looking at all the men of war going around the city And they're saying, come on guys, let's let's get it, let it let's get it on, let's do this. And they're throwing rocks at them. They're taunting them. And you can't even shoot shoot an arrow. You can't do anything. You just march around the city, following the ark, worshiping God, remembering that God's going before you And that he is assuring you of victory because it's his plan. And if you're like me, you've become so discouraged because you see the weakness that we have The weakness of our flesh. As you get older you really feel that weakness starting to come on, but but the aggressiveness of of uh atheism just stuns me The aggressiveness of people who say, you are really, really stupid to believe in God, really stupid to believe in God. The apathy of people, they don't care. They don't care about having happiness. Well, it doesn't mean anything to them. You could talk to them if they were willing to talk. He said, well, whatever. The unconcerned people have our own unbelief and spiritual coldness How is that to be remedied? How is it that I know what the Bible says? I know what the gospel is, and how come I'm not more fervent for Jesus? What's wrong with me? And what can overcome all the all the obstacles except the power of the Son of God? We have to look at the place where we are. Sometimes we think that God's not very active. You know, if you read newspapers, follow news feeds, uh, listen to talk radio, whatever, you get really discouraged It doesn't seem like anything's going all that great, no matter where you look. And the world around us seems shut up like the city of Jericho. People aren't going in or coming out. It seems like it's a closed place. But Joshua meets the commander of the Lord's host. And that has to encourage us because Jesus, the commander, has repeated the promises. Says, all authority in heaven on earth is given to me. Go make disciples of all the nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I've commanded you. And you know what it says in verse 20? Lo, I am with you always, even to the close of the age. You think how Jesus tells his disciples, they're in Jerusalem, there are just a handful of them, and they're surrounded by a city full of unbelief and people who had killed Jesus just days before. And Jesus says, you'll be my witnesses. In Jerusalem, in Judea, and Samaria, and to the uttermost part of the earth, you will be my witnesses. And if it wasn't enough, in 1 John verse 4, chapter 4, verse 4, John writes, Little children, you are from God, and overcome them the world For greater who is in you is he who is in you than he who is in the world. Do we believe that? Do we believe that because we belong to Jesus Christ, greater is the one who is in us than he who is in the world. We actually believe that and operate that way. And and when we talk to people who aren't Christians, do we have a kind of a hesitance, well, they probably won't listen. You know, they're probably not interested. Do we look at ourselves and say, I just got this sin and I just can't get over this sin and this sin's too strong for me? How do we look at it? Our battle isn't against Hollywood, our battle isn't against the the federal government or corruption and the media or business. Your battle isn't against the nasty neighbor that you've got or your boss or anything like that. They're always spiritual battles. I mean, this is Ephesians 6 stuff, isn't it? The battles are always spiritual battles because God is opposed to the kingdoms of this world. And and this example here in Joshua 5. Is how this actually plays out. It echoes what's there in Revelation chapter 19 We have to live in the presence of the Lord, in the presence of the commander of the Lord's army, and obey his promises just like Israel did. They say we gotta be circumcised. We've got to observe the the passive. We've got to remind ourselves who we are. That's what the sign of the covenant is. It's reminding yourself that you belong to Jesus, that Jesus has come and he has come to take away your sin He's come to cleanse you and make you his own. And you're feeding upon him in the Lord's Supper as as God's people, and he's telling you, I have given you my life. You have life because I have given you life God promised Moses and Joshua that he'd be with him, and we've got the same promises. Only a lot of times we don't believe it, do we? A lot of times we don't act like it or think it. When we come to Jesus Christ in faith and repentance, he takes us as his own and he says, I'm going to keep you. I love the song that the Getty sing, He will hold me fast. If you haven't heard it, it's a great song. He will hold me fast. That's what Jesus is going to do. He's going to hold me fast. Martin Luther said, his kingdom cannot fail. He will win the battle. All the promises of God are yes and amen in Jesus. And those promises that he overcomes all his and our enemies. We have to remember that Jesus has won the victory over sin and death. And he's w done it on our behalf, and he did it by suffering and dying. And so we shouldn't be surprised if if in this world we're facing suffering and death. I mean that's that's the case. We get closer to death every single day. And do we believe that Jesus is going to be with us when that time comes? Uh you know, I'm praying a lot for my brother. My brother's a strong Christian. But that idea of dying is a scary one, isn't it? Will Jesus hold me fast? He's gonna hold me fast That's my hope. He's going to hold me fast. We see failures in ourselves. We see failures in the church. We see weakness. And it just seems like the city is is closed up. It's too strong for us. The city of man seems stronger than the city of God, than the church. Yet that's not what Jesus says. He says all authority in heaven and on earth is given to me. I'm the commander of the Lord's host. I'm gonna break down the walls of Jericho and you're not even gonna fire an arrow. You're gonna worship me and the walls are gonna fall down because I am the commander. We face mockery, we face challenges to our faith, challenges to live by the Word of God in a day that doesn't believe the Word of God. But you know the picture that you get in the book of Revelation, I love this. The way Christians are described in the Book of Revelation, again and again, is they overcome. They overcome by the blood of the Lamb. You overcome not by your power, it's our faith, as John says, that overcomes the world. Because we belong to Christ. I allow myself to get too discouraged sometimes because I take my eyes off who my commander in chief is Can this church thrive and grow in this day when it seems like nobody cares? You knock on a thousand doors and nobody comes to church. You send out a thousand flyers and nobody pays any attention. You have special meetings and all that kind of stuff, and it seems like the repeat well, just a second. The king and the head of the church is Jesus Christ. And he must win the battle Joshua is asks it asks if the person who he sees is for them and for their adversaries. And that's great. Jesus says no. You know why Jesus says no? Because he's not on our side. We're on his side. We got to think about that. We want him to be on our side doing the things we want instead of saying, am I on your side? Side. Am I obeying you? Our captain, unlike Abraham Lincoln, doesn't lie cold and still, unable to speak or do anything. Jesus is praying and interceding and ruling over everything. For the sake of the church. Everything. Everything. Every human institution, every spiritual power. Jesus is Lord. He's Lord of Lords and King of Kings. The great hymn says, crowns and thrones may perish, kingdoms rise and wane, but the church of Jesus constant will remain Gates of hell can never gainst that church prevail. We have Christ's own promise, and that cannot fail. Onward then, you people, join our happy throng, blend with ours your voices, in the triumph song Glory, Lord, and honor unto Christ the King. This through countless ages men and angels sing with the cross of Christ going on before. Let's pray. Our Father, you know how easy it is for us to give into fear, to give into despair, to forget that you are Lord of Lords and King of Kings To forget that you're the commander of the Lord's host, that the spiritual battle is already won, as we heard earlier at the cross in the resurrection. That we don't have to be overwhelmed by uh the hardness of people's hearts or the uh anger of those who are opposed to you. We don't have to be uh fearful about the uncertainty of the future, the economy, the government, uh the media, uh business, or anything. We don't have to be Fearful because we are living in your presence. You are present with your church, with this church right now. uh promising always to care for her and love her. We thank you. Lord help us to rejoice in Christ and live in faith that our King is truly King. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.