If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Psalms, we'll be reading uh Psalm six tonight And seeking to open that in the preaching of God's Word. I believe that's on page 530 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention, our whole attention, to the Word of God. Psalm six. To the choir master with stringed instruments, according to the Shimoneth, Psalm of David O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am languishing. Heal me, O Lord, for my bones are troubled. My soul also is greatly troubled. But you, O Lord, how long? Turn, O Lord, deliver my life. Save me for the sake of your steadfast love. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who will give you praise? I am weary with my moaning. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my couch with my weeping. My eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weak Because of all my foes. Depart from me, all you workers of evil. For the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. All my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we thank you for this psalm. Thank you that you've given it to us, you've preserved it for us. And even tonight you've given us time now, here now, to meditate upon it. And pray, Holy Spirit, teach us. Give us tender hearts, ready to receive your very word. And lead us. Certainly convict us of sin. Then encourage us. with the promises, the truths that are contained within this very passage. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. How do you wait upon the Lord? It's hard to wait. Consider the Apostle Paul as he waited in prison. As he wrote to those in Philippi. He writes, always in every prayer of mine for you. All making my prayer with joy. Paul was praying in prison. He knew that those he was praying for were praying for him, that they were partakers with him, even in his imprisonment. He writes this to them, for I know that through your prayers and the help of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, this Meaning his suffering would turn out for his deliverance. Paul waited upon the Lord in prayer. How did Jesus wait? How did he wait upon Judas' betrayal on the cross, knowing that they were both coming? He did so in prayer. As he goes to the Garden of Gethsemane and brings his disciples with him, he was troubled. He was sorrowful, sorrowful even to death And he fell on his face and he prayed. How do you wait? That's an important question. It brings us to this Psalm tonight, Psalm six If you paid attention to the title, this is a psalm that was given to the choir master with stringed instruments. It's written by David and certainly it was to be sung, to be accompanied with instruments, stringed instruments. But there's no information here, nothing in particular that we can say, well, this was the occasion that brought David to write this particular psalm. We don't know the circumstances. It doesn't mean we can't glean from the text some things that were happening, but we just don't know what in particular David was struggling with, or against whom he was struggling. We see that he acknowledges his weakness. We understand that he's seeking healing and salvation or deliverance. And then he asks that question, how long? It appears that whatever the circumstances were, that David had been waiting. Waiting for some time. Maybe he had been praying to the Lord numerous times before this particular one, which we could also uh consider as a prayer. And David was waiting to hear the Lord's response. And so he asks that question, O Lord, how long? He seems, in a sense, to be at the center of the psalm. How long? And so it's appropriate that we ask that question of ourselves as well. Tonight we might sum up this Psalm 6 this way, that the God of creation hears and accepts the pleas of his people for the sake of Jesus Christ. The God of creation hears and accepts the pleas of his people for the sake of Jesus. We'll see that tonight in these three principles or points. First, waiting on the Lord in humility, secondly, waiting on the Lord in agony. And finally, waiting on the Lord in hope. Again, as we go through this psalm, I ask you to be asking yourself, how do I wait? on the Lord. Well first waiting on the Lord in humility. The psalm begins with a confession of sorts. O Lord, rebuke me not in your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. There's an implicit confession here. It's not expressed. But as as David writes, rebuke me not, nor discipline me. The psalmist is implicitly acknowledging that the Lord would be justified or right in rebuking and disciplining him Rebuke or discipline is for those who have transgressed the law of God. Webster's defines a rebuke this way to chide or reprove or reprehend for a fault. A transgression, a sin. To check. Meaning to to bring back by reproof. That's the idea As Jesus Christ was entering the city Jerusalem. The disciples began to rejoice and praise God as Luke records it with a loud voice, saying, Blessed is the king. Who comes in the name of the Lord, referring to Jesus. And the Pharisees in the crowd said, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. What they meant was tell them to be quiet. Silence them. Turn them away from this kind of adoration for you. Rebuke them. The discipline is similar to a rebuke. Webster defines it as chastisement or punishment intended to correct crimes or errors. That's why we read Hebrews chapter 12 tonight. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves and chastens every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. Rebuke. Discipline. The psalm begins with that acknowledgement, a confession that the psalmist has, and in fact he knows he has transgressed God's law. Indeed, everyone who sings this psalm, everyone who prays this psalm is also acknowledging. That they have sinned against a holy God, and that the justice and righteousness of God would be shown forth in receiving a rebuke or discipline. Remember, Jesus speaks of those Who have a poor spirit. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. The psalmist here is indicating just that, that he has a poor spirit. That he comes before God acknowledging that he's not holy, that he's not righteous within himself, that his conscience has convicted him as the Spirit abides within him, that he has not pleased God. with his thoughts or his words or his actions, and so he, David, knows that he sinned against God and comes in humility He reveals his heart before God as he begins this communion, this prayer, this song. It's so important for us to know who we are, where we stand as we approach, and as we wait upon God. It was so important for David to acknowledge his estate as a sinner that he begins his prayer, this song, this way, Rebuke me not. In your anger, nor discipline me in your wrath. Notice that David does not pray, do not rebuke me Or do not discipline me. Oh, his prayer is that the discipline or the rebuke that he knows he deserves would not be done by God in anger or in wrath. David knows that he could not stand before an angry or a wrathful God. There was only one who could David's Savior, David the Lord, the Lord Jesus Christ And so David knows that he approaches a merciful and gracious God who is long-suffering. He knows that he approaches a just God as well. But he approaches this just God who causes mercy to triumph over justice And so while he acknowledges his sin before God, and while it would be appropriate for God to rebuke and discipline him, David merely asks that it be done in mercy and grace. Knowing that he would benefit from God's rebuke and God's discipline Isn't that the case? Does not God discipline us for our good and for his glory? Psalm 94, Blessed is the man whom you discipline, O Lord, and whom you teach out of your law. Or Proverbs 3. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline, or be weary of his reproof, for the Lord reproves him whom he loves. Even Jeremiah the prophet in chapter 30. Listen to his words, for I am with you to save you, declares the Lord. I will make a full end of all the nations among whom I scattered you, but of you I will not make a full end. I will discipline you in just measure. And I will by no means leave you unpunished. Jeremiah is writing to those who are in exile. And he's saying you will receive the discipline of the Lord. He has not forsaken them, he still disciplines them in just measure. Consider those in the Bible who have received the discipline of God. Even David, the one who wrote this psalm. Even as his son comes and seeks to take over the kingdom, and David is having to flee from him for his life. David was being chastised for his sin. And he grew. He's the one who wrote Psalm 51, who acknowledged his sin, and asked for the Lord to cleanse him and give him a contrite heart. Which he uses to write this psalm, Psalm six. Is that how you pray? Do you pray for discipline? For rebuke? Are you humble enough to do so? We all think that we are humble until a question like this is asked. Are you humble enough to ask for the discipline of God? For it really takes a humble and contrite heart to ask for the merciful discipline or rebuke from a loving heavenly father. What's the alternative? The alternative is to forego the blessing. The alternative the alternative is to not receive that discipline Or that rebuke, which each of us sorely needs. The Lord has disciplined me severely, but He's not given me over to death. Psalm 118. That's the alternative, isn't it? Oh, that we would seek and even ask for. discipline and the rebuke of the Lord with a humble heart as we wait upon him. Brings us to our second point. Waiting on the Lord in agony. Again, we don't know the particular circumstances that David was in and that gave rise to this particular psalm. But we do know some generalities, don't we? Verse 2: Be gracious to me, O Lord. I'm languishing. My bones are troubled. My soul is also greatly. Troubled. David refers to both his physical and spiritual estate and saying they're both troubled, I'm languishing, meaning without strength. He's weary, verse 6. Weary of my moaning, he continues to moan. Every night I flood my bed with tears. I drench my cloud, my couch with weeping. It seems that he's speaking about day and night. He's weeping. His eye is wasting away because of grief. We can see that picture as he continues to weep and cry and His eye becomes weary, it's wasting away because of the grief, because of these tears which continue to flow. It grows weak because of all my foes. He's close to death. At least that's the way the song, the psalm seems to tell us. Deliver my life, save me. For in death there is no remembrance of you. In Sheol, who in Sheol, who will give you praise? Why? Why this trouble? Why this languishing? Is it because of his sin? I think it is in part. David has already implicitly confessed his sin. Rebuke me not. Discipline me not in your wrath. But there also appears to be another reason that he's languishing. David is certainly in spiritual pain, seemingly caused in part by his own sin, but also in agony because of those who are attacking him. in their sin. David is under attack from within his own sin and from without. And so now we need to consider that agony in David which is stirred up. by those surrounding David, those foes, those enemies. It's that circumstance that we want to consider now, that generality, the general attack. Of those who oppose righteousness and oppose Jesus Christ and thus his followers, my eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weary because of all my foes. David calls his foes not only enemies, but in verse eight, Depart from me all you workers of evil. Jesus used these words apparently in in the Sermon on the Mount As he's saying that there will be those on the day of judgment who will come before him and say, Lord, Lord, did we not do these things in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Seems to be taken from this very psalm. For those who are in Christ, it is agony to be in the presence of those who hate God. David was in agony as he suffered the attacks of the workers of evil. Because he had a tender heart, a humble heart, as we've already discussed. Having a tender heart or a humble heart must include the reality that one is sensitive to sin. Isn't that sort of the definition of having a contrite heart? That you're sensitive to sin. Certainly sin from within, your own sin, but also sin from without, from those who are around you. For those with a tender heart, there is a certain sensitivity to sin in general. A tender heart cannot watch the evening news, which includes a description of a wicked event. And not be hurt. Consider Lot. Peter writes of Lot. Remember, he lived in Sodom. Peter writes, if he rescued righteous Lot, he's referring now to God, to the Lord Jesus Christ, if he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensual conduct of the wicked. For as that righteous man lived among them, day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard. The description of living amongst the wicked, of being under attack by the sins that are being committed from without. But when the sin involves a personal attack, when the sin is directed toward one with a tender heart individually, then there's even greater pain and agony, and that's what we seem to have described for us here in this psalm. Even as the Christian is called not to return evil for evil but to bless. We heard that this morning as we heard that lesson on 1 Peter. Do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless. Even as one receives that evil and returns a blessing, that doesn't mean that there will be no pain or suffering or agony. Many times there will be. And David was experiencing it here, describing it as being weary. Every night flooding the bed with tears, every day, the couch being drenched with his weeping, his eye wasting away in grief, growing weak because of his foes But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. That's what Peter writes. And yet even in this agony, David was waiting upon the Lord. Now compare David's agony to the agony of the Lord Jesus Christ. As he waited upon his father to hear him and to answer him on the cross. As he cried out with a loud voice, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Jesus was certainly in physical, but even more so spiritual agony. If the sins of the world had been laid upon him, he was suffering, he was weary, his bones were withering away, his this wretched, filthy, abominable sins were In a sense, consuming him. We hear that in Psalm 22. By God, I cry by day, but you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. All who seek me mock me. They make their mouths at me. They wag their heads. And poured out like water. And all my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It's melted within my breast. My strength is dried up like a pot sherd. My tongue sticks to my jaws, you lay me in the dust of the of death. I can count on my bones. They stare and gloat over me. Can almost hear Jesus crying out, O Lord, how long. We'll never know the extent of Jesus' agony as he waited upon his father. For he's kept us, he's kept you from knowing the depth of that agony. Even as we read Psalm 22, we don't grasp it, not fully. For if you're in Jesus Christ this evening, you will never know that kind of pain, that kind of suffering, that kind of agony that He endured while he waited upon his father to relieve him of that suffering. You see, Jesus needed to suffer that agony, that spiritual pain, until he had drunk the last drop of it. So that you would never know the depth. The breadth or the width of that kind of agony. Yes. Waiting on the Lord in agony is exactly what our Savior did. And He did it for you. Brings us to our third point. Waiting on the Lord in hope. While this psalm did not begin with hope, or at least apparently did not begin with hope. It is a psalm or a song of great hope, of certain hope, of assurance and the certainty of the promises of God in Jesus Christ. The words of hope, a bit like David's waiting, come at the end of the psalm. Look at verse eight. Depart from me all you workers of evil, for the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. The object of the psalm, the song, the prayer now abruptly changes. Up to this point in time, David has been addressing God is Father. But now he speaks directly to those who are causing him grief and weakness. Those who are through their sins are sapping David's spiritual strength, and so he calls out to them in a sense, depart from me. Remember David began in weakness. Be gracious to me, O Lord, for I'm languishing. Webster defines languish as to lose strength, to become dull, feeble, spiritless. That's what David is saying. He's grown weak. His eye waste away because of grief. He's grown weak. He's languishing But at this point in the prayer of the song, David has seemingly been given strength, fortitude, the confidence now to speak directly to those who have caused him agony and grief. He addresses those who oppose him and have brought him to tears on his couch and on his bed. Those who are attacking, the workers of evil, iniquity are now being spoken to directly by David. He's cried out to the Lord as God, and seemingly through that pleading, through that communion, he's been granted spiritual strength now to respond to those who want nothing but the worst for David. He's able to respond to those who who desire to cut him off from his communion with the living God. That's their desire, those who hate God, those who hate his uh hate his anointed one, meaning the Son of God, meaning Jesus Christ Will do anything in all things within their power to separate this relationship between David, the messenger of God and God himself. But they can't. It's impossible. Jesus tells us it's impossible. No, and in all these things we're more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I'm sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing. Try as they might. They can't And that should be of much encouragement to each of us tonight. But did you hear David as he prays, Depart from me all you workers of evil, for Or you could put the word because there. For the Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. That's how David can pray this way. Depart from me. The Lord has heard the sound of my weeping. On his bed, on his couch, in his home. As David lay flooding his bed, drenching his couch with tears from a tender heart, the Lord heard. Consider that for a moment. David doesn't write that the Lord heard his moaning or his pleading or his cries. His verbal cries for help at this point. No, David writes that the God of creation who dwells in the heaven above heavens heard his weeping. The New American Standard provides some emphasis here, for the Lord has heard the voice of my weeping. It's as if the Lord heard the tears of David as they drop from his eyes into the pool forming in his bed. He heard that How does David know? It would appear that the Spirit of God has convicted David that, as David waited, as he waited in hope, that He gave him confidence. Confidence of that which his inspired son Solomon would later write. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. Or maybe David was just meditating upon that psalm that he would write, or maybe he had already written it, 145. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. The Lord preserves all who love him. And so the Lord heard his weeping, his tears. Imagine if the Lord heard the weeping, the tears of David, how much more he heard. His actual words. Verse nine. The Lord has heard my plea This confidence, this renewed strength, the ability to say, Depart from me, comes from this. He not only hears his weeping, but now he hears his plea. This renewed strength comes from this, doesn't it? As his certain hope is reinforced. The Lord has heard my plea. In times of trouble, especially when we've cried out to the Lord previously and are continuing to wait. Where does your hope lie? You might immediately respond it, it it lies in the blood of Christ. That would be a wonderful answer. But how do you keep waiting? As it seems that the Lord is delayed or he's tarrying. You begin to doubt. That the God of creation has actually heard your plea. I think if we're honest with ourselves, we could all answer yes to that question. But here's great encouragement tonight for all those who trust in Jesus Christ and wait upon the Lord. He hears. It's just two words, understandable words of truth and certain hope. The Lord hears. He's not left you, and he won't forsake you. He will not allow you to walk through the valley of the shadow of death alone. He knows your agony. He knows your suffering. Jesus knows. And he hears each and every one of your pleas, your cries for help. There's a call tonight to believe that, to trust in that, to rest in that, to never doubt it, for it's true. But there's more. The Lord has heard my plea. The Lord accepts my prayer. As you know, that's one thing to hear, it's quite another to accept. Webster is defined that is to take or receive what is offered with a consenting mind, a favor. That's the idea. The Lord hears the prayers of his people and accepts them with favor. Now we have to understand where David was and how he was praying and what he was praying for. And it's in that context where David is able to say very truthfully and confidently and assuredly that the Lord hears and accepts There's a sense in which David was praying for God to be glorified through his prayer. He was certainly asking for salvation, wasn't he? He was asking for deliverance, for deliverance from the unrighteous. And so we can see in that context, in that prayer, the Lord heard, and the Lord accepted. And as we pray in that way, in that context, in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our father hears and he accepts your prayer It seems to culminate there in verse ten, all my enemies shall be ashamed and greatly troubled. They shall turn back and be put to shame in a moment. That's the result, isn't it? David is saved. He knows he will be saved. He knows his enemies will be put to shame, greatly troubled. Turn back, turn away from Putting him in agony, causing him to weep, removing his strength in a moment. Did you see that Remember this psalm, this song is a song of waiting. David's been waiting. Oh Lord, how long? And the reality is that God will answer his prayer and put his enemies to shame, great trouble, turning them away in a moment. Brothers and sisters, is that the way you think of the way God works? Many times we are wondering, does he hear? Will he act? Will he respond? And David is saying, yes, it can appear to us that God is delaying, God is tarrying. But in the end, David says, no, no. It happens in his good timing and it happens in a moment. All of this being fulfilled by the Lord Jesus Christ. You read that even this morning in Psalm 110. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses, he will shatter chiefs over the wide earth, and repeat it again in Revelation nineteen. From his mouth comes a sharp sword with which to strike down the nations. He will rule them with a rod of iron. He will tread the winepress of the fury of the wrath of God. the Almighty. That's the promise then, isn't it? That's the confidence that David had. The the enemies of God and his son, his anointed, will be overcome and destroyed. It's part of the hope of the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, isn't it? And that's the hope in which David prayed this prayer. That there will be peace, there will be righteousness. I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace, in the world you will have tribulation, but take heart, I've overcome the world. I don't know that Jesus Christ was thinking of this psalm as he told his disciples that, but he could have Because that's exactly what this Psalm tells us. The Lord Jesus Christ will usher in and has ushered in peace, but ultimately he will usher in that final peace as he returns. And knowing that even now, even as we wait upon him, we will be in tribulation. But take heart, because he's overcome the world. Isn't that what David was assured of? Isn't that what you're assured of tonight in Christ? Isn't that why the Lord hears and accepts your prayers? Only because of his son. Only because of Jesus' righteousness, only because of Jesus' purity and his obedience, only because Jesus continues to plead his own sacrificial blood on your behalf and clothe you. In his righteousness. And so as the living God hears and accepts your pleas, it's because you're dressed in the righteousness of Christ. And you offer your prayers in his name, that name which is above every other name. This is why, and this is how you can pray in confidence and assurance and hope even as you wait. Upon God. Yes, the God of creation hears and accepts the heartfelt pleas of his people all for the sake of his precious Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. How did Paul wait in prison? How did Jesus wait upon that cross? It's only in prayer. It's only as they sought the face of God. And that's what our call is tonight, isn't it? Because they prayed in hope. Are you doing that? Are you praying in humility? Even as you suffer. And are you praying in hope upon the finished work of your Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ? Oh that we would. Holy Spirit help us to do just that. Amen Father and our God, we are weak and frail. We have so many doubts. And yet this is such an encouragement tonight for us to read these inspired words of David, your words that you've given to us to Increase our faith to Father, build us up, to give us that hope and assurance in Christ alone. And so we thank you, as you have once again reminded us that you hear, that you accept our pleas, and indeed that you will destroy our enemies, the enemies of Christ and your enemies. And so we wait, Father. Help us to wait in humility, even as we suffer. Help us to wait in hope. Father, we thank you for Christ. We thank you for his intercessory prayers. We thank you for his mediation tonight. Help us, Lord. Remind us, constantly remind us. Remind us of your righteousness, the purity of Christ. That He's coming again That he will usher in all righteousness and defeat all of his enemies. That you hear us even now as we cry out, save us, O Lord our God. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.