Please have a seat. Um it's interesting. Um a passage which has some things that are obviously miraculous. Um but a passage that helps us to think more biblically. That's what we want. We want to think biblically So let me begin in 2 Kings 6 with verse 8, and then we'll read down to verse 23 Second Kings six, beginning verse eight, down to verse twenty-three Excuse me. Once when the king of Syria was warring against Israel, he took counsel with his servants, saying, At such and such a place shall be my king. But the man of God, that's Elisha, sent word to the king of Israel, Beware that you do not go down, that you do not pass this place, for the Syrians are going down there But the king of and the king of Israel sent to the place about which the man of God told him. Thus he used to warn him. So he saved himself there more than once or twice. And the mind of the king of Syria was greatly troubled because of this thing. And he called his servants and said to them, Will you not show me who of us is for the king of Israel? And one of his servants said, None, my lord. O King, but Elisha, the prophet, who is in Israel, tells the king of Israel the words that you speak in your bedroom. And he said, Go and see where he is, that they may send and seize him. He was told him, Behold, he is in Dothan. So he sent there horses and chariots and a great army, and they came by night and surrounded the city. When the servant of the man of God rose early in the morning and went out, behold, an army with horses and chariots was all around the city. And the servant said, Alas, my master, what shall we do? He said, do not be afraid. For those who are with us are more than those who are with them. Then Elisha prayed and said, O Lord, please open his eyes that he may see. So the Lord opened the eyes of the young man. And he saw, and behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. And when the Syrians came down against him, Elisha prayed to the Lord and said, Please strike this people with blindness. So he struck them with blindness in accordance with the prayer of God. And Elisha said to them, This is not the way, this is not the city, follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom you seek. And he led them to Samaria. As soon as they entered Samaria, Elisha said, O Lord, open the eyes of these men that they may see. So the Lord opened their eyes, and they saw, and behold, they were in the midst of Samaria As soon as the king of Israel saw them, he said to Elisha, My father, shall I strike them down? Shall I strike them down? And he answered, You shall not strike them down. Would you strike down those whom you have taken captive? With your sword and with your bow, set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master. So he prepared for them a great feast. And when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. And the Syrians did not come again on raids into the land of Israel. Let me pray. Father in heaven, we we thank you that when we come to your word Even the passages that may puzzle us or astonish us are there for our learning. You intend all of your word to Prepare us for our lives. And we say the same here. You have given us this portion of your word to prepare us to live. in 2019. We pray that you'd be with us now. Help us to understand your word. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Um young people I I uh I like to start out by giving you something to hang on to Hopefully. There's a new book out. It's called The Moon Is Always Round. The Moon Is Always Round. Now, some nights the Moon looks round. Some way I said it looks like, as my mom used to say, like a fingernail. Um but the moon is always round. And the book was written by a man who was trying to explain to his little boy why the baby sister died. Um the little boy said, if God is good, why did God let this happen? And the dad said, God's good all the time, but just like sometimes you can't see the whole moon sometimes you can't see all that God's doing. That God is good all the time. Now that's hard for us to understand, but it's helping us think how do we look at everything around us? Because as you're growing up in the world Are you going to see God's hand? Are you going to see God always there? God always working? God always protecting you, guiding you? Will you see God see that or will you think he's not there? He's gone. Let's uh let's think about that now. Now, uh I may be uh a little slow in the uptake, but um it just struck me a couple weeks ago that I got a prosthesis here that's not going to go away. That I got it for life. Now, I'm not dumb, but I had to start thinking, this is my life now No, my life now is I got a prosthesis, I use the prosthesis or a walker and a cane or whatever it may be. Because that's what God was doing in my life. life. Now a man named Dave Pallison um died this past June and he wrote a little little uh editorial article called Do You See? Do You See? And he started the article this way. He quoted from a poem by uh Elizabeth Barrett Browning called Aurora Lee. And listen to this. Just four lines Earth's crammed with heaven, and every common bush a fire with God. But only he who sees takes off his shoes The rest sit round it and pluck blackberries. You get the picture he's got? Or she's got Um when we look at the world, do we think that God's really here? Is God behind the rain? We left Fredericksburg and it was raining like crazy. We saw three accidents on the way up. Were they just happenstance? Or was God there? was God work. And what uh Ms. Browning talks about is the bush that Moses saw, remember Back in Exodus, Moses was there in the wilderness, and he sees a bush burning, and he says, I'll turn aside and look at it. Now he got there, and God told him, take off your sandals, for the ground on which you're standing is holy ground. Now Moses could have said, well, maybe, you know, some there's bushes that have a lot of oil, and if they're ignited, they'll burn. Moses could have said And gone on. But what Mrs. Browning's getting at Is that if we are God's people, we're going to start to notice God's hand all around us. That that bush is aflame with the glory of God. Otherwise, we sit around and pluck blueberry blackberries and just ignore God's glory. Now we're going to use the story that's here as a way to get into that idea of seeing the world the way God wants us to see it. To see the world as, I'm going to use her word, crammed with heaven. The world's crammed with heaven. God's present here. and God's work. That's what we want to do. And I've got a pretty selfish reason for talking about this. Um a few weeks ago I was preaching on first or second Corinthians twelve nine and ten. Where Paul says, uh, I will boast of my weakness for when I'm weak then I'm strong. And I'm thinking, I don't feel like boasting I don't feel like boasting in my weakness. I don't like to put this thing on and wear it for hours until my leg aches. I don't like that. But God is doing something. And I've got to pay attention so that I can have joy in weakness. And maybe your situation is You've got you've got a job that you just can't stand. And you're wondering how you're going to get through till the end of the week. And is God in that job? Is God there with you? Maybe you're in a troubled marriage Where it doesn't seem like things are going all that well in your marriage. And you wonder, can I hang in there? Is God in that? So let's think about that. We're going to think about two things. Because in the passage, you see, first of all, the blind made seen, that's the young man. And then you see the scene made blind, that's the Syrian army. And secondly, we want to pull it in to look a bit at Luke chapter 24. Now, there are a lot of things that puzzle us about this passage, or could puzzle us about the passage What in the world is God doing sending one of his prophets to the northern kingdom? Israel was in rebellion against God. They had their own worship place. Uh they had their own um temple there in Samaria, their capital. Uh they were not listening to God because they weren't following the king that God had given them, namely David and his his uh Descendants. So God nonetheless gave them his word. His word is in the person of the prophet. God is not done with them. Thank God that's true of us, isn't it? We got a Bible. And that tells us God is not done with us because we can read our Bibles and we can find out what God has in mind for us. But Elisha was there because God was bringing his word to a rebellious people. Now, Elisha's in the city with his young man, servant, uh, the city of Dothan, and you hear different things. Dophan was on the plain, Dophan was in the mountain. So we don't quite know what's going on. But what's happened, and you can read it, very simple story. That the king of Syria thinks that he's got a leaker, he's got a mole, he's got a traitor in his own company, and that they're telling the king of Israel how to avoid the traps. Because what's happening is the Syrians and you just kind of think if you follow the news, you know where Syria is, it's kind of the same area. The Syrians are sending raiding parties down into Israel, the northern kingdom. And uh Elisha is warning the king of Israel about where not to go. So the king of Syria is gonna Catch one man, did you get that picture? One man with chariots, horses, and what it says there, a great army. He's not gonna send a raiding party. He's not going to send a special ops team. He's going to send a great army to catch one man. Now, God, as he's working this out wants the young man to learn to live by faith, but you know how God graciously works Sometimes. We have pretty weak faith. We struggle with our faith. We struggle to believe that God's going to do what He says he's going to do. So this young man wakes up in the morning and he looks out and he sees the huge army surrounding him and uh he's terrified. One man against the huge Syrian army, and he says, My master, what shall we do? Alas, what shall we do? Now he's with Elisha. Elisha's already performed miracles. Elisha got a double portion of Elijah's power, spirit. And so why is he afraid? Has he forgotten everything? We don't know. But one of the great lines in all scripture is what Elisha says, Do not be afraid. And I know I should go through my Bible and I should highlight every time. God says, Do not be afraid or Someone says, Do not be afraid. He says, Do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. And you look around. And you can feel this in your own life, can't you? You look around and you're the only one. Right? You don't see anybody else following you. And so that young man looks around and says, I don't see anybody There is nobody here but Elisha and me and this huge army surrounding us. And so God graciously grants the prayer of Elisha. That's the theme of our sermon. That's the title of our sermon. Look at uh what he says there Elisha prayed and said, Oh Lord, please open his eyes that he may see. Elisha wasn't afraid. He was a man who lived by faith, but God being tender towards this young man opens his eyes, and the young man opens his eyes and he sees Chariots of fire, horses of fire. What an amazing thing it must have been. What a overwhelming, terrifying thing. Uh something that you can't even imagine. Chariots of fire? Horses of fire? But he sees them because Elisha had said, more are those who are with us than those who are with him. There's a great army, but God is greater. God's protection of his people is greater. Now I don't know how you feel in your life. I don't know the things that you face But sometimes you do seem to feel like you're alone. Do seem to feel like there's nobody else there Who's understanding your situation or next to you or with you in your situation? And we need We need to open our eyes. You know, the people around us who are not Christians have the world in a way I'm gonna Just call it flat in a way that flattens the world. And this is what I mean. All they see is what's right before their eyes. That's what the young man did He just saw what was right before his eyes. Now, if you are God's child, you've got to see the world as God tells you to see that he is there all the time. He has promised to be there, to never leave you or forsake you. To never desert you, betray you, or play false with you. That God is not a man that he should lie. And when he promises to protect you and keep you, he will do it because that's who he is. We want to see the world as full. We want to see the world as having spiritual reality. Now I'm talking not talking about weird stuff about demons and And we knew a friend who used to say that she had demons running around the ceiling of her house and you know, we're not talking about that. What we're talking about is the fact that we live in a world crammed with heaven, where God never leaves us. We live in a world where you pull back the curtain there in Ephesians chapter 6 and the battle What's the battle against? It's not against flesh and blood. We think it is. We think it's any number of things, any number of people, any number of powers We think it's all those things. And God says, no, it's against spiritual forces of wickedness in heavenly places. You see the same thing when you look at the last chapters of Daniel. God pulls back the curtain and you see Michael helping Daniel because there's a spiritual background. And you look at the book of Revelation, and the whole book of Revelation is pulling back the curtain. And we're seeing that the dragon is chasing the woman. God's doing things always in our lives in this world. Now, the young man sees that So he starts to see, but what God does is even greater because he blinds the army. The young man was blind, but now he sees, and now the Syrian army, this great army, is blinded We don't know how God did it. But the whole army is blinded. And they are led. The Syrians are led with their horses and chariots. into the middle of the enemy capital. It'd be like going into the lines and you're just Wake up and you're in the lion's den. And that's what happens. They're brought right into the presence of their enemies. And so the king of Israel says, Shall we kill them? And Elijah says no, don't do that. Heap burning coals on their heads. And it doesn't give them just bread and water. Elijah says give them bread and water. water. What it says is he gave them a a feast and sent them on their way. Because that's how we treat our enemies. We purboine it we pour burning coals on our heads because God's done that to us. God's showing mercy to us. So you get the picture The young man, like us, has to have his eyes opened to see the spiritual reality that's present all the time. It's already there. It's just that we don't See it. A lot of times we don't think of think of it. We don't think of how God is at work. Now we've got to apply that and see how does this fit into our lives? And there are just two things I want us to think about. The first is, God has to open your eyes if you're going to believe in Jesus. You are a blind person unless God opens your eyes to your need for Christ Unless God chose you your sin, unless God chose Jesus as the sufficient Savior, you are blind and not able to save Yourself. But this is the gospel that we've got to preach to people. We've got to tell them that there is a God who opens eyes. Jesus came for that purpose. Do you remember that in the book of Isaiah there's a wonderful prophecy? Isaiah thirty-five. It goes like this. The wilderness and dry land shall be glad, the desert shall rejoice and bloom like the crocus, it shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice with joy in singing. The glory of Lebanon shall be given to it, the majesty of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord, the majesty of our God. God strengthen the weak hands and make firm the feeble knees. Say to those who have an anxious heart Be strong, fear not, behold your God will come with vengeance. With the recompense of God He will come Come and save you. Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf unstopped. Then the lame shall leap. like a deer, and the tongue of the mute sting for joy, for waters break forth in the wilderness, and streams in the desert The burning sand shall become a pool, and the thirsty ground springs of water, in the haunt of jackals, where they lie down, the grass shall become reeds and rushes, and the highway shall be there The unclean shall not pass over it. It shall belong to those who walk on the way. Even if they are fools, they shall not go Go astray. No lion shall be there, nor shall any ravenous beast come upon it. They shall not be found there. But the redeemed of the w but the redeemed shall walk there. And the ransom to the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with seeing. Everlasting joy shall be upon their heads, and they shall obtain gladness and joy, and sorrow, and sigh And you know what Jesus did? Jesus comes and immediately he begins to heal those who are blind. Physically blind, yes. But he does that Because his greater job, his greater task, is by the work of the Spirit in our lives to open the blind spiritual eyes of people. And so a man like Saul of Tarsus, who was blind to the glory of Christ, would see Christ, repent and believe in Christ. Jesus um on On the uh Sabbath in the um synagogue in Capernaum, read from uh Again, Isaiah. And he said, The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he anointed me to preach the good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind. To set free at liberty those who are oppressed to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. So Christ comes and he opens the eyes of the blind. Not just the physically blind, but he opens the eyes of those who spiritually cannot see the glory of God. cannot see their sin. So that's the first and most significant thing. We need Christ's work in our lives And that means that when you pray for people to be converted, you've got to pray for their eyes to be opened, for them to see, for them to understand. You've got to be pray you've got to pray that God would work in their lives in a way that only God can work, just like God worked to open the young man's eyes there in Dothan. pray for those loved ones who are not Christians that God would open their eyes. But the second thing we want to think about is that lesson from Luke chapter 24. These are men who are disciples of Jesus. They're disciples of Jesus. They're sad. They had heard Jesus proclaim that he would be crucified and then rise on the third day. And yet when the third day comes, they don't understand. They don't understand that it has happened just as Jesus said. They call him a prophet, mighty indeed, mighty in one But they don't acknowledge that he's the Son of God because the Son of God can't be held by death. Now you and I need to have our eyes open, don't we? More of Jesus. We need to see more of Jesus to love him more and to want to be with him more, don't we? I don't know about you, but I'm so glad that God has put me through this stuff in this last year, because it's made me want heaven. Want to heaven. Want to be with Jesus. We have to have our eyes open as Christians all the time. That's why we read the Bible. We read the Bible so that God will open our eyes and will see His work in the world. That our world won't be this flat world where, oh, it's raining today, what a lousy day, three accidents on the road, slowing everything down. No. God's doing something. This amputation in my foot wasn't just, well, Steve, I'm sorry Pat me on the back and say, I'm so sorry. No, God was there. God knew what he was doing. And God uses everything in our lives because the earth is crammed with his glory. The earth is crammed with God's presence and God's power. Do we believe that? Do we believe that as we look around at our lives, our lives are not just sitting and picking blackberries But we're seeing the bush burning. We're seeing the glory of God displayed again and again in our lives. Now, that hymn we sang. I got a little quarrel with it. The final verse is This is my father's world. Oh, let me ne'er forget that though the wrong seems also strong, that seems good. God is the ruler yet, that's great. But then it says, this is my father's world. The battle is not done. My friends, the battle's done The battle is done. Jesus came. He was crucified, and he rose on the third day. The battle is done. We're just living. in the fruits of the battle. And we've got to open our eyes and live biblically thinking about God's presence in our lives and in all the events around us, the crazy stuff that goes on in DC, God's doing something. We don't know what, but God's doing something We have to look as God's people at the world with open eyes. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, help us to look as your people with open eyes at the world around us. Father, we so often give way to fear just like the young man. We so often give way to to thinking that that we're alone, that you're not there. That it's just bad luck. The fact that the train got hold held up and we couldn't get to work on time. The fact that the car broke down again. Uh the fact that the uh uh the teacher in school is unreasonable. All these things, these are things that are under your control You know what you're doing in our lives. And you are bringing about whatever it will be necessary for us to trust you and to become more like Jesus. Please help us to trust you and become more like Him by your Spirit's working. We pray this for your glory and our good in Jesus' name. Amen.