All right, remain standing and turn to Philippians chapter 1 and verses 2 through 11. Philippians 1, verses 2 through 11 And let us again hear God's word as the Apostle Paul addresses the Philippian church. Our God speaks to us. Grace to you and peace from our God and Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. I thank my God upon every remembrance of you, always in every prayer of mine, making a request for you all. With joy for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. Being confident of this very thing, that he who has begun a good work in you will complete it until the day of Jesus Christ. just as it is right for me to think this of you, because I have you in my heart, inasmuch as both in my chains and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. You are all partakers with me of grace, for God is my witness. How greatly I long for you with the affection of Jesus Christ. And this I pray. That your love may abound still more and more in knowledge and all discernment. That you may approve the things that are excellent, that you may be sincere and without offense until the day of Christ. Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, to the glory and praise of God. May God add his reading to blessing to the reading of his word. Please now be seated. I'm going to turn to 1 John now in your Bibles. I'm going to, this is the text I'm going to be preaching from. 1 John chapter 4. And I would do a better job if I could find my notes. I suspect they may be, I'm hoping they're in a folder that I had with my wife. I saw them this morning So I need to get the folder. And now hear God's word from First John. If you haven't guessed by now, love is the focus of the day's message. And we've already read a lot of passages having to do with that Deuteronomy chapter six, first Philippians, uh excuse me, Philippians one, uh verse na eight and nine in particular. And uh Romans, Romans chapter 13 has been mentioned as well. But now we turn to another place in God's Word where love Love for God and love for one another are prominently featured. So let's let's start with verse one. of 1 John chapter 4. And I'll be reading through verse uh um eleven. But my focus of my remarks will be verses seven and eight. There's so much in this passage I could There are many sermons here. Many. But I ask you now to pay attention to God's word, and we ask for God's blessing on its reading. Beloved, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, whether they are of God. Because many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is of God. And every spirit that does not confess that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is not of God. And this is the spirit of Antichrist. What you have heard was coming and is now already in the world. You are of God, little children, and have overcome them. Because he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world. They are of the world. Therefore they speak as of the world, and the world hears them. We are of God. He who knows God hears us. He who is not of God does not hear us. By this we know the spirit of truth and the spirit of error. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone who loves is born of God and knows God. He who does not love does not know God. For God is love. In this, the love of God was manifested toward us, that God has sent his only begotten Son into the world. That we might live through him. And this is love. Not that we loved God. But that He loved us and sent His Son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved, if God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of God remains forever. Oh Lord, now we ask for your help. We ask, Lord, specifically, that you would speak to the hearts of your people. That you would use me in that way to convey your truth That you may be honored, but also your people may be blessed. And bless them not simply as individuals, but also as a living congregation of the Lord Jesus. These things we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Fifty-three years ago. Yes, I can still remember. Fifty-three years ago, some things that happened. And one of the things that happened was I was in seminary at the time, and we were attending A church of this denomination, which still exists right across the street from Westminster Seminary. And our pastor at the time, um He was he was young he was young in the midst of a congregation of Orthodox Presbyterian giants. There were multiple seminary professors, including, and I'll drop some names, but some of you will know these names, and maybe others won't including Edmund Clowney, president of the seminary, O. Palmer Robertson, Old Testament professor, Richard Gaffin, New Testament professor Norman Shepherd, New Testament professor, Arthur Kushke, Greek professor and librarian of the seminary. John Galbraith, who was Mr. Everything in the early years of the OPC And Bob Drake, who was the pastor at the time, kept it seemed like every sermon he preached was on love. Every time. And, you know, after about ten Sundays of this, I was beginning to get a little frustrated. Isn't there more to it than this? After all, I was in seminary and I wanted to hear the good stuff. I wanted to hear about the debate between superlapsarianism and infralapsarianism. I wanted, you know, I wanted to hear these kinds of things and how how does this How does it apply to me about this love? I I'm in seminary, you know. I'm off doing my thing in seminary. I'm trying to study to learn Well, I have since come to really appreciate how focused and how central Love is in not just the Gospels, but as I read from Deuteronomy, even in the Old Testament. How important love is. And it's important that we understand exactly what kind of love is being talked about. In all of these passages, all the passages I read in the New Testament, the same Greek word appears for love. Some of you probably have heard it. I know those who are here have heard it because when I was here, I preached a grand total of 55 sermons on 1 John. And I made sure that everybody understood what this word means. And for those who are interested, it's agape. Agape. Okay? So Greek does have primarily two words for love. Agape is one, and the word phalao is the other. And phalao is that word that implies brotherly affection, brotherly love. Agape may have that aspect to it, but it's not the primary focus of that word. The primary focus of agape is the idea of giving oneself. Sacrifice. It is not essentially a feeling, it is primarily an activity. An act. I know you've heard this before. Many of you here have heard it. But because you see, our culture Has done all kinds of definitions of love that have nothing to do with For the most part with the Bible's definition. And because we live in this culture, we're constantly fighting this We're constantly fighting the influence of the world on our thinking, not just on the word love, but on everything. The world is not without Christ is not where we live. We live here, yes. But the Bible makes it clear that this is not our home. That we are strangers here. We're pilgrims here, and we're moving toward our heavenly home where God in his glory reigns supreme. And love, the love of God for his people, and the love of his people is perfected. In glory. And we're not there yet, but by God's help, by the work of the Holy Spirit, we're moving in that direction. And as we move, we have a big fight on our hands. And the big fight does not come essentially from the world. It comes from In here, in the battle between the old man of sin and the new man in Christ. Because you see, the old man of sin, you could characterize it in many different ways. He's still around Christ is working through his spirit to constantly put him down and destroy him. But you know yourself, that old habit, those old ways of thinking, constantly you have to battle, you have to fight. Because ultimately you're thinking about yourself, primarily, and you're not thinking about what God wants. We are in a training exercise in which our God is working through the power of his Spirit, with the cross of Jesus Christ as the supreme example of the one who gave and sacrificed himself, the supreme example of love. For us, for us sinners He didn't love us because we were so great, so beautiful, so spiritually wonderful. He loved us when we were still enemies. Well, we were still children of his wrath, and he brought us into the family of God. And so let me share with you a few more thoughts about verses seven and eight. Obviously John is addressing the church. He he loves them. He identifies them. Beloved. They're his beloved people. People he probably worked with. And shared the good news that Jesus has died for sinners. And Jesus has rose to make you new in his image. Than to live in the fullness of life. Beloved, he says, let us love one another. For love is of God. And everyone that loveth sorry for the King James. And everyone that loveth is born of God. And knows God. John, in his epistle uses the word agape for love 34 times. In our own verse, Tadayah he today he used it three times So I submit to you that it's pretty significant that we understand it. John never uses the other Greek word. in the epistle. He never uses philetho. He always every time in 1 John you see love, it's this agape. It's this agape modeled after the sacrifice of Christ. The one who gives. The one who gives his life that we might be saved. That's the model, that's the example, that's the image you need to keep in mind. In this particular passage, in verse seven, the object of believers' love is said to be each other. Love one another, as verse seven begins. Love for each other is said to be that way, for we find out that God is love. The one in whom has saved us, he is now now God has many different attributes, but he is All of them are at their apex at the same time. But he is the apex one who loves his people. And you can't, as Christians, doubt that, because the cross of Jesus always looms before you. And is always part of your new existence in Christ. Now here we know that love is primarily for one another, uh to be expressed to one another, not a not necessarily an emotional feeling, but That goes along with it. I mean, you know, to me this morning coming in and hugging you all, uh that that that was emotional love, believe me. But Again, John is looking at the church, and he is addressing them in primarily a command form. Love each other. Agape each other. Be willing to make sacrifices for one another. Now, it's true, and that those of you who understand God's Word know that the that one another is not the only object of our love. As Jesus reminded us in his Matthew 26 passage, verse 36 and following, excuse me, Matthew 22, verse 36 and following. When he's asked the question, what is the great commandment in the law? He says, you shall love the Lord your God. with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the first and great commandment, and the second is like unto it you shall love your neighbor. as yourself. You shall love one another as yourself. On these two commandments he went on to say, hang all the law and the prophets. In other words You can understand the Ten Commandments as giving us instructions and reasons to love God as well as to love one another. That's the essence of the law of God. As I shared with you earlier. John in this advocacy of love unto one another is consistent with the rest of the Bible. And you would you would expect that. But again, Deuteronomy, hear, O Israel, the Lord your God is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your mind, and with all your soul. Romans chapter 13, verse 8, which we read earlier. Owe no one anything except to love one another. He who loves one another has fulfilled the law. If we were to go back in John's writings, again I said there were thirty-four different times in which the word love is used. If we go back a couple of chapters, we'll see some other things that help us understand more about this important aspect of love. As John writes, 1 John 2 10. He that loves his brother abides in the light. And there is no occasion of stumbling in him. One who has been redeemed by Christ, and the Holy Spirit's working in their heart. And what does the Holy Spirit do? He produces the fruits of the Spirit. Galatians 5, verse 22. What is the first fruit? Love. Not philetho. It's agape. The Holy Spirit's at work helping us, helping us to love one another. So that we abide in the light of life and the light of the gospel. 1 John 3, verse 10 is another one, and following, is another passage that leads up to our passage this morning. that um speaks of this love that we have and what are the implications of that love 1 John 3:10. In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil. Whoever does not righteousness is not of God, neither is he that loveth not his brother. Notice something in that passage that John has done an important thing in that he says, he who uh does not love His brother is the same who he who doesn't know God. Think about that for a minute. It's important to appreciate that. I have been in situations in ministry where You deal with people, and you deal with people with a large amount of understanding of who God is And what his word talks about. I mean, really smart people. Smart with knowledge. about the Bible. But for some reason, for some people, and I'm really not judging, I'm just stating the facts, I have experienced. times where agape and such people was not as advanced in as in terms of the knowledge. And that really causes significant problems, especially, especially if the person doing that Is it some sort of leadership position in the church? 1 John 3. 11. This is the message that you heard from the beginning that we should love one another. John didn't come up with anything new. This has been the message that God has been telling his people throughout. From the beginning. First John three fourteen. We know that we have passed from death To life. How do you know that you have passed from death to life? John tells you. Because we love the brethren. And if that isn't bad enough, or doesn't prick your heart, he goes on to say, He that loveth not his brother abides in death. Verse sixteen of first John three, hereby perceive we the love of God. Because he laid down his life for us. God laid down his life for us? What could he be possibly be talking about? The eternal Son of God, second person of the Trinity, ever-existing, creator and redeemer, took on human flesh and suffered. in human treatment from the hands of men and was crucified. But not without His victory. Because in that crucifixion, Father accepted his sacrifice. And turned away the wrath of God that rightly belongs to us, placed it on him. And then he rose from the dead. Defeating sin and the bondage that sin holds us to. Probably isn't the right way to say that, but you get the point. The bondage that sin holds us in the And he simply asks us to repent of our sin and to believe in him. In the good news that God has come, that God has taken on human flesh and died for you For God so agape the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That those who believe in him might live and have everlasting life. Verse 17 of 1 John 3 Whoso has these worlds' goods sees his brother have need. and shuts up his vows of compassion from him, how dwells the love of God in him 1 John 3. 18, my little children, let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed. and in truth. Remember I said this is activity. This is action. Let us love indeed and in truth. 1 John 3. 23, this is his commandment that we should believe on the name of His Son, Jesus Christ, and love one another. As he gave commandment. All these passages make it very crystal clear that our greatest example of love is Christ. And that love, which is the dominant feature, which has as its dominant feature the giving of oneself for the benefit of another. Is what ought to be our obligation as new creatures in Christ The law, 1 John 3, 16 and 23 teach us that Christ's agape for us obligates us to love each other. I know we don't like to hear that word obligation. But it isn't as though you have to do that in your own strength. If you're hearing me, if you're listening to me, and you're appreciating what I'm saying, God's Holy Spirit is working. And His Holy Spirit will help you to love when it seems impossible. It seems difficult. It's not it's not easy to love one another. You those of you who are married experience that. It's always something that comes up that you do wrong that in some way offends your wife or your husband. And what do you do? You let it ride? No. You do everything you can to reconcile as quickly as possible. And you keep demonstrating to your wife or to your husband that you really do care for them and you're willing to do everything to help them with any problem they have. Even if it takes you out of your comfort zone, and even if it means You can't watch the the Redskins or any other thing that you enjoy doing and but you've got to act in some way. Y'all getting what I'm saying? I I'm That's page one of a three-page sermon. I'm sorry, I know I've gone over time. I do feel very, as you can guess, I feel very strongly about this. Connected to the concept of love are some other virtues And as you look at the scriptures, you start seeing that it's not only love, but you see some other components, such as revealed in the character of God. Exodus 34, for example, the Lord passes before Moses and he proclaims himself. The Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering, abundant in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, and forgiving iniquity. Now, love isn't mentioned there, right? It's not. But when when you hear those words that come from Exodus What you should also connect in your mind is the work of the Holy Spirit producing fruits because they're almost all there. They're almost well, if you look at Galatians 5, 22 and 23, everything that's mentioned in Deuteronomy Exodus 34 is there, except love is not there. But I think that love, you can't you can't do those things without this agape love. You can't be merciful, you can't be patient with each other, you can't forgive Without love. Psalm eighty six verse five Thou, O Lord, art good, ready to forgive, plenteous in mercy, unto them that call upon thee. A big a big point that's being made about love is the need of forgiveness. Ephesians 2. 4 God who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us. God who is rich in mercy. Notice the connection of love and mercy. Ephesians 2. 4. Love agape. And then the passage that follows right after this passage. First John four nine and through eleven. And this was manifested the love of God toward us, because he sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. We love that verse, don't we? And then it goes on. Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another. My first pastor was on the plains of South Dakota. And I had at various times covered two churches. One was the primary church and then there was another one out on the prairie. And I remember when we went there, the candidate, we pulled into this place. And uh there can't be more than fifty people who live there. It was out in on the prairie in a ranching community. They still had a mobile gas station that had the red Pegasus horse, if you remember that. They had a post office, a couple of houses, and there were three churches. A Lutheran Church, a Catholic Church, and an Orthodox Presbyterian Church. But I remember in one of the churches, in this church that was out on the prairie. Then granted all these guys were ranchers. And you know when you've got ranchers, sometimes cattle get out Sometimes there are land boundary disputes. Sometimes there are things that occur on the ranch that are difficult to deal with. There are two men in this congregation. One an elder and one a deacon. I was there four four to five years. The whole time I was there These two leaders of the church refuse to talk to one another. I find that contrary to the obligation to love. Don't you? But it happens. I don't know what happened after I left. But it was common knowledge. And I don't know what happened that caused the problem. But I suspect in the scheme of things It wasn't worth alienating one another. But self gets in the way. Self is always there. Self is connected to pride. And you can't have pride if you need to forgive If you're going to repent. So remember, this is what God has called you to do. To love each other, and as you love each other, to display Christ. Please do not think That I believe you don't love one another. I don't believe that's the case at all. But I will challenge you with the same challenge that Paul sent to the Philippian church. In his prayer, as he opens the Gotti Epistle, he says, and this I pray for you That your love. Guess what? What's there? Agape. That your love may abound still yet more and more in all knowledge and discernment. You won't ever have enough love on this side. In glory. Yeah. But that should not stop you. From showing it to each other. For the glory of Jesus. And the memory of his sacrifice for us. Amen.