All right, well let's get started. As we continue our study and prayer this summer, ultimately we're going to be going to The Garden of Gethsemane, as we Matthew records it in chapter 26. But before we do, as we have been doing, In this series, we want to pick up this last Westminster larger catechism With regard to prayer generally, before um they jump into the Lord's Prayer. So number 186, Westminster Logger Catechism number 186 Reads this way, what rule has God given for our direction in the duty of prayer? The answer is the whole word of God is of use to direct us in the duty of prayer. But that special rule of direction is that form of prayer which our Savior Christ taught his disciples, commonly called the Lord's Prayer. Well, we want to focus tonight. On this first clause, before they get into the special rule of direction, we want the general rule of direction, and the whole word of God is of use. To direct us in a duty of prayer. I'm not sure how often we think of that. We should be thinking of that quite often. We often think of the Lord's Prayer, but not the uh not the rest of God's word. And this directs us to just that. The whole word of God is of use to direct us in the duty of prayer. So we might think of what we read in 1 John chapter 5 At the end of that first letter, that first epistle, the Apostle John writes, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know That you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward him, that if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Well, why did I include that? Well, because it's uh one of the scripture proofs, but it really refers us to the whole word of God, doesn't it? If we ask anything according to his will, where do we find the will of God? We find the will of God throughout Scripture. And so uh this is the scriptural proof that they use for that aspect of prayer. Where can we go to uh learn how to pray? Well, the whole word of God teaches us, because the whole word of God is instructing us on the will of God. So we see we could go to the Ten Commandments. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. But the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. So, how can we pray this using the whole Word of God? Well, we can use His names, His words, His works reverently in prayer. And so we can pray in accordance with the will of God as we use within our prayers his name's word and works. Reverently. Well, Philippians, we also have in chapter two, before we get to the portion that It shows us the humility of Christ. Paul leads up to that with the instruction we receive. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in Humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interest, but the interest of others Well, how can we use that in prayer? Well, we can pray for Christ's humility and his submission to be that which enters into our hearts. We can pray. That God would enable us, that He would change us, that He would remove from us selfish ambition that he would enable us to lift up to interest of others. In short, pray for Christ's humility and submission of heart. I think we're going to see that tonight And using the whole word of God, we can certainly go to the Psalms and pray back God's words to him. For the Lord is good. His steadfast love endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations. This is in the third person speaking of the Lord being good, his steadfast love. Well we could repeat his words But Father, you are good, and your steadfast love endures forever, your faithfulness to all generations. Merely by changing the The pronoun we can use this directly in our prayers, repeating his words in prayer, using the whole word of God And then from Psalm 102, do not hide your face from me in the day of my distress. Incline your ear to me Answer me speedily in the day when I call. Nothing has to be changed with regard to this particular psalm. We can import this psalm, the words of this psalm directly into our prayers as we plead with God and and remember his words and use them directly as we petition him. Using the whole Word of God, using his words, repeating his words as we plead before him. Well, let's turn our hearts now to Matthew chapter 26. I'm going to be ripp begin reading tonight. at verse thirty-six Matthew twenty-six beginning at verse thirty-six The Bible that I'm reading from tonight has a heading, which is not inspired, which tells us that Jesus prays in Gethsemane. Let's give our attention to God's holy word. Then Jesus went with them to a place called Gethsemane. And he said to his disciples, sit here while I go over there and pray. And taking with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, he began to be sorrowful and troubled. Then he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful even to death. Remain here and watch with me. And going a little farther, he fell on his face and prayed, saying, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless, not as thy will. but as you will. And he came to the disciples and found them sleeping. He said to Peter, So could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray That you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but this flesh is weak. Again for the second time he went away and prayed. My father, if this cannot pass, unless I drink it, your will be done. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were heavy So leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. And he came to the disciples and said to them, Sleep and take your rest later on. See ye the hour is at hand, and the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners Rise, let us be going. See my betrayer is at hand. Let's pray. Father in heaven We thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for this record of Christ's prayers. In the Garden of Gethsemane. We thank you, Lord God, for the things that it teaches us. We thank you, Lord God, for the insights it gives us of our Savior. Certainly of you. And we ask now that the Spirit would work powerfully in our hearts. Teach us, Lord, how to pray. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we certainly know the backdrop to this particular event in the history of redemption. Jesus is sorrowful. Indeed, I didn't put this on the screen, but in verse thirty-seven he Talks with Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and he began to be sorrowful and troubled, and now he speaks to them and confesses as much My soul is very sorrowful even to come Well and also what's instead is like the passover vehicles And so Jesus indeed even confesses to these three that his sorrow is so great Almost as if he were dying. He was about to be betrayed. He is uh about to be arrested Ultimately he will be crucified. But notice that here, as the backdrop to this prayer, it's the soul or the heart of Jesus which is sorrowful This is what Matthew wants us to see. This is what the Spirit is guiding us. And in a sense It's not that our hearts need to be sorrowful every single time we enter into prayer, but we see that as Christ has much sorrow within his soul as a result of what is coming, He enters into prayer. And we have to ask ourselves, is this what we do? Is this our first course of action? As sorrow begins to develop, do we run to prayer? Do we run to the Father? Jesus did. Notice the posture of prayer. We don't often receive this kind of detail, but here we do as as Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane. He leaves behind the two, the three, Peter and the two sons of Zebedee. He tells them to wait. He tells them to watch And he goes on further. He separates himself from them, and then he prostrates himself. He falls upon his face. This posture, this posture of Jesus, is a posture of that sorrowful heart, that sorrowful soul. First, he was alone. He separates himself so that he can be intimately with his father. No distractions, nothing other than his heart being poured out to that one that he was an intimate Spiritual fellowship with the Divine One, God the Father. And so he separates himself. Oh, what a great picture of the posture that we should be having As we go before the Lord, certainly as we pray by ourselves. But then secondly As he falls upon his face. This prayer was not mere communion, but it was also worship And by falling upon his face, Jesus is posturing himself as he pleads. with the Father, as he communes with his father intimately. He prostrates himself, he lowers himself. We'll see how significant this is as the as the prayer advances. We have to ask ourselves, what is our posture in prayer? Certainly we can ask that with regard to our physical posture, but you're going to see, we're going to see how this physical posture really points to the posture of Jesus' heart before his Father. What is our posture? What is our heart attitude before God in prayer? We know what the posture was with the two who went up to the temple to pray, the Pharisee and the publican. Consider this: the Pharisee standing by himself. Seemingly close to the temple, as the two men went up to the temple to pray, the Pharisee sees himself as standing singularly Meaning he is the one that is right and just before God He singles himself out. He separates himself out not as a posture of humility or submission, but as a posture of righteousness. The tax collector, in contrast to the Pharisee, stands far off. He doesn't get close. It's a posture of humility. It's the posture of recognition of his sins and recognize that he will not even lift up his eyes to heaven That would be too much for this one who knows what his heart is able to do, and that is sin against a holy God. Here's his posture. He beats his breast With his eyes not toward heaven, but toward the ground, saying, God, be merciful to me. Complete different posture than the Pharisee. We need to consider what our posture is, and here I speak of the heart, not necessarily our physical posture. Well, here's the petition then. And we know it. It's a simple prayer, but it is full. My Father. If it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Here now is Jesus' most earnest heartfelt, even sorrowful request or petition of his father. The cup. The cup would be the cross The cup would be the pouring out of the Father's wrath for sin. The cup would be the laying upon Jesus, the punishment For the sins of the elect, the cup would result in separation. I believe that was the premise of Jesus' prayer. That the cup would pass from him such that he would not have to drink it and be separated from the one whom he loved, his heavenly father. But notice the qualification. If it be possible. You see Jesus' desire that he wouldn't be separated from his father, that the sins, the punishment for the sins of the elect would not be laid upon him, separating him from his intimate Fellowship and communion with the one whom he loved, he qualifies. If it be possible If there is another way for the people of God to be saved, then Father, let this cup pass, if it is possible, if there is another way of achieving your most holy and perfect will, if it be possible. Let this pass Don't know how often we pray with qualifications like that, if it be possible. And here we see the depth of the submissive heart Of the Son of the Lord Jesus Christ. Nevertheless, meaning that taken aside, my desire set aside. Not placing my desires above everything else, nevertheless. Not as I will, but as you will. Well, Jesus was so sorrowful, so sincere in these prayers that his sweat becomes as drops of blood. Imagine how often do we come to the point of sweating, of perspiring in our prayers, and yet his perspiration was so earnest, so heartfelt. It became his drops of blood. Yet he was completely submissive. Notice Jesus' ultimate desire was the will of the Father, his Father would be done. Above all else, that was his ultimate desire. Within ours. Is that how we pray? And so we notice after the first round of prayer, so to speak, he goes to the disciples, he finds them sleeping, he asks that rhetorical question: could you not watch with me one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. This seems to be certainly that which he was calling his disciples uh to heed. He was, in a sense, rebuking them. He was in a sense reminding them of what they needed. Their flesh was weak Spirit was willing. They needed something more than their flesh in order to watch. They needed prayer. They were subject to and did succumb to the temptation to close their eyes. But there's also a sense in which Jesus' words were being applied to his own heart. Pray, that you may not enter into temptation. Do you think that Satan was lurking about as Jesus had entered into Gethsemane? We're not told that. We are told that Satan is a roaring lion lurking Waiting to pounce. We know that Satan did not limit his temptations to Jesus, to uh that time, right after the baptism You think that Jesus was subject to temptations as the cross loomed before him? Certainly he was. He had a fully human nature except for sin, except for a sin nature. He was subject to temptations. So this admonition to enter into prayer, I think, in part was for his own heart. Again, for the second time, he went away and prayed, My Father, if this cannot pass, unless I drink it, your will be done. There's a sense, certainly I don't think we have a record of the entire prayers that were prayed by the Lord Jesus. I think there were more, it was more intimate communion between he and his father. This is what has been required for us and kept for us. But noticeably absent from this second prayer was a record that Jesus requested the cut past. Now, it may certainly have been there. Indeed, as we get to the third prayer, we'll see a repetition. But there seems at least in the recording of this these prayers that there was a greater and greater alignment with the Father's. will as Jesus continues to pray. There never was a time when his will was not aligned, but there seems to be this increasing, if we can say it that way, alignment. As Matthew doesn't record this request that the cup passed, that he has come to the conclusion that there is no other way. And that he desires to submit himself. In an increasing alignment possibly. And then finally, this repetition, a third time, leaving them again, he went away and prayed for the third time, saying the same words again. You know, in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus teaches the disciples to pray and pray and pray. To repeat prayers. Not without thinking, not um Not merely repetition, but to continue to ask, continue to seek, continue to knock. For everyone who asks, receives, the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. And so now for the third time Jesus Christ goes before his Father and prays the same words again. And that takes us back to this idea of praying, that we might find help in our temptations. I think this repetition is certainly working upon the pure, the unblemished heart. of the Lord Jesus Christ to keep him away from temptations and to wholly and completely align his will with his father's. Repetition of prayer And then the result of prayer. He came to his disciples and said to them, Sleep and take your rest later on. The hour is at hand, the Son of Man is betrayed into the hands of sinners. Rise. Let us be going. See, my betrayer is at hand. Jesus was now prepared and equipped for that which was to come. Do you see how he needed to go before his father in order to be fully prepared and equipped for what was about to happen in the next many hours There's no sorrow mentioned now. There's no hesitation in going. There's no reluctance. Not that there ever was. Indeed, we see him encouraging the disciples to let's get going, even as he notes that his friend, Judas, the betrayer. Is at hand. He's urging them on. Now he needs to go to the cross and he's calling them. Let us be going. You see, in part we might consider this the armor the armor that Jesus Christ had finished putting on. Here in Ephesians chapter six we see the spiritual armor, and it ends with with this Verse in chapter 6, verse 18, praying at all times. Yes, we need faith. We need righteousness. But then we read praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. Seemingly Jesus had put on this last piece of armor, this prayer. That he might enter into the spiritual, this greatest spiritual battle in the history of redemption. Praying at all times in the Spirit. Well, that finishes our short study on prayer throughout Scripture. I hope that this has been profitable. It's certainly been profitable for me. Next week, Lord willing, we will Then jump back into our study, continue our study in the Westminster Shorter Catechism at number 36.