All right, what are you all seeing? Full screen prayer, Psalm 13, verses 1 through 6. Very good. That's what you should be seeing. Alright, let's uh continue our Study and prayer tonight as we uh look at all of Scripture in a sense We're going to be focusing on uh Psalm 13, those six verses. Very short Psalm, but a very good psalm. So Before we begin that, let's uh go to the larger catechism, number 183, which asks that question: For whom are we to pray? The answer is I think without much surprise, we are to pray for the whole church of Christ upon earth. For magistrates and ministers, for ourselves, our brethren, yea, our enemies, and for all sorts of men living, or that shall live hereafter But not for the dead, nor for those that are known to have sinned the sin unto death. Well, as we think about that just for a moment, let's Consider some of the scripture proofs which are attached to this question and answer. Ephesians might come to mind Praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication to that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints That's all inclusive. And also for me, Paul wrote this. And so as he was writing to the church at Ephesus, he was uh calling them to pray for all the saints and also for him and here very specifically that words may be given to me in opening my mouth, boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. And so He was asking for prayers, he took the gospel about. He's asking for prayer for the gospel ministry, for him in particular And for all the saints. And so this is a pretty broad passage, but it also includes that very specific uh prayer for those who are Well, proclaiming the gospel. James chapter 5 tells us, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. And uh James gives us that example of Elijah, a righteous man, who prayed fervently that it wouldn't rain, and then We prayed that it would rain. So for three years and six months it didn't rain, and then when he prayed for rain, the heaven gave its rain, earth bore its fruit. Pray for one another that you may be healed. And then surprisingly, maybe, we have this passage that tells us to pray for those who persecute us. Love your enemies. And pray for those who persecute you. That may be one of our most difficult prayers. But this is a call by our Lord and Savior to do so. We are to include Those who are we would consider to be enemies on this earth, and those who persecute us, uh, we are to include them within our prayers. And then Who are we not to pray for? Certainly the dead, but then we see this as well. uh those that have committed the sin that leads to death, which would be blaspheming the Holy Spirit. And John says very clearly, I do not say that one should pray for that. So just a few verses that might help us to answer that question for whom are we to pray? Now, let's go to Psalm 13, verses 1 through 6. Let's keep our attention to God's Word. To the choir master, the psalm of David, how long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul, and have sorrow in my heart all the day How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord my God. Light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. Lest my enemies say, I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation I will sing to the Lord, because he has dealt bountifully with me. That's part of the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would help us as we seek to learn more about this great blessing of prayer. Father, as we seek to use all of your holy word, we pray that you would work in our hearts, that you would help us to use this prayer, this Psalm 13. To guide us tonight by your spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this prayer of David begins in a an interesting way where he is pouring out His heartfelt emotions. We don't really know that the circumstances of this prayer. uh the title to it only tells us that it was being given to the choir master than it's a psalm of David. We don't know what was going on. We will get into that a little bit, but there's no explanation in the in the title, but we see that there's something going on in David's heart. And so there's a sense in which this psalm, this prayer is Teaching us that we need to go before the Lord and pour out before him these heartfelt emotions. That which is in the depths of our very beings, as we commune with God, that would seem to be very appropriate. And here we see from David that he was doing just that. He was feeling, he was uh doubting the Lord's presence with him. He's been experiencing something which would cause him to conclude that the Lord has been uh far or distant from him, that indeed he had been forgotten. He's pouring out his heart before the Lord Jehovah And we know that Scripture is going to tell us and remind us time and again that God had not truly forgotten him, but the reality was in David's heart. But this emotion was stirring him to heartfelt prayer, to pour out his very soul to the Lord, to commune in such a way that uh he reached to the depth of of his dilemma. Feeling like the Lord had forgotten him And so that's the call, in a sense, to pour out these emotions that are within us that we may not share with anyone else but God Himself. And here he, in the second portion of the first verse, he continues that same idea. How long will you hide your face from me? There's been time now in David's life when he feels that God is not hearing him. Indeed, this verse gives us the impression that David feels that God has turned his face away. From David. Now, if you just think upon the temple for a minute and know it didn't exist in David's day, but the idea was that if you turned your face toward the temple uh that God would be hearing you, and that was a given. Here, uh David, as he turns his face toward God, he's he's doubting that God has actually turned his face toward David But the Lord never hides his face from the righteous. Yet I think they we might confess, and that word or that should be times, not imes, yet there are times When we doubt that the Lord hears. And when that happens, the call here is to Tell the Lord, Lord, I feel that you're distant. I feel that you have turned your face away from me. We're going to see as this psalm moves on how the Lord works in David's heart. But this is David's estate right now. He's feeling as though the Lord has turned away from him. And it continues. He's confessing now the result of this doubt that he has been harboring in his heart. How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? As David believes that God has turned his face away, is not hearing David's pleas, he's turned to himself. He's confessing that the result of his concern, his heartfelt belief that the Lord's not hearing him, the result is that he turns to himself. He takes counsel with himself, no longer communing with God, and there is heartfelt sorrow, not just an hour, but all day This is the result of his his doubts. I'm not sure that miscounted as an actual word But these are the result of David's doubts. He's been seeking counsel on himself as opposed to seeking counsel on the Lord because he believes at this point that God is not hearing him. And the second part of verse two w follows the first part. How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Now we get the impression that David has been praying to the Lord. uh with regard to the difficulties that is experiencing with regard to his enemies. And we know that David had many enemies. many fights, many battles. And uh so the idea might be that uh David is not hearing from the Lord. He is not achieving victory in the way he thought. And so as he confesses or he continues to confess now the root of the plea, his enemies are seemingly gaining the victory. This is the root of David's tribulation. He is losing, and the enemies are winning And we have to ask ourselves as we take this plea apart, this psalm apart, do we ever feel this way ourselves? That the enemy is winning, that the enemy is being exalted. I think Paul felt that way as uh we read in Romans chapter 7. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. having his way with David excuse me with all I want to turn off your microphone. Do you live here As the host you can mute him pastor, Chris. I have no idea how to do that unless I stop the share. All right, we'll continue. Paul, as uh as he wrote this, I do not do the good I want, the evil I do not want, it is what I keep on doing. I I think Paul was uh in a sense saying the enemy is being exalted over me. The old man within was at times winning the battle. I think we feel that way, and I think we need to pray to God, pouring out and confessing a root of our plea. Here then, I believe, is the center of this prayer, verse 3. It is the center, I believe. I believe it's the turning point in the prayer. Because David has not lost hope that God hears. Otherwise, he wouldn't have written this psalm to begin with. And here this verse is powerful. I believe it's the center. Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. And so now here's this boldness in David's voice. There was timidity to begin with. There was a voice that was full of doubt. and a a lack of confidence. In fact, uh it was full of untruths. And but now Now he approaches the throne as he continues to pray with boldness. Consider and answer me. David was certain about his future. If God were not to intervene, meaning that he would sleep the sleep of death if his enemies continued to be exalted over him, if God didn't hear his prayer. He was certain. And so he's bold as he approaches the throne. And David was confident that the Lord was able to grant life. Light up my eyes. And Jesus Christ tells us that in the uh Sermon on the Mount that the eyes light of the body comes in a strange place in the Sermon on the Mount. But I I I think that's that's where this in fact comes from, this idea that the eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. So David was asking that the Lord would open his eyes and light them. His whole body would be full of light. Light up my eyes, lest I seek the sleep of death. David was confident that the Lord was able to grant life. And so we see that, we read that in Hebrews chapter four, don't we? Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in the time of need. David was in a time of need, and he now, in this middle portion of the psalm, in this centerpiece, he draws near with confidence, seeking mercy, seeking grace. We were going to break this sum down and just look at it as the whole thing. I wanted to show us this. I think this is right. I may not be correct, but I think this the structure of the psalm And as it begins, as it begins with this doubts in verse 1 and 2, and uh and as I see as I've broken them down there, but number three, the verse three seems to be that centerpiece, that turning point, and then we can begin matching up uh the last three verses which would with those which have gone before and we're going to do that here in a moment. But we'll see how verse four uh matches up with the ending of uh verse two. Speaks to the enemies, both of them. And then verse five speaks of trusting and steadfast love as opposed to verse two taking counsel in my soul and then finally verse six Stinging to the Lord, for he's now boundily with me, versus uh thinking and pondering whether or not the Lord had forgotten. David. This is why I say that verse 3 is the centerpiece, the turning point, that which we might want to focus our hearts upon tonight. Well, here as uh this confident plea continues, uh David uh pleas with the Lord, lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice. because I am shaken. But because God does hear, because the Lord loved his servant David, the enemy was not and would never be exalted over David. And this this verse is in a sense saying that. Lord, consider my plea before you. Light up my eyes. Give me life. And we see here that as he continues on with this plea, the sense of it is that his enemies won't prevail God hear me so that the enemies won't prevail, that they won't rejoice. over me because I haven't been shaken because you are with me. Our enemies will not prevail for Jesus has defeated them. And so in a sense we we might read this a as a uh a a cautious plea, but it really is a very confident plea of David that his enemies won't prevail. And here it gets even stronger. Verse 5, I've trusted in your steadfast love, my heart shall rejoice. In your salvation. This is a a complete turn now. Instead of taking counsel in his own soul, David now trusts in the eternal love of his God, of his heavenly father, of his Lord. And so we see that this psalm is really all about David being led to acknowledge And trust in the steadfast love of God. He starts off in doubt, but his heart is changed. He's proclaiming here a supernatural change within his heart. I have trusted. Even as this psalm began with doubt. Instead of sorrow now, David rejoices as he remembers the salvation of the Lord. And it ends with this I will sing to the Lord because He's dealt bountifully with me. It's amazing how this psalm begins and how it ends in a mere six verses. Prayer praises God for his work in our hearts. And we can see so very powerfully God's work in David's heart. He's brought him from the depths of despair, thinking that God has forgotten him, and it ends with his song and his acknowledgement that God has indeed dealt bountifully with him. Seemingly nothing has changed with regard to his status in his enemies seeking to prevail over him, but now his confidence has returned And he's now trusting not in his soul, but in God's eternal love, and that brings him to the point of song, of joy. It ends with his declaration of that which God has done, the Lord has done, and was doing all along in his heart. The Lord had not forgotten David. But was actually drawing David ever closer to him, using these doubts even. Using the enemy who was seemingly being exalted over David to bring David closer to himself. And this prayer just opens up that view into David's heart. And it helps us, I think, as we pour out our deepest emotions, our deepest thoughts before God and as He leads us to be reminded of His everlasting love for us, especially in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, next week, Lord willing, we'll be taking a look at Jonah, a very different kind of prayer. And we'll be actually looking at two prayers within that very short prophet, Jonah 2 and then Jonah 4.