Good response. Let's get started. We're going to continue our brief study of uh of prayers that are set forth in Scripture tonight. My hope is that this will be an encouragement to us as we engage in corporate prayer in a little bit here. So tonight we're going to be looking at 1 Samuel chapter 2 with regard to what we might refer to as Hannah's prayer. Before we do that, what I want to do is just consider one of the larger catechisms. We're also going through the larger catechisms as we do this. uh larger catechism concerning prayer. So what is it to pray in the name of Christ? This is number 180 in the larger catechism. Well last week we looked at whether or not we were just to pray to God. I think the answer to that was yes. So what is it to pray in the name of Christ? To pray in the name of Christ is an obedience to his command and in confidence on his promises to ask mercy for his sake. Not by bare mentioning of his name, but by drawing our encouragement to pray, and our boldness, strength, and hope of acceptance and prayer from Christ and his mediation. What a wonderful statement of the truth of Scripture. As we go to prayer and pray in the name of Christ, there is much boldness that we should be having within our hearts, as we know we're coming in his name according to his will. It's not just just barely mentioning it. That would be a mistake. We don't want to merely pray in the name of Christ just as an add-on or just as a matter of uh rote prayer, but um As we do so, knowing that this is where our confidence comes from, our ability to even approach the throne of grace is in his name, and the hope that our prayer will be accepted. We might uh consider Hebrews 4 14 through 16 uh as one of the proof texts. It actually is one of the proof texts for this particular larger catechism, since then we have A great high priest who has passed through the heavens, Jesus, the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect is contempted as we are, yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy. and find grace to help in the time of need. It's my hope that we will be meditating on these as well as we go to prayer later tonight. These are very helpful. We've got them in our hymnals. We've got the larger catechisms there, but this is where it comes from. This is the proof text or one of them And this would be even of more help than the uh in the larger catechism itself. Well, let's go to 1 Samuel tonight. 1 Samuel chapter 2. Let's give attention to God's word. Manila prayed and said, My heart exalts in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth derides my enemies because I rejoice in your salvation. There is none holy like the Lord For there is none besides you. There is no rock like our God. Talk no more so very proudly. Let not arrogance come from your mouth For the Lord is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed. The bows of the mighty are broken, but the feeble bind on strength Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread, but those who were hungry have ceased to hunger. The baron has born seven, but she who has many children is forlorn. The Lord kills and brings to life. He brings down to Sheol and raised his up. The Lord makes poor and makes rich. He brings low and he exalts. He raises up the poor from the dust, he lifts the needy from the ash sheep, to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. For the pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set the world. He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness. For not by might shall a man prevail The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. Against them he will thunder in heaven The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Stop there this evening. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for your word. We thank you for recording this for us, keeping this for us Allowing us even tonight to read it in peace. And now, Father, we ask that you would add your blessing to it. Help us study This prayer of Hannah help us to notice significant points, but help us not only to remember, Father, this is your word, your precious word. Help us to store it up in our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, what is the background to this prayer? It's important for us to remember the background to this prayer. It helps us understand the prayer, at least the text of the prayer, and understand where Hannah was coming from and where she was at the point in time that she prayed this prayer. It's a bit of a unique prayer, but the background gives us much information. Well, we know that Hannah was downcast We know that as she would go up with her husband, who had another wife, to the feast, to worship, that she was downcast. She was downcast because she didn't have any children. The other wife did have children, and the other wife would provoke her, would irritate her. Here we have it at verse 6 of the first chapter. Her rival. This is the other wife Pen in would uh irritate her grievously because the Lord had closed Hannah's womb. So it went on year by year. This was not just a once and done thing. This was happening year by year, as often as she went up to the house of the Lord, she used to provoke her, meaning Hannah. Therefore Hannah would not eat. So if you remember, um El Canna, her husband, would bring her a double portion, and she wouldn't receive any of it at the feast at this time of worship uh because of her downcast estate, because uh the other wife was provoking her because the Lord had had closed her womb And so she was sorrowful. She was downcast. That's the backdrop to this whole passage, chapters one and two. And so she prays to the Lord. She weeps bitterly before the Lord, and she vowed, she made a vow, saying this, O Lord of hosts, if you will indeed look on the affliction of your servant and remember me and not forget your servant, but will give to your servant a son. And I will give him to the Lord on the days of his life. And no razor shall touch his hand. Well, there you have it. Hannah praise. She goes to the Lord, she asks for relief from forbarenness. She seeks the sun, she makes the vow that she would dedicate this one to the Lord. And we know that the Lord remembered. Oh, this is backdrop to her prayer. Her second prayer, not her first. We just heard her first prayer. And so Elkanah knew Hannah, his wife, and the Lord remembered her, and in due time Hannah conceived and bore a son. This is Samuel, and she called his name Samuel, for she said, I have asked for him from the Lord. Sounds a little bit familiar as Eve says, I've gotten a man child by the Lord, by God. And so Hannah, who was barren, now is no longer barren. The Lord had remembered Hannah The Lord heard her prayer, heard her weeping, heard her cries, heard her vow. The Lord remembered. So backdrop to all of her second prayer. And so ultimately when the child is weaned, they brought the child to Eli. Now remember Eli is the priest uh there where they would go uh year by year um to sacrifice uh and uh here we have his name they brought the child to Eli And she said, meaning, hey, oh my Lord, as you live, my Lord, I am the woman who is standing here in your presence, praying to the Lord. For this child I pray. And the Lord has granted me my petition that I have made to him. Therefore I am lent him to the Lord. Other versions translate that word lent as dedicated. I have dedicated him to the Lord. As long as he lives, he is lent to the Lord. Um might maybe I like this word lent a little better. Uh but really that's exactly what she did. She dedicates the child, she dedicates Samuel. This is the backdrop to The prayer. So obviously the prayer, this prayer that follows, is or this second prayer of Hannah is the prayer that follows the Lord's answer. to Hannah's first prayer. That's the backdrop to the prayer that I think will help us as we walk through the prayer as we seek to understand a little bit and then seek to have it help us in our prayers tonight. Well, the prayer begins with this exaltation in the Lord. My heart exalts in the Lord. Now remember, this prayer is that which follows the Lord granting the desire of her heart. And so now Hannah is obviously no longer downcast. She has been uplifted. And remember, this is after she takes her son, her only son at this point dedicates him to the Lord, brings the son, brings Samuel to Eli, and gives him over to the work of the temple. My heart exalts in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord. My mouth derides my enemies, because I rejoice in your salvation. She's exalting in the Lord, she's exalting in his salvation. Now, this passage wasn't about salvation, but there's a sense in which It's all about salvation that the Lord has granted the desire of her heart according to his will. um producing a child, that which uh Hannah uh felt that she was ostracized for, that she was set apart for as she was barren, now she's no longer barren. And she has been given the privilege of having this childless son who she's given up. And yet she exalts in the Lord and in his salvation, in his deliverance from her barrenness. That's the idea behind this. She's exalting because the Lord has answered her prayer, delivered her from this curse, so to speak, of barrenness. That's why I believe this word salvation is used. Then she confesses the holiness of the Lord. This is quite amazing. And now I want you to see this prayer is a little different. Then one we might pray ourselves. And I think it's good to note that. Because what she's doing is she's praying about the Lord. She's praying about what the Lord has done. And so as we pray, we're typically speaking directly to the Lord. She's In a sense, yes, she's speaking to the Lord, but she is speaking in such a way that she is repeating the works of the Lord, the attributes of God, and here she confesses is holiness. There is none holy like the Lord. Indeed, there's none besides you. There's no rock like our God. And now we get this impression, this idea, this word holy, or the holiness of God, is his uniqueness. And we have to also understand that the prayer of Hannah is poetical. And so as she's speaking these words, there is uh as we get these different uh clauses, they build upon each other, they explain each other, they go together very nicely and so we see how the the word holy is explained in part here And she's uh confessing God's holiness, this attribute of God, and she's explaining it to the best of her ability. There's none holy like the Lord. There's none beside you. No one else is holy. like you. There's no rock like our God. God is unique. The Lord is a one of a kind. And that's in a sense. The uniqueness of God is his holiness. I think Hannah's prayer is setting that out for us, but she's confessing that holiness. And then we can we the only way we really understand this portion of the prayer is by knowing. uh that uh the other wife, Penanima, uh, who was berating her, who was bitter toward her, who provoked her, who irritated her, is now uh spoken of not by name Not by name, but generally speaking, she's now speaking of those who are like Panina, so very proud. Talk no more, so very proudly. She's almost speaking now to Panina. Let not arrogance come from your mouth, for the Lord is a God of knowledge. Now she's confessing the omniscience of God. The word is a God of knowledge. He knew what was happening between Hannah and Panina. By him actions are God not only is knowledgeable of what's happening, uh Hannah is confessing within her prayer that God acts upon his knowledge. He weighs the hearts, and then he acts accordingly. She's also within this portion of the prayer confessing God's righteousness, not only his omniscience, not only his God of all knowledge, but he's also a God of righteousness. And those two things go together. His omniscience and his righteousness. The bows of the mighty are broken. See, she's got uh within her prayer uh truths that apply to the wicked. uh the proud, uh the mighty, they're broken, but the feeble bind on strength. And there's also contrast within her prayer. Those who were full have hired themselves out for bread. Remember, Panina was full. She had children. And so now she's contrasting that. She's saying, this is what the Lord does to those who are proud. Those who are full, now they are, in a sense, bare and hiring themselves out for bread. Those who are hungry have ceased to hunger. Hannah was very hungry to have a child, and God satisfied that hunger. The baron is born seven, but she who has many children is forlorn. You see, she's confessing the omniscience of God, the righteousness of God alongside they go together. They can't be separated. Moving on to verses 6 and 7, now she confesses the omnipotence, not only the omniscience, but also the omnipotence and sovereignty of God. See if you can see it here in these two verses. The Lord kills. and brings down to life. He brings down to Sheol and raises up. Remember, this is just poetical. Those are explaining one another. The Lord makes poor and makes rich, he brings low, he exalts. In the Lord's power and his strength and his sovereignty, he makes the decisions. He makes the determinations And his will is going to be done. Remember this is a contrast between the proud and the humble Hannah is uh full of of speaking to the Lord about his attributes and exalting in them. Remember how that's that's how this prayer began. My heart exalts in the Lord. My horn is exalted in the Lord Rejoice in your salvation. Now she's describing who the Lord is, confessing the omnipotence and the sovereignty of God. And then she confesses the mercy and grace of God. Verse 8, he raises up the poor from the dust. He lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes and inherit a seat of honor. The pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and on them he has set a world. What a wonderful passage. There is no contrast here. In this verse 8, this is all about the mercy and the grace of God. as he lifts up uh the humble, as he lifts up the contrite in heart, uh and obviously uh Hannah was describing Her situation. She was poor. She was in the dust. She was barren. She sought the Lord. He answered her. He lifted her up. made her sit with princes. Sounds a bit like uh the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh sounds a bit like uh the description that uh that uh Paul gives us the Apostle Paul in Ephesians as he talks about uh the people of God, uh the uh those that trust in the Lord Jesus Christ will be seated with him uh in heaven That seems to be if Paul didn't take it from this passage, then certainly he was given this passage by the Spirit. And here it is in Ephesians chapter 1 and verse 20, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heaven. Heavenly places far above all rule, authority, and power and dominion above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the age to come. And we have been seated with him. It's the idea of the poor being lifted up, being raised up to the pillars of the earth are the lords. We get to the last two verses in this prayer of Hannah. And this is a very interesting portion. I think we might see the a central focus of this prayer within these these two verses, I'll show that in a moment. He will guard the feet of his faithful ones, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness, for not by might shall a man prevail. Again we see the contrast coming back here in 9 and 10. The adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces against them. He will thunder in heaven. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Sounds a little bit like uh Psalm two But if we take these last two verses and break them down, it forms I think a structure that we might be able to see here is it begins in verse nine. Uh he will guard the feet of his faithful ones. Certainly that's the positive aspect. That's the the the faithfulness of God. Praying the covenant of God. And we go down to the last portion of verse 10. He will give strength to his king and exalt the horn of his anointed. Those are like almost parallel uh in their meanings and the in our understanding of what God does for his children. Then the second portion, but the wicked shall be cut off in darkness For not by might shall men prevail. It seems the parallel against them he will thunder in heaven. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth The wicked shall not prevail. They'll be cut off. The Lord will judge the ends of the earth. And then the centerpiece of these two verses seems to be right there. The adversaries of the Lord shall be. If you all turn off your mics, that would be great. Thank you. seems to be a a portion or at least this possibly the center portion of at least these last two verses. Hannah was crying out to the Lord. She was crying for relief. And our Lord responded, the adversaries of the Lord shall be broken to pieces. And then that reminds us that she was actually praying the covenant of God. This comes from Deuteronomy 28, verse 7. The Lord will cause your enemies who rise against you to be defeated before you. They shall come out against you one way and flee before you seven ways. The blessings and the curses in Deuteronomy 28, and this is part of a blessing, and it's part of the covenant of God. And Hannah includes it within her prayer. Well, hope that's helpful. Next week we'll be looking at Psalm 8, going through verses 1 through 9. A bit of an unusual prayer from Hannah, but very helpful in terms of focusing on the Lord, focusing on his attributes, focusing on his will being done that the enemies of the Lord will be crushed, while at the same time he will lift up the those that are in Christ Jesus.