All right. As we uh begin tonight, we'll continue our study through some of the prayers of Scripture, using them as examples to help us in our time of prayer. Tonight we're going to be using Psalm 8. Well, first let's go to larger catechism and continue to read through some of these larger catechism questions. On prayer. Last year we went through the shorter catechism with regard to the Lord's Prayer. This is just generally speaking some truths from Scripture concerning Prayer. And we saw last week when we asked that question, what is it to pray in the name of Christ? To pray in the name of Christ is in obedience to his command, and in confidence on his promises, to ask mercy for his sake, not by bare mentioning of his name, but by drawing our encouragement to prayer, and our boldness, strength, and hope. of acceptance in prayer from Christ and his mediation. Now we move to the next catechism question. The question here is Why are we to pray in the name of Christ? And here's the answer. This helps us a bit tonight, I think. The sinfulness of man. and his distance from God by reason thereof being so great as that we can have no access into his presence without a mediator and there being none in heaven or earth appointed to or fit for that glorious work but Christ alone We are to pray in no other name but his only. And so they're pointing us to uh that gap that exists between God and us sinful men, women, and children. There's only one mediator, Christ. We see that in Scripture From Isaiah 59, behold the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save, or his ear dull that it cannot hear, but your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God. And your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. It's not that God's hand is short or his arm is short No, it's that we are the problem. Our sins, our iniquities, our transgressions have caused this separation such that he has hidden his face from us. John 14 tells us so very clearly that the Lord Jesus is the only way. The way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father except through me. We might think that that applies only to salvation, but it doesn't. It applies also to prayer. Certainly applies to salvation. It applies to everything in every way that we would discern to come before the Father. It's always through Christ. And then Hebrews chapter 10, the great confidence we have. We started with that uh that text in Isaiah which told us that God has hidden his face from us, that he wouldn't hear but by Christ he does hear. If we're in Christ, he does hear us. So we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus. Since we have that confidence by the new and living way which He's opened for us through the curtain that is through His flesh, and since we have a great priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience and wal our bodies washed with pure water. It's by him through Christ who has washed us, who's washed our consciences, who's washed us with his blood. So we do have confidence to enter into the presence of God. Alright, that's why we're to pray in the name of Christ. Well let's get to Psalm 8. If you'd open up your copy of God's Word, Psalm 8, very short, Psalm 9 verses. That's it. Let's read it. Let's hear God's Word. To the choirmaster, according to the Gitti. Psalm of David. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth You have set your glory above the heavens. Out of the mouth of babes and infants. You have established strength because of your foes to still the enemy and the Avenger. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars, which you have set in place What is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings, and crowned him with glory and honor You have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep and oxen. And also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. O Lord our Lord How majestic is your name in all the earth. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we thank you, we praise you We tonight, as we have read this psalm, ask for your blessing upon the reading of it And now we ask, Lord God, the work of the Spirit within our hearts, to illumine our hearts, to illumine our path tonight, that we might uh better know how to enter into engage with you in prayer. Guide our steps, Lord. Use this psalm, uh this Psalm 8 To direct our hearts tonight, that we might exalt you in prayer, that we might commune with you in prayer. We ask these things in the name of our Lord and Savior, our great mediator, our high priest, even Jesus. Amen. Well, uh that's not right. Uh we are not going over Hannah and Hannah's prayer. Um I may have opened up the wrong File. Hmm. No, I've got the right file. Let's go over this. The majesty of God. This Psalm, Psalm eight celebrates, this is a writing by Derek Kidner, celebrates the glory and grace of God, rehearsing who he is and what he has done, and relating us and our world to him. All with a masterly economy of words and in a spirit mingled of mingled joy and awe. Just an overview by Mr. Kidner. And if you notice that this sum is bounded on both ends, the beginning and the end with this verse, Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. It's a repetition This is to the choir master, so it was meant to be sung. Certainly also a prayer But it begins and ends with this particular verse. And so the majesty of God is central to these nine verses. This is Psalm 8. And so it's telling us, we're being told as we read this, that the majesty of God is something that we should be Praying about that we should be inserting into our prayers, that we should be recognizing it, that we should be proclaiming it that as part of our fellowship and communion with our God, that we should be praying these words back to Him, recognizing His Majesty, praising Him for His Majesty um submitting ourselves before him, our majestic God. So it's bounded, it's bookended by these verses, the same verse pointing us to the significance Of this word and this attribute of our God in prayer. Notice how majestic is your name in all the earth. All the earth, not just portions, not just in the church, not just amongst believers Now in all the God's name, the Lord, Yahweh, Jehovah, is majestic, and that is because he himself is majestic throughout the earth. If we were to look up that word majesty in Webster's 1828, we'd read this greatness of appearance dignity, grandeur, dignity of aspect or manner, the quality or state of a person or thing which inspires awe or reverence in the beholder. Certainly applied with particular propriety to God and His works. Isn't that the way we should be approaching God? If we're not even mentioning the word majesty, we should be in awe and in reverence as we pray Because God is majestic. God's name is majestic. And that's how the psalmist begins and ends this particular psalm. That should be in our hearts. the majesty of God, his grandeur, his honor, his holiness, his glory So certainly the majesty of God, in God's name, Yahweh, Jehovah Is throughout all the earth, but it's not limited to the earth, and hopefully we weren't thinking that. But as the psalm continues, you have set your glory above the heavens. And so I think glory and majesty are likely to be understood to in this context as similar. Majesty. God's name is majestic throughout all of the earth, and he set his glory, which we might think of as akin to his majesty, above the heavens, not only on earth, Not only throughout the heavens, but then his glory is even above the heavens. Throughout all of his creation His glory, his majesty is known. It's been revealed. That's the one to whom we're praying. As we think of prayer, as we enter into prayer, we should be having his majesty, his glory upon our hearts. This is from J. C. Ryle in his book entitled Holiness. It struck me today. Let the holiest and best things we do be considered. We're never better affected unto God than when we pray. Yet When we pray, how are our affections many times distracted? How little reverence do we show unto the grand majesty of God unto whom we speak. I think that's why this psalm is so helpful to us. Because as it begins and ends with the majesty of his name. His majesty is throughout this psalm, and I'm hoping to show that to us this evening. But here's that question. If we search our own hearts, uh how little reverence do we show as we enter into prayer? Are we really thinking about meditating upon the majesty, the glory of God as we enter into prayer? J. C. Ryle is indicating that we may need to repent, that maybe we don't, that we are too distracted And that we don't focus on the majesty of God. Hopefully tonight, this psalm is going to help us to do that. And so if we think of the majesty of God, we can look at other places in Scripture Uh and his the word is throughout scripture. Lord, yours is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. Do you see how those words are set forth? But they're all not synonyms, but they all go together. Power, glory, victory, and the majesty. For all that is in the heavens and the earth is yours Yours is the kingdom, and you are exalted as head above all. That's God's majesty. Psalm 93, the Lord reigns, he's robed in majesty He has put on strength as his belt. The world is established. It shall never be moved. You see the connection between the majesty of God, of the Lord, and his creation He's robed in majesty. His majesty is part of his reign. His majesty is part and parcel of his creation. His Majesty is part and parcel of his strength. Isaiah 53 This is a description of the Lord Jesus Christ. For he grew up before him like a young plant, like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. You see, as the Son of God takes on his human nature, he veils his glory, he veils his majesty. That which God not merely has, but is. God is majestic. God is glorious. And yet we see the love of God for his children that the Son would come and take on the form of man and thus veil his majesty and his glory. Then Lamentations in the first chapter. From the daughter of Zion, all her majesty has departed. If we remember Lamentations as we went through that in the preaching of God's word, we we noted that Jerusalem had been destroyed, leveled Zion is a reference to Jerusalem. And so as Jerusalem was destroyed, including the temple. including that which represented the very presence of God, all her majesty, meaning God How does departed? And what is no majesty in Zion apart from God And so there is set forth, majesty is so connected with God it cannot be separated from him. And as Jerusalem was destroyed, as the temple was leveled, as the worship of God ceased, all Her Majesty had departed And then Jude, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time and now and forever. Amen. Great doxology. But look at those words that are included as they describe the Lord Jesus Christ. To him be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority. The majesty of God. Throughout this Psalm 8, it is so important that we approach God with this on our hearts. So the works of God are part and parcel of His majesty. As the Psalm continues in verse 2, we read, Out of the mouths of babes And infants, you have established strength because of your foes to steal the enemy and the avengers. This is speaking of God and his power and his majesty, right? We see out of weakness, and this comes from commentators, out of the mouth of babes and infants, weakness. Out of weakness, God has established his strength because he has stilled the enemy. He's still the strong. He's still the avenger God has combated, he has achieved victory over the strong through the weak. And that is to his majesty, that is to his glory. Isn't that what we see as this psalm continues out of the mouths of babes and infants, you have established strength The works of God, not only how he achieves victory through the weak over the strong, but then the psalmist is considering his creative works. He's considering all that God has done. When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon and the stars which you have set in place, that's the backdrop. That's the that's The majesty of God in part the backdrop for what is to come in the following verses. He is setting the table in a way The Psalmist is considering the majesty of God as he looks at his works, as he marvels at his works. His eyes are set upon the heavens, his eyes are set upon the work of God, the moon, the stars which he has set in place. And that brings him to verse four. possibly the centerpiece of the majesty of God. What is man that you are mindful of him and the Son of Man that you care for him You see, Psalmist is in awe of God, given his majesty, given his majesty, given his works. That demonstrate his majesty, given the fact that he has victory over his enemies, over his foes, by using the weak against the strong, uh, his works Demonstrating his great majesty, his glory. And the question comes: what is man that you are mindful of him The psalmist is in such awe of the majesty of God. Now he asks that question, how could it be that you would care for man? You are such a great God. You are such a majestic God. You are a holy God, a glorious God. How is it that you would care for man and the Son of Man? Yet you have made him a little lower than the heavenly beings and crowned him with glory and honor. Do you see the care of God As he has lifted up man, made lower than the heavenly beings, meaning angels. Certainly not as powerful, not as awesome as angels. set man on earth, but yet crowned him with glory and honor. That's part of God's majesty. That's part of the wonder as we consider who God is and what he's done. And not merely care for man, but crown him with glory and honor. You see, God's majesty pouring out, pouring through uh the the veins, so to speak, of of David as he is uh proclaiming the goodness of God, as he's proclaiming the majesty of God The question is, who is this referring to? The man, the son of man? Hebrews, the writer of the Hebrews in the second chapter, ascribes this verse in part to the Lord Jesus Christ, but we see him who for a little while was made lower than the angels. Crowned with glory and honor. Clearly he is referring back to Psalm 8 because of the suffering of death, so that by the grace of God he might taste death for everyone. See, the God of creation cares so much for his children that he would send his son, Jesus Christ, to die. Now, there is some debate within commentators as to whether this Psalm 8 is referring to men in general. Or if it's referring to the Son of Man, Jesus Christ in particular, you've given him dominion for six over the works of your hands. Do you see this is the crowning of man? This is the crowning of the Son of Man, the honor given. giving him dominion over the works of your hands. This is part of God's majesty. You have put all things under his feet, all sheep, all oxen, also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the seas. And so their debate will probably continue until Christ returns as to whether or not Psalm 8 is a reference to Jesus Christ or to men in particular. Um I'm going to take the position that in a sense it doesn't matter, because in both senses, and maybe that's what uh David's intent was, maybe that's what the Holy Spirit's intent was, it just refers to both God gave dominion to Adam and Eve as He made them over all things: sheep and oxen, beasts of the field, birds of the heaven, fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the sea. See, this is a description of all that's on the earth. And that certainly was given to Adam and Eve as as Adam was given dominion and called to to exercise dominion in the place in God's place, so to speak, or as God's representative, as one commentator put it It can also refer to Jesus Christ canted as the writer of the Hebrews, letter to the Hebrews seems to take And why I say it in a sense it doesn't matter because they both display the majesty of God in his love for man. His love and that he sent his son. His love and that his son is now ruling and reigning over all things, heaven and earth. for the good of its people. That's expressing the love of God, his majesty, as a John Calvin takes this passage to be a reference to man from dominion over all things which God has conferred upon men, it is evident how great is the love which He has borne toward them and how much account he has made of them. It is certainly a singular honor, and one which cannot be sufficiently estimated that mortal man, as the representative of God, has dominion over the world You see, the majesty of God is shown as he gives his children comfort and happiness. Those words come from Calvin's commentary, comfort and happiness. But not only as we're exercising dominion, but also in knowing that the Son of Man and the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ is ruling and reigning all things for the good of the people of God. Do we see his love here? Do we see his majesty? I hope we do throughout all of Psalm 8. I'm hoping that that's going to be on our hearts as we pray even tonight Well next week, Lord willing, we'll consider Daniel's prayer, Daniel chapter 9, verses 3 through 19.