All right, brothers and sisters, as we begin tonight, what we're gonna be doing for the next uh two months, this month and the month of August is focusing ourselves on prayer and and using scripture and Westminster Confession or the larger catechism to help us uh and our desire is really to spend the majority of our time in prayer and to use the the scriptures as an entry way to that. And so tonight I hope that you all had received what I had sent out earlier today by by email uh a little schedule. It's not in stone. It might be changed from time to time, but showing you where we're going to be as far as the scripture passage for July and August. And uh and uh all the buttons. Y'all could uh mute yourselves, that'll be helpful uh as we begin tonight. So We'll probably be sending somewhere between 15 and 20 minutes on the scripture passage and then moving right into prayer and focusing our time then on prayer. Well tonight Tonight I'm going to begin by reading from Genesis. Genesis, excuse me. I really didn't mean Genesis there. It should say Exodus 32. So don't pay attention to what I have on the slide. Pay attention to what I'm saying. Exodus 32. Give attention to God's word. When the people saw that Moses delayed to come down from the mountain, the people gathered themselves together to Aaron and said to him, Up, make us gods who shall go before us. As for this man, Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. So Aaron said to them, Take off the rings of gold that are in your ears, the ears of your wives, your sons, and your daughters, and bring them to me. So all the people took off the rings of gold that were in their ears and brought them to Aaron. And he received the gold from their hand and fashioned it with a graving tool and made a golden calf And they said, these are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. When Aaron saw this, he built an altar before it, and Aaron made a proclamation and said, Tomorrow shall be a feast to the Lord. They rose up early the next day and offered burnt offerings and brought peace offerings, and the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play And the Lord said to Moses, go down, for your people whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They have turned aside quickly out of the way that I commanded them. They have made for themselves a golden calf and have worshiped it and sacrificed to it and said, These are your gods, O Israel, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt. And the Lord said to Moses, I have seen this people, and behold, it's a stiff-necked people. Now therefore let me alone that my wrath may burn hot against them, and I may consume them, in order that I may make a great nation of you. So Moses implored the Lord his God and said, O Lord, why does your wrath burn hot against your people whom you have brought out of the land of Egypt? with great power and a mighty hand. Why should the Egyptians say with evil intent did he bring them out to kill them in the mountains and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from your burning anger and relent from this disaster against your people. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you have sworn by your own self And said to them, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven. And all this land that I have promised I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever. And the Lord relented from the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people. Let's start in the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that as your word has been read, you would add your blessing to it, that you would by your spirit illumine our hearts, that you would Lead us, Father, in prayer as we consider Moses' prayer tonight, actually prayers. That we might learn from this, that we might glean much from it, Father, that we would be taught by your Spirit how to pray. Be with us now, guide and direct us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, what is prayer? That's what we are seeking to to uh learn about tonight a little bit as we open up the scriptures, but what I want to do is use part of the larger catechism each time we come together in July and August and help us And so in the larger catechism, that question is answered and asked, what is prayer? Number 178 of the larger catechism. The answer is pretty straightforward and very similar to what we have in the Shorter Catechism. Prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God in the name of Christ by the help of his Spirit confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. Now tonight the idea is not really to dig into the larger catechism, but just to have that before us, to be reminded of the the definition of prayer, as the writers of the larger catechism put it As a help as we enter into prayer tonight. But what I really want to do is look at this prayer of Moses. You might say, well, this was just Moses speaking to the Lord. Well, isn't that what prayer is an offering up of our desires unto God. And so we can't really say we just talk to God. We do talk with Him, but that kind of communication between uh his people and uh and himself is what we refer to as prayer. And so here we see as the people of God have sinned grievously against the Lord, That's the occasion for Moses communicating with God. That's the occasion for this particular very short prayer that Moses offers up, that he communicates to his Lord and his God, his Father. And so we see here in the first verse, as the people have sinned against God, as God has told them To be left alone. Verse 10. Now therefore, let me alone that my wrath may burn hot against them. I may consume them in order that I may make a great nation So clearly, as it's given to us in the Word of God, God's professed intent uh at this point was to wipe out the people of God as a result of their sins against him, as a result of attributing To this idol, this golden calf that they have made, the work of God's hands. And so God is ready to consume them. His hot anger is ready to be poured out upon them. And so Moses implores the Lord his God Now notice Moses doesn't run. He doesn't uh hide from the hot burning wrath of God. He goes to God He implores him. So the word used here is this sense of pleading, so sense of going before the one who is his sovereign. Uh it's it's uh sense that Moses is seemingly on his knees uh pleading with God, begging God, beseeching God uh that he might listen and he might respond in the way that Moses uh would desire, certainly according to God's holy will. So he implores God and hear his words. Oh Lord, why does your wrath burn hot against your people? Now remember what God had said to Moses in verse 7. The Lord said to Moses, Go down for your people whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt have corrupted themselves. They've turned aside quickly out of the way I commanded them. God refers to the people, his people, now as Moses' people. The Lord refers to Moses as the one who brought them out. Now Moses, in a sense, is reminding God. I want you to see the confidence that Moses had as he approached the Lord. He goes before him, he implores him, and now he speaks with such words that we might be tentative to speak to God Why does your wrath burn hot against your people whom you've brought out? In a sense, it's almost as if Moses is correcting God, almost as if he's setting the record straight, but we know that's not what he's doing. in his humbleness, in his humility, his going before the Lord, and It's he's attributing to God the work of his hands. Remember now, the people, the people of God have attributed the work of God to these idols, to this idol. That's offensive. That's what is offending God, amongst other things. And now Moses is saying, you know, the people are wrong. The people were absolutely wrong. They failed to remember that you were the one who brought them out. I remember, I'm petitioning you. I remember that you're the one by your strong hand, by your great power, brought out this people and myself From the oppression of Egypt. He brought us out from being slaves. And so Moses is setting that forth before the Lord. He is reversing that which the people have done as they've made this golden calf and ascribed to it the work of God's hands. Why does your wrath burn Now, there's also this suggestion within Moses' words, Lord, you know your people. You know they are corrupt, even before you brought them out. You know corruption lies within their heart You know that this is their nature, this is what they have inherited from Adam. Why is your wrath burn hot? They are sinners, and they need your grace. That all seems to be included within this first verse, this first petition of Moses. He's confident. Why should the Egyptians say with evil intent, he did bring them out to kill them in the mountains, consume them on the face of the earth? This is what the Israelites have been saying all along. You've brought us out here into this awful place To kill us with hunger and thirst. We should have stayed in Egypt. And now Moses is saying: if you wipe them out here, if you kill them, if you consume them in this place, that's going to give your enemies. ammunition against you. Your name, your great name, God, is going to be brought down in the eyes of the Egyptians Why should the Egyptians say, Moses was concerned for God's most holy name? And so he petitions him. Why should your enemies have anything to say against you, Lord? Turn from your burning anger and relent. Now, Moses is not saying that it's wrong for God to be hot with anger Ultimately, he's petitioning him that he might relent from it, that he might relent from his calamity that he's promised to bring upon his people. He's promised not to consume them. And Moses is with confidence going before the Lord. and imploring him, giving him argumentation as to why he would turn from his burning anger and relent from this disaster Moses is confident. And now he's calling God to remember his promises. Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of the heaven and all this land I promised I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever If he were to consume them now, there would be no offspring, there would be no possibility of fulfilling his promises, again bringing From a human perspective, shame upon the name of God, as he would not have faithfully fulfilled his covenant promises And so Moses in much boldness and confidence, not in himself, but in the nature of God. See how he's petitioning the nature of God? Remember, Lord, you are a steadfast, a faithful, a merciful God. And then at the end of this passage we have a very short verse, but it tells us that the Lord hears. He heard Moses' prayer. And he answered. And the Lord relented from the disaster that he had spoken of bringing on his people. In confidence, Moses goes before the Lord. And the Lord hears and the Lord responds as Moses petitions the Lord using using the nature of God within his prayer to argue for this repentance, so to speak, or relenting from the disaster. If we were to then turn over very quickly to Exodus 34, new tablets are made. The Lord now passes it before Moses proclaims the Lord, the Lord a God merciful and gracious. Look at Anger abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness, keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgressions and sin, who by no means clear the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children and the children's children to the third and fourth generation. And at this Moses bows his head toward the earth and worships If now I have found favor in your sight, O Lord, please let the Lord go in the midst of us For it is a stiff-necked people, and part from our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance. Now the Lord had said that he would not go up with them He would not go with them. And so as the Lord passes before Moses, another prayer of Moses. You all can silence. No, I'm on right now. Can you send me your link? Yeah. Could could you uh put your mic on mute? Thank you. Once again, Moses petitions the Lord in confidence. He has found favor in the sight of the Lord. And that's his confidence. Not that Moses has done anything wonderful for the Lord to look upon him, but he knows that in grace, the Lord has had favor upon him. And in that grace, he petitions the Lord. That's where his confidence belongs. Please let the Lord go in the midst of us. For it is a stiff-necked people, and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for your inheritance. Moses pleased with the Lord, and we know the end of the story that indeed God answers in the positive. He did go with the Israelites. He did dwell with them. Well, just a short review of Moses' prayers that might help us tonight. As we go before the Lord in prayer. Next week, Lord willing, we will fix our minds upon Psalm 5 and seek help from the Lord as we enter into prayer.