Well let's turn now to our ongoing study in the book of Amos. And tonight we will look at Amos chapter 7, verses 10. uh through uh seventeen. Let us uh follow along in your Bibles. Let us hear the word of the Lord Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam, king of Israel, saying, Amos has conspired against you. In the midst of the house of Israel, the land is not able to bear all his words. For thus Amos has said, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive from their own land. Then Amaziah said to Amos, Go, you seer, flee to the land of Judah. There eat bread, and there prophesy. But never again prophesy at Bethel, for it is the king's sanctuary, and it is the royal residence. Then Amos answered and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, nor was I a son of a prophet, but I was a sheep herder and a tender of sycamore fruit. Then the Lord took me as I followed the flock, and the Lord said to me, Go prophesy to my people, Israel. Now, therefore, hear the word of the Lord. You say, do not prophesy against Israel, and do not spout against the house of Isaac. Therefore, thus says the Lord, your wife shall be a harlot in the city, your sons and daughters shall fall by the sword, your land shall be divided by survey line. You shall die in a defiled land, and Israel shall surely be led away captive from his own land. Thus far as the reading of God's Word for the sea leads So far in our studies in the book of Amos, we have examined Three of the four visions that God gave to the prophet Amos. And we've seen the interpretations of those visions. Now again, we've seen three of the four in the first two visions We find Amos prophesying destruction upon the land of Israel because of their uh wickedness because of their rebellion against God. And uh and in those first two uh visions Nevertheless, Amos intercedes for the people of Israel with God He places himself in between God and the wickedness of the people, and he begs for the people's lives. This is Amos chapter 7. And in both cases, the Lord relents. In the third vision That we have seen. The Lord is pictured with a plug line among the people of Israel measuring Israel, as it were, to see if they measure up to God's standard of perfection and holiness. This time, Amos the prophet does not intercede on the people's behalf, perhaps because Israel's evil is beyond what uh God will bear. It's even it's way beyond uh uh what uh what Amos feels uh he can intercede on their behalf God's union, his special union with his people, his special people is about to come to an end. simply because they have been wicked, and they won't listen to God's many prophets who have urged them to repent. They do not love God. They've erected idols throughout the land, bowed down to false gods, and as we've seen previously, their treatment of other people uh has been oppressive. And for all of this, God is going to bring judgment. The form of judgment will be Severe, and it will come by the neighboring kingdom of Assyria, and it will come in 722 BC. And Israel, the northern kingdom, will no longer exist when it comes. The verses tonight Chapter 7 of Amos, verses 10 through 17, are a break between visions 3 and 4 that God gave to Amos. And this break, the fourth vision will be recorded in chapter 8, beginning at verse 1. This break that we're about to look at in more detail reveals additional reasons why judgment is coming to Israel. This northern kingdom. Now, let's think about it for a minute. Amos has been prophesying throughout the northern kingdom He's been calling people to repent, and the reaction of the people has not been positive to Amos' message. There's There's not even an indication of very few who have listened to what Amos has had to say. There's no repentance. It's not like Jonah who went to Nineveh. Remember in Nineveh, uh when they heard Jonah preach, uh this this is not even a nation that's familiar with the God of Israel, but when Nineveh that heard Jonah preach uh they wept and sapped off and ashes. They they were uh they were um uh they were um um um uh expressing their deep uh sadness that they had sinned against God. There's nothing of that sort going on in Israel at the time when um when uh Amos is preaching. There is no one, apparently, or there's very few in the book that are pleading with God to be merciful. The only one we see doing that in the whole book of Amos is Amos himself. So what what what is the posture of many of the people in that northern kingdom and that northern nation? as they listened to the prophet of God, Amos, proclaim the word of God. Well What we see is a man named Amaziah coming forward. And we find out in verse 10 uh who Amaziah is. He is identified as the priest of Bethel. The priest of Bethel. Now when you those of you who know your Old Testament history a little bit, recall that When the Northern Kingdom was set up, the king at the time was Jeroboam I. And he did not want the people of the northern kingdom going south to Jerusalem. And everybody had to go to Jerusalem. On several occasions for national religious assemblies. One was the day of Passover, and there were three such assemblies. Jeroboam didn't want the people going back to Jerusalem, probably fearing that some of them would stay there and he would lose people. So what he did was he erected Altars, one at Dan and one at Bethel. And there he placed a golden calf Both places, and he said to the people of Israel, he said, These are your gods. Worship here. Well, that was false worship. That's idolatry. And so Jeroboam promoted idolatry. Here we are now, years later There's another king whose name happens to be Jeroboam. He's Jeroboam II who is ruling at this time. But obviously, they had to have priests who would serve at these various places, Dan and Bethel, and Amaziah is one of such priests. So he is identified as a priest of Bethel, and perhaps he may have even been the chief priest. the high priest of this place where they're worshiping the a false god And he's the one who's leading in the worship of a false god as the chief priest. And um And he tells uh he has a dialogue with uh with Jeroboam uh first and then with Amos. So we see in verse ten Amaziah goes to the king. He goes to Jeroboam the second, the king of Israel, and he tells him. He tells them this story. He says, Amos has conspired against you in the midst of the house of Israel. The land cannot bear his words. And uh and uh and the the the words are just what what Amos is saying is just too terrible, too awful Too foolish. And of course, we've been looking at this now for several months, and we've seen that all Amos has done is basically to call the people of God to repentance. And to believe in God. But the religious leaders, particularly Amaziah, for whatever reason is now going to the king and he is essentially asking the king to put an end to what Jeremiah what um amos is doing and what he's saying and and he does it by saying uh amos is um uh conspiring against you He's made it uh very personal. And he says the land can't hear the truth. The land can't hear what the prophet of God has to say. You can just imagine You can just imagine how he twists and warps what's being said. And all because, all because, you see, he probably recognizes that his position as leader of the temple is in danger if Amos succeeds. So he says that he's conspired against Jeroboam in the midst of the house of Israel. Land's not able to bear his words. And then he goes on and says, verse 11, for Amos has said Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely surely be led away captive out of their own land. This is his evidence. This is his evidence of conspiracy against the king. Amos has predicted that Jeroboam shall die by the sword. Well part of what Part of what Amaziah says is true, and part of it is false. For uh when you look back at verse 9 and you look carefully at verse 9. Jeremiah Amos did not did not prophesy or say that Jeroboam would be, would die by the sword. He said verse nine that um that God says I will raise with the sword against the house. I will rise with the sword against the house of Jeroboam. It's one thing I know it maybe sounds a little bit uh picky, but he wasn't dire Avis wasn't necessarily directly saying that That Jeroboam would be killed by the sword. He's saying that his house, in other words, his descendants Those who follow after him would be affected by the sword. And I think it's probably an exaggeration on Amaziah's part so that Jeroboam the king feels directly threatened by the words of the prophet Amos. So that uh the king, uh uh, you know, this guy is talking about uh killing me? Well, yeah, that's uh that's pretty dangerous stuff. Uh you know, maybe I need to put an end to what he's doing. It is true that uh in verse nine that uh that uh uh that uh Jeroboah uh uh excuse me Amos said that the high places of Isaac shall be desolate and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste. But he didn't necessarily say that Israel shall be taken captive away from the land. Now, again, this may sound a little bit picky, but at the same time, it's not precisely what Amos said. And so this misquote is designed to make Jeroboam feel personally threatened by Amos and for the king to do something To do something about him. It is somewhat clear, however Also, that Amaziah had heard some of Amos's words. Where else would he get these ideas? He either heard them personally or somebody reported it to him that Amos had said these things. Now, Amos, as we have seen, is not a self-appointed prophet. Amos is the prophet of God. He is the one whom God has chosen to speak God's word through the prophet to the people. It's not as if Amos is out there seeking to stir up rebellion against the king because of his own personal desires. Rather, he is speaking God's word to the people. He is clearly God's prophet. And uh he's recognized as such. But for some reason, and I can't help but think that it has to do with uh Amaziah the high priest wanting to protect his kingdom and his dominion and his temple worship and his job. I can't help but think that that has a lot to do with Amaziah's opposition uh to Amos. But it's not simply opposition to Amos, it's opposition to Amos. to God, what Amaziah is about to do. Now, there's also something else about Amos's or Amaziah's report to Jeroboam. Again, I think he twisted, he twisted the words of the prophet to suit his agenda and to get Amazon and to get Jeroboam to go after Amos. But now remember I told you There were two visions that Amos had given to the people. There were two visions in which Amos directly intervened and basically said to God, don't do what you're thinking of doing to the people. So when but but you see Amaziah doesn't say any of that to the king. He doesn't say, for example, that that um that um that uh Amos has acted as a good mediator on behalf of the people before God. He presents him in the most damning light that he can. And he presents, he gives a he gives the king half of a picture of what might be true, but doesn't give him the whole picture And so he presents a half-truth to the king, a half-truth at best. And this shows us how men are capable of distorting the truth of God's Word. And you remember we read earlier from 2 Peter where Peter responds that weak and ignorant men Unlearned and unstable men will twist the Word of God. They will twist the Word of God to their own destruction. 2 Peter 3, verse 16. And that's precisely what Amaziah is doing here. Now This is a lesson for all who seek to speak the truth of God's Word. There will be opposition. There will be opposition whenever the truth of God's Word is proclaimed. That opposition can take lots of form. You could expect that if you're really being faithful to the Lord, you can expect that others will say tell lies about you. Sometimes even the church leaders will say things that aren't true about other leaders uh of in the church. If they're unsuccessful in trying to uh i i i for example if uh if uh Amaziah is not successful in telling getting Jeroboam to silence Amos. Well, they're going to go to plan B. And if plan B doesn't work, they're going to go to plan C uh if they're if they're completely and totally against what you're having to say. And so you see Amaziah going to plan B as we come to verse 12. Now, before we go there, let's just remember that This treatment of God's prophets doesn't simply happen in the Old Testament, but we see the same thing happening to the Lord Jesus. We see the same thing happening to the Lord Jesus. Who are his greatest enemies during his life? It's the leaders, the chief priests, the scribes, and the Pharisees of the temple in Jerusalem. They're the ones who are out to silence him. They're the ones who are out to kill him. He's the great prophet of God. And yet they don't want to hear what he has to say. So if you can't get The king decide on your behalf, what do you do next? Well look what Amaziah does. He looks, he goes right to Amos And he basically says to Amos, get out of the country. Okay? Oh thou seer, go flee thee away to the land of Judah. There, eat bread and prophesy there. Take your prophecy and go south. Go to Judah. And there's a veiled critique there in Amaziah's words. When he says, there eat bread and prophesy there, he's essentially saying to Jeremiah, not Jeremiah, excuse me, Amos, he's essentially saying to Amos, you know, all you're really interested in is is prophesying so that you get a job that you can eat bread, that people will take care of you And it it's you know he's he's he it's a it's a dig, it's a barb that he's throwing at uh at Amos. It's a critique. And um Very interestingly enough, in Amos chapter 2, verse 12, in Amos chapter 2, verse 12, We read of Amos saying about some of the things Israel did to other prophets. And listen to what he says. You gave the Nazarites wine to drink, And commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. You know, what Amaziah is trying is not new. He's trying to get the messenger out of the way. If the king won't do it, appeal to the messenger to go somewhere else W we don't want to hear you. And then he goes on. He says Don't just go to Judah and prophesy, but don't prophesy anymore at Bethel. You know, you you just you just hear history repeating itself uh eight hundred years, seven hundred years later, when the high priests don't want Jesus anywhere near the temple He says, don't prophecy anymore at the temple at Bethel, it's the King's chapel, and it's the King's court. As Amos later shows, Amaziah's forbidding Amos to prophesy is the same Desire that Israel will later have for Amos. In verse 16, of our same chapter. Now therefore, hear thou the word of the Lord, you say. Prophesy not against Israel. Drop not thy word against the house of Isaac. Well, what is Amos going to do? He's been ratted out apparently unfairly to the king. the one of the chief leaders of the the religious leaders of the false temple worshiping a false god wants him out of there, wants him but get out, take your prophecy And get away from here. We don't want to hear what you have to say. And after all, you're a prophet who's only a prophet because you see some advantage to yourself. This way you can get your bread, your daily bread. So what does Anos say in verse 14 and following? He goes back to recount his calling, and he says In those verses, he says, I was a sheepherder. I was a tender of trees. And sycamore fruit. I was not a prophet. I was not the son of a prophet. I didn't seek to be a prophet of God, but God called me. God called me, and God gave me this message. Essentially, as he's interchanging with Amaziah, he's essentially saying, you tell me that I should shut up and I shouldn't prophesy. But you're really telling God that you don't want to hear what God has to say about your sin and about the imminent danger that your sin is going to put you in. And so Amos continues, and notice he intensifies the severity of his prophecy against the northern kingdom Israel. Verse 17 Therefore, thus says the Lord, your wife shall be a harlot in the city. Your sons and daughters shall fall by the sword. The land shall be divided. And you shall die in a foreign land, and Israel shall surely go into captivity. This is a message that's directed directly at Amaziah And you can readily see that he is speaking again. Thus says the Lord. It's not the word, it's not Amos' word, it's the Lord's word against Amaziah. For the way in which he's trying to silence the Word of God. He ratchets up, Amos ratchets up the intensity of God's judgment. personally on Aneziah and his family. Now um Even though there is great uh effort to silence Amos, the prophet of God Amos does not succumb to these threats. And those who are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ Even if they're threatened to be for their message to be silenced, they should not stop speaking the truth of God's word. Because you see, the word of God cannot be stopped. You may kill the messenger, but you cannot kill the word of God. The word of God always speaks. And if you try to kill the messenger, if you do succeed in killing the messenger, you know what happens? God raises up another messenger. God brings another prophet. Just as he has throughout the whole history of the Old Testament and into the New Testament when God finally brings The last prophet, the Lord Jesus Christ. And what happens to him? They kill the messenger. For the same reasons they kill Amos. However, the message lives on. The truth of the gospel. Repent and believe, for the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent of your sins and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved. That message can't be stopped. It can't be silenced. It will go on as long as there is an earth and as long as there is time. For it is God's good news. Amen. Let us pray. Our our Heavenly Father, we we do thank you that though uh Men rise up against you with their uh with their claims and with their false ideas And though you seek, Lord, to turn the hearts of people away from their sinfulness, Lord, Uh many will not listen, and many will um face uh your eternal judgment for that For they haven't just rebelled against Amos or another prophet, and ultimately they've rebelled against you and against your word. And it is men have loved their own kingdoms rather than love the kingdom of God. We pray, O Heavenly Father, though, that your word will continue to go forth, and as as Isaiah another prophet said, that like the rain and the snow comes to from heaven and accomplishes your purposes, so will the Word of God come down from heaven and accomplish your purposes. Those purposes are to reveal sin in the lives of people and also to turn people away from sin. And to turn them unto life eternal in Jesus Christ. Continue, Lord, to raise up faithful teachers of your word, who will proclaim your word, and will suffer whatever the consequences are for that faithfulness. These things we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.