Amen. If you're able to remain standing, we're going to read from 2 Chronicles chapter 20. And we'll read through verse twenty-three, Second Chronicles twenty Verses one through twenty-three, this is found in your Pew Bibles on page 437. Page 437. This is God's Word. This is His most holy, inerrant, infallible Word to us today. And let us pray. For his illumination by the Spirit. Our Father and our God, we have your word open before us today We pray that you, Lord Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit, full of grace and truth, would pour out your Spirit upon us to give us ears to hear, hearts to receive, minds to understand You have inspired this word. You have inscripturated it so that we have it this very day as your living written word to us. And so we pray now that you would illuminate our understanding, open our hearts, open our minds Help us to receive this by faith and be transformed. And help your servant to decrease, that you might increase that you would be glorified and your church would be transformed. In Jesus' mighty name. Amen. This is God's word to us. After this, the Moabites and Ammonites and with them some of the Mahunites came against Jehoshaphat for battle. Some men came and told Jehoshaphat, a great multitude is coming against you from Edom From beyond the sea. And behold, they are in Hazazan, Tamar, that is in Gedi. Then Jehoshaphat was afraid. And he set his face to seek the Lord. And he proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah. And Judah assembled to seek help from the Lord. From all the cities of Judah they came to seek the Lord. And Jehoshaphat stood in the assembly of Judah in Jerusalem in the house of the Lord before the new court. And he said, O Lord, God of our fathers, are you not God in heaven? You rule over the kingdoms of the nations. In your hand are power and might, so that none is able to withstand you. Did you not our God drive out the inhabitants of this land before your people Israel? And give it forever to the descendants of Abraham, your friend. And they have lived in it, and have built for you in it a sanctuary for your name, saying If disaster comes upon us, the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we will stand before this house and before you, for your name is in this house. And cry out to you in our affliction, and you will hear and save And now behold the men of Ammon and Moab and Mount Seir, whom you would not let Israel invade when they came from the land of Egypt, and whom they avoided and did not destroy, behold, they reward us By coming to drive us out of your possession, which you have given to us to inherit. O our God, will you not execute judgment on them For we are powerless against this great horde that is coming against us. We do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you. Meanwhile all Judah stood before the Lord with their little ones, their wives, and their children, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon Jehaziel, the son of Zechariah, son of Beniah. son of Jeel, son of Mataniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, in the midst of the assembly, and he said, Listen, O Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem and King Jehoshaphat Thus says the Lord to you, do not be afraid, and do not be dismayed at this great horde, for the battle is not yours, but God's Tomorrow go down against them. Behold, they will come up by the ascent of Zeiz. You will find them at the end of the valley, east of the wilderness of Jeruel. You will not need to fight in this battle. Stand firm. Hold your position. And see the salvation of the Lord on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do not be afraid and do not be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against them. And the Lord will be with you. Then Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground, and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell down before the Lord, worshiping the Lord. And the Levites of the Kohathites and the Korahites stood up to praise the Lord, the God of Israel, with a very loud voice. And they rose early in the morning and went out into the wilderness of Tokoah. And when they went out, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem, believe in the Lord your God, and you will be established Believe in his prophets, and you will succeed. And when he has taken counsel with the people, he appointed those who were to sing to the Lord. And praise him in holy attire as they went before the Lord, before the army, and say, Give thanks to the Lord for his steadfast love endures forever. And when they began to sing in praise, the Lord set an ambush against the men of Ammon, Moab, and Mount Seir, who had come against Judah, so that they were routed. For the men of Ammon and Moab rose against the inhabitants of Mount Seir, devoting them to destruction. And when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, they all helped to destroy one another. Thus ends the reading of God's word. You may be seated. The situation here, further in scripture, reminds us that this valley of trouble, this valley of trouble, this valley of tribulation becomes a valley of blessing. A valley of blessing. Our God, the true God, the living God, brings his people to the valley of trouble He ordains it, he plans it, he purposes it in order to bring us to the place of blessing. It's through our affliction that he delivers the afflicted Because we take our eyes off ourselves and off our circumstances and put our eyes on the true God, the living God, the God who loves us. This passage ends with being told that Israel, under Jehoshaphat, had rest from all their enemies. That rest, beloved. Is promised by our God to us, especially in Christ, that we would be able to experience peace and shalom and blessing. Even in our trials, because we know that God is with us. Beloved, this morning, this is a passage in 2 Chronicles 20. That reminds us as a congregation, as family, as individuals, that times of trouble are designed by our faithful God to keep us alert. To keep us praying, to keep us obedient. I want to highlight if you're one who writes in your Bible or likes to take notes or perhaps just puts in the margin a little heart I like to find a heart of the passage, something that I can meditate on and memorize and pray regularly. The heart that I've put in my Bible for this sermon. It's found in verse 12b, where Jehoshaphat, the great king of Judah, the shepherd on behalf of Almighty God. acknowledges his weakness in the face of this tribulation. And he says, we do not know what to do, but our eyes are on you. And then through God's good and faithful word in response to prayer, he says in verse twenty Believe in the Lord your God, and you will be established. Believe his prophets. Or another way to put that is believe the word of the Lord, and you will succeed. You will find prosperity Now some of you have come in here this morning, experiencing even this week Fears in your circumstances, doubts about where God is And temptations to look and focus just on your circumstances. Or perhaps yourself to find every strength that you possess so that you can make it through this. Perhaps your focus is on Just your gifts on what possessions you have, perhaps hopes that you have that are not necessarily founded on Scripture. This passage is for us to acknowledge when we are in times of trouble, and when we're not in times of trouble, to prepare for times of trouble. Beloved, just this week, one of our beloved deacons, he had recently not been able to speak. Well, in fact last Thursday night for our prayer meeting, he asked me if I wouldn't call on him because though his prayers are so beautiful He said he couldn't put his words in order. He found out suddenly, along with his family, that he had a tumor And he went under the knife on Friday. He went to visit him. He said, We are at peace, though we don't know the future. Why? Because we've been prepared for this through God's word. So some of you are coming saying, I fear today. Some of you are being prepared for the thing you will fear. Some of you are being prepared through this word to face doubts. Some of you to face doubts that will come. And some of you wondering, because you're experiencing this, if you are really loved by God, because you feel guilty. The Bible tells us here that we can trust the Lord. Now the situation is that Jehoshaphat was in this time period, about a hundred years after King David. And he was of Judah, the southern kingdom. He was a faithful king, not a perfect king, though. He made mistakes. Not all the high places were removed. But he's remembered particularly in this passage for his faith. Because when times of trouble came, he as the king who at that time in God's people's history was like a shepherd, an embodied shepherd, king. When the people saw the king, they would see Jehovah, Emmanuel, with them. And this king says to the people, we have trouble on its way. The Moabites, the Ammonites, the children of Lot, those who are in the family. That oppose believing Israel. They're the ones who are coming a great order. And King Jehoshaphat, the great king, the shepherd king, says, I'm afraid. I'm afraid. He's king enough. He's man enough to honestly say before the people, I'm afraid. But he doesn't live rooted in his fears. He caused the people immediately, as a king should do, to take their attention off the trouble To take their attention even off the king himself at this time in redemptive history and say, Arise. to be on Yahweh. They need to be on our God. Now why would Jehoshaphat have thought this way? Beloved, Jehoshaphat remembered as he says in his prayer As he leads the people of God in this prayer of humility before the face of God, he remembers God's power in salvation. He remembers God's promise to bless his people as the believing children of Abraham, as the believing children of Abraham, as the remnant. Of believers. He recognizes God is still with them in these circumstances, in these trials. In fact, you could say that what gives him his confidence is the Spirit and the Word. Is his own experience of God's faithfulness up to this point and is of remembering that before he tells the people to put your eyes on God Before he says, we don't know what to do, but our eyes are on you, he's reminded that God's eyes are on him. Beloved, think about the self-existent triumph God, the one who has created all things through his beloved Son, through his son, and for his son. Who is thrice holy, who is all powerful, who never changes, who is everywhere present Who will never ever let his people down. He's Elroy. He's the God who sees. You see, the God who sees us, beloved, never brings any harm to his people. Because he's a father. He's a father who sees us, but he sees our need. Our need to be constantly alert. Our need to be constantly watchful. Our need to be a people of prayer. Our need to be reminded of his word. Beloved, you know this. Though we give thanks in comfortable times, they're not necessarily our best times. There are often the times when we grow apathetic, slow to prayer, slower to believe. All of these things are designed by a God who sees, a God who loves, a God who is more dedicated to us than we are to Him. And so Jehoshaphat, his example, by God's grace in the scripture, shows us how every congregation, how every family, how every individual Should respond by God's grace to trial, to trouble, to tumors, to difficult circumstances. to the death of children, to sickness, to loneliness, to times when We feel why God is not with us times where we've sinned and we think He's not going to forgive us this time. These are the times that we gather together. You notice Jehoshaphat calls them to prayer? To look to God. He acknowledges the God who made heaven and earth. He acknowledges his power. He goes to the temple at that time in redemptive history, the place where God would dwell in his glory. Where he was near to his people, where he was showing himself as Emmanuel, the God with his people, who would never forsake them, never leave them, always bless them And he calls them to a fast. Why a fast? We know sometimes, beloved, that sometimes that's what we turn to food. In our time of trouble, in difficulty And food is a gift. Food is to be received with thanksgiving, as the Bible says. But times of fasting, what are they about? They're humbling ourselves. They're willingly, by God's grace and spirit, pulling ourselves down to say, spiritually and physically, I'm going to rely on you, O God. Times of trouble can meet with times of prayer, times of fasting, times of remembering God's presence, his promises, his power. Think about how that would continue to sanctify us and change our lives. Think about your own trouble right now. What what you're unsure of? The future? And if you can't think of anything right this moment, what may come soon? Think about this, how you can Have the freedom, as a believer, to turn to a God who loves you, whom you call Father, who is your Savior, who is near to you. And you can say, Father, you are near. Father, you are with me. Father, you are all powerful. I will not fear. The truth is, beloved, all of us fear. And God wants us to teach us to be more than conquerors, to be courageous. And my daughters, my family, were recently reading Pilgrim's Progress, just last night out actually and we went to one of our favorite passages. And we didn't plan this for the sermon, but it lent itself. We read the little section of Little Faith. If you remember Little Faith, he walked along Dead Men's Lane. And he was beat up. And who were the three thugs in this allegory? Mistrust. Faint-hearted guilt John Bunyan. He gets us. Those are the three big enemies. They want to beat all. of us. You could say it in more modern language, it's fear. That's doubt. That's guilt. It's in that. The story goes on that little faith didn't lose his certificate. He didn't lose his heavenly reward. But you know he was he lost. His daily joy. He lost his peace. We don't have to lose peace. We don't have to lose joy, beloved. We can turn to our great God and Savior and know that He hears us and answers us. In fact, look at the passage. In verse 12, Jehoshaphat on behalf of the people says, O our God, will you not execute judgment on them? Meaning ultimately, God, you have promised to save us from our enemies, those without And those within. Beloved, remember, the enemies in the old covenant are pictures, types Shadows of your worst nightmare, of a dragon serpent lord, of an accuser, a Satan, a devil. And all that he brings fears and doubts, guilt, accusation He brings these enemies of death because of sin. He brings the fear of death. It says in Hebrews two That Jesus took part in flesh and blood to deliver those from the devil. who through all their lives were tyrannized by the fear of death It's worse than the Moabites and the Ammonites. It's the serpent behind it all. That then tries to have lunch with us, coffee, team, and talk to us about how we're unworthy And about how this time we're going to fail. And to talk about how you sure God cares enough to care for you in this? And that's when we with Jehoshaphat we lift up the shield of faith and we extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And the Moabites, the Ammonites, they're just types. They're shadows of the reality of the evil behind it all. And in those places we say we're powerless against this great heart that's coming against us. We don't know what to do, our eyes are on you. We're no match for the dragon serpent lord. We're no match. He baits us with what we love the most. Even lawful things to take us away from God. He's happy. If you're happy, if that foundation is based on something other than God. You won't hear from him. Look at verse thirteen. Judah. They're standing before the Lord. Looks at this. Their little ones, their wives, all the congregation, all the family standing, looking to Jesus. Looking to the Father. And look, verse 14. Spirit of the Lord. The Spirit of the Lord comes upon Jehozeel, the son of Jehozeel, the son of Zechariah. In verse 15, he speaks the word into the situation. He speaks the word into the situation. He says, Listen, all Judah inhabitants of Jerusalem, King Jehoshaphat, thus says Yahweh to you, reminding them of his covenantal name, reminding them of his faithfulness, just in the name of Lord Jehovah, Yahweh. When the Israelites heard that, as we should hear it, when we hear Lord, when we hear Yahweh, when we hear Jehovah, hear this I am the God who brought you out of slavery, out of the house of the devil, out of the kingdom of darkness, into my marvelous light, through my power, because of my grace. And my grace alone. He says, Do not be afraid, and do not be dismayed at this great host. Listen, for the battle is not yours, but God's Battle is not yours. It's God's. Every one of our enemies. God will allow both external enemies Those who persecute the church oppress our families. Our Heavenly Father would only allow that if he, in order to cause The blood of the martyrs to become the seat of the church, to cause the word to multiply and expand and grow throughout the world for the glory of God and the extension of his kingdom. To cause us to grow. He doesn't take away even the internal indwelling of sin, though he breaks its power over us. He lets it stay To teach us, that when the evil comes against us, internally even, that we're to turn to Him and know that the battle is not ours, it's God's And so he's told, go down against them, face them. Verse 17, he reiterates: you will not need to fight in this battle. Stand firm, hold your possession, and see the salvation of the Lord on your behalf, O Judah and Jerusalem. Do you know what they would have heard in their head right there? Just stand and see the salvation of the Lord. They would have been reminded of their salvation from Egypt. Because remember at the Red Sea? But the people of God were pinned in. They couldn't go across the Red Sea. And Pharaoh and his armies were coming, rumbling down with their chariots. The best of Pharaoh's men, the worst nightmare. Again, a shadow of the evil behind Pharaoh and his army. And God says. The battle isn't the Lord's. All you have to do is stand firm. Stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord. They were being reminded that it's not just one time God saves us. He saves us every time there's trouble, every time there's tribulation. That's why the author of Corinthians, that's why Paul says in Corinthians. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, why he says that with every temptation we experience, he provides a way out of it. And so he says, do not be afraid, do not be dismayed. Tomorrow go out against him, and the Lord will be with you. Face This trouble, knowing that God is with you and he will never leave you nor forsake you. And notice the response, beloved 18 and 19, verses 18. This is how we respond. In prayer, in fasting, if necessary, in remembering the power, the presence of the Lord, his promise that he would bless us. Remembering what his word says to us, especially in preaching, but in our daily devotions, in our daily reading, when we hear his word. Store it up in your heart. Pray it. Memorize it. Think about it. Meditate on it. We're going to need it until we see them face to face. But notice what happens as a reaction? Before it even comes to pass, this victory, they're all worshiping, thanking God. It's easy for us, isn't it, to worship after the deliverance. What we're being told here is to worship before, during, and after. Worship is the response. In fact, they stood up, they praised the Lord with a very loud voice. And as they're going out, you see, again Jehoshaphat, this time in verse 20. He tells the people to remember. He says, Hear me, Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem. And beloved, when the king or a prophet said, Hear me, or hear this, O Israel, remember, not Everyone had ears to hear. I have to remind us, not everyone had ears to hear. If you hear when they heard, that's That was the work of God's Spirit. And so he says, Hear me, Judah and inhabitants. Listen, believe. Put your faith in action now. Believe in the Lord your God, and you will be established. Believe his prophets. And you will succeed. Do you believe that? The God's word to you today Many years after this, God's people, well, we have experienced a greater More fuller understanding of his magnificence and power in the person and work of Jesus Christ, we still have trouble. We still have fears, we still have doubts, we still have guilt. we still struggle. The word for us today is, as the Spirit gave you faith in the beginning to believe God's word. May He continue to give you faith in God's Word. May that drive us to prayer, to fasting, to acknowledging His power, His presence. To remembering his promises. And remember that that's what establishes us. In other words, it's God Himself who is our foundation. That's the rock That's the rock. That's the rock. God Himself, the true God, the Almighty, that is our rock upon which we stand. And finally, believe as prophets. And you will succeed. That is, you will have prosperity. And at the end they're reminded. Look at that. In verse 21b, give thanks to the Lord, they sing, for his steadfast love endures forever. Beloved, I said that Jehoshaphat was a faithful king. But he wasn't a perfect king. He was a faithful shepherd. He wasn't a perfect shepherd. Yes, he gives us an example here. But he also made unwise alliances with Ahab himself. And he didn't tear down all the idolatry in Judah. But listen, every time you see an unfaithful prophet, priest, and king in the old covenant, anytime you see particularly a halfway faithful king Let your eyes and your heart move you forward to the Lord Jesus Christ. Because to demonstrate in the fullness of time that God had his eyes on his people, he sends forth his beloved son, his only begotten Son. The Lord Jesus. And by the power of the Holy Spirit, He assumes our humanity. He's anointed by the Holy Spirit to go about doing good. And doing what? Freeing those Who are tyrannized and enslaved by the evil one, whose whole lives have been polluted and corrupted by sin Foul mouthness just reveals fouled heartness. Unbelieving minds reveal foul, unbelieving hearts. Actions, hate, anger, signs that should not be given, blasphemy, all of those are embodiments of something that's wrong in the heart. And the Lord Jesus took our beautiful nature, yet corrupted by sin. And he took a nature not corrupted. He was like us in every way, yet without sin. So that He could face the worst nightmare that God Almighty will never call us to, which is the wrath of God. Eternal torment and suffering because of sin. See, because beloved, the Lord Jesus When he was going the way of the cross for his people, for all those who believed both in the Old and New Testament, to all those who would put their trust in him, whether through a promise in the old covenant or whether the reality In the new. When he went, the Bible tells us that after he told his people, In this world you will have tribulation, but be of good cheer. I've overcome the world. It says that he bowed his knees and he lifted up his eyes to heaven. And he said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify your Son, as your Son glorifies you. He says, Grant me the glory that I had with you before the world began, because I've accomplished all the work he gave me to do. A perfect righteousness for all who believe. And why did he lift up his eyes, beloved? Because he knew that he wasn't just facing a trial. It was that. And while he was resisting fears to say, Father, let this cut pass. He was also by the Almighty Spirit saying, Not my will but yours be done for us and for our salvation. And when he laid down his life on the cross, he carries our griefs. He carries our sorrows. He carries our tribulations. He carries our fears. He carries our doubts. He carries our pain. He carries our guilt. And by his blood, by his wounds, we have been healed. Oh, we, like sheep, have gone astray. We don't look to God as shepherd when we should. We have each one turned to his own way, but the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He did all that to disarm the wicked dragon serpent lord. One of the things you know about Jesus and his ministry is he went about binding the strong man so he could release the captives. The thing that haunted us, the anything that haunts us today, we can be sure that Jesus is King of kings and Lord of Lords at God's right hand and king greater. More beautiful, more lovely, more kind, perfect than Jehoshaphat. And what does he say to us today? He says, keep your eyes on me. I am the God man. In fact, as we read in Hebrews twelve Since we're surrounded by so many witnesses, all those believers during Jehoshaphat's time, all believers in every time Who have already finished the race in the sense that they now see Jesus and are perfected, awaiting the reunion of all God's people when He returns? But we're to see that great cloud of witnesses. And we're to lay aside every weight You feel weight today. And the sin that clings so closely. That sin clings to us like velcro. And run the race with perseverance, keeping your eyes on Jesus, the author and perfecter for our faith, who for the joy set before him, you are the joy. You believers of the joy that was set before him, endured the cross, scorning its shame, and sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. And the author of Hebrews reminds us At this point in our lives, maybe some of us, but not all of us, have come to the point of shedding our own blood for his sake. We might. We might. We might. He says at this point most of us haven't. And we're to remember that our Heavenly Father is kind and that He brings about these trials, these difficulties, these afflictions. even as children, so that we will be like Christ. We'll be holy, we'll be humble, we'll be honest. We'll be more like him. We'll stay alert. The Lord Jesus was preaching some of his last words. To the people, stay awake. Watch. Be alert. You know not what day or hour when the Son of Man will return. Peter says, be watchful, be sober-minded. Your enemy, the devil Prowls around like a roaring lion seeking whom he may devour. Resist him standing strong in the faith. And what do we have in union with Jesus, beloved? And I'll end with this. We have the whole armor of God, because we have the whole Christ. All of Christ clothes us. Close our minds. Close our hearts. It's a belt of truth to wear about our waist. And we can see the salvation of the Lord. We can lift up the shield of faith and extinguish the flaming darts of the evil one. Whenever there's fear and doubt and guilt. Because those are the primary darts of the evil one. The guilt, the doubt, the fear, the despondency, the distrust, the visiveness He tries to get us. That's when we stand firm and see the salvation of the Lord that's already been accomplished for us. In Christ. We stand firm and we face our foe unafraid with the shield of faith and with the sword of the Spirit. And with the sword of the Spirit, what do we do? We say, Lord God. We are thankful because of Jesus Christ ultimately by your Spirit. We believe in you, Lord. The true God, and we're established on the rock who is Jesus Christ. We build our whole foundation, our whole lives, our families, our congregation upon the rock. And we will believe his word, knowing that we will succeed, that we will be those who will prosper, because we will endure to the end We'll persevere to the end, and we will see our Savior face to face and be like him. And then, beloved, that darkness, that gloom that's covered the face of the earth. Since the time Adam sinned in his first wicked thought, that gloom That covering of death will be swallowed up by light and light And grace and immortality. That's what we're living for is Jesus Christ and the goodness that He brings to us So let's take wherever it is today that we have those doubts and let's say, Lord Jesus, I doubt. Help me. Lord Jesus, I fear. Help me. Lord Jesus. Because I have fear. I do. Yeah. I struggle with the fear. We all do. We gotta be able to admit that to the Lord. Listen, being tempted to something in sinning is two different things. Yes, temptation can lead to sin, but not every temptation is a sin. The devil will tell you it is. He'll say you're weak, you should be ashamed. But we listen to Jesus who says, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. And you are more than a conqueror to him who loved through me who loved you. And if God be for you, who can be against you? So let's take whatever it is we have today, and let's take up the shield of faith with the sword of the Spirit in union with Jesus Christ. And we face those things unafraid by his grace, rejoicing in him, because his steadfast love endures forever. Amen. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we come to you as a congregation, as family, we come to you. Praying, asking you to help us, asking you to know that we know that as long as we're in this world, there's tribulation, there's trial, even if we don't recognize it as such, it's not as heightened We pray that and thank you for times of peace, but we know that we'll ultimately not experience that peace until we see you face to face. Until then, help us on our way to fight the good fight. To finish the race, to keep the faith, looking to you. And we pray that you would strengthen us today. We've heard from you. We pray that we believe in the Lord and know that we are established on the rock. That we believe the prophet, the word. As it's been given to us today through your word. And that we would succeed. We'd prosper. And we pray you'd help us in Jesus' mighty name. And all the church responded with a resounding Amen.