If you open up your copy of God's Word once again to the Psalms, we're going to be reading Psalm 124. That's on page 612 of your Pew Bible. We have finished our study in Esther. Before we go to another book, we'll take some time in the Psalms. Tonight, Psalm 124. Let's give attention now to God's holy word. A song of ascent of David. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, let Israel now say, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side when people rose up against us. Then they would have swallowed us up alive. When their anger was kindled against us, then the flood would have swept us away. The torrent. Would have gone over us. Then over us would have gone the raging waters. Blessed be the Lord. Was not given us as prey to their teeth. We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken, and we have escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made the heaven and earth. As far in God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we come now to the preaching of your word, we ask We plead with you. Help us. Lord God, we ask that you would add your blessing to the reading of the Word, and then now that you would open our hearts by the Spirit. That we would receive all that you'd have for us tonight, Father. For we know you have a perfect plan. And we know that your word never returns to you void. And so we ask, Father, do all, do all that you have planned, do all that you have ordained. Fill our hearts tonight with the comfort The promise, the hope of the Lord Jesus Christ. Convict us of sin. And remind us, Lord God, of all the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus. We ask these things in his precious name. Amen. If you remember the account of Jacob in the Old Testament in Genesis, You might recall that he went away, went from his home because he had wronged his brother Esau. He needed to flee, and he did so. He ends up at Laban's house, relative of his mother. There he takes two wives. And he becomes very prosperous with many goats, sheep. And after many years, he determines to leave and go home. Well, if you recall the account, his father-in-law was not very happy with him as he left. with his daughters, with their children, with all the sheeps and flocks that the Lord had blessed Jacob with. And it seems as though Laban was ready to do harm to Jacob as he pursued him and finally catches up with him. And even told him this in this account, it is in my power to do you harm. But the God of your fathers spoke to me last night, saying, be careful not to say anything to Jacob, either good or bad. And then Jacob recounts what had transpired for the last 20 years that he was with Laban. But at the end of this account of Jacob, he says to his father-in-law: if the God of my father, the God of Abraham and the fear of Isaac, had not been on my side. Surely now you would have sent me away empty-handed. Jacob recognized Indeed, he even states that God saw his affliction and the labor of his hands and rebuked you, meaning his father-in-law, last night. God was on the side of Jacob. And as a result, Jacob was not harmed. His family was not harmed. He was able to continue his journey back home with all of his wives and his children, his goats and sheep. God was on his side. So much of what we have tonight in this psalm, this 124th Psalm. We actually started the study of the Psalm of Ascent about a year ago. We haven't done it consistently, but when we get to the end of a book, we'll sometimes come back to the Psalms of Ascent. Tonight we're back there. These are 15 Psalms grouped together within the book of Psalms. King James calls these songs of degrees, not songs of ascent. From Psalm 120 to Psalm 134, each one carries This same title in the Hebrew, a song of ascents. Four of them were written by David, one by Solomon. We're not sure who the authors were of the rest. And we really don't know what the purpose of these Psalms were. They were grouped together, so we can fairly be we can be fairly certain that there was a purpose for grouping them together, but not exactly sure. Why? Some believe that these were sung by the Jews as they were going to Jerusalem on their uh annual feasts, their feasts three times a year, that they'd use these psalms, they'd sing these songs. as they're going to Jerusalem, some think as as the Jews would ascend fifteen steps up to the temple. They would be singing these songs of ascent. Some think that These were used by those in exile to remind them of their home, to remind them of the temple and temple worship and longing to be back in the presence of God. I'm not quite sure of the actual use by the Old Testament saints of these psalms, these songs. But we can say fairly certainly that these were about worship. These were about worship. And tonight I don't think that's any different in this Song of Ascents 124. Tonight I'd like us to see that the blessed help of the Lord is singularly necessary for the children of God to survive spiritual attacks. The blessed health of the Lord is singularly necessary for the children of God to survive. spiritual attacks. Well, three points tonight. The singularity of our help, secondly, the plurality of our adversaries, and then finally the blessing of our help. Well, let's get to the first heading then, the singularity of our help. Look at that first verse, not the title, but the first verse. If it had not been the Lord Who was on our side? This psalm begins fairly uniquely with this conditional statement. If If the Lord had not been on our side, and then it continues in verses 3 and 4 and 5 with the thens. If then, a conditional statement. With a conclusion. We have those in English. We certainly have it tonight in this psalm that's been translated into English for us. But these conditional statements have two clauses. The first is that if clause, the second is the main clause, or the first is the if, and then the second is the consequence. Now, these can be used differently. They're used differently in Scripture. Some passages in Scripture assume that the if clause is not true. So we might think of Luke chapter 7, where a Pharisee invites Jesus Christ to a meal, and there's a woman who's touching Jesus And the Pharisee said to himself, he's thinking to himself, if this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is who's touching him. The assumption was that Jesus was not a prophet. He could not tell that this woman was a sinner who was touching him. So the if clause was assumed to be untrue. But for others, the opposite is true. The if clause is assumed to be a reality, a truth. As Jesus Christ was tempted by Satan The devil said to him, If you are the son of God, command this stone to become bread Satan assumed that it was actually true that Jesus was indeed the Son of God. He could command the stone to become, but he was tempting him. And so the if clause in that verse was assumed to be true by Satan, the speaker Tonight he I think the same thing applies in this particular case that that the speaker, the psalmist, uh clearly believes that this if clause is true. If It had not been the Lord who was on our side. Indeed, the Lord was on their side, and so it's a positive statement. This is an emphatic beginning to this psalm. There's an emphatic nature to it, and this if clause piques our attention. It's unusual. It really brings us into the psalm. And wants and causes us to want to read the rest. There's an unfinished line in the first portion, the first verse. If It had not been the Lord who was on our side. We're waiting for some sort of finish to that. And there isn't one. It's just a repetition. Then let Israel now say, it if it had not been the Lord who was on our side. The psalmist uses the if to pique our attention, that if clause, and then he uses repetition to emphasize the emphatic nature of the if. Think about that. If the Israelites were singing this on the way to Jerusalem, what effect that would have had upon these worshippers as they went up to Jerusalem? But then just consider the language. If it had not been the Lord If it was anyone other than the Lord, if it had been the Egyptians who were on the side. If it had been the Canaanites who were on their side, if it had been the Assyrians who were on their side, if it had been any human agency, if it had been anyone other than the Lord. The senses, then this disaster would have overtaken them. If it was any other than the Lord. If it had not been the Lord, it was only the Lord. That's the point of this particular opening. It was the Lord. Who was on their side? It was only the Lord. Who was on their side? It was only the Lord who was able to do this. That's the sense of these first two verses. That's the sense of this if clause. It was the Lord who was on their side. The same aspect, the same thought, the same concept is found within the last verse. Indeed, it's almost answering the if clause. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. And now the singularity of God Himself comes forth in the beginning and in the end. We take them together, and so that same truth is contained within both of them. They emphasize one another. And what it's setting forth for us is that singularity of God. The psalmist sets forth his abiding, his eternal, his everlasting, his foundational truth, our heracles in the name of the Lord who made the heavens. and the earth. Possibly this was taken from Moses in Deuteronomy chapter 33, where he wrote, There is none like God. O Jesheron, who rides to the heavens to your help? To the skies in his majesty. I don't know that David took this from Moses, certainly he was inspired by the Holy Spirit, but there is certainly a peril. There's none like God who rides through the heavens to your help. It's a great theme throughout all of Scripture. It begins in the garden after the fall. I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head. You see, it wasn't the multiplicity of the offspring of the woman, it was the singular offspring of the woman. Only one. Only Jesus. Just like there's only one shepherd in Psalm 23. The Lord is my shepherd. There's only one who restores the soul. That is the Lord. That's the shepherd, our ultimate shepherd. There's only one who the crowd called to be put to death. On Calvary's cross, they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. There's only one. There's only one who was innocent enough. There's only one who was pure enough, only one who indeed was perfectly pure to die for sinners. There was only one who defeated sin and death as he rose from the tomb. As the angel spoke. Do not be alarmed. You seek Jesus of Nazareth, who was crucified. He is risen. He's not here. There's only one name into which a person is baptized. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. The only one through and in whom a person can have true fellowship and communion with the Creator God. How could there be help in any other name? Brothers and sisters, it is not God plus my work. No, the help here is single. The helper here is singular. The victory is not attained with your assistance. Tonight. You're not part of the team. There was only and always will be only one team. Remember as the Israelites Have crossed the Jordan, they're in the promised land, they're about to begin their battles of removing the occupants from the promised land and this one appear Appears to Joshua by Jericho, a man standing before him with a sword drawn in his hand. And Joshua goes to him and said to him, Are you for us or for our adversaries. The response was unexpected, but very clear. He said, No. Rather, I indeed come now as captain of the host of the Lord. This preincarnate appearance of the Son of God. It's a singular team The hosts of the Lord. Tonight, as we consider these things, as we consider this passage, we are probably thinking about the Holy Spirit. How Jesus Christ hascended, that he might send this one. That the Father so cared for us as children that he would send this one another helper who would teach us all things, who would bring to remembrance all that Jesus had said to his disciples that he would bear witness about Jesus Christ to all those who were born of God, to all those who would have ears to hear and eyes to see, the helper, the Holy Spirit Would be and has been sent. And there's only one. I'm hoping tonight that you're seeing the singularity of the hope that we have It's certainly in our triune God, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit. And David brings out that singular help so very powerfully. In this psalm, if it had not been the Lord who was on our side That leads us then into our second point, the plurality of our adversaries. Brothers and sisters, I think you would agree with me that we rarely consider the number and the strength of those who are our adversaries. And because we don't consider the number and strength of those who are opposed to us, we rarely We rarely seek the help of the Lord. But the centerpiece of the Psalm, the center portion of it, most of the words assigned to it. Are about the attack of the enemies on the psalmist and upon his people. If it had not been the Lord who was on our side, when people rose up against us. And now verses 3 through 5 give somewhat of a detailed explanation of those who were rising up against David, the king, and his people. People rose up against us. They would have swallowed us alive. Throughout the Gospels, it seems like every single time Jesus would turn around there was another evil spirit, another demon. another occupying spirit, a controlling spirit within the people, adversaries, whether they would be the Pharisees or the Scribes or the Chief Priests. Even the Romans, the evil spirits, the demons, were attacking while Jesus was at work, while it was light. Tonight we have a similar image as the psalmist, as the inspired writer of the Lord, sets forth the problem. The adversaries, the ones who were attacking, the people who rose up against the Israelites, the Israelites who would have been swallowed up, consumed If the Lord had not been with them. And then he goes into this trifold reference to this great destructive picture of water. Then the flood would have swept us away. The torrent would have gone over us, and over us would have gone the raging waters. Three times. David refers to waters, not just a bit of water, a great amount of water, flooding water, raging waters, torrents of waters that would have swallowed up this is a picture, this is a metaphor of the people who were against the people of God. And so we have an image, a picture, a description of a multiplicity of adversaries, more than one. When we think of water, we're thinking of a large body of water, a great uh flooding of water, a torrent of water, that which sweeps over the tops. of the people, many adversaries, a multiplicity of adversaries, but not just a mere number spoken of here. This psalm, we also have the adversarial anger set forth in verse 3, when their anger was kindled against us. Psalm sets forth the truth of the anger of those who oppose God and Jesus and his followers. We see that in other places in Scripture. If we just turn back to the first Psalm. Excuse me, the second Psalm, we would be reading, why do the nations rage and the people's plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves And the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and his anointed, saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us The truth of the anger of the adversaries of God is clearly set forth in Scripture. It's clear in our culture today. The anguish of those who strive to preserve the right to abortion is clear. But why? Why is it? Why are those who oppose God and Jesus Christ so angry? Why are they so angry that they seek to swallow up alive? I think Psalm 2 helps us with that. Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. Isn't it that desire to be autonomous, to be able to rule your own world, to be able to determine what's right and wrong, what's good and bad in your own eyes? To have no king, to do what's right and pleasing, only from your own perspective. And so when these chords around them, meaning the fact that they're made in the image of God. There's a constant desire to cast that off. And it can't be done. And so the result is anger. The adversaries of Jesus are angry. So you need help tonight. That's the end of this psalm. The adversaries of Jesus Christ are angry, and they are seeking to swallow you. And you need help. But it's not just the many adversaries, and it's not just that they are angry, they are also determined. That picture of the waters shows us the determination of the adversaries of Christ. A flood, a torrent, raging waters, a picture of that which doesn't stop, not until it engulfs its prey, a dogged pursuit. A determination of which we know little. So here in Psalm 124, these waters Picture numerous and powerful and even deadly adversaries. There are few things which are as deadly as swift and rushing and raging flood or torrential waters. And here the psalmist wants the reader, wants us to grasp tonight seemingly the unstoppable power of numerous powerful adversaries. It should help us to think upon our weakness tonight. A need for help against such a number of powerful, angry adversaries. We tend to deny the power of our enemies. The world has characterized Satan as a red man with pointed ears and a tail and a pitchfork. We need to hear the way in which Scripture speaks of Satan, his unrelenting nature. Think of the opening to the book of Job as Satan comes before the Lord and the Lord asks him, From where have you come? And Satan answered the Lord, from going to and from Froe on the earth from walking up and down on it. He is constantly walking about. And we don't get it. Peter reminds us of the power of Satan. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a rolling lion seeking someone To devour. Doesn't that sound like Psalm 124? It would have swallowed us up alive when their anger was kindled against us. We also tend to dismiss the power of the old man who remains within. Or maybe we just dismiss the wretchedness of our sin. Either way, the result is the same. We fail to consider the power of the indwelling seen, and thus we fail to consider the help we need in combating it. Paul sets it forth so very powerfully in Romans chapter 7 I'm of the flesh, sold under sin. I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. To power of sin. Brothers and sisters, given the nature of our enemies, Satan and our indwelling sin, The call tonight is certainly to use the armor of God to put on the whole armor of God that you may stand against the schemes of the devil. Sometimes we think our enemies are on the news at night. That's not the case. Our enemies are so much more powerful than those on the news at night. We need to be taking up that breastplate of righteousness, the readiness of the gospel of peace, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, and praying at all times. This is our help. Should take time tonight and read Ephesians six To fail or to refuse to do so, to put on this armor when we have these adversaries, these multiple adversaries who were angry, who are powerful Who want to consume you to fail or refuse to do so is like a fireman running into a burning house without his fireproof jacket and pants and helmet on. But we do it. Pray that the Lord would enable us to use these this armor that He's given us. Brings us to our third point, the blessing of being helped. This might be a good point to ask the question: why did the psalmist use this word help? Our help is in the name of the Lord who made the heaven and earth. Why not something a bit more complete? Maybe our very being. Is in the name of the Lord, or our life is in the name of the Lord, or our existence is in the name of the Lord. Help seems to imply that God merely comes alongside and provides a helping hand. And we do the heavy lifting. I don't think that's what he means. In fact, I'm positive that that's not what he means. Help is significant. Because we in our sin nature do not want it Each of us has inherited a sin nature from our first parents, Adam and Eve, and remember that part of that sin nature or our inclination to sin includes a desire to be autonomous. Just like those who are the enemies of God. In the garden the help of the Lord was shunned. Eve cast aside the help of the Lord as she cast off the word of God. She sought the help of The serpent, Satan, as she determined not to lean upon the word of God, but to lean upon her own understanding. This then would be the very definition, the essence of rejecting the help of the Lord. And we've inherited this nature from our first parents We tend to rely upon our own understanding. We're not inclined to seek the help of anyone, preferring to be autonomous or self-reliant. This was Eve's problem, as we've just discussed. Trying to evaluate for herself whether eating the forbidden fruit was good for her or not. And so in the garden we see that critical nature, that critical need of seeking the help. Of the Lord. Without the Lord's help, we are destined to eat the forbidden fruit every single time. See, with the Lord's help, look at verse 6 for a moment. With the Lord's help, we can cry out with the psalmist: Blessed be the Lord! Who's not given us as prey to their teeth? We have escaped like a bird from the snare of the fowlers. The snare is broken. We have escaped. The description here by the psalmist is one of certain capture. Did you notice that? You may have been focusing upon the escape part, but what comes first was that certain capture. That's our estate. Being born of Adam. We were captured. We were We were children of Satan. We were of his house. We were captured, and that's the picture he's giving us, little and weak, bird now has been set free. That captured one, that one who fell into the fowler's snare, been set free. Satan has been bound. The captives within his house have been freed. His house has been plundered by Jesus Christ. Fowler's snares, the captors' chains, they've been broken forever. Notice that in the psalm. The snare is broken. We don't have the sense that it was going to be fixed. The snare's broken. The chains have been snapped forever. No longer able to hold these particular prisoners bound. That's what Jesus Christ has done. Escape has been accomplished and gained and granted by The Lord, He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. You see that? See the link between Psalm 124 and Isaiah 61? This freedom that we've been granted in Christ. Jesus for freedom Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore. Do not submit again to the yoke. What a great blessing. Isn't that what the psalmist is saying? We've been blessed so mightily by God Himself with His help. Think of that The Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, the Creator of all things, including you, tonight, He desires to help you, to give you assistance which you so desperately need to preserve, to survive. To flourish, even amidst the attacks of your enemies, a sinner such as you. This is how the Lord blesses us. This is why the psalmist blesses the Lord. Blessed be the Lord. And we can say that tonight as well. Maybe asking yourself tonight, what kind of help is this? We talked about the armor. Let's talk about some other things quickly. The Israelites certainly give us a picture of physical help against their physical adversaries, but certainly we can take this and understand this with regard to spiritual help. That's what we need. That's what they needed. That's what we need. If you're a Christian today, if you're following the Lord Jesus Christ, if you're seeking after his kingdom and his righteousness first, you need this help. Because we're not inclined to do that, meaning seek after his kingdom and righteousness first. I think that's why Jesus Christ spoke of food and clothing in the Sermon on the Mount. He knew that his disciples, that people were listening to his preaching, sought after food and clothing. That's their desire. We need those things. He knew that was on their heart. He knows that's on our heart. But our adversaries are trying to draw us away from seeking after his kingdom and his righteousness first. So we need his help. We have to have the work of the Spirit to guide and direct our hearts as we're constantly swayed away from seeking after his kingdom and his righteousness first. We need to be guided back daily. What's the primary way for you to do that? To seek his kingdom and his righteousness? Isn't it through worship? Isn't this one of the primary ways in which we're enabled to seek after his kingdom and his righteousness? First, then for those tonight trusting in Christ, consider the old man, that battle raging within. Consider the use of this passage as we enter into worship. Our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth, the one who created all things. He is the one who seeks to help you, even entering into worship tonight. So many things in this world which seek to draw our hearts and minds from these things, from his kingdom, from his righteousness, from worship, so many things seek to draw us away. The sin that continues to reside within the old man, which Paul wrote of in Romans 7, is not seeking to worship the living God, but is seeking to worship idols, and thus the battle within, that's our need for help. That's why we cry out every single time we enter into worship. We repeat this particular psalm, this particular verse. And consider Satan and his desire. It should go without saying that Satan's desire tonight is not for you to remain in worship. In fact, his desire is to break you of this. His desire is to remove your hearts from this worship tonight, even if you're physically present. He's still trying to weed you away from God. From entering into that blessed communion and union with Jesus Christ. He's such a master at bringing things to your mind that are not engaging you but disengaging you from true worship And so it's not only to enter into worship, brothers and sisters, that we need help. Once we have entered into worship, we need help That we might truly hear and understand the Word of God in prayer and spiritual songs and hymns and psalms, and certainly in the Word of God read and preached. You need help. We all need help, not only to understand, but to more and more be conformed to Christ in and through our service of worship to squeeze every ounce of goodness. That the Lord has for you in the preaching of his word, in praying, in the songs, and certainly in fellowship with him. So we need this protection. We need protection from these spiritual forces which are seeking to raise obstacles to our worship. We need We need the help of God Himself. That's why we call upon Him and seek His help, for He is the only one who is able to engage our hearts and minds truly in His worship. But for those outside of Christ tonight, there's a warning in this psalm. There's a certain evangelistic sense to it. Remember the psalm began with the word if, if the Lord had not been with us, then these things Which the psalmist sets forth that could have destroyed them did not, because the Lord was with them, but the opposite must be true as well. And considered If the Lord was not with his people, then they would have been swallowed, they would have been overcome by torrential floods, they would not have survived. And that truth is not just for the Israelites, it's true for every single person born of Adam. And so tonight, if you're not resting in Christ, if you determine to rebel against God, if you have f fled from his presence. If you love in your sin tonight, then these disasters in that condition will certainly befall you. Maybe not tonight, maybe not tomorrow, but they will Come. If you're not within the grasp of the Lord Jesus Christ, if you've not submitted yourself to the creator of the universe, if you determined to continue in your sin and rebellion against the one who made all things, then you will suffer destruction. The overwhelming forth set forth in this psalm. The only solution is what's set forth also in this psalm to cry out to seek The help of the Lord plead for this help in freeing you from your sin. Ask that your sins might be washed clean in the precious blood of Christ. Believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. He's your only hope and help. The blessed help of the Lord is singularly necessary for the children of God to survive spiritual attacks. As Laban came to Jacob, that was indeed a spiritual attack. And God was on his side and saved him. Just as our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ is on our side tonight, the captain Of the Lord of hosts has done all things, done all things well, that we might have his help. We must praise God for it. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you and praise you. We are so undeserving of your help. And yet in your grace and your mercy you have poured it out upon us. Help us never to take this passage For granted, even as it's spoken, even as it's recited, as we enter into worship Help us to remember that our help is in your name, the name of the Lord, who made the heavens and the earth. Amen.