Let us uh turn now to uh a text uh from Hebrews twelve. Hebrews twelve verses one through six. Hebrews twelve verses one through six. Let us hear the word of the Lord Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin, and you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For the Lord loves. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. Thus far as the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Last few weeks we've been looking at Hebrews 12, 1 through 2. And And today our attention will be focused again on verse 2. And I will be reminding us as we start off. this message today of the things that we have learned to this point and uh that will uh spring us into the next section that we will be looking at, which really is verse 2 and the latter part of verse 2. As we have been focusing on chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, we have seen that the Christian is engaged in a race which is described as an endurance race. It's more like likened to a marathon than it is to a sprint. And we will be running this race For as long as we live here on earth and until the day when we are joined with our God in heaven. And uh for it is in heaven that is our final home. That heaven is where our citizenship is. You know, we're citizens of countries in this world, but Christians have another citizenship, and that's heaven. And um and this journey, this this endurance race that we are running is described in the text in the passage before us as not necessarily an easy race. It's hard. Hard to run a long distance race over a long period of time. And in our case, the race which we're running is not a physical race up and down hills and across mountains and across the plains. It's a race that is strewn with Minefields, sin-filled minefields. And so we're exhorted to throw away the sin which so easily entangles us as we are running the race. But we're also encouraged in this passage to look else, to look to someone else to help us as we run the race. And we are encouraged, verse one, excuse me, verse two, to look under Jesus. To look under Jesus and then The author goes in to list several things we ought to be aware about regarding Jesus. He's said to be the author and finisher of our faith. He is said to be the one who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. In other words, he went to the cross with joy. And he despised its shame. And after that was done, he sat down at the right hand of God. All of those points in section two are directly related to you. You're being watched as you run this race. You're being watched, verse one, by a great cloud of witnesses. And who is that great cloud of witnesses? Well, it probably makes sense to go back to chapter 11, where all of the saints of the Old Testament are listed. It's probably them who are looking as well as all of the saints in heaven, because they ran the same race that we're running. They ran the same spiritual race. They are witnessing to our progress, and they stand as a witness to us that they made it. They finished the race, but none of them finished on their own. We all finished with Christ's help And that's our hope. Now let's look and see more about why Jesus is pictured here as our hope. And last Sunday In the message, we talked about Christ being the author and the perfector of our faith. How is that helpful to us when we're running this race? Well, I'm going to have to summarize some, so those of you who are here last week, I hope you won't mind hearing this again and hearing some of the summary. The word author is variously translated. It can be translated leader, ruler, prince, originator, or founder. in uh from the Greek to the English. It's a word that has a rich variety of meaning, and each one of those words have nuances of how Christ relates to us as the author, as the author or leader of our faith. He's the leader in the sense that he leads us in this race. He runs it definitively. He runs it first and foremost. He is a ruler or a prince in the sense that He's not behind the scenes, letting the servants go out in front of the race and the battle with sin. He is actually leading the troops. He is actually leading the servants. In the race or in the battle. And because he leads Everyone looks at his bravery and everyone receives encouragement. But unfortunately, as he leads, he's the target. And as the target, he's the first one killed. Isn't that Jesus? He's the one who ran the race first. He's the one who endured the race first. And he's the one who got killed first in this whole spiritual battle But he is not just the leader or the king or the prince who runs first. He's the founder. He's the one who has designed the course. He's the one who has designed the race. It's named after him. It's the Christian race, the Christian marathon, the Christian endurance race. He planned the race. He knows where it starts. He knows where it ends. He knows how it began. He knows how it ends. And he ran the race. He ran the race first. It's good to be able to go. I mean, again, as I've told you, I'm not a marathoner, but if I was a marathoner, I'd want to go and talk to someone who had ran the race before. I want to know where are the difficult places? Where are the places I can kind of glide a little bit? It is Jesus who ran this race. It is Jesus who finished this race. It is Jesus who died and who rose from the dead. And we are pictured in Romans 6 as being in union with Christ in his death and resurrection. We are running the same race. And because of that, we have confidence in Christ. We have confidence, because we know, that the race will lead us to be with him. To be with him where he is. To be with him in his heavenly home It may not be, oh, it is not easy race. There will be obstacles, there will be trials, there will be suffering, there will be difficulty, there will be death Jesus said that do not fear the world, for I have overcome the world. They will hate you for my name's sake. That wasn't just for the disciples, that was for all Christians. Now I said also he's described as the finisher of the race, the finisher of the race. And I shared with you that that particular word, fenisher, there, comes from an accounting background in which there is a ledger book And the ledger book has on one side assets and on the other side liabilities. The liabilities are our sins. God's ledger book, Christ's ledger book, is his assets, his death and resurrection, his perfection, his holiness. And why is this such an important little word that gets thrown in here? It's because of what Jesus says in John 19. As Jesus dies in John 19, you remember the words. He says, right before he dies, he says, it is finished. It is finished. Same word. Same family of words used in John 19 and in Hebrews chapter 2, verse 2, 12, verse 2. Same word, finisher. It brings to Christ is saying, I have reconciled the books. I have reconciled the accounting. My blood cancels out their sin. It is finished. There is nothing else that needs to be done for your salvation. Jesus has done it all first. He did it all perfectly. And he did it once for all. And there's no need for any other sacrifices. We don't run this race With our strength, we don't run the race hoping that somehow we'll get up enough ability to run the race. No, Christ has already run the race Get that through your understanding. He's already run. You just need to run. You just need to run with him. You just need to continue by God's help to try to be faithful. Take up the challenge. And run. And even if you don't want to run, believe me, you're going to run. You're going to run this race. Because God is using this race. He's using this race to perfect his people. Why does he bring trials? Why does he bring suffering into believers' lives? Read Romans 5, first couple of verses. He uses it to strengthen us. He uses us. to develop our faith. He uses us for the very reason to have us not rely on ourselves, but to turn to him and ask for help He is the author and the finisher of our faith. Today we want to look now at the other parts of this section to talk about how Jesus helps us in this race. And I pick up first on the statement, who, for the joy that was set before him, endured the cross. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross? Well It seems apparent, does it not, that what the author of Hebrews is saying to us is that Christ had a definitive attitude as he ran this race. And you see also pictured in this section where the race ended for Christ. It ended at the cross. And how was Jesus running this race that he ran? Don't say to me Jesus didn't experience suffering. He experienced all things like as us, yet without sin. He experienced humiliation. He experienced the wrath of people against him, the mocking, the scorning, the cursing. Because he put the Father first. He sought the Father's glory first. He wasn't worldly minded. He wasn't seeking his own glory. And how does he go to the cross? Well, he goes to the cross with joy. With joy. Now I grant you that, you know, if you're in the 22nd mile of a of a 26-mile marathon, you're probably not real joyful. At that moment. But it does reveal his attitude We run the race with endurance. We run it with joy. And I'm reminded of that wonderful movie, which if you haven't seen it, you ought to see it. Chariots of Fire. You remember that movie that came out many, many years ago? It it uh it moved on a number of different levels. On one level, there was the story of this man, Eric Liddell. This is a true story. Back in the 1920s, fantastic runner. He ran Um he wo he wasn't running a marathon, but he wasn't running a sprint either. He was running one of those intermediate distances for which You really have to sprint the whole way in order to win. And they were trying out for the Olympic marathon. And you remember the story about Eric Liddell Now he had a counterpart. Remember? There was a fellow also in Britain. Eric Ladell was a Christian. There was another man, Harold Abrams. And Harold Abrams was a devout Jew, Jewish Hebrew person, who his whole life was ordered around the winning of the Olympic medal, the same race that Eric Liddell was his major competition for. Eric Liddell, you know, when you watched him, and I don't know if I think he made a comment in the movie to the effect that he ran the race for joy He was running the race. God had given him this particular talent for his life. And he was running it For God. He was i running it for joy, even though he was in tremendous pain and suffering as he went through it. And of course If you know the more you know the story, you know how it panned out, you know what happened. Um they got to the Olympics and Eric Liddell's race was on a Sunday, and as a devout Christian, he said, I won't run I won't run. And he didn't. And somebody else on the team gave up his spot on a race that was being being held on Monday or Tuesday so Ericell could run that race. He did win a gold medal. Harold Abrahams won a gold medal. They won the best human prize both men could ever want. Eric Liddell then subsequently goes to China and as a missionary of the Word of God is killed. In China during the war. And there's this scene At the almost the end of the movie, where you see Harold Abrams, and he's got his gold medal. But what did it mean in the end? It did not give him any more status or excuse me, any more Any more pleasure. It didn't fulfill him. He got what he wanted. He got what he had striven for all of his life Whether he ran it with joy or not, who knows? He got what he wanted. But it didn't give him joy. It didn't give him meaning. It didn't give him purpose. Eric Liddell wins the race. To God be the glory. The good Scotsman probably said. To God be all glory. And he went and died for the cause of sharing the gospel to the Chinese. That's a race well run. As far as the world's concerned, he's an obscure figure who doesn't amount to much. But the world isn't the judge, is it? For the joy that and Eric Liddell is like our Savior. I mean, here we are today, today, bombarded on the newscast. Every newscast, you can't turn on the news without seeing the death of Muhammad Ali. Now I happen to think he was indeed a great man on many different fronts. I don't agree with all of the things he did, nor with his religion. But he is held up before all men today as the great hero, the great man of this age. Where is Christ? I ask you, where does Christ get such adulation and praise from the world? Nowhere! And he never will! From this world. But he is stated at the right hand of God, and Muhammad Ali will not be there. He sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. Can you understand what that means? The the the text of the word set down is in the perfect in Greek. It means that the action standing at the time speaking is completed. In other words, Christ He is already sitting down at the right hand of God the Father. It's not waiting for some other time, sometime in the future. It's not Christ will sit down. He's down now He's down because the work is finished. He has no more work to do in terms of Saving us from our sins. That work has been done. But it isn't as though he's seated at the right hand of God the Father and is doing nothing. No, he's interceding for you and for countless other. That's what he's the great, he's the fulfillment of the great Melchizedek. He is the Melchizedekian king. And he's the Melchizedek means the king of Salem, remember? And he was a priest of righteousness. He's the gathering of both of those terms and superseding them both. Where he is now seated at the right hand of God the Father, and there he is interceding on behalf of his people. On behalf of you. Imagine that. Imagine that. That your friend, you are my friends if you keep my commandments. Your friend Jesus. is at the right hand of God. And he is talking to God about your needs and your prayers. Isn't that beautiful? Isn't that wonderful? And as you go along this race This endurance race that we're all running and just like everybody else who ran it, Moses ran it, Abraham ran it All the great saints mentioned in Hebrews 11, all the great saints hear yet to come. You who live today as a believer in Christ He is seated at the right hand of God the Father in fulfillment of the Father's holy plan that I set my king on Zion, my holy hill. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies my footstool. He's doing that too The enemies of Christ are being defeated and vanquished. It doesn't look that way. It looks like they're all out there running amok and they're all getting whatever they want to do in this current society. But you can't have faith And see always with your eyes. You have to see based on what the scripture says Jesus is coming back. And he is not coming back as the Savior He is in the sense of going through salvation again. He's done that once for all. He's coming back as King of Kings. He's coming back as Lord of Lords. And his kingdom will have no end. And you, with his help, you faithfully run the race And as you turn to him for help to sustain you and encourage you, you will see it with your own eyes Even as Job said, oh that I had a pen, that I could write it, engrave it on the rock, I know that my Redeemer lives And in the end, I will see him. This flesh will see him with my own eyes. What more help could we possibly need or want? Thank you, Jesus. Thank you, Jesus. Amen. Let us pray. Almighty God, our Heavenly Father, we do desire, Lord, we do desire that it might still be your will. That so many around us who are lost in the futility of their sinful minds and who have served Sought to serve God and mammon at the same time or only serving mammon, Lord, we pray that you will yet have a day in which Before you return, in which you tear down the idols and destroy them, and that you will yet by your grace Speak the gospel to those, Lord, who are lost and dying without it. Lord, that your Holy Spirit will go before your servants and empower your words to those, Lord, who Do not know you, and yet are those for whom you have chosen to believe in Christ before the foundation of the world. And you will draw them in, Lord Lord, that you will be with the rest of us. For Lord, we we do know and we suspect that the time It is always going to be progressively more and more difficult for those who love you and serve you. And we pray, Lord, that as we run that part of the race, that you would give us grace to proclaim you. to stand fast with you, to be Lord like our brothers and sisters in certain parts of the world, refuse Even at the threat of the sword, to recant the name of Jesus Christ. Lord, give us such love, give us such grace, give us such trust and such faith in you That we would die. That we would die for your name. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.