Amen. If you're able to remain standing, let's turn to our inspired hymn book, to Psalm 130. What a blessing it is that our God gives us his word and speaks his word to us so clearly, gives us this inspired, inerrant, infallible word from our God, and then gives us a a songbook, a psalm book, an inspired songbook for us to sing as his people that reveals to us how much our God knows us. He's the Creator. He's Formed us in our mother's womb. He knows our uh beginnings and our end, our goings out, our comings in. He knows everything about us and he shows us that in his Psalms that he teaches us how we're to pray and to seek him and to come to Him, and that we can come to Him in the Lord Jesus is a marvelous privilege that we never want to Forget. This is God's word. It is his inspired, infallible, inerrant word. And let's uh before we look down, let's look up And see the risen, ascended, enthroned King at God's right hand, the life-giving spirit. And let's ask the Lord Jesus to grant the fullness of his spirit for illumination. Lord Jesus, we have your word before us and you are the life-giving spirit. We pray that you'd pour out your spirit now as we read this uh psalm, uh your very word, we pray that uh you would open it up for us, that uh you would cause us to see you most clearly as our Savior and Friend that we would Have ears to hear what you have to speak to us today, what you have to say to us, uh that we would have hearts to receive it And that we'd have minds to understand it, that we'd have the strength of your spirit to be transformed by it, that we would live differently than we came in. And we prayed for your servant that he would decrease, that you might increase, so that you would be glorified and your church would be further blessed. and conform to your likeness. We pray in your mighty name. Amen. This is a song of ascent And it begins in verse 1, Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. O Lord, hear my voice. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my pleas for mercy. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. I wait for the Lord, my soul waits, and in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchman for the morning O Israel, hope in the Lord, for with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. And he will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. You may be seated. Beloved, as I was prayerfully thinking about what to share with you in this sermon today Throughout the holiday season, the month of December, I was finding myself coming upon this psalm and Praying this psalm and meditating upon this psalm and memorizing this psalm and ministering this psalm. And I said, I think this is the psalm to share in reliance upon God's grace, especially as we as a beautiful congregation of the Lord's people begin a new year. We've already had our attention focused so kindly and faithfully through our pastor and through our elders and in your families with one another But it never hurts to get another focus, to fix our attention. Isn't that one of the important reasons of the first day of the week as we celebrate the resurrection? And we focus our attention on the Throne God and His Word, reminding ourselves where we are and where we are yet to be. This is a psalm that is in the psalm book and book five of the Psalms There's five books of the Psalms, and the fifth one begins in Psalm 107 and ends with Psalm 150. This is a group of Psalms called the Psalms of Ascents. And the Psalms of Ascent in this fifth book begin with Psalm 120 and go through Psalm 134. Begins in 120. And in 120 it begins how? It begins with a prayer. Of the pilgrim, of the believer, looking up to God, knowing with great Hope and expectation that God will hear his prayer. And it ends with having arrived at Mount Zion. And in fact, turning around, as it were, having arrived at the destination, they turn and bless God's people from the house of the Lord. So the songs of ascent Were psalms that were used in the Old Covenant time, particularly with the Old Covenant people, when on the Temple Mount at Jerusalem was the place where the people drew near to God. Through a high priest appointed by God. But there were many who lived at a distance. They were dispersed Throughout Asia Minor. And when they would travel for feast times in Jerusalem, they would sing these Psalms of Ascent They were also called pilgrim psalms. They were songs sung on the way. They were songs sung by God's people on the way, as they were doing what? as they were drawing near to God to Mount Zion. To put it another way, they were psalms that were sung and prayed by God's people because they had yet to arrive home. These are not yet home songs. These are not yet home songs. These are like songs that we may remember through the river and Through through the river you know through the river and through the woods to grandmother's house we go. We're sing over the river and through the woods to grandmother's house we go. We haven't gotten there yet, but we're singing along the way. And this is an inspired song for us to remember, beloved, at the beginning of a new year, that we haven't come home yet. We haven't made it fully. to Mount Zion. Because we come now not to draw near to a Mount Zion in Jerusalem in a physical geographical location. We now With each day that God gives us, we can draw near to the Father, through the Son, through the throne of grace, where Christ is seated. As our Savior, our risen, ascended in throne, Savior, our King, our Friend at God's right hand. But we must be reminded that That we're not yet home. And we must be reminded of our location. That yes, we're on the way. But beloved, we're crying out from the depths. The psalmist begins with, out of the depths I cry, and with great intensity, because he recognizes he's in the depths. That is, he's not home yet. And he cries out particularly for mercy. And yes, it's mercy specific to his sin. It's mercy specific to our sins, but it's also General mercy that we're still in over our heads in this world of sin and misery. We're still feeling the threat of corruption. We're still finding our minds wandering from the truths we know. We're still seeing our affections love sometimes the world more than we want them to, and not turning to God as we should We still see that we are in darkness, though the morning has dawned in Christ. We know that we're not home yet. And as pilgrims in Christ, we can especially use this. To pray, to think about, to meditate, to memorize, and cry out out of the depths. We cry to whom? He cries out of the depths to you, O Lord. O, capital O, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D That is the translation when we want to acknowledge Yahweh. That is, when we want to acknowledge the covenantal Lord. The Lord who has made promises to be our God and we as people, and to know that He is there when we cry out to Him for mercy, that He is a God who hears our prayers. But there's a distance still between our homecoming and seeing him in all his glory and beauty and being fully conformed to the image of his son and There is still remnants of sin that we see in ourselves that can keep us at a distance from God And so the psalmist, his intensity, his persistence, his desire to pray is because he knows he's in the depths. When Ezra was leading the people as they came out of exile, he recognized they were still slaves, essentially. Though God had already through Cyrus allowed them to begin to go up and rebuild the temple and to be the people of God awaiting their Redeemer, Savior, he nevertheless said that we are still slaves. Here, those sons. And when he prayed for the people, he said, our sins have gone up to the heavens. We're in over our heads with them. That's the depth. That's being in over our heads. It's saying As we do in the world. That's above my pay grade. That is outside my expertise. I am still in the depths. I have not arrived to the top of Mount Zion where I shall see the Lamb who was slain for my sins. And beloved, God in his goodness and sovereignty brings us, just as you probably I know you've already experienced in the first few days of what we call this new year of 2026. to a place where that's become poignant. Circumstances that are dark. Circumstances that have caused your heart to be tempted to turn from God in doubt. Temptation doesn't mean necessarily sin, but it they've been strong temptations. They've been doubts. They've been troubles. They've been physical, mental, hard times. You may have awakened in the morning or in the middle of the night and felt that wintry weight upon your affections. I know I do The depths are those places where we feel most poignantly a temptation to despair, despondency. Not just because of our sin, but because what sin has done to us and is continuing to do to us, though we are sons. And so these depths we realize when God allows a trial or tribulation or traffic or trouble. Or transgression, to come into our lives and we say, Oh Lord, hear my prayer. Let your ears be attentive to the voice of my place for mercy, for I have a need. And as you pray this, as you think about this, you begin to come out of your self, your self-focus. And see the covenantal Lord, the Lord who has promised to give you Himself, the Lord who has promised to forgive, the Lord who has promised to be kind to you Remember the evil one, the accuser of the brethren. Remember the dragon serpent lord, the God of this age, the one who rules over this present age. That causes a lot of the problems that we cry out in the depths. That are temptations to despondency, discouragement, depression. doubts, division. And remember, he's a master of mirrors. He would have you look at yourself. This song says, no. I'm in the depths, and I'm going to be real about it. I'm not out of the depths yet, but I'm going to turn to our covenantal, all-powerful, omniscient, all-wise King and Father. I'm going to resist him. And you can pray it. Out of the depths I cry to you, O Lord. My troubles, my tribulations, my sins. You see the whole world who can afford it is in some kind of psychological therapy Trying to look somewhere back in the past at what happened. Sometimes that can be useful But many times it takes years and much money, and there's never a solution to the psychological problem. When this psalm, contrary to that, says, it's not the past you need to be looking at. In fact, it's not you you need to be looking at. It's the covenant of the Lord. Yes, you're in the depths. Yes, you feel the despondency. Yes, you feel the darkness. Yes, you feel the temptations. But the key to all of this is not in the past. The key to it is in the present. Right now, looking up and beyond yourself. Because if the Satan is the master of mirrors Jesus is the one who gives us the word as a lovely window, a wide open, clear window where we can see the Heavenly Father and see that we have one who has cared for us thus far and will bring us home. So the first thing I want us to note is the intensity of the psalmist And I want us to learn to pray in this intensity, with this meditation, with this memorization, of knowing that when you realize poignantly From the heart that you're in the depths, you can cry out to a God who hears you. The psalmist repeats Lord hear, Lord hear. Let your ears be attentive to my please of mercy because he knows he is a God who hears. And so, beloved, let's intensely pray as pilgrims on the way home. Number two, let's pray realistically when I use this uh term realistically it's to say something maybe different than just repentantly. It is to say I realistically, wholeheartedly recognize where I am That I'm not home yet, and that I am experiencing these things, and that I have seen my need for mercy in general to continue to fight the good fight, and I've seen the need for mercy specific to what I've done against God and others. But realistic means to do it before a God with wholehearted repentance that then brings relief Because the psalmist comes to the covenant of the Lord who wants to be our God, who promises to be our God, and we as people, and how does he do that? But showing us he's a merciful and gracious forgiving God. Look in verses 3 and 4. The psalmist says realistically. He says repentantly He says, with relief, Lord, if you, O Lord, covenant Lord, should mark iniquities, if you could call me to account, if you were to measure my sins today, I would bust hell wide open. Because who could stand before you? Then he says, But with you there is forgiveness, that you may be feared. You see, when we see the mirror and we see only ourselves, our circumstances, our trials, our troubles tend to cause us to fall into self-pity And self-pity, if not treated, beloved, causes us to become the victims to think that The world is against us, that others are against us, that God is against us. And that just breeds self-centeredness. And so what the psalmist is showing us is: no, we have no reason to be self-pitiful. God pities us, and God has compassion on us. Leave the compassion and pity to God. But when we go through the woe with me, what are we saying? But elsewhere I don't deserve this And this psalm says realistically, with hopes and aims, to bring about repentance and relief by saying, Lord, I don't deserve anything. One sin, one evil self-centered thought about myself deserves eternal wrath and judgment. One drop. It would take me eternity to work off just the sins that I've committed this morning. Intentionally or unintentionally. Repentantly or unrepentantly? And so how do we stand before the covenantal Lord? Yes, in the depths. Yes. Looking for help through prayer, intense prayer, but realistically, not as self-pitiful people who've been played upon But it's people who know that we deserve the worst and we've gotten the best. God so loved you God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him should never, ever, ever perish, but have everlasting life. If God be for you, who can be against you? He who did not spare his own son, but freely, graciously gave him up for us all, how will he not with him graciously give us all things? That's not something we deserve. And so the self-pity is removed. And we see others' needs, not just our own. The mirror is removed. As we resist the devil, he must flee with his mirrors. Mirrors are nasty things. Windows to grace And to forgiveness and to learn the fear of the Lord is what we need. And that's what the psalmist says. Praying with this realistic manner that you know you don't deserve it, but he's given it. And to receive it with faith and thankfulness and gratitude. And to know that Christ has become the propitiation for our sins, that with each sin we commit when we go before the Father He forgives us our sins and cleanses us from all unrighteousness. That as far as the east is from the west, he removes our transgressions. that he's the God that when Moses asked what's your name, he said, I'm the covenantal Lord who has initiated sovereignly a gracious work of redemption. And you know how you're to remember me? I am merciful and gracious I am slow to anger. I am abounding in steadfast love. Forgiving iniquity, transgression, and sin. But I will by no means declar the guilty. You reject my son. You will pay for every one of your thoughts, your deeds, your words. Every careless word will come under my just Judgment. Because in order to make my world right, in order to make my bride beautiful, for my beautiful, perfect son, I have to remove all the evil. So join the family through faith in Christ and be forgiven or perish outside the covenant under the wrath of God. Beloved, we're not victims. The Bible says that every hair on our head is numbered. And there's not a hair that falls from our head without the will of our Heavenly Father. So every trial, every trouble, every traffic, every transgression, even. has a purpose and plan behind it of the sovereign, powerful, perfect God who brings us into this so that we'll look up and out of ourselves. Learn to intensely pray. Know that he's really a forgiving God. And continue to walk one more day to get home. Because we have not arrived at Mount Zion yet. We come to Mount Zion each Thursday, where Jesus is seated on the throne, surrounded by innumerable angels, perfected saints, and a blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Amen. But we can't see it with eyes of sight yet. That day will come when the heavens and the earth will be united in Jesus Christ. And when all of God's people who've trusted in him will hear, The Well done, my good and faithful servants, enter into the joy of your master. It was all worth it. And our Heavenly Father, who gives us these things, beloved, makes us realize the poignancy so that we don't, we're not fooled by pleasure. Because our hearts will go to sleep. We say with David, Lord, give me what I need, and maybe a little bit more, but don't give me too much. Because I I may turn from you. I may forget to pray because I feel comfortable. There's one problem in our hearts and that we feel in a first world country Is that propensity to make comfort rather than a gift, an idol And so the psalmist prays intensely, knowing his place, knowing his need. He prays realistically, knowing he's really a sinner who's offended God. Third, he prays expectantly. Look in verses five and six. I wait for the Lord. My soul waits. Oh Lord. And in his word I hope. My soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning. More than watchmen for the morning, this is some of our Lord's last words in his estate of humiliation were to stay awake, stay alert. Be sober-minded. Don't be distracted. Because he wanted us to wait on his return expectantly. How many people missed him in his first coming, in his first advent, because there was no expectation? There was no awaiting him. There was no looking for him according to word and spirit. But there was Mary and Joseph, and there was Elizabeth and Zechariah, and there was Anna and Simeon, and you remember how Simeon is described. He got as close as he could to the living God at that time in redemptive history by just living in the temple along with Anna. Not together, but At the same time. And he sought the Lord because he was waiting on the consolation of Israel. He was waiting expectantly on the Lord. Waiting doesn't mean to just stand by doing nothing. But waiting does mean that in our hearts We're desiring to get home. And as we're desiring to get home and to see him as he is, we're trusting in his word, not our thoughts. Not ultimately our emotions, not our hunches, not even our best hunches. Ultimately, we are trusting in his word to guide us and to lead us. Look at verse 5 again. I wait for the Lord, he's acknowledging. I wait expectantly for the Lord. I wait to be fully redeemed out of the depths. Fully into the light, fully to receive the salvation that God has promised, fully into the presence of the Lord to experience an escalated, eschatological, eternal, embodied existence. Like Eden, but better. Like Eden, but permanent. A paradise. Our lives are short. And what we do with them now, we want to ask the Lord to give us wisdom. That we number our days, to get a heart of wisdom, young people, to have wisdom, to live your life now for Christ. Being watchful, being patient, being expectant. He says, my soul waits. In his word, I hope. What is that hope? It's the promise that I will be with you always, even to the end of the age. It's the word that I am your God and you are my people and I will dwell with you With you. It is the word that I will never, ever, ever, ever, ever. Do I have to say it again? Do I need to say it again? Yes, never, ever forsake you. I'll never abandon you. Though I'm with you even to the end of the age. Why so downcast, O my soul Put your trust in God. Beloved, lean not on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him in his word. And he will direct your path. That's waiting. That's praying with expectation. for the return, waiting patiently with expectation that he will hear an answer. And he says even further, verse 6, using a very familiar image of that time, my my soul is like the watchman for the morning. Watchman for the morning. One would be on the walls of Jerusalem or of another city that had walls. That the walls were to protect the citizens, those who lived in the city, and they were to keep out wild beasts and wild people. Who could do harm. The walls represented peace as long as they stood Prosperity, continuing business, getting up morning and evening, and you put watchmen on the wall who would not sleep They would be watching for the morning. They're watching the horizon as far as it could be seen. Their enemies? Is there trouble? That's how we're to watch with expectation for the Lord's return each and every day. One of the best ways of waking up each and every day is saying, How long, O Lord? Come, Lord Jesus, the Spirit. The bride say, come, come. And look Look for him and live for him as you look for him. But expectantly, beloved, more than Watchman for the morning. You know Watchman. If you've ever been in the military, especially in war zones, you know that if you're the watchman and you're found asleep You could experience a court martial or you could experience the firing line in certain aspects of service. Why? Because you put yourself and others at risk. See, heads of families, husbands, pastors, we pastors. But to watch expecting. Remember, your enemy is like a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Resist him, standing firm in the faith. There's a intensity of praying. There's a praying realistically that leads to repentance and relief. There is a praying here that is uh watching expectantly and then finally. Verses seven and eight. There's a watching, specifically praying hopefully. Praying hopefully When we sense the depths, when we're experiencing the trials, when we see that uh we have sinned, perhaps the trial actually provoked the sin for us to sin against someone. We see verses 7 and 8. This is what we were made for, beloved in Christ. O Israel, hope in the Lord. Reiterates, for with the Lord there is steadfast love. That is unfailing, undying, unfathomable, unchanging love towards you in Christ. As Christ says it in John 15, as the Father has loved me, unfathomably, permanently, eternally, unchangeably, so I have loved you. That love will not change in Christ Jesus. With the Lord, there's steadfast love. That's covenantal love. That's perfect love. That's God initiated and God continuing, preserving love. That's love that changes. That love that humbles, and listen, with him is plentiful redemption. What does that mean? It means you're a pilgrim now, but one day you're going to be a perfected Satan. Yes, right now, through faith in Jesus, you're a pilgrim, you're a servant, you're a son, you're a daughter, you're a child of the king. But you're not yet home yet. And you have not yet been perfected. We will not be perfected until we see him as he is, and we will have, by his grace, Through prayer, through persevering grace, because he's prayed for us ultimately and because he chose us and elected us and then gave us all the means of grace. to make it home, to fight the good fight and finish the race well. We will see him face to face and we will be a perfected saints. And we will have ascended out of the depths. That's what he means. Principle redemption. It's not just a redemption, it's not just a forgiveness to go on living the way we were living. It's a redemption that has begun. With the forgiveness of sins, but it's a redemption that will culminate in the full removal of all of our sins. Removal of all the darkness. That even now can't comprehend or overcome because Jesus chases it away. But it's a plentiful redemption. All the redemption we need to make it home. He will redeem Israel from all his iniquities. You see, there will be a day when we see him face to face will be perfected, the sins will be gone, there'll be no more death, there'll be no more suffering, there'll be no longer those deaths. That haunt us, that try us, that trouble us, that uh seriously make us at least tempted to depression, despondency, doubt, sadness. I'm not saying that all of those things are sins. I want to say it again. I'm saying they're temptations. And when they go on for a long time, You can bet the accusers in it. Because when we struggle with it And we have the word. We have God. We have the Word. We have one another. We we want to talk honestly about these things. Appropriately, yes, with our elders, with one another. inappropriately in our families that uh struggling with being down. Just the other night, Sunday night, for no reason, woke up the middle of the night Tempted to distress doubts. Darkness was really fierce. It was more than physical surrounding darkness. I can't explain it. It happens sometimes. And all I could get out in the moment was how How long? When's this gonna go away? When is this gonna go away? And as it was sent to do, all of a sudden the Spirit helped me to pray and helped me to quote this scripture and other scriptures. One was asked and you shall receive. Seek and you'll find. Knock and the doors will be open. For everyone who asks receives. He who seeks finds. He who knocks the doors will be open. And the last thing I remember is I went back to sleep in peace and woke up, and I had so many people I got to minister to that day. It doesn't always seem like that, does it? Some days it just goes on. It can go on. But we have a place to go, to draw near out of the depths, to the God who is near to us in Christ Jesus. For the Lord Jesus has promised He'd redeem Israel from all his iniquities because we as pilgrims can ascend. Do you know why we can ascend? Because our Jesus, our Savior, our Redeemer, our Friend, descended to the lower regions of the earth to experience this pain, this darkness. The real temptations, yet without sin. Even on the cross. If you think of all that he went through just on the cross, propitiating God's wrath, his whole life was a cross. From poverty to rejection, to hunger, to thirst, to pain, to the rejection By those even closest to him. And then to experience on the cross in the depths. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And saying, it is finished the work that I was sent to do on behalf of the Father to earn the perfect righteousness for my dear bride. It is finished. The penalty paid for sin, so it could be fully and finally forgiven. It is finished And on the third day he rose, and he seated in God's right hand. He poured out his spirit on us so that we too could ascend. Even now, though we feel the depths, we're seated with Christ in the heavenly places And why we're to seek the things above with intensity, with praying intensity, with praying realistically, with praying expectantly and praying hopefully But here's what we want to see when Jesus was ready to lay down his life fully and finally, after propitiating fully and finally the wrath of God, taking the wrath that we deserve for our sins, to offer forgiveness. He said, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do, showing that he was a forgiving, merciful Savior. He would be the one who'd provide mercy And then the last words he said was, Father, into your hands I commit my spirit. And he went further into the depths. In the tomb of Joseph of Arimathea. And you could say that he said this I wait for the Lord. And in his word I hope. Because Jesus knew that his father had promised that his death would be resurrection, would be exaltation. And would be a beautiful, forgiven bride who would arise out of the depths into holy wonder and beauty and perfection on the day of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. So beloved, pray with me this year. If you're not already. Now many of you, you always surprise me with your growth. I'm very grateful for your maturing uh hearts. You probably say to me, we did that one long ago. That's old news, brother. Okay. Let's look at it again. Let's memorize it again. Let's meditate on it again. Let's pray it. And let's pray it for one another until we see him face to face. Because the depths are real, but his redemption is real, more real. And he will Redeem Israel from not some, not a few, but all his iniquities Amen. Do we believe it? All right. Let's fight the good fight. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful for the Lord Jesus. We thank you that we have a high priest who's passed not merely behind a veil in a temple made with hands, not merely into a cube, a holy of holies. uh to a typological throne room or a throne room that was mere shadow or uh according to m uh uh built by men, but he has appeared in heaven itself and is enthroned at your right hand. Ready and willing to forgive. In fact, you tell us that we do not have a high priest who's unable to sympathize with us in our weaknesses, in the depths. The one who has in every way been tempted as we are, yet without sin. And then we're told, so let us boldly then go. Draw near on our pilgrimage as we sing this psalm of ascent, as we ascend, may we spiritually draw near to the throne of grace. Not throne of condemnation, throne of grace. That we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. We pray and thank you in Jesus' name. And all the church responded with a resounding Amen.