If you turn your copy now of God's word to Paul's letter to the church at Rome, Romans. I think you'll find that on page 1122 of your Pew Bibles. I'll be reading there in chapter 8. Verses eighteen through twenty-five. Let's give attention once again to the Word of God. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. The creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. That the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God But we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation. But we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly, as we await eagerly for the adoption as sons. The redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we ask now, Lord God, that you'd help us. Add your blessing to the reading of your word and guide our hearts this morning. That we might, Father, fix our minds, our hearts upon the glory of Christ. And that you would show us, Father, even show us this day the magnitude, the magnificence. We ask this in his name. Amen. In Paul's letter to the church at Philippi, he opens up in a very strange way. If you know this particular letter, Paul wrote it when he was imprisoned. And he's writing to encourage the church. And he tells them That he's been asking that God would complete that good work which he began in them And he would bring it to the completion of the day of Jesus Christ. And he said, It's right for me to feel this way about you all, because I hold you in my heart, for you all are partakers with me of grace. Both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel. Paul refers to his imprisonment As grace. He goes on in the letter to inform them that even though he is imprisoned And he's not able to proclaim the Word of God the way he thought he was going to. Others are doing so. And that the Word of God is going out in a much more full manner He ends that portion by saying, even though some are preaching it out of envy and strife toward him. That only in every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is proclaimed. And in that I rejoice. Paul was rejoicing in prison. He was comparing his imprisonment And linking it to the grace of God. He was telling the saints at Philippi that through their prayers and the help of the Spirit of Christ, that this, meaning his imprisonment would turn out for his deliverance. He was also looking forward. He's praying that Christ would be honored in his body. That record of Paul's countenance, his estate, his thinking. That should help us as we come to Paul's letter to the church at Rome. This morning we're going to be in this second series that we've begun on chapter 8 of Romans And as we do, we remember that as we come to chapter 8, Paul's been writing about the law. But he's also been writing about his flesh. That Paul knew that the law was good, it's spiritual, but He confessed that he was of the flesh, sold under sin. That he was doing the things that he didn't want to do, doing the things that he very much hated And he recognized that there was a war going on within himself. Indeed, he actually refers to himself as wretched man that I am. Who will deliver me from this body of death? That's the backdrop to chapter eight. Of Romans. And last week we learned that against that backdrop, Paul was rejoicing and saying that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. But then he also said that if you're in Christ, that you will suffer. That your heirs with Christ, provided that you suffer with him in order that you might be glorified with him. That's where we ended last week. Paul continues this morning. And I want us to see here in these verses 18 through 25 that the children of God are called to patient waiting. For the unsurpassable glory of Christ while they suffer The children of God are called to patient waiting for the unsurpassable glory of Christ while they suffer. We'll see that in three points this morning. The sound of groaning, secondly the magnitude of glory, and finally the blessing of waiting. As we go through these verses this morning, I want you to be asking yourself, am I patient? In Christian suffering, or am I anxious and miserable? That brings us to our first head then. The sound of groaning. Consider that headline that Paul writes here in verse 18. I consider That the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. It is a headline. The remainder of the passage this morning to verse 25 is really all about this as he unpacks that headline. He's about to discuss the sufferings. And then the glory. And all the while, what he's doing is he's asking you this morning, the reader, he was asking the church at Rome first, but now you to be comparing these two things Side by side, suffering and glory, suffering and glory, weigh them next to one another. You might be picturing an old-time scale, two sides hanging from one bar on a pivot point. Used to find out how much the thing on the right weighs when compared to the thing on the left, because you know the thing on the left has a certain weight. They hang in the balance, side by side, which one of these two things weighs more. Paul wants you to have that image in your mind, I think. But he's already come to a conclusion. He's weighed them, the suffering and the glory. He's placed them on a scale and has found that the glory and the suffering really can't be compared. That they can't really be set side by side. That they're not in the same category. That the suffering's not worthy to be set beside the glory. The glory is broken the scale. It's too weighty. So as Paul begins this, he begins with that headline. In other words, your sufferings are inconsequential in comparison to the glory. you will ultimately experience in Christ when He returns How is Paul encouraging the church at this point? Was he discounting the significance of the suffering of the church? Was he overlooking the reality of the suffering of the church? I don't think so. Consider Paul, considering his sufferings. This is Paul's personal opinion that he states, for I consider. This is Paul's experience. Indeed, even as he suffers. And this is Paul's conclusion, as the Lord has revealed to him the coming glory of Christ. Well, let's move on with Paul as he begins describing the suffering. Indeed, everything is suffering. That's the way he describes it. Everything and every one He begins with a creation, verse 19. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God, for the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. Futility. It's a powerful word. In the Greek dictionary, one of them, it means a state of being without use or value. That's the word that Paul uses. Emptiness, purposeful purposelessness That's the word he uses to describe the creation. It's subjected to futility. In the sense it's not carrying out that that work, that that object, that thing that God had intended for it, in a sense. Subjected to futility. God had intended it for this, and we by and through our sins have made it into this, without value, without use. Emptiness. That's what Paul ascribes to the creation It's in bondage. He personifies the creation, the earth, the mountains, the valleys, the fields, the deserts, the oceans, lakes, rivers, forests, trees, shrubs, gardens. Clouds, wind, rain, snow, fish, birds, cows, sheep, goats, deer, beasts of the field, insects, sun, moon, stars, all subjected to futility, all in bondage. There's a sense in which Solomon speaks of this as he opens up Ecclesiastes, Vanity of Vanity, says the preacher, all is vanity. We know that this suffering of creation, if we can put it that way, as Paul's personified it, began in the garden. We read it this morning. As Adam sinned against God, and as the Lord explains to Adam, because you've listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground. God cursed all of creation. And that's why and how Paul can write, it's been subjected to futility. It's in bondage to corruption. Lamech, the father of Noah, experienced it. As Noah is born, and he calls his son Noah. He says, out of the ground that Noah that the Lord has cursed, This one shall bring us relief from our work and from the painful toil of our hands. The suffering of creation began as a result of our sin in Adam But Paul doesn't limit the suffering that he describes to that of the creation. He says it's not only the creation, verse 23, but we ourselves. Grown inwardly, as we wait eagerly for the adoption of sons, the redemption of our bodies That's Paul's focus. Paul's not saying that there hasn't been salvation in Christ Jesus. Paul's not saying that the soul has not been united to Christ. He's saying that there's a problem with our bodies. Paul's already said much about the flesh. In chapter 7 of Romans, verse 18, he writes, I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh. For I do not do the good I want. He continues to refer to my members, making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. And as we read earlier, who will deliver me from this body of death He even repeats here in chapter 8, but if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, and then in verse 12. Brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. See, Paul is focusing us upon what still remains in each of us. The old man. And he uses the flesh and members and body to describe the fact that the old man yet resides within us. That we know as Christians what is right, but we don't have the ability to carry it out. And we know that there is a war going on within us. That's Paul's experience. Is it yours? That's the inward groaning that Paul writes of Who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for the adoption as sons. Paul's not saying that you haven't been saved if you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's saying that there's still a war going on within you. And as the old man battles the new, there is this groaning that's happening or should be happening within each one who belongs to Christ this morning. The psalmist recognizes it. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away through my groaning. All day long. Thomas is describing the fact that he has not confessed sin. And what happens when you don't confess sin? There is this inward war going on. Psalm 38, there's no health in my bones because of my sin, for my sides are filled with burning, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I'm feeble and crushed. I groan because of the tumult of my heart. Indeed, Jesus groaned under the weight of your sin. Psalm 22, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Why are you so far from saving me from the words of my groaning? You see, was Paul discounting suffering No, absolutely not. He was recognizing it. From the creation down to individual believers in Christ who have been indwelt by the Spirit. He's recognizing that until Jesus Christ returns or you're taken home to glory, that you will be suffering the groaning associated with The old man associated with the flesh that continues to sin. Paul knew that sufferings of Christians was real and substantial. He was encouraging the church by setting forth this comparison. Saying, I know, I know that you grow. I know that you're battling sin. I know that it's hard. But you've got to look to Christ. You've got to consider His glory. And so let's do that. The magnitude of glory. Just consider what Paul says. The sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. What is that glory that Paul speaks of? I think most of you would be saying, well, obviously, it's the glory of Christ. Just think of the ascension of Jesus Christ recorded by Dr. Luke in the first chapter of Acts. And as the disciples are looking on When Jesus had said these things, and they, meaning the disciples, were looking on, he was lifted up. A cloud took him out of their sight, and while they were gazing into heaven, Two men stood by them in white robes and asked why? Why do you stand looking up into heaven This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way you saw him go into heaven. Why are you standing here gazing? He's coming back In glory. We have to remember that Christ's first advent His first appearance was in humility. We have to remember that this one this one was born in a low estate. He was born under the law, that he was born suffering the miseries of his life. And yet And yet in his second advent, he will return in glorious triumph. He will return in victory in his glorious kingship, having conquered all his and our enemies. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way, and therefore he will lift up his head. He will come in his glorious sonship. Not adopted, but the only eternally begotten Son of God the Father. He will come in his glorious majesty. He will come in his glorious holiness. And this time It will be made evident for all to see. The Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. The majesty, the holiness of Christ will be unmistakable. It will be blinding. The brightness of his light, the witness of his garment, the whiteness of his garment, the purity will all be on display such that every knee will bow. In heaven and on earth. And every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You see the glory of Christ. You see its magnitude. Oh, that's what he wants you to see this morning. It's coming. It's promised. He will return. And that's what Paul is saying is so great. Your sufferings today, even significant. Are incomparable to his war. That brings us to our third point, the blessing of waiting. Again, Paul knows that suffering is difficult. Don't misunderstand. This text is not saying that we should relish suffering. This text does not say that suffering is not painful. It doesn't say that it's not difficult. Paul recognizes, he spends many words describing it. He knows it's hard. Indeed, the disciples didn't want to suffer with Jesus as they ran, as they fled from him, as he's going to the cross. Jesus didn't want to suffer the separation from his father. And yet he knew that it was necessary. Indeed, there are many times of suffering when we don't think we'll make it to the end. There are many times that Christians, as they're suffering, believe it's just too much to endure. Even doubt that we'll be able to persevere through it And yet, Paul calls for you to wait. Spirit is calling for you to wait this morning. If we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Waiting for Jesus to return. Waiting for the final, the ultimate adoption of sons and daughters. Waiting for the redemption of your fleshly body. Waiting for the creation to be set free from its bondage to corruption. Waiting in and through suffering patiently. But how? What does it take to wait patiently through suffering? We learned that suffering is that which God uses to prepare the children of God for eternity. We saw that suffering is that which produces obedience and righteousness The question this morning is a bit different. How in that suffering do we wait for Christ patiently? How are you going to persevere in it and through it In other words, how are you going to perceive your suffering? How are you going to use it? Now the first answer given by Paul is to consider the glory of Christ, that which you can't see right now. The first answer is to meditate upon, to dwell upon, to rehearse, to be reminded of the glory of Christ that's already being revealed. When Peter and John were going up to the temple at the hour of prayer in the ninth hour, as Dr. Luke records it in chapter 3 of Acts, a man lame from birth was being carried He's looking for alms, looking for folks to give him money. Peter says to him, he didn't have any silver to give him, but he what he did give him was this In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. If you're familiar with the passage, that's exactly what happened. And those who saw it were in awe. They were in wonder. And Peter is saying, Why do you stand in wonder at us? Why do you stare as though by our own power We have made this man walk, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant Jesus. And his name by faith and his name has made this man strong. Do you see what Peter was saying? Look and see at this one who is now walking, who you you knew to be lame, who used to beg who is now up and praising God, now it's all for Christ's glory. You're actually seeing Christ's glory in the healing of this man By faith. See, we think we have to wait until Jesus actually returns, but Peter was saying, no, no, no. You can see the glory of Christ. Every time he heals someone, every time he brings someone to faith in himself, every time he changes the heart, every time Every time he saves another by and through faith. We're seeing the glory of Christ Think of what Paul did as he sat in prison. What did Paul do? As Paul was suffering unrighteous imprisonment, what did he do? He set his mind on the fact that God was working even Through his imprisonment. Paul set his mind on the good that God was accomplishing through his suffering. Even as he sat in prison thinking he was supposed to be out preaching, no, the word of God was going out in a more powerful way than Paul could have done himself. In every way, whether in pretense or truth, Christ is proclaimed. And so Paul is setting his mind and heart upon the good work that God was accomplishing as a result of his imprisonment. How is Jesus using your suffering? Did ever ask that question? Did you ever consider that? How is he using my suffering today. Yes, to bring me closer to Jesus. We'll talk about that in a minute. But how's he using it in others? See, that's what Paul was considering. How is he using my suffering in the life of another? How's God using your situation, your suffering? To serve and promote Jesus Christ to others And then you might consider that through your suffering you're being conformed more and more to the image of Jesus. Indeed, each and every time you encounter suffering, whether it be chastisement. Whether it be persecution, you're being conformed more and more to the image of his son. As you're unable to wait patiently in and through that suffering, you're being conformed more and more to the image of Jesus Christ. Do you think that way about your suffering? Uh I'll say this, usually I think our thought is when will this end? Usually, I think we're praying that God would bring our suffering to a quick conclusion. But the persecution, the affliction, the chastisement would end as quickly as possible even right now. It seems to be the wrong request. It seems to be the wrong prayer, even though that is one that frequently moves from our heart to our lips. Lord, please take this suffering away now. You may be cutting short. You're being conformed more and more to the image of Christ Let's consider that word Paul uses here. Waiting. Patient waiting. We've seen that there is actually an activity, a spiritual activity to be engaged in as you suffer. Think of what God is doing. How he's conforming you more and more to Jesus Christ. How the body of Christ is being built up through it. But there's also this aspect of passivity as you suffer. As you suffer, you're being acted upon usually. And if you perceive yourself as being acted on ultimately by the first cause, by God Himself. Then isn't there a quietness, calmness to be about you, as you wait on the Lord? Waiting to experience all that He has for you in and through your suffering. It should cause us to examine ourselves. Do I wait? Waiting suggests that suffering many times will not be over in an instant. But the Lord has much for you in and through it Psalmist says, wait for the Lord. Be strong. Let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. How are you waiting for the Yes, the children of God are called the patient waiting for the unsurpassable glory of Christ. Please remember how Paul began his letter to the church at Philippi, even as he suffered imprisonment. He was so concerned about what God was doing in the hearts of the saints at Philippon. I'm sure of this. That he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ. I think Paul might have been speaking of suffering. He might have been reminding the Christians there. As they suffer, persecutions, afflictions, trials, tribulations, even chastisements, That good work that the Lord was doing would be brought to completion as Christ returned in all of his glory. Amen. Father and our God, we are so very thankful that you love us so much, that you care about us. You've given us your son. Indeed, you've also given us suffering. So Father, we do pray, along with Paul. Knowing that you have begun a good work in us. That even through suffering, Father, you bring it to completion at the day of Christ. And as we do, Father, as you work this in us, help us. Help us to set our minds, our hearts upon the glory of Christ. The incomparable glory of Christ.