Which starts the uh here we go. We're gonna be in Romans chapter two this afternoon. And continue our study there, beginning at verse 17. Let's give attention to God's word. Indeed, you are called a Jew and rest on the law And make your boast in God. And know his will and approve the things that are excellent, being instructed out of the law And are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind, a light to those who are in darkness, an instructor of the foolish. a teacher of babes, having the form of knowledge and truth in the law. You therefore who teach another, do you not teach yourself You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal? You who say, do not commit adultery, do you commit adultery You who abhor idols, do you rob temples? You who make your boast in the law, do you dishonor God through breaking the law The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, as it is written. For circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law But if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Therefore, if an uncircumcised man keeps the righteous requirements of the law, will not his uncircumcision be counted as circumcision? And will not the physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law Judge you, who even with your written code and circumcision, are a transgressor of a law. For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision that which is outward in the flesh. But he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, But from God. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven Now as we continue in what might be a very difficult passage, we pray, Lord God, that you would give us. The abiding work of the Spirit, who would shine a light on the path that you would have us to take. We pray, Father, that you would illumine our hearts That we would be convicted, Lord God, of sin. And then that we would rejoice in the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. who is the one who performs that supernatural circumcision of the heart. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, as we uh continue uh to study the word of god we do come to a bit of a difficult portion of scripture as we are continuing to focus on sin. Paul is opening up his gospel I looked up an article online, uh and this article uh was uh posted by the Baptist Press. I'm not sure who they are, uh, but they were writing some time ago. Um uh I think it was uh three years ago, about uh the kind of the condition of the American home with regard to the Bible. And they started the article by saying that Americans appear to have a positive view of the Bible and that many say scripture is filled with moral lessons. And they noted as they apparently took a survey that uh most American homes have Bibles within them. Say almost nine out of ten households, eighty-seven percent own a Bible and most have or at least the average household has three three copies of God's Word in most or the average American household. Problem is that many never pick it up You say most Americans don't know firsthand of the overall story of the Bible because they rarely Pick it up. And here's the astonishing thing. They said even among worship attendees, less than half read the Bible daily. Kind of astonishing. It's this idea that it's important to have the Bible in your home, kind of like a trophy But not so important to actually pick it up and read it. That seems to be what this study was proclaiming. We're going to see a bit of that in our text this afternoon. Remember, Paul is longing to go to the church at Rome. To proclaim to them his gospel, maybe, uh, as Sinclair Ferguson believes, to send him on his way to Spain that he might proclaim the gospel there and this is the gospel that he would proclaim if he were to be sent there. He's longing to be with those in this particular church. He's declared his burning desire to preach the gospel. He has told them so very clearly in kind of a strange beginning, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. And giving us that statement, it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes And so now that he has told those in Rome what he thinks of the gospel of God, the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, now he begins to open up and unfold his proclamation of the gospel or the way in which he would proclaim it. And so what does he begin with? But he begins with basically telling everyone that they are in sin. He first begins at the end of chapter one to speak to those who would be referred to as Gentiles, those who are not Jews, those who don't have the written word. And telling them that in fact they know who God is, even though they don't have the written word, and they have offended him. that they have not glorified him, they have not been thankful, that they became fools, and as a result, God has poured out temporal judgment upon them. He gave them up to their uncleanness that they might dishonor themselves amongst themselves and using that to bring them back or bring them to himself. And now as we looked at the beginning of chapter two We saw that there was a transition, at least Paul was making the transition from speaking about temporal judgment from God's wrath to eternal judgment. that as a result of sin, uh sinners, unrepentant sinners, would be subject to eternal judgment. God. There's some question as to whether or not Paul was writing to Jews or Gentiles, or maybe even both, in the first 16 verses of chapter 2. There's no question that Paul is writing about eternal judgment as he opens up chapter 2. Now, now as he jumps into the last portion of what we now have as chapter 2, it's very clear that he is speaking now about, writing now about how he would proclaim the gospel. to Jews, Gentiles at the end of chapter 1. A little bit of a question there in the first part of chapter 2, certainly speaking of eternal judgment now in the portion that we're going to get to this afternoon. He is clearly writing about how he would proclaim the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to Jews, to those who are not necessarily following the true word, the true gospel. Well, I want us to see this afternoon the danger of having a form of godliness and then the blessing of having a working faith The danger of having a form of godliness versus the blessing of having a working faith. We'll see that in three points this afternoon. Having the form of truth. Secondly, clinging to the circumcision, and then thirdly, seeking the praise of men. Even though I've just said that these last many verses in chapter 2 are really about how Paul would proclaim and does proclaim his gospel to the Jews that have actually rejected it. I think there's a warning in this passage today to all Christians And as we go through it, it would be beneficial if we would just look for that warning as we reread the words of Paul given to him by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Well, first, having the form of truth. Notice in verse 17 Paul is very clear as to who he's addressing now. Indeed, you are called a Jew and rest on the law and make your boast in God. As he begins to speak very directly to Jews, he brings to our attention, he brings their attention to this fact of their name, of their title, of the way they're referred to. Some believe that this name Jew was a shortening of the name of the tribe of Judah, which is the tribe from which David came and thus ultimately Jesus came. Uh and so that might be the case. I haven't studied it enough to to say that that in fact is the case. So Jews would then, if this is true, would see themselves as descendants of the tribe of Judah. Remember the nation was split into the northern and the southern kingdoms. And the northern kingdom, Israel, went into exile well before the southern kingdom, and some would say the northern kingdom was just completely lost And so Jews might refer to themselves as from the tribe of Judah as the tribe of Judah still had a remnant left. Well Jews would certainly think and say that they are the people of God, the people with whom God had entered into covenant. I think that's what uh Paul is is saying as he reminds them or at least refer to them as you are called a Jew. There's significance in this name, and he wants to draw that out as to the significance that they, these people, are applying to the name that they have affixed to themselves. This is the people with whom God entered into a covenant with. In Genesis 17, we read I will establish my covenant between me and you, and this is where God is speaking to Abraham, and your descendants after you in their generations. So a Jew would believe that he is he is part of that generational language. That while God entered into covenant with Abraham, it was not just Abraham, it was Abraham and his descendants and the Jew would say I am a direct descendant. I am one of those generations referred to by God in Genesis 17. What's the significance of that? Here's the covenant to be God to you and your descendants after you. This is our God He belongs to us. I'm a Jew. That name has been placed on me. I'm in the right bloodline. I am in the covenant These are the people who God cares for. These are the people who God listened to as they were in Egypt. My people who are in Egypt. He's heard their cry because of their task master. He knew their sorrows, referred to them as the sons of Israel, heard their cries for help because of their bondage that rose up to God. He took notice of them You see, all this is caught up in that title, that name. Jew. That's who I am. This is my relationship to God. It's exclusive. No one else has this kind of relation that he would hear us as we cried out to him. in our oppression from Egypt. And Jews understood that salvation was in their blood, so to speak. This is their understanding. This is that application of the name. This is why the name is significant. Remember, in John's Gospel, we have this record of Jesus speaking directly with Jews. And they answer him as Jesus speaks to them. Verse 31 of chapter 8 of John. Then Jesus said to those Jews who believe, if you abide in my word, you are my disciples indeed. And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him. We are Abraham's descendants, and have never been in bondage To anyone. How can you say you will be made free? These Jews continued to cling to the fact that Abraham was their bloodline father. Abraham's descendants. Abraham is our father. Are you seeing a pattern? Are you seeing how they distinguished themselves? Are you seeing how they thought of themselves? They understood that salvation came as a result of them being in the bloodline of Abraham, of being Abraham's descendants, a Jew. Well, Paul knew how important it was to the Jews to be included, included with that name. As he writes his letter to those in Philippi, doesn't he reference the significance of having that name, of being in that bloodline? Chapter 3 of the Letter to the Philippians, he writes, Finally my brethren, rejoice in the Lord, for me to write the same things to you is not tedious, but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, of evil workers, beware of the mutilation, for we are the circumcision. Worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Jesus Christ, and have no confidence in the flesh. See what he was telling them. Saying the true follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who is actually saved, doesn't take their salvation to be a result of their bloodline. With no confidence in the flesh. And then he goes on to tell them this is how the Jews were thinking. Although I might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so. What does he point to? Circumcised the eighth day. Of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal persecuting the church. Do you see how important the name of Jew was? Do you see how important it was to be a Hebrew of the tribe of Benjamin? You see how they thought that their salvation came through their name? And not only their name. They're resting on having the law as well. Indeed, you are a Jew and rest on the law. Not only the right bloodline, not only the right ancestor in Abraham, not only having the right name, they had the law They had the scrolls. They had the Torah. They had been given the tablets on Mount Sinai. They had kept the tablets in the Ark of the Covenant that was in their temple. They had the scriptures. It was a good thing. Having and knowing the law, indeed, the very specially revealed word of God, they were confident these Jews were. Look at verse 19. And are confident that you yourself are a guide to the blind. You see what Paul's saying Because you had the law, because you had this name, Jew, because you have the scrolls, because the word of God has been given to you You're confident that you can be a guide to the blind, an instructor of the foolish, a teacher of the babes. You have the material. You have the books. You have the library, so to speak. The word of God has been given to you. It's been entrusted to you. No one else We saw that in chapter 1. The Gentiles didn't have it. They were void of the Word of God, and the Jews had it in their possession. Do you see how significant it was that they possessed the law? You see how significant it was to have the revelation of God? It was so significant a thing. But the Lord placed a thorn in the flesh of Paul, a messenger of Satan to buffet him. Lest he be exalted above measure. Why? Because Paul had the revelation of God. Lest I should be exalted above measure by the abundance of the revelations. Think of this, Paul wrote many letters The inspired Paul had indeed the Word of God. But if you just take a look at your scriptures, if you just take a look at your Bible, how much more Old Testament scriptures do we have than even Paul's letters I'm not trying to balance these two out, but there's a lot more Old Testament than there were Paul's letters. And the Jews had all of the Old Testament. You see the problem. Having the precious Word of God can lead to two things. godliness or pride. Here Paul was telling his Jews that as they kept the law, the very word of God, that it had not led them to godliness. But to pride. They so loved having the Word of God. Not because of how it was changing their hearts but because of what it meant to others around them. See, having is different than doing And don't we see that in this passage? Look at verse 24 just for a moment. For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you, as it is written. What is this? It seems to just pop out of nowhere. But indeed, Paul is just following along on what he's been saying. Blaspheme isn't a word we use very often. Webster's tells us that it means to speak of the supreme being, meaning God, in terms of irreverence. That's the idea. The free dictionary says to show contempt or disrespect for God. That's the idea. Well, how was it that these Jews who had the word, who had the name of Jew upon them who were in the bloodline of Abraham, who had the Torah, who had the scrolls, who had the very revealed word of God. How is it that they were blaspheming? How is it that they were showing disrespect? How is it they were reviling? God's name. Well, it comes through a series of rhetorical questions that Paul had asked up until this point Verse 21, you who teach another, do you not teach yourself? You who preach that a man should not steal, do you steal? Who say, do not commit adultery? Do you commit adultery? Do you dishonor God? But through breaking the law. And the answer to each of those questions, each of those rhetorical questions, was yes. power of the rhetorical question. And here multiple rhetorical questions driving home the point that even though the Jews had the law, they continued and continuously broke it. And by that they were blaspheming the name of God by their disrespect by their dishonor for the word of God, they were displaying their disrespect, their contempt even for God Himself. See, they had the form. They had the form of knowledge and truth. Called the people of God the sons of Israel. They had his revealed word. They were keepers of his real word, but they were not doers of his word. It's exactly what Jesus said to them. If you were Abraham's children, you would do the works of Abraham. Do you see, are are we beginning to see what Paul meant as he charged them with having the form of knowledge and truth in the law. That was not a complement. He was saying, in fact, you have the true knowledge. It was as if Nicodemus was himself present. in the room as Paul was writing this. And as Nicodemus comes to the Lord Jesus Christ and tells him that we know you're from God and Jesus turns Turns around immediately and says to him, You don't know God. You can't even see the kingdom Nicodemus had the scriptures. He was a student of the Old Testament, of the Word of God, and Jesus was saying to him, You only have a form of knowledge and truth. You don't have it. in reality. It's not buried in your heart. You don't understand it. You only have a form of it. Paul opens up this concept as he writes to Timothy in 2 Timothy chapter 5. He's warning Timothy. He's telling him that men will be lovers of themselves, lovers of money, boasters, proud blasphemers, unthankful, unloving. Having a form of godliness, but denying its power You see how those words are almost parroting what he's saying here about these Jews, not all Jews. these that he's writing about. They had a form of knowledge and truth in the law. And here he writes to Timothy saying they have a form of godliness. I I think that Paul is is not only understanding his own people But he's also taking from the words of Jesus Christ, as Jesus knew the hearts of the scribes and the Pharisees and the hypocrites. And said to them in Matthew twenty three three, you are like whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men's bones and uncleanness You also appear outwardly righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. That seems to be the definition of having the form of knowledge and truth. in the law. This was the problem with these Jews, this set of Jews. On the outside, they looked clean. They appeared beautiful. But on the inside, full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Having the form of knowledge and truth was not a compliment It certainly was an indictment. That brings us to our second point clinging to the circumcision. Well, what was the result as these particular Jews that Paul was writing about, that he was actually evangelizing or had plans to evangelize What will be the result of these Jews clinging to their name, to their title, to having the law, but not practicing the law? What happens when they loved having a law in their possession as some sort of badge and did not love bending their hearts toward doing that which the law commanded? When the Jews had made God in their image and caused him in their corrupted minds and hearts to submit to their will, what happened? They clung to that, which they determined saved them or brought them into God's favor. That which they determined in their minds pleased God, as they had made him in their image. See, they clung to the traditions that they had set up, that is their wills. Isn't that the truth? In second Kings chapter seventeen, when where we read of of the northern kingdom being removed, Israel being taken into exile, removed from the promised land. I think forever. And Judah watching this. The writer of Kings writes this, and also Judah did not keep the commandments of the Lord their God, but walked in the statutes. of Israel which they made their traditions Not the Word of God. Even watching the Northern Kingdom be decimated and wiped out. Judah, the Southern Kingdom. possibly the tribe from which Jews get their name did not keep the commandments of the Lord their God, but walked in the statutes of the northern kingdom which had just been sent into exile. Clung to the outward, the external, the superficial, the ceremonial, the insincere. keeping of the sign which represented God's covenant promises, the law, circumcision. We were trusting Trusting in the outward sign. Verse 25 of Romans 2. For circumcision is indeed profitable if you keep the law. But if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. Well, why does Paul raise circumcision? Clearly, clearly it goes back to Abraham, and it goes back to the covenant with Abraham, and that was the sign for the covenant, wasn't it? It was that Sion's seal that Abraham was to put upon himself and upon all males eight days and older in his household. Which in fact not only represented the covenant, but God equates them, this is my covenant which you shall keep Between me and you and your descendants after you. Every male child among you shall be circumcised. And it shall be it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. That's why Paul is going to circumcision. That's why he's speaking. That's why he's writing of circumcision The Jews were trusting in the sign, the sign which marked them apart, at least in the old covenant The sign which set them apart, the sign which said that we are the descendants of Abraham. We are Jews. We have the law. We have the name. They clung to the outward, the external, the superficial. the ceremonial, which became the insincere. Why is this a problem? Clinging to the outward is always a problem because it never penetrates the heart. It's never about sincere submission or obedience. It's never about loving God. Think of King Saul, the first king, placed there because the people were rebelling against God, wanted a human king like the nations around them. And now as the Philistines have gathered to fight against Saul, against Israel, 30,000 of them, with chariots, horsemen, so many that their people were like the sand of the sea. Saul is waiting. Saul sees this massive army against him. He along with his people are waiting. They're waiting for Samuel to come from Gilgal and order. to do, to bring, to, to offer a burnt offering before the Lord, just as he had been instructed. He'd waited Samuel now sees that the people are fleeing. When they see the Philistines amassed against them, now the people, the warriors of Israel, are hiding in caves and thickets and rocks and holes and in pits. And as as Saul waits and Samuel doesn't come, what does Saul do? He says, bring the burnt offering and peace offering here to me. And he offered the burnt offering Saw thought that we've got to get going. The army is a mast. I'm losing people. If I don't start now, we might lose. Samuel comes. He says to Saul, what have you done? And Saul said, when I saw that the people were scattered from me and that you did not come within the days appointed and the Philistines gathered at Mikmash, then I said, The Philistines will now come down on me at Gilgal. I have not made supplications to the Lord. Therefore I felt compelled and offered a burnt offering And Samuel said to Saul, You've done foolishly. You see, presented with what seemed to him to be an urgent situation, presented to him that which seemed to need accomplishment, the the sacrifice, the the engaging in war, Saul trusted in the outward sign. The sacrifice, the physical sacrifice, and not the inward reality of the watch care of the Lord. Saul neglected the word of God. He acted against the word of God so that he could perform the hour. It had not become an inward reality for Saul. And it has not become an inward reality for those Jews that Paul was writing about. The Jews clung to the outward sign. They were thinking as long as they kept this, that they were earning, that they were meriting, that they were working toward the favor of God. And if they did this work, they were okay. What was the problem ultimately? He felt that they were back in the garden with Adam. In their minds, they had the name, the blood, and the law, and they were fireproof. All they needed to do was work. All they needed to do is keep the circumcision. But now Paul explains so very clearly, if you trust in your circumcision as that which saves. Then you must keep the entire law. Because in fact you have gone back to the garden with Adam, and now you're placed yourself under the covenant of works. And like Adam, you must keep all of it. But they had not. This passage tells us that they had not. For they had blasphemed the name of God in the variety of ways in which they had trampled on his word and upon his law Indeed, those whom the Jews were judging would end up judging them. Will not the physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law, judge you? What an offense to the Jews. To even suggest that the dogs, the Gentiles, those who are outside of the covenant, those who are not the people of God, those who are filthy in their sins Will not the physically uncircumcised, if he fulfills the law, judge you, even with your written code and circumcision, you who are a transgressor of the law. In the end, the outward circumcision was not any sign The spiritual truth that was in their hearts. The outward circumcision had no value. There's nothing new under the sun. Some today think and believe upon the same concept with regard to baptism, or even walking the aisle in response to an altar. call, the outward sign, the prayer prayed, the baptism done is held on to as that which grants favor in the sight of God, that they've been fireproofed, so to speak. by the waters of baptism, by that sinner's prayer. They've earned a place in glory. And that they can live as they desire as the rebel, because they've been baptized, because they've walked the aisle But let me ask this afternoon, do Reformed Christians do the same? We think Reformed Christians would do that. Or do we? Do we at times uphold our theology? Our style of worship is badges? Badges of honor? Do we cling to reform doctrine more than we cling to Jesus? Do we believe that we have the favor of God because we have interpreted the Bible correctly causes us to even ask that question, what are we trusting in today? The Jews were trusting in their name. The Jews were trusting in the fact that they possessed. The law of God, the Jews are trusting in circumcision. See, here's the warning. Unless we are trusting in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ alone, we're trusting in the wrong thing We should ask the Lord to help us. For this is a temptation. This is a possible way in which Satan can lead us away. If we trust in theology, if we cling to our doctrine more than Christ, Satan can use that. Let us pray that they would not lead us astray. That brings us to our third point, seeking the praise of men. The sense in which verses 28 and 29 really wrap up this particular passage For he is not a Jew who is one outwardly, nor is circumcision, that which is outward in the flesh, but he is a Jew who is one inwardly, and circumcision is that of the heart. In the spirit, not in the letter, whose praise is not from men, but from God What's going on here? Why does Paul kind of end this particular section in this way? Well, these who called themselves Jews consider it significant that they had that name. Why? These Jews who had the revealed Word of God, the scriptures, considered it significant that they might tell others how to live like them. That they might point others to their outward goodness and instruct them to be like they were. Why? What was going on? Why does Paul end in this fashion How did this benefit the Jews who fell into this category? Ultimately Those who loved their status, as blood descendants of Abraham, who ensured that others knew that they held the law, the very words of God, wanted all those around them to give them. Praise. Isn't that what Paul's saying? Just listen to that again. These wanted the praise of men. Isn't that what the Lord Jesus writes? Well, isn't that what he preached? About the scribes and the Pharisees, the leaders, so to speak, the religious leaders of the day of the Jews. Scribes and Pharisees sit in Moses' seat, they're for whoever Excuse me, whatever they tell you to observe that observe and do, but do not do according to their works. For they say, and do not do. This is Jesus' instruction. Instruction to his disciples. All their works they do to be seen by men. They make their phylacteries broad and enlarge the borders of their garments. They love the best places at the feast, the best seats in the synagogues, greetings in the marketplaces, and to be called by men rabbi. You see a parallel? See a parallel between what Paul was writing in this passage and what Jesus was proclaiming to his disciples? These loved, they longed for the praise of men, but were refusing to submit their hearts to God. These were refusing to see that the only thing that God desired was their hearts, not their insincere, superficial, ceremonial obedience. They were not seeking the praise of God. As they sought after the praise of men, they were not seeking after the praise of God. And in this we can understand At least two things. First, as these Jews had the Word and yet refused to do what was commanded in the Word, they themselves were not praising God. Think of a psalmist in Psalm 119. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies. who seek him with the whole heart. Oh, that my ways were directed to keep your statutes. Blessed are you, O Lord, teach me your statutes. Do you see the psalmist so long? to not only know the word of God, to walk in his statutes, to be taught by God, knowing that he'll be blessed by that It's just the opposite of what these Jews were doing with the word. They just kept it as a trophy They had no praise for God as a result of it. They had no desire to really know it truly. Well, these Jews had the word. They were trapped in hating the word. They never laid up the word in their hearts. They only wanted others to see that they had been entrusted with it, even while they rebelled against it and did not consider it worthy. of their obedience. Whatever these might have done, an outward obedience, such as circumcision, was only a show for men, an outward display to gain the praise of men, while all along being in rebellion to it and to God himself. And this is obvious to all those around these Jews. For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. As Jesus calls us to hear the word, he has sent his spirit to open the word to our hearts. He's done so, that our lives might change, and that we would be drawn to submission to him Here at the end of Romans 2, I think we need to be reminded the truth of the fact that we've already been told here in chapter 2 at verse 6 that God God Himself will render to each one according to his deeds. And in a significant way, Paul has been writing about the deeds, the deeds of men. He's been writing about the men's transgression of the laws of God. And in the middle of chapter 2, he tells us that God is going to render to each one and according to his deeds. These Jews had their hearts and minds set upon that which was not Christ. They had their hearts and minds set upon the creation, indeed upon themselves. And these Jews were in a significant sense seeking to save the lives that they wanted. Lives that they had defined in unsubmission, in autonomous living. Jesus tells us that whoever seeks to save his life will lose it. You see, that this passage should cause each of us to ask ourselves, what are we doing? What are you doing? What kinds of deeds are you doing? How are you bringing honor to the name of Jesus as you submit yourself to his word? And as we answer that question, we must also answer the question, why are you doing What you're doing. The Lord will render to each one according to his or her deeds. We might consider Cain and Abel at this point both of whom brought offerings to the Lord, both of whom were engaged in bringing offerings to the Lord. But for Abel the Lord had regard, but for Cain he did not. These were the deeds of these men. We clearly see that the Lord did render to each one according to his deeds to Abel. God gave favor and life to Cain. God banished him. To live in sin and death. Abel offered to God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, through which he obtained witness that he was righteous. Think of King David What happened as a result of his deeds is he sent Uriah the Hittite to his death in an attempt to cover over his sin with Bathsheba. The kingdom was stripped from his hands for a time by his son Absalom, and David was forced to flee. The God of creation certainly rendered to David, but according to his deeds. I think at times we may have the tendency to think lightly of our deeds. Like the Jews, we have the Word of God. We have the Lord Jesus who now has died to atone for our sins and has been risen for our justice. justification we can say we are under grace, not under the law, all of which is absolutely true, true doctrine The question for us today is, do we merely have these things as forms of godliness, as forms of knowledge and truth? A commentator wrote that people have a fatal tendency to substitute passive agreement for action. But God does not pronounce people righteous because their doctrine is correct. I think he's right. You can't win a basketball game merely because you know the rules of the court. No, you must put those rules into practice. You must play the game and score baskets in accordance with the rules of the game to win. But if you are a breaker of the law, your circumcision has become uncircumcision. See, this passage is a warning, not only for the Jews that Paul was writing about and actually writing to This is a warning. Do we not become outward Christians only? He is a Jew who is one inwardly. Paul is saying he is a child of God. who is one inwardly. He is a true descendant of Abraham. He is a true belonger in the covenant of God. He is a true The true one who has been saved by the Lord Jesus Christ, who is one inwardly. Circumcision is truly of the heart And our praise is not from men, but from God. It's appropriate for us just to consider for a moment the words of James at this point. For if anyone is a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like a man observing his natural face in a mirror, for he observes himself, goes away and immediately forgets what kind of man he was. But he who looks into the perfect law of liberty and continues in it is not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the world. work, this one will be blessed in what he does. Isn't that what we've been seeing in the life of Joseph? As we study the account of Joseph, that he was blessed. Blessed because of his adherence to the word of God. He was blessed because he loved God. and didn't want to see God's name blasphemed among the Gentiles. Yes. Yes, we see certainly here the danger of having a form of knowledge and truth and the blessing of having a working faith. Brothers and sisters, the Bibles on our shelves must be taken down and displayed not as trophies, but within our hearts. And we must pray that the Spirit would continue his work. In our hearts, leading us away from desiring the praise of men, desiring rewards in this life, and lead us to storing treasures up in heaven. And conforming us more and more to the image of Christ. Amen.