Romans 1, beginning at verse 16. I'll read to the end of the chapter. We'll be reading from the New King James Version this afternoon. Let's give attention to the Word of God. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes, for the Jew first, and also for the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. But the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them. For God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse Because although they knew God, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts. And their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like corruptible man, and birds, and four footed animals. And creeping things. Therefore God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their hearts to dishonor their bodies among themselves themselves, who exchanged the truth of God for the lie, and worshiped and served the creator, excuse me, served the creature rather than the creator. Who is blessed forever. Amen. For this reason God gave them up to vile passions, for even their women exchanged the natural use for what is against nature. Likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust for one another Men with men committing what is shameful and receiving in themselves the penalty of their error which was due. And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind. to do those things which are not fitting, being filled with all unrighteousness, sexual immorality, wickedness, covetousness maliciousness, full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, evil-mindedness. They are whisperers, backbiters, haters of God, violent, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things disobedient to parents, undiscerning, untrustworthy, unloving, unforgiving, unmerciful, who, knowing the righteous judgment of God, that those who practice Such things are deserving of death. Not only do the same, but approve of those who practice them following the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's join our hearts together in prayer. Well Father, we come before you now and um I have just read a difficult passage. Lord God, this uh is hard to read, and yet it is your word. And it is full of truth. And it is full of power. And so we pray, Father, that the Spirit would take this up. and apply it to our hearts in exactly the way that you know and understand and have planned that it would be applied to our hearts today Shape us, Father, this afternoon, through your word, by the work of the Spirit, and guide our hearts now For your glory. We ask this in the name of your Son, even Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, we do come to a difficult passage in Scripture, and this will not be the first nor the last time that we do so. Um as I was uh getting ready for this afternoon's um study uh it came to my mind uh as I was growing up uh in elementary school uh I I in for part of my elementary education I was in s public school in Indiana and uh the principal there used corporal punishment. He he used to paddle those students that uh were out of line, that were having bad behavior, and I was terrified to go to the principal's office. Knowing that he had a paddle and knowing that uh the wrath of the principal would sting if I were sent there for behavior that had crossed the line. And I read online a couple of articles today, one from Psychology Today with the title, Should You Punish Your Child? And I guess there were various psychologists or maybe even psychiatrists who weighed in on that question. This was published back in 2001 and then we We reviewed again in 2016. And here were some of the answers to that question. Should you punish your child The best way to reduce misbehavior is to provide abundant positive reinforcement for good behavior. A child whose behavior is punished may react emotionally, strike back or avoid the person delivering the punishment. Another, if you want a loving, respectful, self-disciplined child, you won't use punishment. Another suggested that punishment implies aggressive behavior on the part of an adult, the very behavior we oppose in children. And another website, Dr. Sears, a trusted resource for parents. Child's image begins with how he perceives that others, especially his parents, perceive him. Even in the most loving homes, spanking gives a confusing message, especially to a child too young, to understand the reason for it. Parents spend a lot of time building up their child's sense of being valued, helping the child feel good. Then the child breaks the gate of glass, you spank, and he feels I must be bad. Spanking devalues the role of a parent Being an authority figure means you are trusted and respected, but not feared. Lasting authority cannot be based on fear. I'm going to suggest that the passage that we have before us today tells us just the opposite. We see where the world is with regard to authority, with regard to uh the fear of punishment. But I think this passage before us this afternoon in Romans is going in a much, much different direction. Well, as we saw last time, Paul is longing to preach the gospel to those in Rome. He hasn't been there. He's often planned to come. And he tells them so very clearly that he's ready to preach. He longs to see them. And he declares his sincerity. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it's the power of God to salvation for those who believe. Paul is not ashamed. He knows, as one commentator put it from personal experience, that there's going to be opposition to the gospel. And we went over that last time, that the gospel is contemptible in the eyes of the world. Even uh reading that article from psychology today versus what this scripture provides to us tells us that the gospel is contemptible in the eyes of the world. It's offensive to the world. It describes man's true condition. We're going to get into that today. It certainly does. And it destroys, the gospel destroys the worldly man's attempt at independence. We are not uh independent, and the gospel tells us that so very clearly. We uh we uh rely upon, we depend upon God's call to bring us into the kingdom. We cannot purchase a ticket on our own. He must draw us to Christ Jesus. And the gospel declares that. So we took that up last time, knowing and seeing that Paul is not feeling inadequate, he's not feeling inferior, he's not feeling embarrassed about the gospel. But he loves the gospel and so longs to proclaim it. And now he starts here with this proclamation, and this really is our first uh venture into the doctrines uh of the book of romans of the letter to the romans and i'm going to break this down this last portion of chapter one into three points. The gospel begins with wrath. Secondly, the gospel describes our condition. And then thirdly, the gospel persuades our hearts. Well, let's begin. The gospel begins with wrath. As I said last time, Paul begins these doctrinal statements, and we got into them a bit last time, with this introduction, with this sandwich. so to speak, uh uh for in it, he's speaking of the gospel now, that of which he's not ashamed, in it, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith As it is written, the just shall live by faith, for the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Last time we spoke about the sandwich aspect here, that righteousness is revealed in the gospel, and wrath is revealed in the gospel. They're both present. They both must be present for the Spirit to really get the idea across to us. Righteousness on one end, one piece of bread, wrath on the other. side of the sandwich. And in the middle, we have that centerpiece of the message, the just shall live by faith. We went over that last time We're not going to revisit that, but I want us to see that interestingly, Paul does not write first here about righteousness. But about wrath. He presents righteousness first in the sandwich form. Wrath comes last But that's what Paul focuses first upon. He focuses upon the wrath of God, or really, he focuses on the lack. of righteousness which leads to wrath. That might be a better way of saying it. Well here at the outset As Paul really now digs into his doctrine, his gospel, so to speak, we want to see and understand at least two things. First, the people the people to whom was to whom Paul was writing. And we know we visited this on the first time we opened up this book. He's writing to all who are in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints He's writing to all in the church. He's writing to the saints. He's writing to those who are beloved of God, those who place their trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. First, here, in this portion of the gospel, of Paul's gospel, he is addressing a certain segment of that population. He's writing to a certain segment of the people. He's writing to Gentiles. At least that's the subject matter. That's the people to whom he's speaking at this point. Paul is writing about those and to those who were not Jews here in this last portion of the first Chapter, those who did not have the law, so to speak. And really, there were only two groups or categories of people at that time, and I might even say for all time, there are only two groups or categories of people. First, Jews And the others, very broadly, Gentiles. In other words, Jews were in the bloodline of the people of God, the nation of Israel Those who descended by blood from Abraham, Jews. That's one category, one segment. The other is everybody else, those who were not blood descendants of Abraham, those who are not Jews, those who were not of the nation of Israel. Until Paul begins writing here in this portion of scripture to that group known as Gentiles. He never uses that word. But the way in which he writes, the things that he's writing about, he's speaking to the hearts of those who did not have the revealed word of God, who did not have the scriptures, who the scriptures were not given to. Meaning the Jews had been given the scriptures. The Jews had been given the law of God as the people of God. So here, in this portion of chapter one, he's writing to those who didn't have the law of God. the Gentiles. We'll take up the Jews in chapter 2. That's who he writes to in chapter 2, and we're not getting there today. But so uh we need to understand that right now in this portion, in verses 18 through 32, he's writing, he's addressing those who did not have the law of God, those Gentiles, those who were not Jews. Second thing that we need to see, and this is very important, that as Paul begins presenting the gospel, and he really begins here with this portion. Paul begins with the need, the need of all people, very specifically the need for Gentiles. But in chapters 1 and 2, it's the same need. The need to have faith in the Savior. The need to be saved. And that need arose and arises out of the unrighteousness and ungodliness of everyone who descended and descended. So we need to see that Paul's logic here, or his persuasion Here in what now is Romans chapter 1 through 3 was to demonstrate the need of all who are sinners That if one remains in their unrighteousness, whether they're a Gentile or a Jew, If one remains in their ungodliness, in their sin, that he or she will suffer the wrath of God that was and is being revealed from heaven And ultimately that wrath is eternal. And so the need The need stems out or arises from the current condition of sinful man. For sin gives rise to the wrath of God As we'll learn later on here in the letter to the Romans, the wages of sin is death. Sin gives rise to the wrath of God. And if the gospel is in part a warning to flee from sin, then Paul began with that which is the problem. And Paul continues with that which is the solution, the good news of salvation in Jesus Christ. But first, first, Paul begins with the problem, unrighteousness and ungodliness. Which causes that wrath to arise and to be poured out. Later on, as we continue, Lord willing, in the in the letter to the Romans, we'll certainly read of the good news. But first, as Paul writes persuasively, we're going to hear the bad news. He's going to be telling his readers, his listeners, those he he desires to proclaim the gospel to, as he opens up his gospel, they're going to hear of the wretched state of man, the bad news. corruption, the sin, the awful condition of man, both Jews and Gentiles. There will be no partiality. All will be addressed. But here in this portion of chapter 1, Paul writes of the Gentiles. He writes of those who don't have the law of God. Well, as we begin to enter into this, it's good for us to understand what is the wrath of God. If we don't grasp that at this point, we may get confused. What is the wrath of God? John Murray notes And I'll just say once again it begins in verse 18, for the wrath of God is revealed. So we're going to be focusing fixed upon a bit here for a moment. And John Murray states that the wrath of God is that which stands in contrast to the righteousness. of God. Stands in contrast to his righteousness. Another commentator which I'm going to be referring to this afternoon, his name is his last name is Mouse. Writes this. There's an essential relationship between God's righteousness and his wrath. If God responded to wickedness with no more than a benign tolerance, his righteousness could be called into question. That which is right necessarily stands over against and defines by contract That which is wrong. Murray then writes that wrath, God's wrath, is the holy revulsion Of God's being against that which is the contradiction of his holiness. It's God's revolting against that which offends him. And then Mounts writes this that God's wrath is not the same as human wrath We at times try to understand God because of the things that we experience or the emotions that we feel. Here, it would be a mistake to equate God's wrath to our anger. For our anger is always mixed Uh well, I'll say probably nine times, maybe nine and a half times out of ten. It's always mixed with unrighteousness Can we have righteous anger? Yes, we certainly can. Do we have it often? Probably not. But Mouse writes that God's wrath is not the same as human wrath, which is normally self-centered, vindictive, and intent on harming another. I would say that's That's pretty true. God's wrath is his divine displeasure with sin. It seems to be a very straightforward and simple. um definition of the wrath of God, his divine displeasure with sin. Well one more aspect here of of God's wrath, good for us to understand as as we are as we want to walk our way through this is is Paul speaking of Uh the future wrath, the eternal wrath of God to be poured out on judgment day and then for eternity? Or is he referring to uh a wrath in existence when Paul was writing this letter and then s in existence today. Is it merely the future? Or is he writing about that which is exists in our present lives And again, I'm going to refer to this commentator, Mounts, because I think he summarizes it very well. It certainly can refer to the wrath to come on Judgment Day, but it seems, it seems, as as Paul writes this letter, as he is opening up um uh this revelation of God's wrath which is being poured out from heaven against ungodliness and unrighteousness that he's speaking of what is happening in his day, in Paul's day, and certainly what's happening in our day. Mouse rites is primarily, excuse me, uh indicates that something is taking place in the present. That verses 24 through 32 describe the divine wrath as currently operative in the lives of the ungodly. I think he's right. I think that's the idea. That this wrath that is being revealed is being revealed in the lives of those who have rejected God. Mountains writes, God's present wrath anticipates his final withdrawal from those who do not respond to his love. I think that's accurate as well. It's a precursor. It's a it's it The writing here is telling us this is what God's wrath looks like today, so that you can see a taste of what will be in hell forever. Well I think as we get to this we have to ask that question. How how can it be that Paul would begin the gospel with At the beginning of his persuasion, the beginning of his proclaiming Christ crucified could begin with wrath. That God's wrath is being experienced then and now in the present. I think we only need to turn to the garden to see that this is God's way. of persuading sinners of wooing sinners to himself He shows them part of his wrath. In the garden we see so very clearly That as Adam was commanded, that he may eat from any tree in the garden, but of this tree you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. And we know that Adam and Eve did not die that day, physically die that day. But what happened, what came about? Wasn't God's wrath poured out in a way upon Adam and Eve? That day, Eve was told, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception in pain. You shall bring forth children. God's wrath in part being poured out upon Eve. And then Adam, in toil you shall eat of it all the days of your life, for thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, you shall eat the herb of the field in the sweat of your face, you shall eat bread. Wrath of God Even before they are removed from the garden, God communicates to them, this is how you're going to die in part today. You're going to experience a part of my wrath, which will, in his mercy, tend to woo them back. The gospel does begin with wrath, as the account of redemption begins with wrath. And thus persuasion. This is a recognition that this is why we suffer This is why we have COVID-19. This is why we have poison ivy. This is why we have abortion and adultery and divorce, and this is why we have devastating hurricanes. and war and refugees and persecution. And this is why Paul began with the wrath of God. It is persuasive. All these things brought about by our sin. And in all these things we are experiencing a little bit of the wrath of God. It is persuasive. It moves hearts to flee sin. and to cling to Christ. And it moves our hearts to pray for the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. For that day that there will be no more tears, no more suffering. Yes. The gospel does begin with wrath. Our second point, the gospel describes our condition in Adam. And this passage is Painful in describing our condition in our first head in Adam Another way to put it is it describes the reason for the wrath of God, doesn't it? Why is God's wrath being revealed And Paul is very clear in his answer to that question, for the same reason that it was revealed in the garden. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppressed the truth in unrighteousness. Oh, that's a that's a mouthful. All ungodliness and unrighteousness of John Murray writes very simply that ungodliness refers to perversity that is religious in character It's a a lack of respect for God. It is a lack of honoring God, it is a lack of worshiping God, it is a lack of loving God, it is a lack of seeing God as our creator, our maker, the one to whom we owe all things, the only one to whom we owe worship, that's ungodliness. Unrighteousness, as Murray refers to that which is moral. And in both of those things are included in this description Of men who are fallen in Adam. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth. In unrighteousness. There's nothing good in that statement There is nothing that would cause God to look upon his children with favor in that statement Charles Hodge understands these two terms to mean impiety toward God and unjustness toward humanity. If you think of the two tablets, the two tables of the law, as Charles Hodge puts it Basically, it's a neglecting of both tablets, both tables of the law. completely breaking each and every one of the commandments. But that's not all. God's wrath was revealed against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. And now here's the definition of men or the descriptor of men who Men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. What does that mean? It has the idea of taking truth as a thing, personifying it, so to speak And either holding it back, as John Murray writes, not letting it come out, putting it in a cage And not rehearsing it within your mind, keeping it locked up in a vault, not to be let out, or the idea of pushing it down The idea of something that wants to come out and you won't let it come out, you're actually exercising uh pressure to keep something from coming out. Suppression. Suppression of the truth. Isn't that what Eve did in the garden? Holding back the truth or even suppressing the truth, refusing to allow it into her analysis of the fruit that she decided to pick and hold before her face and look at and and think about and and apply her wisdom to and her reasoning and held back God's word Satan had deceived her through the serpent to take God's word and suppress it, hold it back, hold it down, put it in a box, don't let it out. So that she would take out her reason and apply it. She refused to allow the truth to rise to the height where it should have been over that which the serpent was feeding her. That's what's going on. That's what Paul is recognizing. That's what the Spirit has placed upon his heart, that the wrath of God is revealed from heaven Against the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men described as those who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. And now he goes on to describe a bit about what that means. That men know God. He could have just written that here. Men know all men, all women, all children know God. It's in this verse implied. Because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. It's within them. They've been created in God's image, and thus they know God, every single person. Even those, and this includes all of us, who descend from Adam know God. It's manifest, it's within us. It's part of us because we are created in his image. And not only is it manifest in us, manifest in all, but God has shown it to us. He's told us who He is through that which He has made. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen. What Paul is saying is Gentiles, those who don't have the law, have something in addition to the law, not that they have the law, but they've got the creation to tell them who God is and what he has done and show them some of his attributes. His eternal power and Godhead, his divinity, so that they're without excuse. What does that mean Means that no one descending from Adam can deny the existence of God truly. It means that everyone, every man, woman, and child knows God. It means that while a person can deny with his or her lips, with his or her heart, there can be no true denial. The heart will speak against the lips. That's the idea. That's the suppression of truth in part. Now let's write this. There without excuse. Seeing the beauty and complex Of creation carries with it the responsibility of acknowledging the Creator, both as powerful and as living. Disbelief requires an act of rebellion against common sense. Everyone knows. Everyone has been made in the image of God. In order to deny God, what amounts to saying what others have written is it takes energy, it takes effort To hold that truth back, to put that truth about God's existence and his divinity in a box. And that is what God is reacting to. as his wrath is poured out. These are certainly touch points for evangelism. How can we talk to others about a God that they don't know? The answer is They do know God. All know God. They may choose to tell us that they don't know God. They may choose to tell us they don't believe that God exists. And the fact of the matter is that that's a lie. Because within their hearts, they're longing to be in communion with God because they know He exists, they know He created them, and they know that they were made for worship. Have you ever been confronted with someone who told you to stop speaking to them about God or about Jesus? That you've been trying to witness to them and they just come out and say, look, stop, just stop. Maybe what was happening, maybe what they were being confronted with was the truth that they were busy suppressing and holding down. And as long as they didn't have to face it directly, it was a bit easier to hold it back. But when confronted with such truth directly it became harder and more difficult to hold it back and to suppress it and they were losing their grip on it. And so they told you to stop. I think that happens. Well not only are these men described as those men, women, children, let's not confine this to just males. Not only was the wrath being revealed against those who suppressed the truth and unrighteousness, and they would without excuse, but as they did so, as these, as Gentiles would do this suppression, as even we would do this suppression, something must fill the heart and mind When the glory of God is restrained, when it's suppressed and held back. Although they knew God, verse 21, they did not glorify him as God, nor were thankful, but became futile in their thoughts, and their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools. Change the glory of the corruptible God into an image made like corruptible man. You see what happens when one suppresses the truth of God in unrighteousness. It's not that that God's place goes unfilled. It does. It becomes filled with other things. We're made to worship clearly were made to worship, and so something else must arise and fill that place of worship. It might be our reason. It might be our understanding. It might be our wisdom that rises then to the level of deity, so to speak Worshipping reason. And all that really is, in fact, is a, as one commentator puts it, self-deification. It lies at the heart of human rebellion. It's making ourselves into gods, it's making ourselves into idols. That position that God should be holding within our hearts must be filled And so what we do is in our sin, we take that and we fill it with our wisdom, with our knowledge. And we can see that today. So often as we turn on the news, listen to people, we're hearing not about God, but about people about wisdom, about reason, about science, becoming king and lord Mouse writes, the rejection of truth marks the rebel as a fool. This is our condition in Adam. Every single person Knows God. Yet, in our sin, we're inclined to hold him back, to hold his truth back, to hold the truth about God back. Not only about him, but about us as well. That we're not sinners. That we're not corrupt. That our wisdom is just fine and better better than fine. It's almost deified. When we do that, when we hold back, when we suppress the truth, or when our friends that do that, we or they elevate human wisdom to a place that it should not be and cannot be And this does create darkness. Isn't that what Jesus Christ was proclaiming in the Sermon on the Mount? He said, the lamp of the body is the eye If therefore your eye is good, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, If you reject God, if you reject the truth about God, your whole body will be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in you is darkness, how great is it that darkness. Do you see that's our condition in Adam? Completely dark as we suppress the truth in un righteousness. Yes. Well, a third point is the gospel persuades our hearts Misery of sin that the rebellious are left to wallow in is so powerfully set forth Here, as God's wrath is poured out upon those who reject and suppress his truth, upon the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men And it's difficult to read. Verse 24, God also gave them up to uncleanness in the lusts of their hearts, to dishonor their bodies among themselves. who exchanged the truth of God for the lie and worshipped and served the creature rather than the creator, who's blessed forever. And so we have it here, the misery of being left to continue in sin. Even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a debased mind to do those things which are not fitting. You see that this then is the pit of sin. It's a description of one who not only is in sin, But is reveling in sin. It's a description of one who's longing after sin, of looking forward to the next opportunity to break the law of God Who who so hates God that their minds are consumed With following the path that breaks his law, not keeps his law. It's a state of misery and defilement It is filled with all unrighteousness. Look at verse 29 just for a moment Paul doesn't write that, well, there's a little bit of unrighteousness in the hearts of those who have debased minds. No, no, no. Their minds are filled with all unrighteousness. That's a frightening picture being filled to the brim. Not with a little bit of righteousness, no, with all unrighteousness Being defined as inventor of evil things. Not just one who transgresses, not just one who who hates, but thinks about how to do more evil, who spends time considering how to increase in rebellion. Who are actually named and given names, backbiters, haters of God, whisperers, proud boasters. And this is the present wrath of God, as he removes his restraining hand. Those to whom Paul was writing in Rome could likely see it all around them. As we know this was a time period of much debasement. Many who were trapped in sin. And sin was never being satisfied. Sin was never saying, enough! Isn't that what Solomon was writing in Ecclesiastes? All things are wearisome. Man is not able to tell it, the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor is the ear filled with hearing. as he opens up his short letter. In Proverbs 27, hell and destruction are never full, so the eyes of a man are never satisfied. Do you understand that's the That's God's word saying that sin, the longing for sin, never stops. It's never satisfied. We can see it around us. We know that we were in it. If we're trusting the Lord Jesus Christ this afternoon. We were. That was our place. We were in misery. Paul didn't make this up. This is not something new in the New Testament. He was merely restating that which the prophets of old had already set forth. Psalm 81, verse 11, but my people would not heed my voice, and Israel would have none of me, so I gave them over to their own stubborn heart. To walk in their own councils. And as Bildad, the Shuhite is trying to comfort Job in the loss of his children. He does just the opposite. Does God pervert justice or does the Almighty pervert what is right? If your sons sinned against him, then he delivered them into the power of their transgression. Now, Bildad didn't provide comfort to Job at that point, I don't think, but he did speak the truth. That if a sinner remains in his sin, that God at times will deliver them into the power of their transgression. Sin is powerful. It will not release its grip upon those who hate God. And that's what we see in Westminster Confession of Faith under Providence in chapter 5, even to paragraph 6. As the writers, as divines, wrote about ungodly men, wicked, that God gives them over to their own lusts The temptations of the world, the power of Satan, whereby it comes to pass that they harden themselves. God gives them over. Isn't that what we see here in this passage? As men who are ungodly and unrighteous, who are suppressing the truth in unrighteousness as they exchange the truth of God for a lie and worship and serve the creature rather than the creator. What does God do? He gives them over Mounts right that sin inevitably creates its own penalty. That one is punished by the very things by which he sins. There he's actually quoting the Apocrypha And then he finishes this section by saying divine judgment is God permitting people to go their own way. Brothers and sisters, this particular section of scripture, difficult to read, about those who are fallen in Adam, culminates. In verse 32, after this long description of wickedness and evil residing in the hearts of the children of Adam. He ends with this, who, and again he's referring to the ungodly and unrighteous men suppressing the truth in unrighteousness, who, these men, knowing the righteous judgment of God, these who know, who cannot deny, there's no excuse They know that God's judgment is that those who practice such things are deserving of death, this thing know, because God has laid it upon their hearts, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice. That's the culmination. That as God has made them of as communicative beings, as He's made all of us, they don't, those who remain ungodly, those who remain unrighteous, those who remain suppressing their truth, don't want to remain alone. And so they encourage others to join them. Come join me in my death In my damnation, in my rebellion. That's the extent of what happens when someone is so caught in sin, when God removes his restraining hand. And allows them to go their own way. When the power of sin takes over, this is the result. Come and join me in my sin. Well, this is a wretched picture of the result of remaining in and clinging to sin, isn't it? And this was for the Gentiles. This was for those who didn't have the law, because the Jews were going to be responding by saying, well, we have the law. The Gentiles didn't have it. And Paul was ultimately saying, you have no excuse. This is what's going to happen to you if you remain in your rebellion and you are in rebellion. A wretched picture of the estate that all of us were in before our hearts were changed. Now this afternoon, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, what do you do with this? How do you respond to this? Or how does this get applied to your life today? Well, first I I think we have to praise God for the power of the blood of Christ. For we can see the wrath of God as it's being poured out, as He's as He's removing his restraining hand and allowing sin to have its hold and and how that traps and keeps men and women and children in their sin burning in their lust for one another in themselves the penalty of their error which was due as he leaves them there. Just a small picture of the wrath of God. You have to praise God for the power of the blood of Christ. has washed us clean, such that we don't experience this We don't experience this trap. That the blood of Christ has broken us free. That sin no longer has dominion or power. That's the power of Christ's blood that we've been made not enemies of God, but friends of God, children of God, sons and daughters of God, such that he's not pouring his wrath out on us. Today. He has not removed his restraining hand. In fact, he's applying his restraining hand to us. Secondly, I think we need to praise God for the power of the resurrection. For the resurrection overcomes what we see here in this passage as death. The resurrection brings us out of this picture of a wretched misery of sin and it delivers us to life, to life in Christ. That's the power of the resurrection. It overcomes all of this wretchedness that we have set before us here in this portion of Romans chapter 1. And thirdly, thirdly, I think it tells us much about how we can evangelize, how we can spread the good news. And it says it's okay to start with the negative. That's what this passage tells us. It's okay to start with the negative, with sin, and the response that elicits from God is wrath. Because it is persuasive. And because the spirit starts with wrath And recognize that we do have friends and family members who are caught, who are trapped in sin. There's no way for us to break the hold that this sin has upon them. Only Jesus can do that. And so we should be and continue to be in prayer. Praying. Praying for mercy. Because there's much mercy needed for the one who's described here in this passage. Much grace. And we can pray. And we have been praying. And we need to continue to pray. The gospel does begin with wrath But it also points us to the mercy and the grace of our God and Lord Jesus Christ. Praise be to God.