From verse one through verse sixteen. Let's give attention to God's Word. Therefore, you are inexcusable, O man, whoever you are who judge. For in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself For you who judge practice the same things, we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. And do you think this, O man, you who judge those practicing such things and doing the same, that you will escape the judgment of God? Or do you despise the riches of his goodness, forbearance, and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance? But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourselves wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of a righteous judgment of God. God, who will render to each one according to his deeds eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and immortality But to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish on every soul of man who does evil of the Jew first and also of the Greek. But glory, honor, and peace to everyone who works what is good, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. But there is no partiality with God. For as many as have sinned without law will also perish without law. And as many as as have sinned in the law will be judged by the law. For not the hearers of the law are just in the sight of God, but the doers of the law will be justified. For when Gentiles, who do not have the law, by nature do the things in the law, these although not having the law are a law to themselves, who show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and between themselves their thoughts accusing or else excusing them. In the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Would you pray with me? Father, we come now to a passage which is full. And in a sense, terrifying. We pray, Lord God, that you would be with us, that you would guide our steps this afternoon, that your spirit would Open up your word to us, Lord God, that you would convict us of sin. And then, Father, comfort us with the knowledge of salvation, the trust of salvation in Jesus Christ. We pray this all in his name. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, let's um let's open up this portion of scripture if I can find my notes. There they are. Okay. Bring them over here. Very good. Very good. Alright. Well, you may know that uh I was an attorney at one point in time and uh as I practiced law sometimes I would go into the courtroom. Not all attorneys do, but I was given the opportunity to do so. And usually in a courtroom, what you have are is the judge sitting up front. He sits usually on an elevated bench above everyone else. And then you have two tables right in front of the judge. And if it's a criminal court, you have one table for the defendant, who's usually sitting there with his or her attorney, and then you have the other table for that one that's prosecuted the crime, usually the government, the government attorney, sitting at the table next to the defendant. And then you have the jury Generally, that's the picture. The parties pretty much stay at their places throughout the entire Trial. But what if the defendant got up from his table, walked around behind the judge's bench, and sat down in the judge's place? What a scene. What would happen? The defendant would likely declare the case over. And as judge, he would likely grant himself a pardon, or merely declare that the government had not proven its case. The defendant is innocent. What a scene. Well, in a way, that's kind of what Paul is suggesting here, at least in part of his letter as he continues to write to the church in Rome. As we said last time, Paul has not been there yet He hasn't been in Rome. He's longing to be with them. He's desiring. He has a burning desire to open up the gospel to this church in Rome. He's often planned to come to them. He's been prevented from coming. coming, but he's ready to preach his gospel. And Sinclair Ferguson puts it kind of this way. This is Paul's uh uh presentation, this whole letter to the Romans is Paul's presentation of how he preaches the gospel so that he might get this particular church to to support him as he continues proclaiming the gospel, headed maybe even to Spain. I'm not sure that's correct, but that's That's uh Sinclair Ferguson's uh take on this letter to the Romans. But certainly, Paul is declaring his gospel To the church, there he's declaring his sincerity, his zeal for the word. I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ And Paul knew uh what others might have been ashamed about. He knew that there was there was objection to the gospel But Paul didn't feel inferior or inadequate or embarrassed of the gospel. No, no. He he loved the gospel and he loved to proclaim the gospel. He wanted of people to come and know the true Christ and to be saved. And so Paul begins in this letter to the Romans or to those in Rome beginning as we said last time, he began with wrath in such a way. He does proclaim good news to the people even immediately, but as he begins really getting into the gospel as we said last time, he began with wrath. He described our condition and he used the wrath of God to persuade the hearts of the people. And he was indicating that this is how he does proclaim the gospel. At the end of chapter one, what we were hearing from Paul was the temporal wrath of God being poured out upon those who were were remaining in their sins Those who refused to glorify God, those who were not thankful for God, those who became futile in their thoughts and foolish in their hearts, they became They changed the glory of God into an image made like corruptible man. And thus we saw God gave them over to their lust, to the passion He gave them up to vile passions. And that was a picture of God's temporal judgment upon those who remained in their sins, who hated God and and wanted to remain uh pursuing and and and uh uh prevailing after uh that uh works those deeds which offended God. He gave them over to a debased mind. Well, last time we were seeing the temporal judgments of God as he gave them over to their sins. But now as Paul opens up what we have now as chapter two, it seems now he's focused upon not temporal judgment of God. But the eternal judgment of God. And as we were reading through chapter one, we were thinking and saying, well, we think that this is really written to Gentiles, those who were not Jews, those who were without the law. And certainly as we get into chapter 2, we're going to see that he's really writing to The Jews there at the end of chapter two. And the only question is, who's he writing to here in the middle as he begins chapter two? Some think Jews, some thinks Gentiles. I tend to think he's writing to everyone here. As he opens up chapter 2 and as he writes of the eternal judgment. What I'd like us to see this afternoon, that God, in the coming judgment Everyone will be judged by God according to what is in his or her heart. In the coming judgment, everyone will be judged by God according to what is in his or her heart. This message this afternoon is uh is a sober message. It's a somber message And so we should hear it that way and take it that way. It's all about judgment. And so we'll break it up into three points. Judging others, judging deeds, and finally, judging secrets. Well first, judging others. Let's notice here is as Paul opens up. Again, there were no chapter numbers when Paul wrote this letter But what we have is the beginning of chapter two. Let's notice in the first three verses that Paul uses the verbs judge or condemn, and the noun judgment Seven times in these first three verses. Incredible. He he really clearly uh wants the reader Wants us to be fixed upon this concept of judging and judgment Paul so desired that the hearts and minds of his readers would be focused upon this topic in this point of his letter. Verse verse 1. Therefore you are inexcusable, O man. Whoever you are who judge For in whatever you judge another you condemn yourself, for you who judge practice the same things. Well there even in verse 1 we have it mentioned Referred to four times. That's the topic. That's what the Spirit would have us to fix our minds upon this afternoon. Judgment. Judging. Being condemned. And notice also this word that he uses in the first verse, inexcusable in the New King James Version. Therefore you are inexcusable, O man. Now, this should remind us of verse 20, as he was writing, as Paul was writing specifically to the Gentiles He told them as well. They, referring to the Gentiles, those without the law, those who could see the attributes of God from what has been made, those who knew God from how they were made, with God's image laid upon them, with his law written upon their hearts. They too, even though they didn't have the revealed word of God, they were without excuse Although they knew God, they didn't glorify him, nor were they thankful. They could see the invisible attributes of God through creation. They were inexcusable. Now, these, these two whom he's referring to now, those who judge others, are also inexcusable. Without defense, as uh a Greek lexicon puts it, without excuse. Clearly, Paul is giving his readers a picture of a courtroom, isn't he The place where the judge sits, that place where judgments are made, that place where arguments are set forth, why the defendant is guilty, and then the defendant says, why I'm not guilty. Arguments flying back and forth. The only thing that the defendant has to do is to say, here's my excuse. Here's why I'm not guilty. This is the argument. There were no fingerprints on the gun. I was in New York. The crime was committed in California. The witness said that the perpetrator of the crime was six feet tall. I'm only four and a half feet tall. Excuses Defenses which say I'm not guilty. And Paul here is writing once again But this man, this one, who would charge others with crimes, has no excuse. Paul's applying the same truth to a slightly different fact pattern, and he comes up with the same result. There is nothing That man can do to take away his guilt. Whether he's a Gentile Reveling in transgressing the law of God, a Gentile who is living in vile passions One who is unrighteous, sexually immoral, malicious, full of envy, murder, strife, or one who Claims that others do it. One who charges and condemns others for doing these things. For the one who does that is guilty of the same. So Paul's first point is that men attempt to act as judge Judge. You are inexcusable, old man, whoever you are who judge. You may be asking ourselves, why does Paul put that word therefore here at the beginning? For it. And I think it does here as well. Again, Paul has just covered the field of sin in the prior paragraph Look at verse twenty nine through uh thirty one. I it's hard to imagine that he's actually left out some sin here, even though he writes generally and broadly. It seems though he's covered the whole field in this paragraph. It's hard to see whether he's left anything out. Then he set forth this set, this complete set of Sinners accept that God sees and He is the divine one who has all knowledge. Therefore, therefore, O man, you, you who are in this set God also knows that you, a sinner, is also sinning in the same way that you claiming others are. While you remain in your sin, you think that somehow, somehow, by condemning others, you elevate yourself out of it. Here then was the problem. Men. Men are not the judge of their own soul. God is judge. God is judge. Verse 2, we know that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. Here's the truth. It's God. It's God's to judge As he is the creator of the world as king, as owner, as possessor, as the only divine being, as the holy, holy, holy triune God He is the only one, certainly qualified to judge. But he is the only judge. So here's the the bad news. God's judgment isn't in accordance with truth He sees and knows the truth about the sins of men. We'll see that sins can't be hidden. It can't be hidden against accusations against others. But here's also the good news of the gospel, that his judgment is according to truth. It's the bad news. It's the bad news if you're seeking to hide behind accusations against others. Because God brings the truth out And God knows the truth that as you accuse others, you're guilty of doing the exact same thing. But it's also the good news. Because his judgment is according to truth. And as God, the Father, sees the Son Being fully and completely righteous, without sin, seeking to do the will of his Father above all things And he judges that his son has pleased him. And he raises him up and he seats him next to himself. And he gives them all dominion, power, and authority. He grants to him the high priesthood. And he gives him that eternal mediation It's good news that God does judge according to truth, and that according to that truth he has set his son upon the throne. And according to that truth, he's seen that his wrath has been fully and completely satisfied in the atoning sacrifice and the atoning blood of his son. And as a result, he sent his spirit to abide within us. Yes, there is good news here. It's bad news for those who are seeking to hide behind their accusations of others. It's good news for those who are not hiding. We see here that there is no escape from the judgment of God. Verse 3, and you think this, O man, that you who judge those practices such signs, such things, and doing the same, that you will escape the judgment of God. And Paul is asking a rhetorical question with power. He's saying there is no escaping the judgment of God. Some might have the idea. Some might think I'm a good person. I'm a morally good person. And I can look and consider the sins, the transgressions, the bad actions of others, and not only see how bad they are, but also see how good I am. And now the heart, the inescapable truth is set forth. Not only is there no excuse to be offered for that sin. Sin, their sin. But this one, oh man, this one was sinning God's judgment has been and will be proclaimed. No escaping the judgment of God. And in reality, Paul says, this is what that one, that man, that one in the back row is Sinclair Ferguson. That one that Paul is addressing, you o man, he was actually hating, despising, and casting off the riches of God's goodness. As this one was, in a sense, hiding behind his accusations of others doing the same things that that he was engaged in, as he was accusing them, as he was pointing a condemning finger at others, seeking to take the speck out of the eyes of others and not looking at that log in his own eye, his own trespasses, not confessing, not repenting. This one was trampling upon the long suffering of God That which God gives time for the purpose of repenting, not for the purpose of condemning others Look at verse 4. Or do you despise the riches? He's speaking to that man, no you man. Or do you despise the riches of his goodness? forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. Paul is. . . Paul is bringing out the attributes of God, isn't he? the same attributes which God was proclaiming to Moses as he passes by him in the cleft of the rock The Lord, the Lord God, merciful and gracious, long-suffering and abounding in goodness and truth, keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, by no means clearing the guilty. Paul is saying that the man who who points at the sins of others thinking that he is escaping the wrath of God has condemned himself. And he's trampling on the long-suffering of God. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but is long-suffering toward us, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. 2 Peter 3, verse 9. Let me ask, brothers and sisters, do we take advantage of the long-suffering of God? Something for us to think about, to meditate upon, to pray over. Do we take advantage of the long-suffering of God? that he would give us this time to repent. But not only for ourselves As God in His love and mercy and forbearance calls us to repentance, what about others Do we take advantage of the long-suffering of God for others? Not that we can repent for them, but here's what I do mean Do we care enough about others that we would tell them of God's long suffering? Would we care enough that we would tell them about his forbearance is a mercy and grace which calls them out of their sin to repentance? It may be one of the greatest acts of love that we can perform. Telling others about the long-suffering of God. Yes, judging others. That brings us to our second point, judging deeds. And this is why I I say that telling others about the long-suffering of God may be the greatest greatest act of love. Look at verse 5. But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitent heart, you are treasuring up to yourselves wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment. judgment of God. I said when we began that in chapter one, we were reading about, we were hearing about God's work, His work of wrath. In this world, in this life, as he gave over those who were caught up in their sins, refusing to reject their sins. As he gave them over to their sins, the temporal wrath of God. But here we're reading about the eternal wrath of God. We're reading about the day of the Lord as he brings righteous judgment. For eternity. What do we read? We read a quite a terrifying statement. In accordance with your hardness and in penitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath. You might think of storing up in a retirement account money, funds that we can draw upon in the days of retirement. We would want that account to be quite large and we want to store up a good amount so we can have it, to live on it, and give to others as well. But this idea, this truth, that it is possible to store up for yourself God's wrath is terrifying. As one sits and remains in unrepentant sin, as a person refuses to confess sin. joyfully living it in opposition to God as that person chooses to continue transgressing uh that which has uh been laid upon their heart, uh offending a holy God, sinning hour after hour, day upon day, is a picture of this garbage dump Where the city trucks are daily dumping trash that's been collected day after day for years on end and the dump just continues to rise to the sky And the stench grows and the ground becomes foul. And all of a sudden, in the blink of an eye, that trash dump, that garbage heap of your sin is turned into the just wrath of God While that person may have been reveling in his sin, enjoying his sin, it really was being credited to him as wrath. That's the idea. That's the terrifying truth of one who remains with a hard heart and an impenitent heart and continues to sin against God. Where'd she come from? Verse six God who will render to each one according to his deeds There is this idea, this concept, this truth As we live in this world, as we labor, as we work, we're storing up treasures. And there really are only two kinds. Two kinds of reward Which come out of our work, our labor. First Verse 7, eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good seek for glory, honor, and immortality. Verse 10, glory, honor, and peace. To everyone who works what is good, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. That's one kind of reward. Here's the second. Verse 8 But to those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, here's the reward. Indignation and rights. Wrath, tribulation, and anguish on every soul of man who does evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Greek. You see, God is keeping an account. God will render to each one according to his deeds. There are only two rewards. Each one will receive that which is deeds have earned. Now, let me make a qualification here, which is a rather significant qualification and which we will learn about As we continue studying this letter to the church in Rome, we don't do deeds or work to be saved. Let's just make that clear now We don't, we can't do work or deeds in order to be saved. We cannot earn the favor of God in order to be saved. But we do do deeds or we do work because we are saved Jesus does all the meritorious work on our behalf. We can work ourselves into hell We cannot work ourselves into heaven. Jesus does that. But we do store up treasures, don't we? Jesus tells us, in fact, indeed, clearly, to store up treasures in heaven. If we turn to the Gospel of Matthew, he tells us so very clearly, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, as he spoke about giving alms or gifts to the poor, as he spoke about praying. Do not as he spoke about fasting. Do not lay up treasures for yourselves on earth. Do not seek rewards here on earth, where moth and rust destroy and where bees break in and steal, but lay up For yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. I really believe that that's where Paul is getting this doctrine from, directly from the Lord Jesus Christ. God will render to each one according to his deeds. What do your deeds look like? So we think about that this afternoon, we might think, well, my deeds look like I'm trying to save myself. Again, we can't. Our sins are too great. We cannot overcome them. Each one of our sins that we commit individually Earn us the eternal wrath of God. We can't work that off. As we sinned in Adam, we receive From our representative head, Adam, the guilt for his sin. We can't work that off. Well, what about our deeds? Are we do they look like we're seeking rewards here on earth? And if they do, brothers and sisters, we need to repent And the Spirit is working upon our hearts, I think, this afternoon to tell us very clearly that our deeds need to look like we're resting in Jesus Christ. And then our deeds, our labors, our work are really all offered to Him, to the one who has done all. For deeds don't look like that. And we must be those who come before him in repentance, seeking forgiveness. And asking that he would transform us. For God will render to each one according to his deeds. That brings us then to our third point. Judging secrets. We've seen judging others. We've seen judging deeds. These 16 verses are full of judgment, finally judging. secrets. Yes, this idea of judgment is throughout these sixteen verses. And this particular judgment, as we've said on more than one occasion this afternoon. is about eternal judgment. Look at verse 12. For as many as have sinned without law will also perish without law, and as many have sinned in the law will be judged by the law. And I think this is one argument that that this particular of these particular verses really apply to all people, that Paul was really not making a distinction between Jews and Gentiles here in this middle portion. Speaking to Gentiles in at the end of chapter 1, he'll begin speaking to Jews, I believe in chapter 2, verse 17. But here in the middle in verses 1 through 16, he's speaking to all For as many have sinned without the law, those of the Gentiles will also perish without the law. And as many as have sinned in the law, meaning Jews, those who have the revealed word of God, will be judged by the law. What's Paul saying judgment is universal? Judgment is universal. There's no partiality with God. Those not having the law will be judged. Those having the law will be judged. And this judgment is eternal will also perish. Look at those words in verse 12. We'll perish. This is exactly what Adam was told in the garden. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Ultimately, the Lord was speaking to Adam about eternal death, eternal separation from himself. That's death. Paul picks up on it in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 22, for as in Adam all die. And Jesus speaks of it clearly as Mark records his gospel. If your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. For it's better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than having two eyes to be cast into hellfire. Where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. Eternal suffering, eternal judgment, eternal separation from God. For as many have sinned without the law will also perish without the law Judgment is eternal. Judgment is universal. But yet, there is the idea, the concept, the truth. The justification is possible. Look at verse 13 For not the hearers of the law are just in the sight of God, but the doers of the law will be justified. Now we're back to that idea of deeds, aren't we? At least on its surface, the idea of deeds. And as Paul is breaking this down for us, and as he's including every single person in the judgment of God, now he's saying, look. Even you who have the scriptures, the Torah, the very enscripturated word of God You who have the law of God written upon your heart, even though you have it That doesn't justify you. That doesn't excuse you. That doesn't give you an innocent outlook. That doesn't bring you into God's favor. That doesn't wipe away your sin. It's only the doers of the law who will be just justified or declared just. And here's his explanation. For when Gentiles who do not have the law by nature do the things in the law, these, although not having the law, meaning the written law, are a law to themselves. doers of the law. Before the work of the law written on their hearts. He's saying that That those who are actually doing that which is required by the law are justified. Now we're going to qualify this again. What does it mean to be justified? It means to be pardoned. how Websters puts it, to be cleared from guilt, to be absolved or acquitted from guilt and the punishment That goes with it, that eternal death. It's to have that guilt washed away in the blood of Christ alone Paul sets up a great contrast here. The doers of the law will be justified. See the contrast? We have to jump back to to verse 32 of chapter one and see that those who knowing the righteous judgment of God that those who practice such things are deserving of death, not only do the same, but also approve of those who practice them Do you understand the contrast? Therefore, verse 1 here of chapter 2, you're inexcusable, oh man. Whoever you are who judge, for in whatever you judge another, you condemn yourself, for you, judge, for you who judge, practice the same things. Those who are doers of the law versus those who are breaking the law. That's the contrast that Paul is setting up. And he's saying that the doers of the law will be justified Here's the problem. That in order to be fully and completely justified by doing law, one must do it perfectly. We know we can't. We know that Scripture bears that out. And we know in our own lives that's our experience. We are unable to fully and completely and perfectly keep the law. Now, Paul will be opening this up for us in the letter. But we have to jump to it just right now briefly. And consider that there's only one. There's only one Who has completely, fully, perfectly fulfilled the law of God. There's only one who is a true doer of the law. There's only one who is has earned the right to be quote justified, even though he didn't need To be justified, but who through his righteousness and his keeping of the law earned justification for us. Jesus Christ. That's how we can be doers of the law. That's how we can be those who don't practice the things deserving death Through Christ. Who show the work of the law written in their hearts? It's only because of what Christ has done that we can show the work of the law written in our hearts. and our consciences bear witness. Our thoughts accuse us Of committing sin, causing us to confess and repent. Do you see? It's all the work of Christ. We'll see that as Paul opens up the letter. But let me close with this. That all of the things that Paul has been writing here in these first 16 verses are secret things, aren't they? Verse 16, in the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel, he's been writing of judgment. He's been writing of the judge. He's been writing of the fact that God is the judge, and now he tells us that God will judge secrets and all of this All of what he's been writing about belong to the secrets of men. All of this is that which resides in the hearts of men. And there's only one who can open up the hearts of men, who knows the secrets of men. Men will not judge, men will not judge others, men will not judge themselves. Only God will judge and his judgment will be right and true because he knows what's in the heart. And do you see how then verse 16 really just penetrates and opens up the entire passage? For he never was speaking, meaning Paul, never was speaking of keeping the law perfectly. He was speaking always about that which resides in the heart. On the judgment day, a person, every person, will be judged by that which is in the heart. Does a person truly believe in the Lord Jesus as Savior? If so, life everlasting with Christ. If not, death everlasting In the day when God will judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ, according to my gospel. Yes, in the coming judgment, everyone will be judged by God according to what is in their heart. In today's courtroom, the defendant taking the bench, I hope that that doesn't happen. That would be an odd scene. And I think that's why Paul uses it. in this particular portion of scripture to show us how odd that would be that one could actually accuse others and thereby excuse himself of the perfect judgment of God. Praise be to God that we know that the judgment of God is according to truth in Jesus Christ. Amen I actually don't know.