So let's give attention to God's Word. Romans three at verse one. What advantage then has the Jew, or what is the profit of circumcision? Much in every way, chiefly because to them were committed the oracles of God. For what if some did not believe Will their unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect? Certainly not. Indeed, let God be true, but every man a liar, as it is written That you may be justified in your words and may overcome when you are judged. But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God, what shall we say Is God unjust who inflicts wrath? I speak as a man. Certainly not. For then how will God judge the world For if the truth of God has increased through my lie to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? And why not say, let us do evil, that good may come? As we are slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say Their condemnation is just. I'm going to stop there this afternoon. Amen. Praise be to God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would guide and direct our steps, that your Spirit would illumine our path, Father. As we continue to study this letter to the Church at Rome by the Apostle Paul, the inspired Apostle Paul. Help us to feed on your word, Father. Strengthen us in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we continue to study this letter to the Romans or to those in Rome, I want us to first think about what happened in the Garden of Eden. What happened as Adam and Eve sinned against God? You might say, well, they were cast out of the garden, and you'd be right. But I want to consider what happened before they were cast out of the garden. And that A very short span of time where God engages, the Lord engages with Adam and Eve, just after they have sinned, as they were hiding, seeking to hide from him. uh not only physically but also spiritually. And as God finds them, so to speak, As he causes them to know that he knows where they are, as he engages with them. He addresses Adam first and he said to Adam, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten From the tree of which I commanded you that you should not eat. And the man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me the tree. of the tree and I ate. Hmm. The finger pointing had begun immediately And similarly with Eve, the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. You see very clearly that Adam and Eve were thinking along the same lines, not in a good way. Not only were they attempting to hide themselves physically from the Lord, which was absolutely impossible, in their corrupted minds now, they just. thought that that might be a possibility. Let's go in the trees. Let's hide our shame with these fig leaves. They did this to avoid the consequence of their disobedience, to hide their shame and their guilt. They were attempting to hide their guilt behind those false. Those corrupt, those sinful ideas which had now crept into their hearts and minds, God was to blame. This was his fault. They are shifting, they're rebuffing, they were seeking any way possible to avoid the guilt. the responsibility that they now had earned because of their sin. Remember what God had told Adam in the garden. The day that you eat of it. You shall surely die. And as we're told in the letter to the Romans, the wages of sin is death, and so there's a great sense in which We earn that punishment, we earn the guilt that comes through and by our sin. And Adam and Eve were seeking anyway To avoid taking on that responsibility, that responsibility which had already been laid upon them. They were seeking to throw it off They were seeking to justify themselves, to declare their innocence, certainly in their own eyes, but try to convince God that in fact maybe that was correct. Well, nothing's changed. And as we go to and continue in this letter to those at the church at Rome, I think we're going to see that as well. And in a sense, there's this great debate as the New Testament church was forming. As the Jews. Saved by the Lord Jesus Christ, they're coming to faith. And as Gentiles, those who were never in the Jewish nation, never part of Abraham's blood descendants, never part of his bloodline, as they are also coming to faith as they're populating the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, as they're now considered to be the people of God, these two disparate groups of people called by the living God now to trust in his beloved son, needing to come together in singleness of mind, in unity of spirit Coming from completely different realms, so to speak, and now God calling them to come together. The question is what's going to unite them What will bring these two together in love for the Lord Jesus Christ and then with one another? Paul begins this letter by informing them that they are alike in their sin. Gentiles have no excuse, even though they don't have the written word of God. They've got it written on their hearts. The Jews have no excuse as they have the Word of God and they failed to keep it. Both groups Every individual has sinned against the living and holy God of creation. Paul is, in a broader way, continuing to answer that unspoken question, continuing to proclaim his gospel, how can a person be saved? How is a Jew saved? How is a Gentile saved? Is it even possible for a Gentile to be saved? Are there two different tracks, two different ways? And is God fair in all of this? Or was there some excuse to be had before God that might grant another way for him to have favor, at least upon the Jews? Here in Romans three, Paul continues to unfold his gospel. And if we were to open up all of it, we would see that he deals with the problem and ultimately the solution. Remember that Paul ended Romans chapter 2 with quotes or illusions from the Old Testament. boldly applying each to the Jews, for the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. A reference or allusion to Isaiah 52. My name is blasphemed continually every day. Oh continuing in unfolding the sins of the Gentiles and the sins of the Jews. He is focusing on that, that which brings, in a sense, unites both peoples. That's which forms the basis for their salvation. If they both sin in the same way against the same God, then there's only one way that both groups can be saved. Only one Savior, only one Christ. You see how important it is for Paul to focus, to fix their minds upon their sin, because that's what unites them initially. That's what unites all people initially. That we are sinners before a holy God, needing a savior. Jews are told that circumcision is not the way. That's not what saves you. Indeed, it might be if you were to keep the whole law But you can't, and you don't. And so here in these first eight verses of chapter three, Paul's anticipating defense. It's as if he's on a podcast and he's interviewing someone. He's got a couple of guests on, and he's got this Jew on the podcast and he's interviewing him and he's saying, okay, so why do you think God is wrong here? And the Jews coming back with all these excuses. That's what we see here. In these first eight verses. But there is no podcast. There's no guest. And so Paul is unfolding the mind of the Jew. And he's telling a reader, this is how I proclaim the gospel. This is how I show all peoples that they are in danger of entering into eternal damnation because their hearts are wicked and corrupt before a holy God So let's listen this afternoon as we see that in our corrupted hearts and minds, we, even we, believers, at times seek to avoid the reality of sin. This afternoon I'm going to be focusing upon the excuses of men. That God is not the problem. As we continue, Lord willing, next Sunday we'll we'll use this saying point the same proposition and open it up into two other heads. But this afternoon I want us to focus our minds and our hearts upon the excuses of men. And as you think of that, I don't want you to think of the excuses of others. I want us to be thinking about what we do before God in making excuses for our sins Well, here Paul anticipates three excuses of those Jews, those who had been in the nation of Israel, those who knew the law uh and those who certainly knew better. But as Paul has told them, that they are the ones who are blaspheming, not the Gentiles But they are the ones who are causing God's name to be blasphemed because they know the law and they haven't been keeping the law. They know the law and and yet they don't revere God's very word and they Oh God, and yet they're not lifting up his name because they're taking his word and they're trampling it under their feet. He's told them that their circumcision is not working salvation for them They are the ones causing God's name to be blasphemed, and they are not having favor with God merely because they are circumcised. or merely because they're keeping an outward sign of the covenant of grace, which is now fading away, so to speak, as baptism becomes the sign. That's what they're responding to. That's what Paul anticipates, their response at this point. And he's anticipating these three excuses to which they would say, well, this really doesn't matter because here they are, these three excuses. of these Jews. God's faithfulness is ineffective. Secondly, God's wrath is unjust. And finally, God's desire is to increase evil. Those are the three heads for a secession. as we consider these excuses. God's faithfulness is ineffective, his wrath is unjust, and God's desire is to increase evil. Paul doesn't anticipate. He doesn't expect these Jews to respond with evidence as to why his claims were not true. We see nothing that would indicate, well, the Jews came back and said to him, Well, we don't act in the way that causes the Jews to causes the Gentiles to blaspheme God's name. We don't do that And they don't come back and say to, well, you know, we're not clinging to circumcision in the way you think we are. No, they they come with, in a sentence With these three excuses, God's faithfulness is ineffective, God's wrath is unjust, and God's desire is to increase evil. Well let's look at the first thing. God's faithfulness is ineffective. Look at verse one as we begin to unfold that. What advantage then has to the Jew or what is the prophet of circumcision Isn't that the natural question that a Jew might ask, as Paul has told them, that they are the ones that cause blaspheming and that their circumcision has absolutely no profit in the way they thought that it did. They're saying, well what what good is any of this? What good is our heritage? What what good is this law keeping that we try to do? What what what good? And Paul argues in response that there's much, there's much benefit to having been a natural Jew. And here he gives them the primary point. They have the oracles of God. They were committed to them. The word of God, the very word, the special revelation of God, was given to the Jews to hold, to keep, yes, to possess, but certainly to use. So from that, from that point, saying, okay, we've got the word, we've got the special revelation. Well, what good was that? What good was it for us to have the very Word of God if some don't believe? Look at verse 3. Well what if some did not believe? You see how that follows from having the oracles of God? Well what good are the oracles of God? If some don't come to belief, then they're ineffective. They don't work. What good are they? Verse three. What if some did not believe? Will their unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect? Paul is now beginning to respond to these arguments, these excuses that are being made. For the Jews' failure to love the Lord God with all their heart, soul, mind, and strength, to cling to circumcision, and to cause the Gentiles to blaspheme in the very name of God. For what if some did not believe? Whether unbelief make the faithfulness of God without effect. Well reference here is first to the faithfulness of God. And what does Paul mean by that? He certainly means the giving of his word and what's contained in his word, but the covenant. God has given his covenant in his word. And he has promised to keep his covenant. He's promised to be faithful to his promises He's promised to be a God who keeps his word. Deuteronomy seven Therefore, know that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations. With those who love him And keep his commands. I think that's Paul's reference. I think that's the idea that as Paul is thinking upon the very Word of God, as he's He's considering the Old Testament. He's thinking about what the Jews would be thinking about, that he's given them his word. Now, what good is his faithfulness? He has said that he will keep his covenant and mercy for a thousand generations. That must mean that God would bring to faith the people of God. But what if some don't believe? What's the problem? Is God not faithful? Does unbelief mean that God's plan has failed? Can't be. Deuteronomy 32, verse 4. The rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he. The Jews knew this. The Jews had this. This is part of the oracles of God that have been given to the Jews that they possessed. They knew that he was a faithful God. They knew that his covenant would stand. They knew that he promised to keep it, even if it cost him life, the life of his son. Paul's letter to Timothy really opens this up, I think. 2 Timothy 2, verse 13. If we are faithless, And we are. He remains faithful. He cannot deny himself In John's epistle, his first one in chapter one, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and unjust to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Are you starting to see Not only a pattern, but that God is faithful in fulfilling his promises When we do that which we are required to do, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. There's a requirement. There was a requirement when God entered into the covenant with Abram, who became Abraham. You must be circumcised. If you're not circumcised, if a male in your household is not circumcised, he's outside the covenant. The covenant promises don't apply to him. Are you beginning to see The promises were applied to a group, but then there was a response that was required. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, are you seeing a pattern? in here yet as as the Jews are now in a sense responding to Paul and saying we're not going to confess our sins And God's word has failed because he hasn't saved us Faithful, according to the Free Dictionary, means adhering firmly and devotedly to a person, a cause, an idea. Adherence to truth, that's Webster's. Observant of a compact. Yes. That's God. He is the one who observes his compact, his covenant, who keeps it. But there are corresponding promises within the covenant. Yes, he will die to ensure that his covenant is fulfilled. But the promises that unfold for those who respond in the way that he's called Yes, God is justified in his words. Unbelief does not mean that God's plan has failed. Unbelief means that there hasn't been the proper response. God is blameless when he judges, isn't he? Certainly certainly not, but this is Paul's response. God's faithfulness is never without effect. God's covenant is never without effect. And Paul boldly and clearly states that. Verse 4, certainly not. Indeed, let God be true, but every man a liar. As it is written, that you may be justified in your words and may overcome when you are judged. See, Paul took Psalm 51 verse 4, and he flips it on his head. Psalm 51 verse 4 reads this way, that you may be found just when you speak. This is David now speaking to God in a prayer As David writes this Psalm 51, he has sinned with Bathsheba. He has come to the conclusion, the acknowledgement the recognition, the confession that in fact he has sinned against God, he has offended God alone. And now he's speaking about God's judgment Verse 4, that you may be found just when you speak and blameless when you judge. As is written, you may be justified in your words. You see, that's a not a an exact quote, but an allusion to verse 4 of Psalm 51 That you may be justified in your words, that you may be found just when you speak, and may overcome when you are judged. See, it was the Jews that were judging God. And in the original, Psalm 51, we read, and blameless when you judge. Paul takes Psalm 514, applies it to the Jews who are making this excuse. He's using Psalm 51 as the basis for his response That which the Jews would have known. And he tells them that God indeed will overcome their judgment because he in fact is blamed. in every single judgment that he makes. Paul's telling these Jews that they have begun judging God, that these excuses act as or become judgments or proclamations of wrongdoing by God. Some don't come to believe, does that mean that God's faithfulness is ineffective? His faithfulness is no good? No. God overcomes the judgment of the people of the Jews simply as he is blameless. He alone is true and upright and pure. That's the truth that the psalmist David brings out as he confesses his sin, not God's sin. As he comes before God with a contrite and humble heart, exactly what the Jews were not doing, as Paul writes to this group. David's own sin was that which caused him to clearly proclaim that it is God who is blameless And so he he being Paul cites a portion of Psalm 51 so that the Jews remember, oh yes, oh yes, it was David who cried out to the Lord, have mercy Mercy upon me, O God, according to your loving kindnesses, according to the multitude of your tender mercies, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity Cleanse me from my sin. Against you only have I sinned and done this evil in your sight. In four short verses, Paul has confessed transgression, iniquity, sin, and evil before God. These Jews have yet to do it. And so they say, well, well, maybe God's faithfulness is ineffective. And Paul's saying, no, no, no. Look to King David. Hear his words as he confesses sin and at the same time sees how blameless God is And how good he is in keeping his covenant. The only reason for unbelief is referred to by this argument from the Jews It's not that God was unfaithful. It's not that God's faithfulness had no effect or power No, unbelief follows only from sin. Unbelief follows only from rebellion. Unbelief follows only for a corrupt heart which refuses. refuses to confess Jesus Christ as Lord and as God. It is not the result of the lack of effectiveness of God's covenant faithfulness. We see that. We see it throughout all of Scripture. We might just point to our own hearts and say, well, here's proof. But Scripture is always the place to go first. In Joel 2, verse 32, we'll read this: whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. The effectiveness of God's faithfulness is clear. It's set in stone. It cannot be moved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be deliverance You see, his faithfulness is sure. The effectiveness of his faithfulness is rock solid. Or we might just think of John 3. 16 and the following. He who believes in him is not condemned. But he who does not believe is already condemned because he has not believed in the name. of the only begotten Son of God. Failing to believe, refusing to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ is sin. And John went further, didn't he? For everyone practicing evil hates the light, and does not come to the light lest his deeds should be exposed. There's a reason. There's a reason for unbelief and it and it's sin. Well, you might say, yeah, yeah. They go. Yeah. No. No. The reason is one loves their sin more than they love Christ. They want to remain in sin. They cling to sin. The one who rejects Christ loves practicing evil. and hates the light. And wants to remain in the darkness so that his deeds would not be exposed. They're beginning to see that unbelief is not God's problem. It's not God's doing. It's not a lack of the power of God. It's that which we are called to do, and that which many refuse to do. As Jesus Christ was preaching to those who had witnessed the feeding of 5,000, they come to him uh I believe the next day and they asked him, What shall we do that we may do the that may we work the works of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God, that you believe in him whom he sent. That was it. He didn't say go out and do 50 good deeds, come back, write them down. Tell me how many poor people you serve. No, no. This is the work of God. Did you believe in him who he sent? Well Scripture is full of response to that particular excuse that God's faithfulness was ineffective. That's just an attempt at hiding, as Adam and Eve were hiding in the garden, hiding a refusal to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well secondly, the second excuse was that God's wrath was unjust. Look at verse 5. But if our unrighteousness demonstrates the righteousness of God What shall we say? Is God unjust who inflict wrath? Huh. An interesting, but clearly fallacious argument. This appears to be a reference back to the second chapter where Paul wrote very clearly, in accordance, this is verse 5, in accordance with your hardness And your impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath in the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Well, that hardness and impenitent heart is equivalent to unrighteousness, isn't it? And this unrighteousness is that which stores up The wrath of God. Unrighteousness, their hardness of heart, their their impenetra impenet hearts equals unrighteousness, and their unrighteousness was storing up this treasury, which was the wrath of God, as they continued in hardness, as they continued in unrighteousness. It was causing this storehouse of God's wrath to be erected, to be created, and to be waiting for them. And this is the unrighteousness which reveals the righteous judgment of God. His wrath is his righteous judgment, isn't it? So if the unrighteousness is storing up wrath, it's storing up The righteous judgment of God, it's the unrighteousness which reveals the righteous judgment of God. The wrath of God is explained as referring to it as his word righteous judgment. So we get it now. The unrighteousness of these is argued to be that which displays the righteousness of God. So then, here's the excuse. If our unrighteousness or hardness and impenetrace hearts works to reveal the righteousness or wrath of God, then why are we being blamed? Isn't that a good thing? That God's righteousness is being revealed. And if the revelation of God's righteousness is good, if it's good for all to witness his righteousness, then we're actually doing a good thing. The end result is the revelation of God's righteousness. How could it be then right to blame us? If our unrighteousness displays God's righteousness, He should thank us Well, Paul's response to this corrupt logic is certainly not. But then how will God judge the world? Paul's response is clear. This excuse that the wrath of God or his righteous judgment is unjust or without justice, that's what that means. doesn't have any justice within it, is based upon corrupt and false thinking that came out of the garden. So Paul begins with the simple truth, that God will in fact judge the world. That's the premise of the Jews, isn't it? Their first premise is that God's righteous judgment was unjust. Well, if that's the case, then really their first premise is that God will judge. We'll get to the second in a moment, but the first premise really is that God will judge the world. They're right in that. They're absolutely right in that. He is coming to judge the earth. He shall judge the world with righteousness. They left that part off that was Psalm 96 verse 13. He will, he is coming to judge the earth So given this truth that God will in fact judge the world, something that the Jews were admitting, it cannot also be true that his judgment will be unjust. If God is righteous, and they were arguing, they're arguing that as well. If his righteousness is on display in his judgment, then he must indeed be a just judge. Their argument is Fully and completely corrupt. It's twisted on its head. Scripture bears out that God is a just judge. Isn't that what what Abraham was saying to God as as he walked with God as they were looking upon Sodom and Gomorrah and he knew Lot was there with his family. And these angels were about to destroy both Sodom and Gomorrah for their wickedness had raised up to God. And Abraham was pleading with them Look, there might be some righteous people there. And it will be wrong for you to slay the righteous with the wicked. Far be it from you, shall not the judge of all the earth do right Abraham knew that. He knew that was the truth. That God, the Lord, was indeed judge. of the entire earth. And he knew that God would do right in his judgment. That was laid up in Abraham's heart. Comes out in Psalms. Psalm 9, he shall judge the world in righteousness. He shall administer judgment for the peoples in uprightness. The psalmist repeats it so that we're going to get that idea so clearly. God will judge, and he'll judge in righteousness in Acts chapter 17, not just the Old Testament. Verse 31, because he's appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained even Christ, right? How is it possible that the Jews could get this excuse so turned on its head? God will judge the world. And God's judgment is completely just. Well, we come to their final argument or excuse. And this could be possibly The craziest one. Verse 7. For the truth of God has increased through my lie. to his glory, why am I also still judged as a sinner? And why not say, let us do evil that good may come, as we are slanderously reported? They some affirm that we say their condemnation is just Well, let me deal first with Paul's report That some were saying these Christians were professing, claiming and teaching that they should do evil, that good may come. This is further taught in chapter 6 of Romans that what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may be abound? Grace may abound. The idea that as we sin, God's grace is just poured over us It separates us from our sin. And the more we sin, the more grace is poured out. The more mercy God pours out upon us. this ever-ending stream of grace and mercy. And so the the argument about against Christians was that you you seek to give license to doing evil, to doing wickedness, so that grace will abound. And that lays the doctrines of Christianity again upon its head. Yes, we are saved by grace. Yes, we live by grace. We are no longer under the law, but under grace But because of that, for that reason, God has laid it upon our hearts that we want to do that which is good and right and pleasing in his sight. Those that would oppose Christianity would say just the opposite and they would be wrong. And that's what Paul's getting at. But what are the Jews getting at here? Let us do evil that good may come. They're getting at the same point, aren't they? This is the logical conclusion of the prior excuse of the complaint. Let us do evil. In other words, let us remain active in our unrighteousness. actively pursuing, actively seeking to transgress, thinking of new ways to break the law of God so that the righteousness of God will be magnified even more. So that the contrast between unrighteousness and righteousness will be made crystal clear, so that there will be no mistaking the wickedness of men and the righteousness of God. This anticipates even the argument here here that I just mentioned that grace will increase as sin increases. This could not be further from the truth of Scripture. God defines goodness and righteousness. He would not be one to seek to advance evil and wickedness Boastful shall not stand in your sight. You hate workers of iniquity. Psalm 5. The Lord is righteous. He loves righteousness. Psalm 11, 1 John 1, verse 5, this is the message which we have heard from him and declare to you that God is light. In him there is no darkness at all. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above that comes down from the Father of lights with whom there is no variation or shadow of turning. James 1 verse 17 Oh, brothers and sisters, do we see how false How foolish all these arguments were. But at the end of the day, I think we still need to ask the question to ourselves. And I think at the end of the day, this passage calls us to ask this question of ourselves. The Lord, the Spirit, does not keep these words in this book, in this scripture, merely for us to to say how silly. How foolish. No. He places these here so that we can examine ourselves. And ask that question: why do we blame God Our first reaction to this might be, uh well I don't. Maybe But let me caution us, please don't brush off this question so quickly. These excuses set forth by Paul as he argues in a way with those to whom he preaches, they're headlines. These are really the first out of the box as he responds directly to the arguments that would be made against God. There must be a reason that these are here. These are the first arguments that he's addressing head on. First, we must see what it is to blame God. It's rather easy with Adam, isn't it He pointed to the woman who you put here with me. Unmistakable. Your fault, God, you made her And she was the one. So really, it's your fault that I sinned. Eve, on the other hand, was a bit more subtle. She mentions the fact that she was deceived There's a bit of of confession there. Bit. Not really. She's deceived by the serpent That's telling. The truth and the reality is that the serpent would not have been in the garden unless God had created the serpent and put it there. So underneath of Eve's bit of confession is hidden that finger point You put that deceiver here. Brothers and sisters, we have to look underneath that which is on the surface. to understand what we are doing and why we're doing it. As Jeremiah wrote, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Sense in which we can't even know it. So this question is reasonable for us to ask, why do we blame God? Let me give us a quick example. As a basketball coach, sometimes I got so worked up when a foul was called that I thought was miscalled or my player got hurt. And no foul was called. I wanted justice. I wanted to fight for my team. I blamed the referee. He was the problem. And I let him know it. And I let everyone know it. Well the referee wasn't the problem. I just didn't like the way things were unfolding. My will wasn't being done So I lashed out in unrighteous anger, wanting to correct the situation so my will would be done. The right will would govern In reality, I was blaming God, for it was his will that was being done on the court that day Why do we blame God? It's hard to look at our sin and know and confess that it is wholly our responsibility. We are blame shifters deep within our hearts. The desire, the idea, the concept of shifting blame, of stricking responsibility for our sin comes from our first parents. Remember, it was an immediate, seemingly knee-jerk reaction after they had fallen from grace and corrupted their hearts and minds. Adam blames God without hesitation. Adam blames his wife. And Adam never admits guilt that we see recorded in history. We must see how we do it as well. Here in Romans 3, these excuses that are level. Examples given by Paul as though they were directly engaged, as though he were directly engaged with these Jews. Seem extremely out of touch with reality, but don't we do the same? When you complain about work, The idea is that someone else is making your labor harder than it should be, that someone else is making work life uncomfortable or uneasy or just plain hard. It's quite easy to slip into a mode of complaining It's quite easy to blame the situation on a coworker or on the boss, but here's the reality. God has placed this co-worker, this boss in your office, and it may not be comfortable It may not be to your liking, but God has placed him or her there for your good. He's looking for your response. He's not looking for your complaint. Children, when parents make a decision you don't like, what do you do? If you're like me, you blame them. They were wrong. They don't get it. What are you doing Blaming God for he gave you these parents for your good. They've been particularly chosen for you, and they're raising you in his love and admonition. Why do we blame God? Because we don't like to admit that we're wrong. We don't like to admit that we thought it. We chose to say it. We chose to do it because that was our desire. It was our choice. And we determined to think it, to say it, to do it. Or refuse to say it, or refuse to do it, that which we are called to do We don't like it when our will doesn't get done in the way we think it should be done. We don't like to submit to God's will. You see, this requires humility. It requires a contrite heart. It took Joseph 13 years for God to develop that in him, so that he could say to Pharaoh, it's not in me. God will give Pharaoh peace. Brothers and sisters Let us ask that the Spirit would continue to work in our hearts, that we would not be not only idle factories. but that we would not be excuse factories. That we would see our sin as the Spirit reveals it to us. That we would run to confess it. Humbly submit to the Lord's will. So then