I'm going to uh read for us a little bit of repetition from last week, but I'll begin at Romans 1 chapter chapter 1 verse 1. Now read through at least the first portion of verse 18. Let's give attention to God's word. I'm going to be reading from the English Standard Version this afternoon Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart for the gospel of God. Which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his son, who was descended from David according to the flesh. And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holiness by his resurrection from the dead Jesus Christ our Lord, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith For the sake of his name among all the nations, including you, were called to belong to Jesus Christ, to all those in Rome who were loved by God and called to be saints Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for all of you, because your faith is proclaimed in all the world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his son, that without ceasing I mention you always in my prayers, asking that somehow By God's will I may now at last succeed in coming to you. For I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. That is that We may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith, both yours and mine. I do not want you to be unaware, brothers, that I have often intended to come to you but thus far have been prevented, in order that I may reap some harvest among you as well as among the rest of the Gentiles. I'm under obligation both to Greeks and to barbarians, both to the wise and to the foolish. So I'm eager to preach the gospel to you also who are in Rome. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Stop Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we ask now that you be with us as we seek to study your word. We pray, Father, by your Spirit, that you would open it to us in all of its beauty and all of its majesty. You would teach us, Lord God, all that you would have us to know this afternoon. And use it to exalt your Son and to glorify your most holy name. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, I asked a couple of uh preliminary questions uh so I know where you were. You all did confess that you know what sandwiches are We have kind of a sandwich here today. And did you know that uh Americans eat more than 300 million sandwiches a day? I'm not sure if that's correct or not, but I read that. on a website. Apparently uh sandwich as we know it was popularized in England in 1762 by the fourth Earl of Sandwich. Again, I don't know if that's true or not, but apparently he liked to gamble. He sat at the card table. He asked the servants to bring him something that he could eat while he sat there and didn't move from the table. So they came up with a sandwich. Well, this afternoon we have a bit of a sandwich. Obviously, I'm bringing this to us all as a bit of a sandwich of humor. But we do have a sandwich here this afternoon, and uh and I'm hoping that we're going to see it as Paul tells us. Uh one of the reasons that he's not ashamed of the gospel Is that in it the righteousness of God is revealed and the wrath of God is revealed. Those would be the two pieces of bread. And in the middle, he tells us He tells us that the righteous shall live by faith. It seems to be the center of it to me. That seems to be the meat, so to speak. And I'm hoping that we can focus on that this afternoon. A bit of a sandwich. Well, we know that uh this letter is written to the church in Rome, a church which Paul uh has not yet visited and it's clear to us we're going to talk about it a little bit this afternoon. He so desires to visit them and to uh preach the gospel to them. And so he is writing now to saints. He's writing to those who have professed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as last time we took a little bit of a uh a look into uh who Paul was. Uh he was one who was set aside set apart to preach this gospel. We took a good look at what that gospel was that he was uh uh set aside to preach, these apostleship that he's been given. We looked a little bit as to who uh who is going to be receiving it, those in Rome. Well, today we really want to focus on verses 16, 17, and just a portion of 18 and just In full disclosure, usually we kind of break this passage after verse 17. And many just handle verses 16 and 17 together, but it seemed to me that we're missing part of the part of the message if we break off eighteen and treat it solely and exclusively separately with the unrighteousness of of men. Who suppress the truth. So I'm I'm bringing it back and treating it with verses 16 and 17. We'll probably be talking about it again. uh next week, Lord willing. But for today, we're going to join 16, 17, and 18 together and focus upon these verses. We're going to do it in two heads this afternoon First the declarations, and then secondly the explanations, and we'll break up the explanations into three subheads We'll talk about that when we get there, but first the declarations. Paul makes a few declarations here before he gets into his explanations. And his first declaration, again, good for us to review and think about, is his burning desire to preach the gospel in Rome. It begins in verse 13. We're going just back a little ways. Verse 13, he tells them that he's often planned to come to them um but has not yet been able to at this point. And we know that God works at times in mysterious ways. We we would think, wow, Paul wants to preach the gospel. Why doesn't why doesn't God open up the door for that? Well, for whatever reason The Lord hadn't at this point. But what we do see is Paul's desire to be with them, so much so that he'd been playing, you can just kind of see Paul on his calendar. Go to Rome, then he's gotta scratch that out. Now he's gotta put in next month. Go to Rome and he's gotta scratch that out because the Lord didn't open the door Then verse 11, I long to see you, that I may impart to you some spiritual gift. He is so uh ready to proclaim the gospel to them. He tells them that much in verse 15, so as much as is in me, I am ready to preach the gospel to you who are in Rome. All of these come together and they give us this picture that that Paul is what he refers to as a debtor, both to Greeks and the barbarians, to wise and to unwise. He's obligated to preach the gospel This is his work, this is the task, this is the mission that's been given to him, this is his apostleship. But he not only has this work to do, he's got this burning desire, this this this longing to be with brothers and sisters in Rome and to proclaim the truths to them And that's how this letter begins, but it sets the backdrop for us. He not only declares this burning desire now, and this is why we reviewed it, he declares his sincerity. His zeal for the word. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. He's told him I longed to preach it to you. Now he's telling him this is this is kind of what my attitude is toward the gospel. I'm not ashamed of it. Well we know we read the Ten Commandments this morning in worship And we know that many of them are placed in the negative. Do not murder. Do not commit adultery. But we also know that every command that's placed in the negative has the positive alongside it, even though it's unstated. So do not commit adultery. Love your wife. Be faithful in your marriage. The positives go along with the negative. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. And it's really not these even close to being ashamed of. the gospel. It's more like he he loves the gospel. He knows that the gospel's true. And he's already told them he's ready to preach it. One definition of being ashamed is being reluctant through fear of humiliation or of shame. It comes from the free dictionary. One way to consider this declaration of Paul then is is meaning that he had no fear, absolutely no fear, for I have no fear to proclaim the gospel. Or it could mean that that Paul had no concern about being humiliated or shamed as he proclaimed the truths of the scriptures. Or meaning that Paul was not reluctant, one iota To preach the good news. Just the opposite. He was ready to go. He was filled with the gospel and so desired that it might flow forth from his lips. All those things dovetail in with Calvin's observation about this verse, this kind of a strange way to begin this letter to the in Rome are not ashamed of the gospel. Calvin opines that this was in anticipation of an objection. An objection. He knew that objections would come. He he knew that even in Rome uh that those to whom he was writing would be surrounded by objections, maybe even having objections within their own hearts. And this is what Haldane, another commentator, writes that Paul knew from personal experience. The opposition which the gospel everywhere encountered. Paul had actually physically felt the opposition. He'd been shipwrecked, he'd been scourged, he'd been stoned, he'd gone without food, he'd gone without sleep. there's a there's a opposition to the gospel that Paul encountered physically. Haldane continued by saying the pagans uh to them it was branded meaning the gospel was branded as atheism um godless for them. By the Jews it was abhorred as subverting the law and tending to licentiousness, meaning Uh the Jews saw the gospel as casting off the law, and you can just live whatever way you want. It's okay, because Jesus died for you and now you're forgiven, and so just live whatever That's not what the gospel is, but that's how they received it. That's how they received it. Haldane continues his declaration, meaning Paul's that he's not ashamed of the gospel Implies that while in reality there's no just cause to be ashamed of the gospel, there is something which is not acceptable. This is from a human perspective. and that it is generally hated and despised among men. Well, we see that in Scripture itself, don't we? 1 Corinthians chapter 1. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it's the power of God. We preach Christ crucified, to Jews a stumbling block, and to Gentiles foolishness. I want to spend a little bit of time on this aspect of why. Why is the gospel offensive? Why why do we s we see why do we receive pushback, strong pushback on the gospel. Well, and what was Paul anticipating? At least three, at least three objectives, all interrelated and very broad. First, the gospel is offensive. This is just a general precept. It is offensive. Secondly, that the gospel destroys man's attempt at independence. And then thirdly, the gospel attacks man's belief that he is the center of all things. So let's just look at those very briefly. Gospel is generally offensive. How so? Well it describes uh every person's true condition, doesn't it? That all people are defiled. All people are unclean. All people are filthy. No. Not one seeks after God. All have turned aside. Not one does good. Romans chapter 3. Allah to Father. Every person is a descendant of sinful Adam. that he or she has inherited Adam's sin nature so that from birth one is born in iniquity. Psalm 58 In fact, man sinned in Adam's first sin. Every single person sinned with Adam and fell with Adam and received the guilt. due to Adam because Adam was his or her federal head a representative. That's offensive. It's offensive to one who considers themselves to be clean. That man's condition, that every person's condition is such that he is the enemy of God That every person has sinned against God and that sin has separated him or her from the creator, the sustainer of the universe. That every single person is unable and unworthy to come into the presence of a holy God. Because of the sinful condition of his heart. Remember Isaiah as he enters into the throne room. Woe is me I am ruined. He saw the holiness of God, holy, holy, holy. And he knew of his sinfulness. He knew of the sinfulness of of his fathers, and he knew that he could not be in the presence, he was unworthy to be in the presence of a holy God and knew that he would be destroyed unless he was climbed. Well, this objection then flows out of our prideful nature, that which we inherited from Adam. What do you mean I'm sinful? I lead a good life. Who are you to tell me that I am unworthy? Are you so much better? Gospel is offensive because it tells us who we are. And for one who is not able to even see the kingdom of God One that is not able to see the entire glorious picture of redemption. This truth that they are unworthy is a dead end, so to speak. This is foolishness. This worldly man does not understand himself as being dead in trespasses and sins. It is fancy. Secondly, the gospel destroys worldly man's attempt at independence, doesn't it? The gospel tells us so very clearly that there is nothing, absolutely nothing, that a man can do in his own strength to save himself. I often go to the garden and think of the pictures that are given us there in terms of man's ability to save himself. As Adam and Eve were removed from the garden, as they were put out of the garden, as the cherubim, the flaming swords were placed there, there was absolutely nothing that they could do to get back into the tree. God didn't tell them that there was a second door. God didn't tell them that there was a way around, over, or under the flaming swords or the cherubim. God didn't say go out and do some things, come back and let me know, and maybe I'll give you a pass. No, there was nothing, absolutely nothing that they were told to do that would warrant their reception back. into the garden. We can do nothing in our own strength to save ourselves. The gospel. The gospel states that in contradiction to the desires of man, that man is not independent, but indeed is fully and completely dependent upon the will and the working of God That every single man, woman, and child is dead, not sick, not ill, but dead in sin You he made alive who were dead in trespasses and sins in Ephesians 2 verse 1. They have all turned it aside. They have together become corrupt. There is none who does good. No, not one. Psalm 14, verse 3. And this is the way that the Westminster Confession puts it. In chapter 9, man, by his fall into a state of sin, has wholly lost all ability of will to do any spiritual good. accompanying salvation. Wholly lost. Everything gone. Not a little bit left here or there. Nothing to build on, nothing present. A large zero, in fact a negative because we're sinners, we're not righteous, totally lost all ability of will to do any spiritual good accompanying salvation. The gospel declares that all are dependent upon God. Even for our very being, the Lord sustains all who fall and raises up all who are bowed down, and the eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due time. You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. Psalm 145. That's the very being, but also our eternal life. People want to be in control. Eve wanted to be sovereign. God gave men dominion over the creation, but not dominion over their own salvation. So the gospel says you have no control over the condition of your heart. You've been made the way you've been made by God Himself. You have freedom in that your will is not forced to sin. But you do not have the ability to do good unto salvation. God must effectively call men first. God must draw a man or woman or a child to himself. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. John 4 verse Excuse me, John 6, verse 44. This is why some are ashamed of the gospel. Make no mistake. The gospel declares dependence, not independence. The gospel declares complete reliance upon God not upon the choices of men, women, and children. The gospel declares that God chooses And this becomes even more offensive as the doctrine of election is considered. The God in his sovereign goodness chooses some and passes over others There truly does exist a seed of the woman and a seed of the serpent, two lines throughout the history of mankind. God loved Jacob and hated Esau before they were born. The gospel also attacks the belief that man is the center of all things. The gospel's offensive. The gospel tells us that we are dependent, not independent, and the gospel attacks the belief. That we are the center of all things. The Greek culture put man squarely in the center of the universe with his reason, his intellect. His physical abilities, which were honored, which were glorified, even worshipped. Gods were created to look like men. Reason was held up as the end of all things. And it's in that culture that Paul desires the gospel to be proclaimed. Gospel which attacks that very notion And placed his the one living and true God at the center of all things. That would certainly be rejected as foolishness by the Greek world even today. is that our world considers science to be the new end of all things. Well, those are just a few ways in which we could see the opposition that Paul was anticipating to the proclamation of the gospel. I don't think much has changed since Paul uh wrote this letter. I think we can think of the same things as being that which would oppose the gospel. That's what might cause some to be ashamed. of the gospel, but Paul was not ashamed. He did not feel inferior or inadequate or embarrassed, as the free dictionary puts it. He did not feel that there were some gross errors within the text of the scriptures. He did not feel any of these things, and thus he wasn't ashamed. Brothers and sisters, I think we have to ask ourselves the question as we read this verse, are we? Are we not ashamed of the gospel? If we're honest For honest, most of us might admit that there are times we have not confessed Jesus Christ before others when we might have had the opportunity to do so. Matthew 10, verse 32, whoever confesses me before men, him I will also confess before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, him I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. What causes this? to avoid talking with others about Jesus. Well, first, I think the call for us this afternoon is to repent. And then secondly, to ask why. Why didn't we? Why were we ashamed if we put it in that category? Were we concerned that the message was inferior or that it was inadequate? Or that it might be received as foolishness or that we might be embarrassed? What was the hindrance? Why do we hesitate? We then need to pray that the Lord would change our hearts, give us the courage by his spirit We need to repent. We need to pray. And now we need to listen to the inspired writer spirit-inspired writer Paul because he tells us, he explains. That's our second part. The declarations. And now the explanations. The explanations. Uh why was Paul not ashamed? How can we Get to the place where we are not, where we are consistently zealous About the word. How can we get there? Well, the broad brushed answer is right here in verse 16. For it is the power of God to salvation for everyone who believes The ESC puts it, uh, the power of God for salvation for everyone who believes. Here then is the answer to how or why was Paul not ashamed, given the likelihood of the probable objections to it. It's the power of God. to salvation. Well, uh here's where that uh big birtha example comes in. Big birtha is a uh my understanding, I don't have one is a really big golf club. So if you know anything about golf, you know that um uh in the old days when I used to play golf you had wooden drivers, actually wooden drivers. They were they were pretty big, but they weren't that big. I mean, maybe maybe this big for teeing off to hitting the longest shot you could muster. But a as I grew up, as I got a little bit older, they they came out with new golf clubs. And one of them was called a Big Bertha, and it was metal, and it was huge In comparison to the small wooden head that the golf clubs that I had had, these big birth heads were humongous And if you really didn't understand them, you might have been embarrassed to bring them to the golf course. What is the matter with you? Can't you hit the ball with the with a normal uh wooden driver? You need that big metal uh thing uh on the end of your on the end of your shaft there to hit the ball. So unless you understood that that's where the power comes from and it enables you to really drive the ball so far so much further down the fairway than that small wooden old golf club You just wouldn't get it. You'd be ashamed of using the big birth. Well, that's this idea with the power of God for salvation. Paul has this gospel which is being unfolded, which Jesus Christ is enabling him to unfold. And it's new. It's really not new, but it's the way that it's being presented now with with Jesus Christ having gone to the cross, having died on the cross, having risen from the dead, now ascended to sit at God's right hand That's new and it's it's different as the Jews perceived it, and it's certainly completely new to the to the Gentiles. But Paul's not ashamed of it. because it's it's God's power for salvation. Think of God's power just for a moment. When you think of it, what do you consider? Maybe you think of the creation account, calling into existence that which did not exist. Maybe hanging the sun or setting each star in place and giving it a name. Maybe you think of breathing life into Adam or creating Eve out of Adam's rib. Maybe the ability to calm winds and waves, maybe walking on the water, maybe bringing the dead to life. Yes. Yes, to maybe bring the dead to life. The gospel is the word of God through which he effectively and powerfully and irresistibly calls sinners, dead sinners, to himself through the Lord Jesus Christ by the work of the Spirit. Think of the valley of dry bones, and not one of them truly came to life until Ezekiel prophesied over them. until the word of God goes out over the dry bones. Then they become this magnificent army of God The gospel of God is the powerful means used by him to save sinners. This is the way John Murray puts it. The message of the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. God saves through the message of the gospel. For since in the wisdom of the world, through its wisdom, Did not come to know God. God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 20 It is all powerful. It is effective. God has chosen to use it to save. his people. Well, that's the broad brush answer to why Paul is not ashamed, but now he drills down for us, which helps us, which is going to help us As we seek to tell others about Jesus Christ, why was Paul not ashamed? Three sub-points to that, to that broad brush statement that it's the power of God for salvation to everyone. First, the gospel reveals the righteousness of God. Secondly, it reveals the wrath of God. That's that sandwich that we were talking about. And in the middle, the gospel reveals the life of God That's the middle part. Well, first, the gospel reveals the righteousness of God. That's what it does. Right? The purpose of the gospel, the powerfulness of the gospel is in the fact that it does reveal the righteousness of God. The bread, the first slice of bread, is the righteousness of God revealed. Alright, well, what is that? We see his righteousness in the garden, don't we? As Adam was given a covenant to keep, when it was transgressed, the righteousness and the justice of God was put on display immediately We see the righteousness of God in his commandments. We read them this morning. The call to live according to his holiness. We see the righteousness of God revealed as he reveals to us our own sinfulness. For the wretchedness of our sin does not really hit the depths of our hearts unless and until we can appreciate the perfect righteousness of God. Thus the righteousness of God is revealed in the daily need for animal sacrifices during the existence of animal of the nation of Israel, morning, evening, morning, evening. What's going on? The sinfulness of the people is being recognized, but the righteousness of God is burning forth, shining out. We see the righteousness of God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who lives that life of righteousness which Adam refused to live. In the Gospel of Christ, we see his purity lived out amidst the greatest temptations known to mankind. In Christ, we have revealed the graphic display of righteousness as he goes to the cross and suffers righteously. according to the will of his father, for all those who sinned against God and trust in him Do you see? Do you see that the gospel reveals the righteousness of God But that's only the first piece of bread, isn't it? The second is that it reveals the wrath of God. For in it, verse 17, the righteousness of God is revealed. Verse 18, we could kind of say there's an ellipsis here. For in it, those words aren't there, I'm adding them, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. The wrath of God was revealed in the garden, wasn't it? As God descends, so to speak. As he enters the garden, as he engages now with sinners, his wrath is revealed He says to the woman, I will greatly multiply your sorrow and your conception. In pain you will bring forth children to Adam. It says, cursed is the ground for your sake, and toil you shall eat it all the days of your life, both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the herb of the field, and sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Wrath of God being revealed to Adam and Eve, punishment being meted out as a result of their sins, justice in a part. being given. But that probably wasn't the worst. Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the Garden of Eden. To till the ground from which he was taken. So he drove out the man. There's the wrath of God. Separation from him Separation from the life giver, the life sustainer. Separation from life itself Well, the wrath of God was also revealed in prophecy, wasn't it? Throughout the prophets uh the people of Israel, of the nation of Israel are being told again and again and again, return to God. And if you don't return to God, this is what will befall you the wrath of God. Joel puts it this way, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness, like The morning clouds spread over the mountains, the people come, great and strong, the like of whom has never been, nor will there ever be any such after them, even for many successive generations of fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, and behind them them a desolate wilderness, surely nothing shall escape them. The gospel reveals the wrath of God in prophecy. And the wrath of God was certainly revealed in the destruction of Jerusalem. Joel foretold the destruction, and now in lamentations We see the aftermath of the destruction of Jerusalem, the wrath of God poured out upon that place where he had put his name The roads to Zion mourn because no one comes to the set of feasts. Worship is over. All her gates are desolate, her high priests sigh, her virgins are afflicted, and she is in bitterness. Her adversaries has become the master, her enemies prosper. The Lord has afflicted her because of the multitude of her transgressions. Her children have gone into captivity. Before the enemy. Wrath of God revealed in the destruction of Jerusalem. And the wrath of God certainly was revealed at the cross. The voice of Lord Jesus Christ And he cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Is that not revealing the wrath of God as it's poured out upon him? Yes, the wrath is probably most powerfully shown, not necessarily in the destruction of Jerusalem But in the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. So we see the sandwich The gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes why, how Well, it reveals the righteousness of God, and it reveals the wrath of God, both together. And in a sense, just like a sandwich, it presses in upon the middle And it, in a sense, it brings the middle to the front. It makes the middle the point of emphasis And it makes the middle that which we should be hanging on this afternoon. Yes, we want to understand the righteousness of God which was revealed from faith for faith or from faith to faith. We want to see the wrath of God as it's revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. And then we want to see that both of those things together now draw us to this end. The gospel reveals the life of God. There's only one right response to these two things, the the righteousness of God revealed, the wrath of God revealed. There's only one response which rightly understands the righteousness and the wrath that are revealed in the gospel. The just shall live by faith. That's it. That's it. Paul seemingly and likely quotes from Habakkuk. Nobak at chapter 2, behold the proud. His soul is not upright in him, but the just shall live by his faith. I think many times when a New Testament author quotes or eludes to an Old Testament passage uh the spirit is is calling the reader to dig back, to remember back, and to pull pull that scripture up and into the text, at least the the concept. of the Old Testament text. And here the concept of the Old Testament text is this contrast that the proud being representative of the one who does not live by faith, but by the thought that that he can earn life, the thought that he can somehow achieve and sustain life in his own goodness and power, the thought that he can We don't earn the favor of God because he's a good person or that he does keep the law or traditions. But that is death. Behold, the proud is the description of one who remains dead, one whose soul is not upright. That's exactly what the prophet Habakkuk said. The proud is the one whose soul is not upright, who's not right before God, who's outside of the Lord Jesus Christ, the one One who has not humbled himself before God. And the contrast is with the one who lives by faith The one who has humbled himself before God, the one who has confessed himself a sinner worthy of death, the one who has trusted only in the Lord Jesus Christ. For salvation, this one, this one will live. This one who rightly understands the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith and the wrath of God revealed from heaven against all ungodliness. The only possible response is to live by Faith. That is life in God. That is life in the Lord Jesus Christ, the giver and the sustainer of life. He is the way, the truth, and the life As Adam received life through the very breath of God, breathed into his nostrils. As Adam was not alive until God breathed life into his body of clay, we also have true life. only in God. And this can only be had by faith. This is the way that Haldane puts it. The grand object of the Apostle is to show that man, having lost his own righteousness and thereby fallen under condemnation, God has provided for him a righteousness. It's his righteousness. You see how they is understanding the righteousness and the wrath together fallen under condemnation, God has provided for him a righteousness, the complete fulfillment of the law and all its threatenings and all its precepts. Yes, the gospel requires a response. I think that's Paul, Paul's point. The righteousness, the wrath, they work to press together to bring forth the right response. It is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Response required of gospel is faith. Murray puts it this way, salvation is not accomplished irrespective of faith. Salvation with which Paul is going to deal in this epistle has no reality, has no validity, it has no meaning apart from faith. That's John Murray Response is guaranteed. We will respond to the gospel. God's word will not return void. So the only question the only question is what does it mean to live by faith? We might think that This is limited. It means that the righteous are saved by faith alone. And that's a true statement. That live means being entered into eternal life and I wouldn't quarrel with you too much But to live is means that on judgment day, that if one professes faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, that you then will enter into glory and be saved solely upon faith in Him. But I think that might be too narrow a reading. For it omits the application of of this passage to us today. In the period of the last days before Jesus Christ returns. We think of this passage and we think of opening up the Sermon on the Mount and and we can spend much time thinking about this and meditating upon this, and I think it's good and right to do. I think the real question for us is how do we live by faith today? Yes, we must have faith in order to enter into glory. We must have faith in order to be saved on Judgment Day, yes, of course. But how do we live by faith today? I think Jesus Christ teaches us in the Sermon on the Mount that we live by faith today by spending time in prayer. The Lord Jesus Christ gives his disciples the model prayer and teaches them the model prayer, but this model prayer is full of faith. It's really full of a profession of faith or trust in the Lord. So to live by faith today, I think means, at least in part, to be spending time in prayer. It means storing up treasures in heaven. Not here on earth. We don't pray in front of others. We don't give gifts in front of others to be known by others, to be rewarded by others here in this place. No, we We pray in our prayer closet. We give gifts without the right hand knowing what the left hand is doing, or maybe it's the opposite way, I'm not sure. But the idea is we're storing up treasures in heaven. That's living by faith I think living by faith means putting aside worry. That God knows what you need even before the thought in your mind hits the tip of your tongue. That we would not be worried about our clothing, our bank accounts, our jobs, our health. God knows what we need. That we would put aside worry, that we would seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. I think that's living by faith today, and I think loving your enemy. is another aspect of living by faith. And I think that all requires prayer. But I think in part that's what Paul speaks about. For our faith is not only for judgment day. It is. It is for that. But it's also for today. Well, praise be to God that He's given us this passage, a short passage for us to consider this afternoon but a full passage, and one we really haven't even begun to unpack. But we praise God, we thank God that his righteousness has been revealed From faith to faith. That his wrath has been revealed from heaven. So that we would be moved. To live today by faith and not be ashamed of the gospel for it is is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Amen.