Again, the text we'll be looking at this morning is Luke 2 verse 14. And uh I will be discussing perhaps a little different transition. Translation of that verse than you find there in either your King James or your New King James version. But here's what we have in the New King. James Version. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men. It was probably fifty-five years ago or more that I remember some uh Christmas related things that happened. Uh and it was probably again fifty-five, maybe more years than that that we our first record player. Some of you probably don't even know what a record player is. But it was a big deal it was a big deal. And uh I don't think we even had the LPs, the thirty three RPM things that that was really advanced stuff. Uh we had some of the forty-five uh RPMs, these little uh dark records and uh And uh they had some novelty uh humor things scattered in. I remember we had the regular kind of stuff, Bing Crosby singing White Christmas and the whoofin' poofs and then there there was this novelty thing That was a version of The Night Before Christmas sung by a guy who sort of had a trade name called Jorgi Jorgensen. He's supposed to be this uh Swedish fellow from the mid Middle West who doesn't pronounce his J's as Jays. So he's Jorgi Jorgensen. And uh uh he sings yingle bells. And the night before Christmas, he has his own version And he's describing how the family has all gathered, people that wouldn't talk to each other throughout the rest of the year. but they're gathered. And uh uh suddenly there begins to develop this argument. And he's doing it to the the poetry, the cadence of the night before Christmas. And uh he says, uh then he hears the radio playing and Gabriel Heather saying Peace on earth, goodwill toward men, and just about then somebody slugged Uncle Ben. And I think that captures something of the dilemma that we face when we read verse 14 here. Peace on earth, goodwill toward men. How much good will toward men do you really see in the world? And there's even uh uh a Christmas song uh uh I think it's I heard the bells on Christmas Day that that ask the question, you know, where is this goodwill towards men? Uh we have nice center Christmas stories in which uh maybe some Grinch or Ebenezer Scrooge uh turns around or something. But uh we don't see. a lot of goodwill towards men. And then when you read the other texts that I read this morning, we see that uh there's another set of creatures, probably angels. in Revelation, that at some point are given a mission to take peace from the earth And if you look at what's going on, you could say they're doing a pretty good job. Uh Jesus said there would be wars and rumors of wars till the day that he comes. So what is this message Peace on earth, goodwill towards men, that we find in verse 14. By the way, that Gabriel Heather, I never did understand understand who that guy was. But evidently during World War II, there was this radio personality and columnist who wanted to bring an uplifting message to people. People, in the midst of the real fear that existed. And you have to understand that war is a fearsome thing. Most of us have not really been involved in anything like it. But war is truly a horrible thing. It's when you see All of the ordinary civil restraints removed, and the normal police and law courts and societal restraints no longer capable of holding back the violence of men And if there are disciplined armies, that's the most you can hope. And if there are undisciplined armies then it's just madness and chaos. So that's I think part of that context for Gabriel Heater that we are entertained by conflict. There are a lot of movies that uh surround conflict and war, but we get weary of it and fearful of it And worn down by it after a while. And so when this message comes, and when we hear words like peace on earth, goodwill to Towards men. It has a certain refreshing sound to it. But when you say peace Let's start with that word. Is peace at any price something that we really want? That was the question that was asked during the Vietnam conflict. And here's the irony. Peace, peace, peace. And then you're swinging your peace sign to hit somebody who disagrees with you. Peace at any price that yields a new conflict. No, I disagree with you. And so you have an argument or a debate or a demonstration, piece at any price versus peace, only just peace. So the human spirit does not have the ability to acquire peace within it Because we know that we are fallen, that we have a war going on inside us Many people do not even have peace with themselves. There's conflict in their souls. And while we tend to love ourselves above all other things, there are people that also have a hatred Of themselves or a struggle in themselves, a war going on inside of them. So, what is this verse talking about? Well, first of all, there is a difference between the King James Version and the English Standard Version. The English Standard Version reads something like this: Glory to God in the highest, and on earth, peace among those with whom He is pleased. Huh. That's an interesting difference Let me read it again. Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace among those with whom he is pleased Yeah, that is sort of different, isn't it? And I think the English Standard Version captures something That is closer to not only our experience and historical reality, but the proper text. of the Bible. This is a question over one letter. Uh a sigma in Greek, an S, if you want to change it to English. And that makes a little bit of a grammatical difference as to whether you're going to look at this uh uh good will or good pleasure as something that is uh nominative or genitive. I won't get into the grammar. I'm not that good of a grammarian myself. But uh it has an effect on how you translate it. And so the the the better manuscripts would appear to have this reading where Eudokia should be Eudokias. Add an S or a Sigma to the And it changes a little bit the position of how you understand the way in which the peace is being directed. Peace among those with whom God is well pleased, I believe, is the idea. Good pleasure or good will, technically you could translate it either way But when you look at the rest of the reading of Scripture and the way in which these words are used, these different forms of Eudokio or Eudokios in the Greek You find that in many instances, or at least in some important ones, the point being made, or the emphasis falls upon God's good pleasure. God's good pleasure. Philippians two verse three. Philippians two verse thirteen For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. Same word there. God is working in you to do his good pleasure. Now the word his is added, but it's added for the sake of us English speaking. The idea is clearly there. God to do good pleasure. Whose good pleasure? It's God's good pleasure. Now, there's two ways in which we can think of God's good pleasure. There is the sense in which we are all called to be well pleasing to God. We ought to try to please God, to be a God pleaser instead of a man pleaser. And that's true. That's a valid understanding of what our life should be about and what our calling is, but when you see this emphasis on God's good pleasure You begin to see that the emphasis falls on God's sovereignty, on God's good pleasure, be that which influences us. so that we can then live a life that is pleasing to him. It is God's pleasure to work in certain people, the change, the the needed change, the transformation that is required before we can ever do anything that is pleasing to in his sight. That's sovereign grace. So when you find in Ephesians 1, you'll find this word used, I think, at least a couple of times. The emphasis in Ephesians 1 is on God's sovereignty, God's good will, his good pleasure, his plan A plan that he found pleasing to himself, his sovereign plan. That moves to act upon people in history to transform and change them It is God who works in us. It is God who works in us to will and to do. is good pleasure. We don't have the capacity in ourself. Well, I could do God's will if I just wanted to, but I don't want to. Some Uh people have argued about the issue of free will. I don't want to get too deep into the the depths of the theology, but I still remember A preacher who says there's only one problem, the willer has to get changed. The willer has to get changed. Because by nature, if you're wondering why you want to go your own way And why before you became a Christian you didn't particularly want to have anything to do with God, it was because your water was defective. Your will was defective. And when God does a work of grace, he changes us so that our hearts Our minds, our will, and yes, even our emotions are affected. And directed back in the proper path That we might will and do his good pleasure. So, this particular verse, peace on earth Among men of his good pleasure, I think is pointing to the fact that you're not going to find peace Where people are not embraced within the good pleasure of God. That's why there's conflict. That's why peace is easily taken from the earth. But there's a challenge in there, isn't there? Because You'd say, where are the people of God's good pleasure? Well, wouldn't they be in God's church? They should be They should be. And where there's a true church of people who are called by God, who surrendered their lives to Jesus Christ, there ought to be harmony there. There should be peace among those people. The only thing is some of us are a little slower coming around than others Sometimes we want to see the right thing done and we have our idea of what the right thing is. And our idea of the right thing is different from the other fellas or the other womans or whoever. You say, what's wrong with them? Why don't they get with the program? And the problem is that we all need to get with the program. We all need to recognize that we stand in need of God's grace and forgiveness. And maybe that other person is lagging behind and causing some problems. But our first response shouldn't be, well then let's get rid of them. Our first response should be, let's pray for them and be patient with them. I say that someone as someone who's not particularly patient. I say that as someone who knows that it is not easy to deal with people. Pastors know that. It's not easy to deal with deal with people. And you know that. You know that. But we're always reminded that it is God's grace that changed us It's God's grace who took us when there was every reason to be impatient with us And so it's a calling to us to be patient and to seek the peace and the purity and the unity. Unity of the body of Christ, to be sure. Some people are in the visible truth. Church who are not part of the mystical body of Christ, who don't have the Holy Spirit living in them. And at some point they either will leave or Or perhaps be told that they are not part of that body, but uh we don't have the infallible understanding to just Just go around making those judgments at will. We stand in need of God's grace to purify his church And part of that purification is that we show grace and mercy towards people the way we would want God to show grace. and mercy towards us. So when you hear the words peace on earth, good will towards men, you might need to translate that a little differently, but you can You can also say, you know, I will seek to have goodwill towards my brothers and sisters in Christ, those who name his name, because God has shown his good will toward me Me peace on earth among those of God's good pleasure That's a whole different way of looking at it. Now, the shepherds who heard this message I think we're just beginning the course of understanding. How much did they understand? I think probably their first impression was, what on earth is happening here? I don't think They had a fully developed theology after this amazing break into history The angel of the Lord sometimes appeared to individuals in the Old Testament. And uh we know there were three angels that appeared in the camp of Abraham on one occasion. But this was a Very unique breaking into history. Here you see heaven opened, you see not just the angel of Lord. You see even more than Isaiah saw in Isaiah chapter 6, where he saw these exalted angels we call cherubim. Or seraphim is another way that is sometimes rendered, you find a multitude of the heavenly army The heavenly hosts. This is an announcement like no other announcement. God sends angels as announcers. Announcers to introduce some new thing that God is doing in history. And when he does it, he sometimes does it Does it in this peculiar way that he just announces it to a few obscure people? Samson's mother. Confirm it to Samson's father. Sometimes you say, why does God not do it more publicly? Well, he saves that job for his people Honor to be. We're the ones who are to make it really public. But there are a few individuals who see this exalted thing that happens from heaven. But these nameless shepherds, they see something that is unlike an announcement that was ever made from heaven before. They see a multitude of the heavenly hosts. And so what are they told? Well, a savior is being born. This day in the city of David The Christ, the one who was promised long ago, a Savior who is Christ the Lord Now, whether they fully understood that this Christ was God, I don't know if they got that point at that point. But they were being put on that pathway when Christ is announced as the Lord. And then they go to Bethlehem to see the parents and the babe, the child in the manger. And Mary has heard the message, and she has some understanding that I'm sure she is still working through too. But just as the shepherds had an incomparable experience, Mary had an incomparable miracle bird. There have been miracle births before. I mentioned Samson, but there There were women in the patriarchal line who were barren, who could not bear children, and God opened their womb. And he saved this religion. Unusual miracle for Abraham and his wife. He's about a hundred, she's about ninety. Past the time for having normal relations, and certainly past the time for being able to conceive. And there's a wonderful miracle birth But it wasn't a virgin conception. This is the incomparable work of God, preparing people to understand that This is an incomparable Christ. A savior beyond comparison. A savior beyond politics. Peace has been the alleged aspiration of all kinds of people. The Pax Romana be the Roman peace. Yeah, we'll get rid of some pirates for you. But it's going to be peace on our terms. Israel wasn't too thrilled with the Pax Roman They wanted a peace for Israel in which Israel would control the situation. Communism promised peace You know what that meant? Peace from class struggle, and you're gonna do it our way. Be no more conflict between classes because we're going to get rid of those classes. And a few heads are going to roll along the way Let's be at peace, do it my way. And that doesn't create peace. So when God brings peace, how does He do it? He starts by bringing a baby into the world And it climaxes with a young man dying on a cross. Because that's what it takes to have peace with God. A payment for our sins. A reconciliation with God. Because the worst enmity is not people fighting each other It's when we decide to be at peace with sin, and at peace with the devil in opposition to God. Peace with the world. If it doesn't involve peace with God, it's an un It's a blasphemy. And God will have none of it. God will take peace from the earth before he allows that. But that's not the only alternative. There is peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. When we receive Him, we receive forgiveness of sins, we receive the peace of God which passes understanding. We receive the ability to live with ourselves And with each other, and in some measure, even with those that we're ultimately at war with. Because we're not out there to pick a fight. We're out there to advance the glory of one who gave his life. We might be saved. Glory to God in the highest on earth. Peace Among those with whom God is well pleased? How do you know if God is well pleased with you? Have you trusted in In Jesus Christ, have you surrendered to him? T is well pleased with you from all eternity And he's making you well pleasing throughout time, till the day he comes again, and you are rendered Spotless. You're already spotless legally when Christ died for you and you received Him. But the glory To be saved to sin no more. Now that is glory to God in the highest. May that be part of your life. And the peace that you find now, at this time, and for everyone. Let us pray. Lord our God, we thank you for your peace which passes understanding. We confess that there are all kinds of things that we allow ourselves to divert be diverted by Sometimes they are everyday irritations, but sometimes they are even more bitter enmities than Fail to recognize that all are enemies of yours until your grace changes our hearts. Help us, O Lord, to be The peacemakers. The peacemakers who bring the peace of Jesus by magnifying his Life and seeing it live through us. Extending the grace of forgiveness and hope to a fallen world that needs your grace. And if anyone here has And experience that peace, that grace, that forgiveness. We pray you would work your work in them, that they may know you and the joy of you Now, O Lord, we pray that you will be with this congregation. We pray for the needs of this people. We ask, O Lord, that you will be with those that have ongoing health needs. We pray for those who have The special needs in their relationships where they need to healing and peace. We pray that you will be with those who have need in their financial lives, that you'll supply them with their needs and the employment they stand in need of. We pray for those who struggle with disappointment, loss or doubt with infirmity. Help them to know that your love is unchanging, that circumstances do not define uh uh how much your love is but that your love is seen and that you so loved the world and them that you gave your only begotten We pray, O Lord, that you will bring this comfort and that you'll bring the message of salvation and peace in Christ To this dead and dying world. Grant that renewing and revival may take place in our community, our land, and in this world. And help those who struggle because they are persecuted for righteousness. say. Help those who particularly have a more outward persecution in places like China, North Korea, Muslim Jerusalem lands, other places. Oh Lord, comfort and help them and deliver them. We pray, O Lord, for fellow Christians in these other lands Again, we think of uh uh the our pastor friend in South America, and we think of uh our own missionaries In the OPC, the McCabes, who no doubt want to seek your direction, and those who would want to continue laboring in difficult. Difficult circumstances, guide and help and encourage each one. Help us to see you work even in the middle Of what is outward conflict to change the hearts and minds and lives of many, to bring them subject to the grace of our Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. Lift up your name and bring about your purposes, and we pray that you will send your Son Jesus to come quickly and that all here may be ready for that coming. We pray this in the name of Him who taught us to pray together, saying Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth As it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. And lead us not into temptation But deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen