And now for the lesson for this evening, turn to the book of Amos as we continue our study through the book of Amos, Amos chapter 6. Tonight we look at verses 9 through 14, Amos 6, 9 through 14. And let us hear the word of the Lord. Then it shall come to pass that if ten men remain in one house they they shall die. And when a relative of the dead With one who will burn the bodies, picks up the bodies to take them out of the house, he will say to one inside the house, are there any more with you? And someone will say, none, and he will say, hold your tongue, for we dare not mention the name of the Lord. For the behold, the Lord gives a command. He will break the great houses into bits and the little house into pieces. Do horses run on rocks? Does one plow there with oxen? Yet you have turned justice into gall, and the fruit of righteousness into wormwood. You rejoice over Lodabar, who say, Have we not taken Kanarim for ourselves by our own strength? But behold, I will raise up a nation against you, O house of Israel, says the Lord of hosts, and they will afflict you from the entrance of Hamath To the Valley of the Erabah. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word for this evening. And uh the focus will be tonight on verses 12 through 14. And God, as he continues to uh address the people of the northern kingdom, the the Hebrews who have so far continued to defy God uh refuse to listen to his uh his many pleas for them to repent of their sins and turn to him He now poses a couple of questions to them. Those questions we find, first of all, noted in verse 12. Shall horses run upon rocks, and will one plough there with an oxen? Now What God is doing with these two questions is forcing his audience to think about the utter foolishness it would be To let your horse run on a rock. You know, when uh horses, we just had the Belmont Stakes, they don't run on rocks They run on nice fine dirt. Nice fine powder. It's deep. If you've ever been to a racetrack, it's not just right on the surface. It's several inches deep when they put their hoofs down. And that's because, you see, for a horse to run on a rock, they're not made to run on rocks. They're not built that way. The best possible thing that could happen to a horse running on a rock is for the horse to bruise their heel. The most likely thing that would happen is the horse would break its leg. If you let a horse run on a rock, you're in danger of having that horse break its leg. Now, in the context of this being Israel being an agrarian, primarily an agrarian nation, Where people have farms. Well, they depend on horses. They depend on horses for a number of things, for transportation. for uh sometimes using them around the farm to do plowing, um and sometimes uh for uh carrying goods to market. I mean If you uh, you know, to uh even today, if a horse breaks its leg, you can't fix that They there's n I mean it's it's almost impossible to fix a broken leg in a horse. And so A horse was a valuable thing to these people. And anybody who would let his horse run around on rocks is an utter fool. He's putting his whole life and the life of his family in jeopardy. Horses today don't come cheap. I'm sure they didn't come cheap back then. They were they were and they're expensive to maintain You don't want to get a horse for your kid unless you've got lots of money. Because it's it's it's it's it I mean they they take a lot of work. They're beautiful creatures And they're they're not meant to be walking on rocks. And so you don't put them in, you don't expose them to that kind of danger. And so God is saying to the the people of Israel who for the most part you know know about horses they know about farming that some make their livelihood that way saying, you know, what would you think of somebody who takes his horse out and lets him run on a rock? What you you think that guy is is stupid. You think he was an idiot. You think he would be a fool to do that. There's too much at stake It's in his self-interest to protect his horses from harm. And no way would he let the horses run over a rock. But the second question Is will one plow there with oxen? Well, what's the there there? It's again rocks. Are you gonna set your oxen out on a field of rocks? To ask them to plow that? No. You know, you want to I mean first of all Uh there's there's several problems with that. Oxen, you know, they're they're pretty sturdy animals. They're not gonna, generally speaking, they're not gonna break their legs if they're walking over rocks. But You don't go to the field that has rocks to plow it in the first place. You look for a field that has is is more fertile. Because we know even from Jesus' day that if you scatter seed onto rocks, it will germinate there. You have to plow the land. You have to prepare the land. And so, you know, if you put the if you put the oxen out there uh where the rocks are, uh And and you expect to be able to plow that land, it's going to be difficult. And even if you're successful, it may not be the kind of land that's going to support a crop It may take you a whole lot longer time to plow that field than it will be to plow a field with less rocks in it. And not only that You can also break your plow. And once again, you know, these animals are not pets They're part of the farm's existence. If you lose one of these animals, you're losing productivity, but you may also be losing next year's wheat Or this summer's corn. It may affect you detrimentally. So, so These animals are valuable. They're valuable in many ways to the farmers. It's against his self-interest to expose his animals to harm And certainly in this kind of environment where Jesus is talking to these people in the northern kingdom Many of whom uh s some of whom are successful merchants, but others are very uh they they know about farming. Uh If you were to ask them what would be your opinion of somebody who did this, they would come up and they would say to you, well, that guy is stupid You know, it wouldn't it's it's no brainer. He's a fool to do these kinds of things. And and so uh you you begin to understand um What God is saying now, when you think about this, these two questions, he's saying to Israel, don't you be fools. I have been speaking to you about matters that are essential regarding life. Don't be a fool and keep ignoring what I'm saying. Um I'm calling you to repent. And I'm I keep calling you to repent. You wouldn't do you wouldn't let a horse run on the rocks and you wouldn't let the oxen plough in the field because you'd readily say that was foolish. You'd better stop you'd better start listening to me. You better stop ignoring me because That's the kind of fool you are if you ignore me. Okay? Now then he goes on in the second half of verse 12 and says For you have turned judgment into Gaul and the fruit of righteousness into Hamlock. Now, let's try to appreciate what is being said here. The word uh judgment is not uh It's one of those words that can be translated judgment or just test. And I don't know if any of you have it translated justice. But remember what I said was one of the major issues that was going on in the society, in the society of the of the people of the Northern Kingdom. They were oppressing people. They were taking those who were the poor, the downtrodden, the oppressed, and making life miserable for them. That's not God's justice. That is not just in the eyes of God. You have turned God's justice into gall. And what is gall? It's a bitter substance. And who is tasting gall? Well, it's the people who are being oppressed. You, Israel, you have taken my justice You've said that you're my people and you're living in such a way that you're causing many people to be oppressed. And they are they're bitter about it. And not only, they're not just bitter at you, your actions are a poor reflection on me. Because you say you believe in me. And then he goes on to say, and the fruit of righteousness into Hamlock. It's a. It i again it's kind of poetic language, but what are the fruits of righteousness? W uh love, joy, peace, patience, goodness. Um The people of God are to do what? They're to love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength, and they're to love their neighbor as themselves. How are you loving? How are you showing the fruits of righteousness to those you're oppressing? You've taken what I stand for, and you've made it poison. That's what hemlock is. It's fatal poison. That's supposedly what Socrates drank. And died. You're you've taken Well, I hope you I hope you get the picture of what what God is saying here about about what Israel is doing. My justice and my righteousness you have perverted. You have turned my justice, you've turned my righteousness into gall and into poison. as you have oppressed the poor and the needy. It's left an extremely bitter taste in some people's mouths, and it's actually left the bitter taste in God's mouth as well. You've turned that which is beautiful, my justice and my righteousness. into poison for the souls of people that you've oppressed You've done that which kills instead of done that which blesses. And your disobedience to me The God's word is ultimately against your self-interest. You keep pursuing this issue, and you're destroying yourself. You're not you keep doing that which is wrong and you won't do that which is right. You're committing spiritual suicide by being Hardhearted. She is foolish. Israel, this nation, is foolish to the point Of utter ridiculousness, as she continues to pursue the course of unjust treatment, even after God exposes her. She is poisoning in a spiritual sense. She's poisoning everything she comes in contact to. Okay, so then we come to verse 13, and it says Ye which rejoice over Lodabar, which say, We have not taken have we excuse me, have we not taken to us Kanarim By our own strength? I hope you can appreciate there's a there's a pun going on here in this passage. The word Dabar, that the the in Hebrew that means A word or a thing. A word is a debar. A thing is a debar in Hebrew. Whenever you see in the Old Testament, because this is the only place you'll see it Wherever you see the word low, L-O attached to another word, that means no. Low is translated no. So the pun is you have taken low the bar. You have taken No thing. You have taken nothing. Israel is rejoicing that somehow she has managed to capture A town called nothing. And she is uh Able to do that, and it's a town, it was a town along the border with Syria. When she is rejoicing over that She's rejoicing over doing something which before God is nothing. God is actually mocking Israel's self-confidence because she's been able to capture a town called nothing. And then he goes on and says, and you've captured and rejoiced in taking Kanaram. Probably another town. It may be a bit of a stronger town. But what's happened is This has resulted in Israel boasting about this. We've done this in our own strength. Look at how How potent we are. We can take a town called nothing. We can take the town called Kanara. And look at how powerful we are. And and God is laughing. And God is laughing. And it's like they're it's like they're thinking that because they have this military ability to do this, that they have this power and ability to defeat someone else, that they can misplace their confidence and their hope. Their confidence and their hope is not in God. It's in themselves. They're boasting about themselves. And whenever you boast about yourself, you're not going to be inclined to repent of your sins. You're not going to be inclined to turn to the Lord. What you're going to do is you're going to continue to trust in yourself. Continue to trust in the things that your hands have done. Remember that that hymn, not what my hands have done can save my guilty soul? Well, Israel's got that all reversed. All that my hands have done will save my guilty soul. That's the song they're singing, and the song they have written. And this whole idea of trusting in oneself never, never in the Bible leads to repentance. And the humbling of the heart. Jeremiah verse 923 says, Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man glory in his wisdom. Neither the mighty man glory in his might. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. The passage we read earlier from Luke. What was the guy doing as he was building the barn? Luke chapter 12, I will say to my soul, you have much goods laid up for many years Take your ease, eat, drink, and be merry. But God said to him, You're a fool. This night your soul shall be provided of you, then who shall these things be which you have provided, which you have trusted in, which you have thought were going to give you ease of life All such rejoicing and boasting in our own strength is evil, according to James 4 and verse 16. Verse fourteen of this text. But behold, I will raise up against you a nation. O house of Israel, says the Lord the God of hosts, they shall afflict you from the entering of Hebh unto the river of wilderness. It always takes a good bit of time to understand these geographical areas. I mean we just we don't we can't we where's hemath? We don't know where he is But if you take time and you research it a little bit, you're going to find that what God is saying Is, first of all, I'm raising up against you a nation. A nation. And we know historically speaking it was the powerful Assyrian nation. It says, he shall afflict you. The literal Hebrew word for afflict there is he shall squeeze you. Israel is going to have the squeeze put on her. By Assyria and Hamath Is a city in the north, up near Lebanon So Israel and the Arabah is a valley in the south. So what God is saying is, okay, you got this, you're really trusting in the fact that you you have taken this little city this low debar and you have taken Kanarin and you're powerful and you're great. You got these two small little pieces of land that don't amount to a hill of beans. But I'm going to bring against you a nation. And that nation is literally going to squeeze the life out of you. And it's going to happen from the very northern part of your territory to the very southern part of your territory. In other words, there's going to be an extensive judgment in which Israel will reap the whirlwind for her sins. And so It just amazes me. I hope it amazes you as you look through the book of Amos How many times, in how many different ways, how creative God is in trying to bring his people to repentance and faith. That amazes me. It amazes me that God goes to that length. He just keeps after them and after them and after them. He doesn't let them rest. It's one after another. It's variety of different ways. It also amazes me how Dead we are. How dead in trespasses and sins we are That after so many pleadings, we're still not done in Amos. There's more to come. After so many different ways that God pleads with Israel to repent, she just won't do it. And that, again Ought to say to you, it ought to really in one sense encourage you. Because if you're a believer and you've repented of your sins, it's not because you were so smart And figured it out. It's because God gave you the gift of faith, and God gave you the gift of repentance Amen. Let us pray. Father, we gather together tonight. Um we gather together tonight, O Lord, humbled. By your word, acknowledging, O Lord, that though we're talking about the Israelites of old Nevertheless, Lord, this is the common condition of all men. It's where we found ourselves before you brought us out of our stubbornness and rebellion and gave us the light of life in Christ. Father, we thank you for your abundant mercy to us. And we plead, O Lord God, that you will not stop Um seeking um to bring um All of your elect children to the knowledge of your Son, the Savior, Jesus Christ. And you will turn our hearts our hardened hearts, that you will melt our hardened hearts. Melt those hearts with the love of God. And the mercy of God and cause us, Lord, to always have a repentant and believing heart. We pray for so many others, Lord, whose hearts are hard and whose ears are dull, that they would see and they would believe. Pour out your grace and save yet many, Lord, before you bring the judgment in Christ. We pray these things in his name. Amen.