Well, we're going to remain standing for the reading of the Old Testament for our sermon. This is Amos 5, 1 through 27. Amos. Hear this word that I take up over you in lamentation, O house of Israel. Fallen no more to rise is the virgin Israel, forsaken on her land, with none to raise her up. For thus says the Lord God, the city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left, and that which went out a hundred shall have ten left to the house of Israel. For thus says the Lord to the house of Israel, Seek me and live. But do not seek Bethel, and do not enter into Gilgal, or cross over to Beershebah, for Gilgal shall surely go into exile, and Bethel shall come to nothing Seek the Lord and live. Lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph and it devour with none to quench it for Bethel. O you who turn justice to wormwood And cast down righteousness to the earth. He who made the Pleiades and Orion and turns deep darkness into the morning and darkens The day into night who calls for the waters of the sea and pours them out on the surface of the earth. The Lord is his name Who makes destruction flash forth against the strong, so that destruction comes upon the fortress. They hate him who reproves in the gate. They abhor him who speaks the truth. Therefore, because you trample on the poor and you exact taxes of grain from him, you have built houses of hewn stone, but you shall not dwell in them. You have planted pleasant vineyards, but you shall not drink their wine, for I know how many are your transgressions, and how great are your sins You who afflict the righteous, you who take a bribe and turn aside the needy in the gate, therefore he who is prudent Well keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time. Seek good and not evil that you may live, and so that the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you, as you have said. Hate evil, love good. Establish justice in the gate. It may be that the Lord, the God of hosts, will be gracious to the remnant of Joseph. Therefore, thus says the Lord, the God of hosts, the Lord. And all the squares there shall be wailing, and all the streets they shall say, Alas, alas They shall call to the farmers to mourning and to wailing those who are skilled in lamentation. And in all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through your midst, says the Lord Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. Why would you have the day of the Lord? It is darkness and not light, as if a man fled from a lion and a bear met him. Or went into the house and leaned his hand against the wall, and a serpent bit him. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light, and gloom with no brightness in it? I hate I despise your feasts. I take no delight in your solemn assemblies. Even though you offer me your burnt offerings and grain offerings, I will not accept them. And the peace offerings of your fattened animals, I will not look upon them. Take away from me the noise of your songs to the melody of your harps. I will not listen. But let justice roll down like waters and righteousness like an ever flowing stream Did you bring to me sacrifices and offerings during the forty years in the wilderness, O house of Israel? You shall take up Sikut, your king, and Kiyun, your star god, your images that you made for yourselves And I will send you into exile beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. Thus ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. Well greetings in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ from Bel Air, Maryland. I come to you from New Covenant, a recent uh convert to the OPC. We were PCA. We changed about two years ago. But I grew up in Bowie. I married a PG girl. She's pretty and gangsta. Uh and she went to Roosevelt. I went to Spaulding. Um I grew up not far from where Pastor Cashin lives Uh it is great to be uh near my old stomping grounds. It is great to be with you, people of God. So, Amos. Amos. Amos, you might be unfamiliar with him, he prophesied at a time of power and ascendancy for both Israel and Judah. Israel had taken over Syria. So the northern kingdom had expanded. Judah had taken over the Philistine towns. Yet only decades after Amos preaching, Israel would utterly fall. The northern kingdom. Done. And Amos was neither from a prophet's family nor a priest family, but we should pay attention to him because he was a husbandman. He was a horticulturalist and shepherd. He knew about making things grow, multiply, and thrive. Israel knew that they were growing and multiplying and thriving because of their prosperity, but actually they were being judged by God. They're being allowed a deathbed glimpse at what thriving power might have looked like before they were wiped out by a waxing Assyrian power. So that's our context. But I have a question for you. What do you wish was perennial? What do you wish came back year after year? The Hathaway House, we're about to have to take out our Zinnia's. We have Xinias as tall as me at my house, and we're gonna have to take them out and the marigolds and impatience. I I wish they would last, but they're looking kind of struggling at this point. But the the Zinnias bloom so much They provide continual beauty. We we cut them, we bring them in our house, we bring them to church, we give them to other people. The hummingbirds, the moths, the uh the the chickadees come and eat from them and so uh they're just a great gift and I wish that they were year-round but they are not What do you wish wasn't perennial? What do you wish wasn't with us year after year? I wish temptation wasn't perennial It's always with us. Once I think I have overcome one temptation, another rises to take its place. Once I've realized the deadly peril of one temptation, another is revealed hiding in the dark all along. What if, what if, once you denied a temptation, it was forever after gone. What if every winter all your temptations died away and we put their empty husks in a rubbish pile? Wouldn't that be nice? Well, Israel herself felt perennial, like she was always going to be around. She seemed ascendant. But Amos tells a different tale. He says there is an end date for Israel. She will not be perennial. Israel will not be here year after year. There will come a year when she will fall, when she won't rise, when no allies will come to her aid. Why? Why was her end coming? Because the Lord was coming. The day of the Lord was coming. Something Israelites no doubt look forward to But they didn't realize that the Lord's presence would mean judgment for them. Here's the main thing I'm trying to tell you, people of God. The Lord's presence Spells doom or salvation depending on your heart's direction. The Lord's presence spells doom or salvation depending upon your heart's direction. What was Israel's heart's direction? For hundreds of years she had been worshiping the Lord, but not as he had ordained. Not as he had told them. Does that sound familiar? With many Christian churches in the U. S. , but they worship the Lord in ways other than he has prescribed in his word, and they think that this pleases the Lord because they mean well. Perhaps the Israelites meant well by appointing new places to worship the Lord beyond Jerusalem. If it's good to worship him in one place, let's have a lot more. Perhaps the Israelites meant well, loosening the requirements for the priesthood at Bethel and Dan, where they offered sacrifices to the Lord. Some priests good, more priests better. Mm-mm. But as because as Israel did these things The Lord sent them prophets who rebuked them, who told Israel not to disobey the Lord. And Israel hated those voices, labeled such voices troubler of Israel. And those voices were persecuted so much that they were unbeknownst to one another hiding in caves. It is said that in a nation of lies, truth is treason. That was the situation in northern Israel, and the Lord was coming. And as the Lord he comes, he judges the liars in power and ratifies the truth-tellers in hiding. The Lord came to Israel and judged her by sending her into exile under Assyria, but he saved a faithful remnant for himself who would come out of hiding because the idolatrous formal Israelite kings had been removed. The question then becomes what is your heart's direction Are you superficially following the Lord? Are you worshiping him as you have determined, not as he has determined? Are you heeding those who rebuke you from the Word? Or are you hiding those who rebuke you from the Word? If the Lord did not spare his own people with hand-picked leaders and God-authored laws, If the Lord didn't spare a people with just laws, then what will he do to our people? Look at the ratios from verse 3. The city that went out a thousand shall have a hundred left. That went out a hundred shall have ten left. The Lord only leaves ten percent to the house of Israel. What if the Lord sent a scourge that had a 90% mortality rate? That's what Amos was warning God's people about. The Lord was not going to spare his own people. You might say in response to the kingdom of Israel, the kingdom of Israel, the northern camp, that was a secessionist splinter group that split off from God's people But Israel, the northern kingdom, was God's idea. Because of government overreach. Oh, I wish we knew nothing about that. But because of government overreach and tyranny on the part of Rehoboam, the Judean king, the Lord incited Jeroboam to split the Lord incited. Jeroboam to split away with the ten tribes forming the northern kingdom. The Lord appointed this secession. And the official laws of the northern kingdom were still the Pentateuch, the law of the Lord. Now, they had added to that law to allow worship at Dan and Bethel. But the point remains, the laws on the books of the northern kingdom were written by the finger of God Himself. Sometimes in our nation We might complain about the leaders that have been picked to lead the nation. We might complain about anti-biblical laws. But get this, hand-picked leaders and biblical laws did not spell success for Israel. Did not The problem is not without, but within people. The problem lies in our hearts. Some people hypothesize that America is a city on a hill. There's no basis for that in the Word of God. But Israel literally was a city on a hill, chosen by God and set apart, really, not just metaphorically, and still they weren't spared. They were 90% destroyed. And these people had been continuing to worship the Lord in name. They went to Beershaba, a place where God appeared several times in the Old Testament. They went to Dilgal. Where the invading army of Israel had paused to obey the Lord's command and to circumcise themselves. They went to Bethel, another appearance of the Lord, but also the place where Jeroboam had set up a competing shrine. The point is, God's people We're worshiping. They're worshiping. They're not like our neighbors that are just sitting at home. These people were worshiping. They were traveling far to worship the Lord. The only problem was they weren't worshiping him as he directed. And for such a small transgression, the Lord practically wipes them out. You weren't worshiping right. 90% of your people are going to get cut off. Can you imagine? And if the Lord didn't spare his own people, with handpicked leaders, God-authored laws, then he will not spare us. Therefore, return to him and worship him according to his word. You see, the Creator sees through fake righteousness. Look at verse 7 O you who turn justice to wormwood and cast down righteousness to the earth. What do these metaphors mean? Wormwood was a bitter-tasting plant whose extract was actually poisonous. And casting righteousness to the earth meant dragging goodness through the mud, corrupting so-called righteousness. So the Lord is alleging that though Israel called what it was doing justice In actuality, their leaders were poisoning people with lies, and with court cases, they'd be finished But not judged according to the righteous law of God. And Amos is accusing, the Lord is accusing Israel of trotting out a so-called righteousness. And Taking those who acted righteously and throwing them down from their positions, kicking them out of the conversation, and heaping up abhorrence on the righteous one's name. Look at verse 10. They hate him who reproves in the gate. They abhor him who speaks the truth. Israel had become such that the leaders who gathered to debate at the gate hated reproval. They couldn't stand a contrary voice. They would sin And then a person bound by their conscience would speak up and would say something And even if the leaders suffered such a reprover to speak, you know why they would? To make fun of them To abhor him all the more at the end of the day, Israel's leaders would afflict the righteous, punishing the ones who had pure consciences, who were speaking on behalf of the Lord. They would be punished, taxed, silenced, shunned, shouted down, cowed into submission. And it would be one thing to allow this kind of limiting debate. If the poor were really being helped. So he said, hey, we just can't have contrary voices at this time. We can't be split on this. We've got to take care of the poor. We can't have all your objections raised here. You just need to be quiet for a while. We we got we got bigger things to do. We got to take care of the poor. But they weren't taking care of the poor. And leaders always ascribe to themselves great care for the poor, but in this case the poor being taxed too. Look at verse 11. It's a parallelism. The first line is synonymous with the second line. You trample on the poor is the same thing as you exact taxes of grain from him. Ooh. We got some taxes on the poor in this state. But they did in Israel too. Those who sit in high places who judge in the court of the gate would take bribes and send away the needy. And it's great to hear that this church is about the business of not sending away the needy, but feeding them instead. Thank you. And all of this injustice Despite the fact that the one who is the final judge, the Lord, made the Pleiades and Orion Maybe you've seen these in the night sky. Orion's belt is one of the first constellations that I was made known to me. That you can still look upon. It's very visible to us. And the Pleiades. You know what the Pleiades are? It's that cluster of stars. Sometimes it's called the Seven Sisters. But the Bible doesn't call it the Seven Sisters. It calls it the Pleiades. And that's right, because there's far more than seven. We see a lot as we look there, but you get out a telescope, and there's thousands, thousands of stars. And so the we can't see it. With our naked eye. But the Lord knows all that's there. Just like we can't see that righteousness is ever gonna come, but the Lord sees Next point. God prefers silence and justice. Remember what they were doing? They were shouting down, they were shunning, they were taxing, they were making fun of the righteous voices. And so instead of saying, shout all the harder. It's not what the Lord says. He recommends silence. Therefore, he who is prudent will keep silent in such a time, for it is an evil time. Beware blogging, beware tweeting Beware retweeting. Beware posting. Beware spewing your opinions for all to hear. Beware grandstanding. Beware article writing. Beware book writing. Beware picking an online fight. Beware taking a stand. The answer is not always to raise your voice in your fist when there's injustice. It's not. Biblically, it's not. Now, now the irony is not lost on me that as Amos is commending silence, what's he doing? He's speaking. And as I am commending silence, what am I doing? I am speaking. But the point still stands that we could do with much more silence in the midst of injustice. The proverbs say, even a fool who keeps silent is wise. This verse should be a pushback on all the social justice warriors who require speech on any and every topic. This is a pushback on all those who allege silence is compliance. Silence is wise when there are so many who seek to find and punish the righteous. Silence is a wise course when a Christian brother or sister frustrates you And you want to talk back to them. But sometimes you might need to be silent so that you don't sin in that instance. The pastor is preaching to himself here. And I'm not saying always be silent. Amos is not always being silent. I'm not always being silent. But we need more of that silence. How else shall we apply this word of the Lord for us today? But silence is worth little unless we seek good and not evil. Talk is worth little unless when our time comes We execute justice. We judge rightly. We judge fairly in all cases that are before you. Be they only weighing of opinions Show no partiality. Be not bribed into acquiescence. Judge rightly in the home between you and your spouse. Judge rightly in the home with your children. Judge rightly at work with all that is under your authority and in your family's budget and in your church's budget. Make sure that you are not turning away the poor, but instead Frequently looking to bless the needy. And as we do so, the Lord promises that he will be perennially with us. Always. Israel will not be perennial, but the Lord's presence will be perennial. Look at verse 14. And so the Lord, the God of hosts, will be with you. Hallelujah. He is Emmanuel, God with us. And as we pursue righteousness and welcome his presence, we know with Amos That we need grace just like the remnant of Joseph would and a gracious God wants to dwell with you perennially. Hallelujah But the Lord isn't pleased with lip service. Look at verse 16. This is a lamentation about people skilled in lamentation, being called out to the lament. And the author thinks that is lame. It's lame to be skilled, fake lamenter. The Lord doesn't need hyped up emotional verbiage. He doesn't need feelings sent his way, good energies. He's not pleased with a big show for him, and he doesn't want you to want him if all you want him for is vengeance on your enemies. Now I have said in my frustration with my family, Jesus take the wheel You ever said that before? And sounds faith-filled, right? Sounds good. Good, Nick. You know you shouldn't be driving at this moment in your interactions with your family. And you know you need some help, right? But if all you want Jesus to do is do your dirty work for you, to punish all the people that you're mad at, you've got another thing coming. Because Jesus just might take the wheel and drive the car of my life right into a massive blockade that stops me dead in my tracks. Am I sure I want Jesus to take the wheel? Are you sure you want Jesus to take the wheel? You want Jesus to come? I hear people calling. Jesus come quick. Beware. Beware because he might. We never know when the day of the Lord comes for any of us, and the Lord is not pleased with mere lip service. He wants our hearts. He wants you submitted to him today. Beware calling out to the Lord when we are in rebellion against him. The Lord despises feasts and assemblies. ostensibly in his honor, but really in honor of the one calling the assembly. In the eighties there was uh an atheist in Connecticut And he was dying, and he wanted to give a local church a lot of money to put up a steeple. And the church discussed it, and they said, no. The man didn't want to honor God, he wanted to honor himself. No, the Lord isn't interested. Neither is he interested in all the beautiful historically Christian music offered to him each year at Christmas with voices of gold and hearts of lead. If your offering to the Lord is from selfishness, self-interest, and unbelief, he hates it. He hates it. That's what he said, no matter how beautiful it is. What he'd rather have is justice. I quote from nineteen sixty-one to nineteen sixty-six The Reverend Martin Luther King Jr. wrote an annual essay for The Nation, the publication The Nation, on the state of civil rights and race relations in America. And his 1965 contribution was particularly strong. And this article appeared in the March 15, 1965 issue, and Dr. King's words ominously ring as true today as the day they were written more than forty years ago. He said, Let justice roll down like waters in a mighty stream. Said the Prophet Amos. He was seeking not consensus, but the cleansing action of revolutionary change America has made progress toward freedom, but measured against the goal, the road ahead is still long and hard. This could be the worst possible moment for slowing down. End quote And now we appreciate Martin Luther King Jr. 's calls for justice, especially for African Americans at that time. We appreciate his appeal to Scripture. And we agree that the road ahead is still long and hard. But the justice that the prophet Amos was preaching here came not from the hands of revolutionary activists. The justice referred to in Amos is not merely about racial race injustices between two groups. Amos' aim is not so small as that the Israelites would have more freedom. The righteousness that Amos speaks of is not about being culturally right. Amos is saying that the Lord Almighty will judge all those that set themselves against him in their heart. Amos is prophesying no veneer of godliness will be able to stop the judgment waterfall that will come hammering down on people from every tribe and nation that take his name in vain. But even more delightful than that truth is the truth that the Lord will not only rain justice down, but that the Lord will give righteousness out. Righteous goodness will be unstoppable, and it is righteousness that will finally have freedom to hold sway over our systems and individuals and over hearts. Hallelujah. You see, it's the gospel that takes this Amos passage and turns it on its head. The gospel flips the numbers on their head. Instead of winnowing down to a tenth, the gospel gives a hundredfold fruit. Fallen no more to rise is Israel, but risen. Risen indeed is Jesus. And justice was poisoned when it came to convicting and crucifying Christ But that was precisely how judgment came down to earth, verse 7. And the destruction prophesied by Amos passes over us in the gospel and lands on Jesus. Who became the trampled poor, so that he might be more justified in his righteous retribution? Jesus Personify the silence Amos speaks of. For the apostle says, like a sheep before his shears was silent, so he opened not his mouth. And God's very justice on Jesus was grace to us. You see, the gospel is so much greater than the Almighty passing through our midst. No, he will dwell in our midst, and we in his when he comes again. The day of the Lord was darkness for Jesus. The darkness of death reflected in the skies above. But as he led captivity captive, the light of the gospel dawned on Easter. And through his resurrection, righteousness rains down on every tribe and tongue who turn their hearts heavenward. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Lord, we need you to do business on our hearts this morning. We, even we Have been doing religion. And our hearts have been far from you. And Lord, we hear your judgment on your own people. For that. And we do not want that. We want you with us. We want the day of the Lord to be light and not darkness for us. But we know that only happens through hearts turned to you by your providential, sovereign, predestinating love. In Jesus' name. Amen.