Let us hear God's word. For when God made a promise to Abraham Because he could swear by no one greater, he swore by himself, saying, Surely blessing I will bless you, and multiplying I will multiply you. And so after he had patiently endured he obtained the promise. For men indeed swear by the greater, and an oath for confirmation is for them an end of all disputes. Thus God, determining to show more abundantly to the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by oath. that by two immutable things which it is im in which it is impossible for God to lie, We might have strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold of the hope that is before us. This hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and steadfast, and which enters the presence behind the veil. Where the forerunner has entered for us, even Jesus, having become high priest forever, according to the order of Melchizedek. Please be seated. I would like to direct your thoughts this morning to the subject matter of the perseverance of the saints. And I've entitled the sermon Perseverance by Two Immutable Things. Perseverance by Two Immutable Things. The word immutable comes up in this section of God's Word on two different occasions. It's apparent that God wants us to understand about something in our lives, something that we intersect with that is immutable. In other words, something unchangeable. There's something unchangeable, and it's so significant and so important to us that we can gain confidence and encouragement from these two immutable things. And we all know how much we need encouragement. Sometimes it's hard to be a Christian. We face on almost a regular basis someone or some agency that thumbs their noses against you because you're a Christian. We see scorn and ridicule when we dare take a stand for Christ. This doesn't count our own personal struggles with sin in our lives. Add to that Satan's ever-present deceit. And pile on top of that sudden or ongoing illness. And add to that the loss of loved ones. And add to that The fact that the list of trials never seemed to end. And then, and then, remember, our Lord Jesus said In John chapter 16, verse 33, he said, These things I have spoken to you that in me you may have peace. But in the world you shall have what? Tribulation. But be of good cheer. I have overcome the world. Not only did Jesus ref remind us To ground our faith in Him and His victory, the Apostle Paul says something similar in Acts chapter 14 verse 22, where it talks about his ministry to the churches in Galatia Antioch, Iconium, and Derby. He and Barnabas went around confirming the souls of the disciples, exhorting them to continue in the faith And reminding them that we must go through much tribulation to enter into the kingdom of God. The struggles you feel, the trials you endure, are not abnormal They are always part of the Christian experience. It may take different forms, it may take different uh uh expressions, but it's always there. It's always there because God has a plan. And the plan is that in trial and in tribulation and suffering, God refines his people's faith. God is at work polishing his gems so that they might shine and reflect the brilliance of Christ. When that great day comes that we will be with our Savior in glory. That's something to look forward to, of course. But it's not just that we wait for that great day. You're shining as lights today in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. As hard as it may be, as difficult as it may be to face all this compounding struggle that we face, and we're not the first ones Christian church has always had this issue. As hard as that is, Christian, be encouraged. Christian, be encouraged because God is with you And God has given you two immutable promises to hang your hat on. In which to place your hope, in which to ground your life as you live it in this world. And as you confront the trials and the difficulties. And so I want to take some time today to talk about These two immutable things. These two immutable things, verse 18, that will help us Persevere in this life to ultimate glory. And do not Neglect, do not miss the point that these are things that God initiated and God has given. To us. The first of the two things is recorded in verses 13 and 14. God has made a promise to Abraham God has made a promise to Abraham. And you say, a promise to Abraham. That was so many thousands of years ago. What how in the world does that connect to me? Well the promise, of course, was not just to Abraham, but also to his seed. And to his multitude of descendants. And you remember the nature of those promises. How can you forget? They're repeated over and over again in the Bible. Genesis 15, 5 is one of the places where these promises emerged to Abraham. God brought Abraham out. And brought him forth and said, Look to the heaven and tell the stars if you're able to number them. And he said to him, So shall thy seed be. And Abraham believed the Lord, and the Lord counted it to him for righteousness. Subsequently, God recast this promise in Genesis 22. Verses 16 and following. Remember, that's the story of Abraham with Isaac and the sacrifice of Isaac. Remember what God said. He said. I myself has sworn, says the Lord. For because you have done this thing, Abraham, that's Abraham was ready to sacrifice Isaac. Because you have done this thing, and hast not withheld your son, thy only son, that in blessing I will bless you, in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars. of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the seashore, thy seed shall possess the gate of thy enemies In thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed, because you, Abraham, have obeyed my voice. You have done, Abraham, what I told you to do. You didn't go off on your own and decided you have a better idea. You did that. By God's grace, you did that And Galatians chapter 3, verse 16 summarizes, is one of the passages that summarizes the significance of that promise God gave to Abraham. When it says in verse 16, now to Abraham and to his seed were the promises made, he said not To seed and to seeds as of many, but as of one and to thy seed, which is Christ. Now ultimately the promise was made to Christ, the seed of Abraham. But we also know that the promise has benefits to those who are united by faith to Jesus Christ the Son of Christ. Seed of Abraham and Romans chapter four verse twelve picks up that theme. It says Referring to Abraham, he is the father of circumcision to those who are not of the circumcision only, but also those who walk in the steps of the faith. Of our father Abraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised. All who believe, what does that mean? All who believe that Jehovah is the Redeemer. All who believe that Jehovah is the Redeemer are beneficiaries of this promise that God gave to Abraham. They are not just beneficiaries. They were those who were in mind when the promise was given. If you don't get it yet, it's you. It's you You are part of the heir of the promised. You're you're one of the stars of this sky. You're one of the grains of sand on the seashore that in multitude constitutes Abraham's children, Abraham's descendants. By faith. Well, that's all well and good. That's nice. It's a nice thing to think about from time to time But there's more. The second immutable thing that I would maintain and I would say to you is going to help you to persevere through all the trials and all the struggles. Is God's oath that he confirmed by himself, referred to in verses 16 and 17? This oath is spoken of in regard to God's eternal son, who just happens to be the seed of Abraham. But the oath was spoken about this son by God, and we read about it in Hebrews 7, verse 14. For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Judah. Jesus came from the tribe of Judah, of which tribe Moses spoke nothing concerning priesthood. He wasn't a Levite. Right? He was came from Judah. But then it gets more insignificant. It is yet far evident that after the similitude of Melchizedek This figure in the Old Testament, Melchizedek, this king and this priest, whom Abraham met after his victory over the combined alien forces And offered a tithe to Melchizedek. Melchizedek blessed him. But what this text is saying in Hebrews 7 is that another priest will arise after the order of Melchizedek. Another priest and another king, one who has no human lineage, which was also part of where did Melchizedek come from? One who is made after, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life. For he testified, thou art a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. Who testified? God! God testified. That's the oath. You are a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did, through which we draw near to God. And inasmuch as not without an oath was he made priest. Those priests were made without an oath, but this man with an oath by him who said to him The Lord swore, and will not repent. You are a priest after the order of Melchizedek By so much was Jesus made the surety, the guarantee of a better covenant. You have these two immutable things that relate to you. The nexus Of those two immutable things and how it relates to you, the promise made to Abraham, the oath made to Melchizedek is Jesus. And God's promise to Abraham and God's oath of an eternal priesthood. Is God's Son, Jesus Christ, Abraham's one seed, and your high priest. Only because of Christ's completed work at the cross and at the grave will you persevere Well you persevere only because of that. Only because of that. We're not talking here about pulling up yourself by your bootstraps. We're asking you to look in faith to the promise and the oath of God. Set your heart on them. They are immutable. They are unchangeable. Because they are authored by God Himself. And they have the very character of God Himself guaranteeing their fulfillment. God ever lie to you? Has God ever said something to you that he didn't fulfill? Has God ever promised Something for your eternal welfare that he didn't make good on Only because of Christ will you persevere Only because of Christ will you not take the promise of the oath for granted Only because of Christ will you not assume that you're entitled to be lazy Regarding your faith. Over in Hebrews chapter 5. 11, it says this, the word says this. Of whom, and he's referring to Melchizedek, he says, of whom we have many things to say and hard to be uttered, seeing that you are dull of hearing. Oh Lord God, make me not dull of hearing about these precious immutable things. He was talking about Melchizedek, and the writer of Hebrews is saying his audience is dull of hearing about Melchizedek. Maybe some other things. Then he goes on in chapter 6 to say of Hebrews, chapter 6, 12, he says, be not slothful. But followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises Be not slothful. Be not lazy. Be not sluggish. But with the Holy Spirit's help, endure with Christ unto glory Because of God's two immutable things fulfilled in Christ's death and resurrection, there are additional and even say even but there are additional more there are additional wonderful and amazing things that are yours as well And we see this referred to in verses 18 through 20: that by two immutable things in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation. That's more wonderful than you can imagine. We might have a strong consolation. And then it goes on. Who have fled for refuge? We have refuge. To lay hold upon the hope that is before us Strong consolation, refuge, and hope. Which hope we have as an anchor Of the soul, both sure and steadfast Which entereth into that, which and excuse me, and which entered into that within the veil. Whither the forerunner is for us entered. Even Jesus made a high priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. how all this comes together? It all keeps coming back to these two immutable things. Promise and oath. Promise to Abraham, God's oath. You shall be a priest. After the order of Melchizedek. And all it says, it says, we have these things. It doesn't say You will get it someday. It doesn't say you had it back there, but you don't need it now It says, you currently have it. That's the force of the Greek. Not only do you currently have it now, but you always have it. It continues. You have, what do you have? You have strong consolation. Guess what? Consolation. Anyone got a clue? What kind of strong consolation you got? How about if I said Paraclesus or Paraclay? What would you say? Holy Spirit You have the Holy Spirit, the oath, and the promise of God, by which, you know, verse 18 it says God's impossible to lie. It's impossible for God to lie. You now have received the Holy Spirit. Always with you. You have. Always with you. The Holy Spirit In whom ye have trusted after you've heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also now you have believed you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Who is the earnest, the down payment of your inheritance? All that the promise to Abraham is designed to do, and all that the oath to Melchizedek is designed to do in Christ gives you an inheritance, and the Holy Spirit. is the guarantee that your inheritance is secure The Father, you see, is the one who gave the oath and the promise. The Son is the one who fulfilled the oath and the promise. And the Holy Spirit is the one. who aids believers in reaping the benefits of the oath and promise that Christ fulfills Believers also have, in addition to the Holy Spirit, the strong consolation of God's Ongoing activity in their life. They also have something called a place to flee for refuge. A place to flee for refuge Do you need a place to flee for refuge? Well, God says you have a place. A place to flee in the worst of times. The times are bad No telling when they'll left let up. But where you know where is this place? It doesn't tell us exactly where it is, but where is it? It's in you if you appropriate it. It's in you if you live Seeking the Lord's help and his guidance in accordance with the word of God. There's your refuge, there's your help. God is our refuge and our strength, as we read Psalm 46 in opening church, opening worship, three times. That very phrase is repeated. I think in ten verses. It opens the psalm and it ends the psalm. And then there's another one somewhere in between. Psalm is the idea that God is our refuge and our strength. A very present help in time of trouble. Is the key to understanding that song. We have a refuge to flee to But only as we continue to be faithful in God, faithful in Christ. You see, in essence, God, by his great grace and mercy, in giving the oath and the promise, the two immutable things, has completely reversed The curse. What did Adam do right after he sinned? Did he not flee from the presence of God? Did he not hide? But you as a Christian know that God wants you to come to him Yet you're welcome to come to Him freely through the blood of Christ. You can come to God freely through Christ because there is forgiveness in the blood of Christ. We're not coming to the blood of bulls and goats. We're not coming because our works Justify us, but because our Redeemer shed his own blood for your soul He is the only atoning sacrifice. He is the propitiator, the wrath-bearing sacrifice for your sin. You lay hold of the hope that is set before you. Again, back to verse 18. Hope is yours in Christ. Your hope is in his completed work. Your hope rests in God's resurrection and ascended Christ, resurrected and ascended Christ. Your hope is seated at the right hand of God the Father. Your hope is in heaven right now, interceding for you. Glory. Hallelujah. The Holy One gives you strength and competence to run the race here on earth as strangers and pilgrims. God help us to keep being strangers and pilgrims. And all the while you're running the race, he is drawing you ever closer to your home in heaven. You know by faith that Jesus has won the battle and that he has crushed the head of the seed of the serpent. In Christ, God's two immutable things, promise and oath. Our reality. And you have a hope now that will never fail and never disappoint I'm still talking about these blessings. You have hope, but your hope anchors your soul. Now those of you who know about boats know it's a good thing that boats have an anchor. Because if boats don't have an anchor, they can't remain in a certain place If depending on the current, if the current is swift, you'll be very quickly taken away from the place. If the current is not so swift, or not so quick, You will slowly, yet perceptibly drift. But you do have an anchor. We're not talking about not having one. You have an anchor An anchor that at its hope. Hope. Hope. Hope not in speculation, but in God's immutable promise and oath completed and fulfilled in Jesus Christ. You have a shore and steadfast. It's described as a shore and steadfast anchor. Shore and steadfast. Then it talks about this hope and faith entering the presence behind the veil. Because of this hope that is grounded in the in the promise of Abraham and the oath about Christ being according to Mount Kizedek. Behold of these two immutable things, you now enter into the presence behind the veil. Well, the presence is another word for talking about God's presence. Because the veil is the veil that existed in the Temple in Jerusalem The veil that covered or separated the rest of the temple from the Holy of Holies And the veil, remember, was there because behind the veil was the Ark of the Covenant. And at the Ark of the Covenant, when the temple was inaugurated, the glory of God came down. And fell upon the temple. And the glory of God's presence Was symbolically present in the temple where the Ark of the Covenant was, and the rod of Aaron was. And where the high priest would make atonement for the people's sins. He's saying that you enter the presence behind the veil. That means, you see, that this is the most stunning of all the blessings that are yours. You Who have your souls anchored in Christ because of God's two immutable things. You have your hope in Christ. It takes you to the exalted presence of being able to go into the very presence of God Into the very presence of God, where only a select few could go in the Old Testament. But now, because the veil of the temple was rent when Christ was crucified. It symbolizes freedom for all of God's people to come into God's presence to be with God. And how can you be there if you're just a miserable sinful creature? Well, it's because you miserable sinful creature are covered by the blood of Jesus. God is there. God is holy. And in Christ you are holy too. Not because of your efforts, but because of his justification. The application of his righteousness to you. And you can come into the holy presence of God and there plead your case And there, ask for the help of God on your presence. It's not like your God is deaf. It's not like your God can't see. It's not like your God doesn't care. He loves you with an everlasting love. And he encourages you. He loves you so much that in Christ He wants to be with you. And he invites you to come into His place. Of worship and his presence because of two immutable things You now have intimate fellowship with God. Well, I'm not saying you can walk right into the temple in Jerusalem and get any help. Of course it isn't there anymore. But it isn't that temple. You 1 Corinthians 6 are the temple of the living God. And God dwells with you in that temple. That's again the Holy Spirit. Because Emmanuel has come, God with us. Not a far-distant hope, but a reality. Every day by two immutable things hope and anchor Consolation. The text Quickly points out that you are the beneficiaries of this wonder of being in the presence of God because Christ is our high priest. Verse 20 says it clearly. The forerunner, the one who runs ahead of others, the forerunner, Jesus Christ, is for us entered Into the presence. Even Jesus made a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. This is the day to marvel. Marvel again at what God has done. And what God does is good, and what he does is forever. Unchangeable, immutable things. The wonder of redemption in Christ, and the blessing that all in Christ will persevere.