And let us remain standing for the New Testament reading. Well then, brothers, we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die, but if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear. But you have received the Spirit of Adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And have children then heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him For I consider that the suffering of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. Not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit Grown inwardly as we eagerly, as we wait eagerly for the adoption of sons, the redemption of our bodies For in this hope we were saved. Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience Again, this is the reading of God's holy word. You may be seated. Lord, we ask that you would help us now go with the preaching and the hearing. Help us to have discerning hearts. Help us to have receptive hearts, that we may embrace your truth in faith, and in so doing embrace the fullness of the blessing of our Lord Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen. This morning I want to look at a little bit of a sweep in the book of Romans 8 tonight. I plan to focus in on a particular part of this chapter, the intercession of our triumph for us. uh particularly the intercession of the Holy Spirit and of Christ. Uh but this morning I want to look at How that intercession intersects with a problem, and that is a problem that we all know about, which is suffering And there are different uh perspectives that this particular chapter brings to us on suffering. Uh we can say that there are two main divisions I want to think about this morning. The why of suffering and the comforts of suffering. The why of suffering is complicated. The why of suffering is something that when you Step outside of the Bible and you enter into a philosophy class, you'll have somebody stand up and say, uh, well, is God all good? Yeah. Of course he is. Is God all powerful? Yeah. Well if he's all powerful, how come we have evil in this world? Uh couldn't he do something about it Uh of course he has done something about it and he's doing something about it and he's going to do something about it, but Where it came from to begin with is the problem that uh people are asking about. It's sometimes called the problem of pain. And so sometimes a secular philosopher says, well, you can have your choice. God is either all powerful or he's all good, but you can't put the two together because we have evil in the world Uh and what is a Christian to answer to that? I think first of all we have to be honest and say, you know what We are finite creatures and there are mysteries we don't fully understand. And uh that's just the case. And if you understood everything, you'd be God, and you're not God, so forget about it. There are mysteries, and this is one of the mysteries where evil came from. You can say, well Came from Adam. And then Adam will say, well, came from my wife. And the wife says, the devil. And then, well, where'd the devil come from? You y you s keep pushing it back. It's like we have little grandchildren now and th they know how to keep asking one more question Till you finally get to the point where you say, That's just the way it is. Uh we don't know everything. But we do know that there is a mystery, but a glorious in us of God that He is all good. And he is all powerful. Now, there are two responses uh more than two, but two that Christians are sometimes given. One is to say, well, God created man with free will. Uh yeah, there there's free agency, I prefer to put it that way. Once sinners the world uh and into our being We're only free to sin a number of ways and even that we're not free from the decree of God. Uh God ultimately is in control of everything So there's limits to that, but there's a practical problem too. If free will is an absolute that we have to center everything around, then when you get to heaven are you going to be free to rebel against God and decide to go to hell? You know, that's a freedom that I don't particularly want to have. That's not freedom in a biblical sense anyway, that's freedom of contrary choice between good and evil The real freedom that the Bible talks about is a freedom to serve God with a joyful heart that doesn't regret Serving him because we're acting out of a nature that wants to serve God, and so we freely do things. to his honor and glory because we have a new nature. We're like him in a certain respect So the free will thing doesn't completely answer things. There is a sense in which we can say yes We are the agent that sins, and God is not one who sins, but it doesn't answer everything. There's another answer that is sometimes given. And I don't think it it totally escapes the mystery, but it it is an interesting one. They'll say, well, this is the best of all possible worlds. Now you can say, I think I can think of a better possible world. Uh you can always come up with that. But As a kind of offshoot of that argument is something that an old theologian uh came up with uh he used Latin because that's the way they did things way back when and the words were Felix Culpa Not the name of a guy, but Felix meaning blessed, Culpa meaning fall. That there is one blessing That comes out of the fall. There's a lot of heartache, there's a lot of misery, there's a lot of suffering. But there's one blessing that comes out of the fall, and that is we get to see a side of God that we would not have seen without the fall into sin. And that is an extraordinary mercy and grace. John 3. 16 has no meaning without a fall. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. God shows or commends his love towards us, in that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. There is a love of God which goes beyond just helping us along and meeting some needs. It goes down to reaching us when we're in our filth. When we're in our sin, when we are totally unlovely, and there's no reason to be loved. God shows his love towards us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. We wouldn't see this side of God. without a fall. Now, again, I don't want to explain away and say that that answers the whole mystery of evil. I don't think it does, but it does give us one perspective. And it gives us a comforting perspective that God's love is there for the worst of sinners. Whatever you have done. Christ is ready to forgive. You surrender that to Him, and He will forgive you And that shows a love of God that goes beyond just helping you with, say, your daily bread. Now there's a different but related question to this whole question of suffering and evil. And that is, why does a Christian have to suffer in this life? Are we not forgiven? Has not Christ saved us? So, why is there any need for further suffering? There's an unusual perspective in Romans 8. Again, I don't know if it fully answers the question the way we might want it answered, but The answer, at least one of the factors, is our union with Jesus Christ is part of why we suffer. Union with Jesus Christ means that God comes into your life. God comes into my life. The Holy Spirit comes in. And we're connected to God, who dwells in us, who lives in us, who takes residence in our hearts, who comes into our life. When we entrust our life to Him. And what happens when that happens? We are justified. All of our sins are forgiven. We begin the process of sanctification. There is a definitive side to that sanctification where we experience A break with the power of sin, but then there's a daily struggle in which we continue to learn to put off sin But all of that is from union with Christ. There is adoption. We are adopted into the family of God because We have union with Christ. In Christ. Go through your New Testament sometimes and see how many times you'll find in Christ or you'll find Christ in us. Or something close to it, Christ with us. Uh With us doesn't signify the fullness of that union because it is Christ in us that makes that union especially close, but we have a union with Christ. Well, that sounds good. Justification in Christ, sanctification in Christ, adoption in Christ. But Paul points us towards, and that's why we suffer too. There's suffering in Christ. Romans 8, verses 16 and 17. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit. that we are children of God, and if children and heirs, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may be glorified with him. What does that mean, provided we suffer with him? It's not a condition that earns salvation as if we merit salvation because we suffer, but because We're in union with Christ, there is has to be some inevitability. If there is no suffering with Christ, then we're not with Christ. Now that suffering may vary and does vary from person to person, but we have an enemy in this world. Sometimes it takes visible shape in the form of people. Sometimes we sense it in terms of physical distresses and diseases, but Satan And because of our union with Christ, we have an enemy. And that is a big part of our suffering that God allows. Similar verse in 2 Timothy 2, 10 through 12. Therefore, I endure everything for the sake of the elect that they may also obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. The saying is trustworthy, for if we have died with him, we will also live with him If we endure, or the King James says, suffer, we also will reign with him. If we deny him, you will also deny us. So there is that with Christ, and that in Christ, that is part of why we have to endure. Why we have a struggle, why we suffer. Again, this is not to say that we merit anything, that we earn anything. by our suffering. It's just part of what goes along with the package of being in Christ, of having Christ live in us. Now, it is the case That yes, Christians escape a lot of suffering because they are in Christ. A Christian will often escape the worst of self-destructive behavior. Drug addiction and many other things, unhealthy relationships that get exchanged for healthier relationships Answers that God gives to us in prayer because we are in Christ productive life of good habits and thrift because the Holy Spirit is working in us, Christ is in us. And those things tend to mean that your life will be better than it was before you knew Jesus Christ. It doesn't mean, though, that you escape all suffering. I've sometimes told people, you know, you're a Christian, you're suffering, and There may not be a lot that can be done right now, this very instant, to make it better, but you can always make it worse. You can always make your suffering worse by choosing your own solution to it, going your own way. Trying to figure out a way around the thing that is causing you problems. Someone is lonely. And they say, oh, I can't stand it anymore. And they marry a non-Christian. And all of a sudden they thought what would solve the loneliness has made them lonelier than they ever were before. You can make it worse But you can't always make it better immediately. What you can do is you can rely upon God's grace to help you In the immediate here and now. And there are promises from God that He will not allow us to be tested or tempted above what we are able, but will with the test or temptation provide the way of escape that we are able to endure it. 1 Corinthians 10, 13 gives you that promise So, you can make it worse, you can't always make it better, but you have promises from God that He has a solution for you now. Doesn't necessarily amount to the solution you want, but it is his solution and it is the best solution. But there is sometimes some added suffering that comes from being in Christ. That comes particularly, we know, from persecution. Uh when I was in seminary, uh the Orthodox Presbyterian Church had a missionary come back from the field. Named Harvey Kahn and he taught at the seminary. And I heard a story. Uh I don't think he told it, but uh it made the rounds Harvey Khan was ministering in this other country, and he had a particular evangelistic outreach to prostitutes. And some of these women would be converted and give up that old way of life Well guess what? There was a man who was running those prostitutes. You think he was happy? No. He was not happy. And so he found Harvey, and Harvey lost some teeth. Harvey experienced suffering because he was in Christ and for Christ in ministering in the name of Christ. Later on, one day, Harvey was going down the street, and a peddler came along I think he had tin pans or something like that. And the man came up and says, You know me And it all of a sudden became clear, this is the man who was later running those women. And he had come to Christ and given up that old way of life. That man's life was probably not as comfortable as when he was involved in sin. Harvey's mouth required another set of teeth. But there were some women who came to know Jesus Christ and a man who was once evil. Who was running those women who came to know Jesus Christ? And God used that suffering And use that ministry in Christ to bring about blessing, to take some people away from a life of sin and shame and pain. So why did it have to happen in the first place? That's beyond our ability to understand. But part of it is that God does things in two stages And you see that two stages here in Romans 8. There are two stages. He talks about we wait patiently in hope. We're waiting for something, the future stage, but we have something in the present We already have received the adoption, the spirit of adoption, but we're waiting for the adoption of our bodies. Some theologians call this the already and the not yet, that we have already been saved And receive the application of Christ's salvation, the forgiveness of our sins, and the indwelling of God through the Holy Spirit in our hearts and minds, we're already saved, and we're waiting for that ultimate. Salvation, deliverance, the redemption of our bodies. And it's interesting how Paul puts this. He says, you know what? The whole creation is groaning. He's not just talking about people. He's talking about the creation. The puppy dogs, the elephants, the trees. Groaning? That sounds odd. Well, the whole creation suffers, as it were, has been part of the fall into sin The fall has had a cosmic dimension to it. The reason we have sadness because Our pet dies is because the pet is also part of this creation that is under that cosmic curse, that fall That's why the poor little dog suffers too. The whole creation suffers, groans And our bodies have something in common with this current creation that is groaning and suffering. Our outer person withers I'm 73 now and I notice I'm withering more each day. And maybe some of you can relate to that. You get older, you get some new pains. You get a little older and maybe you're even in your thirties, but I think I was in my thirties when I was gonna show my children a gymnastics trick and I got down there and tried to do it and fell into a pile. They gave him a good laugh. Uh we're headed one direction in the body Until Christ comes again, and we have that glorious resurrection day, when all the pain will be taken away, when there will be vibrancy. Restored and more than restored. A newness of life that we can't imagine So there are some comforts here to this groaning. There are some comforts here. That are held out for suffering. One of them is that what we're going through now is not worthy to be compared. For the glory that waits for us. You see that kind of thing in verse 18. 2 Corinthians 4:17 makes a similar point. Our momentary light affliction is working for us, an eternal weight of glory. Probably differently in some other versions that you have, but that's what happens when you live to age seventy-three and go through two or three different versions of the Bible. I remember some of the older ones and then sometimes it gets mixed with the newer ones. But The comparative glory and joy and peace that lies ahead that makes what we're going through not worthy of comparison. But There's something more than that. We go back to that union with Christ. We are not alone. We are not alone in our suffering. It's not that misery loves company, so much as that the company of Christ sustains us and shows us that he understands. When Saul, later Paul, is persecuting Christians, Jesus calls out from heaven and says, Why are you persecuting me? There's a union of Christ with his people. And when someone reaches out to harm you because you're a Christian, they're touching the apple of God's eye. They're persecuting Christ. And you are in Christ, and Christ is with you, and there is a communion. And his presence may be particularly comforting to you in that moment. God has his own way There's a classical verse, Romans 8, 28. It's all working to a good purpose for those who Love God, who are the called according to his purpose. That verse is so common that sometimes we take it for granted. I still remember a young lady who had lost her Christian husband and someone tried to comfort her by saying, Well, you know, God may have brought something good out of this, bringing others to Christ and You know, she was in so much pain at the time she said, I'd rather have my husband. It sounded shocking, but it was so honest Uh when somebody's in the deepest of pain, I would advise caution about Telling them there's a greater purpose. There is a greater purpose. It means it's not in vain, but it may not be the whole comfort of that person. Where I find the bedrock comfort of this chapter is in verses we didn't read this morning, verses 31 through 39. What will separate us from the love of Christ? And Paul goes through a whole list, and the bottom line to that whole list is nothing. That's one of the things that hurts when we're suffering is if we think that God's love is not there. That God is displeased, or we wouldn't be suffering like this. And Paul's assurance is no Nothing separates you from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus. If you are in Christ and you're suffering in Christ, that's not a mark. Of the lack of God's love, being in Christ means you're loved like you can never imagine. His love is invincible, unconquerable. Satan may do everything he can to try to discourage you and say it's not worth it I'm walking away. I don't think God loves me. That's Satan's message to you. But God's message to you is I commended my love towards you in that while you were yet a sinner, I sent my son to die for you. Nothing can separate you from the love of God. Which is in Christ Jesus. Are you in Christ Jesus? Does he live in you? Then you have that love If you've not surrendered to your Savior, if you've not surrendered your life to Christ, why on earth would you not? There is no greater love. As much as you love yourself, God's love has a higher and more wonderful way. And he will help you all the way. Let us pray. Lord, we ask that you would help us to live out in our union with you To not let suffering drag us down to doubt or despair But to find the comfort that is in knowing that you are in us, that you share in our suffering. and that we share in your suffering, that we have communion, not that we suffer to merit anything. We thank you that that suffering is over, that it is finished And now we pray that we may be the witness before a watching world that seals the truth of our testimony with our endurance, because Christ is in us. We pray in his name.