Amen. Please be seated. Now the reading of God's Word from Acts chapter six. Acts chapter six, verses one through seven. Now here comes the reading of God's word from Acts chapter six. Um You know we've seen The apostles continue to preach the gospel. We've seen the church continue to grow in in the book of Acts. We've seen some opposition come against the church. We've seen Those of the temple coming against the preaching of the apostles on a couple of occasions, yet we've still seen the church persist even under that threat of persecution We've seen them hold fast to the gospel and as they have done so um God has continued to bless, has continued to bless um Their ministry and has continued to add to their number. Well, here now we are in Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 7 You know remember as the church has been growing, it has, you know, probably amassed a decent size, several thousand people at least. at this point in Jerusalem. We come to see a dispute or a complaint arise, a matter of discontentment arising in the midst of this church, this large-numbered church. We come to see that it uh begins to develop along the lines of different kinds of people. There become these subcategories, these these uh uh groups who kind of cluster together among the larger church. These groups begin to cluster and form. And there is a difference in opinion in the way they see things and the in the way they see what is taking place. Um And so again, you know, in any human institution, it's not surprising that groups form, and it's not surprising that sometimes discontentment arises. But, you know, so it's it on that on that score it's not surprising that it happens, even though this is the church. But let's read and let's see what happens and let's see what What the apostles do, and let's see what God does in this text. Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 7. This is God's word. Please give your attention to its reading accordingly Now in these days when the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint by the Hellenists arose against the Hebrews. Because their widows were being neglected in the daily distribution. And the twelve summoned the full number of the disciples and said, It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute. full of the Spirit and of wisdom, whom we will appoint to this duty. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. And what they said pleased the whole gathering. And they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit, and Philip. And Prochorus, and Niconor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolaus, a proselyte of Antioch. These they set before the apostles, and they prayed and laid their hands on them. And the word of God continued to increase And the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. As far as the reading of God's Word, may He add his blessing to it, may He add His blessing to its preaching in our midst today. And of course, it's really not too hard to understand how something like this could arise, a complaint or a man matter of discontentment. Um, you know, in any human community, it's not surprising that such a thing might happen. Yes, even in the church. Yes, even in the church, you know, people are sinners and we are not perfect And so these things arise even in the midst of the believing community. But here it is in verse 1: a complaint or some manner of discontentment. And what is it based on in our text? It's based on a disparity, or at least a perceived, if nothing else, a perceived disparity. In the way that daily distributions are taking place among this church community. There is, if nothing else, at least a perception that Some are receiving better treatment, or else more of a better treatment than the others. And again, you see these two groups in our text. You see Hebrews. You see Hellenists. There's a discontentment that takes place. The Hellenists perceive that the Hebrews are getting better treatment in the midst of the daily distributions among the widows. Now again it's not hard to imagine this taking place. Think about how large the group is at this point, several thousand, you know, um There aren't that many, you know, you know, this Jerusalem church is a remarkable situation, you know, a a very large church by the numbers. There aren't very many churches since then who are um anywhere close to that kind of size. But you think about the sheer size of that group, and is it any surprise that within a large group a complaint or discontentment should arise would be a disparity in treatment or else, if nothing else, a perceived disparity in treatment between these two groups. In any large group there is a tendency for smaller clusters or smaller subcultures or smaller subgroups. to develop and as those groups tend to cluster together and tend to develop, it tends to be based on people who are similar in some way. Perhaps people who do things in similar ways, they have s similar ways of doing things. Perhaps they also developed similar perceptions, similar thoughts, similar ideas. It doesn't always happen this way in a human community, but It it doesn't always have to happen this way, but it's also no surprise if it happens. And indeed it happens here in Acts chapter 6. Again, it's no surprise that it should happen along the lines of certain people groups. Obviously, the history of the world is littered with instances of people groups who see things in different ways. And therefore, discontentment and rivalry grows between such people groups. So is it any surprise that we also see this happening, even in the church? Yes, even in the church Now again, there in verse 1, we read about Hellenists and we read about Hebrews. And again, we're thinking about the widows among the church who are Hellenists. And the widows among the church who are Hebrews. What is the difference between these two kinds of people and these two kinds of people groups? It seems like those who are described here as Hebrews Are those who are more strictly Jewish and Hebraic in their life, practice, family Past history, as far as Jewish religion and culture goes, they are seemingly as Hebraic or as Jewish as it comes. Is this possibly the result of where their families come from, where their families have lived? Um, you know, here they are in Jerusalem. Jerusalem would have been a place where there would have been some Jews who had lived in or near Judea or the Jerusalem region. possibly even Galilee, but close to that region of Jerusalem, perhaps their whole you know, their whole lives or for generations their family has lived in this area in Jerusalem, and here they are, uh Jerusalem Jews, now in the Jerusalem church. as Christians, and they are the ones who are described as Hebrews, more Hebraic. But then we have others Others are described instead as Hellenists, you know, Hellenism being kind of a you know the word for Greek culture and Greek life. Now, these two probably have Jewish backgrounds These two are probably ethnically Jewish and probably worship as Jews or have have a hit past family history of worshiping as Jews and believing in the God of Israel. Yet what is it that makes them Hellenists? Now some would sus would suggest that it's due to them speaking Greek. Now that doesn't seem to be likely because Probably everyone in this category, both the Hellenists and the Hebrews, were able to speak Greek because the Greek language so dominated the world at this point. What is it that makes them Hellenists? Perhaps they come from families or they have past family history where they have lived in places away from the region of Palestine and Judea and Jerusalem. Perhaps they are Jews, or you know, as as Christians, they come they uh you know uh you know come from a line of Jews who were involved in what's been known as the dispersion. Times past, you know, earlier times when the Jewish people spread away from that which is was the promised land. and were able to, you know, settle in in different places. There were many Jewish people who settled around this region, you know, not just you know centrally located in that in that region near Jerusalem, where the temple is at this point But in other places in other regions. And those who had been perhaps Hellenists in this way would have had exposure to broader Greek forms of life. might have found themselves living more comfortably within broader Greek forms of culture and life. And so perhaps this is what defines these two groups, the Hellenists and the Hebrews. The Hebrews seem to have clustered more closely to Jerusalem and Judea, whereas the Hellenists, though they have been Jews, though they have generations of of Jews, you know, in in their family history. Um, they seem to have, you know, more openness to to some of the realities of Greek culture. And so, you know, you have these two groups, and again, there's a natural clustering that tends to happen in the midst of any any uh human group, any large gathering. There's a there's a natural clustering that tends to naturally happen. And perhaps there are different perceptions that are formed naturally by these two groups And so here's what we see. We see a complaint arise. We see discontentment arise. Those among the Hellenists complain. that those who are the Hebrews are receiving the better treatment. Now the complaint could be rooted in reality Is it possible that there actually is in the Jerusalem Church a tendency to overlook the Hellenist widows Could it be in the Jerusalem church that there is a tendency to give greater priority to the Hebrew widows? We would hope that it's not an intentional thing. We would hope they are not intentionally singling out the Hebrews and giving them better treatment on purpose. But is it possible that it could be happening unintentionally? Is it possible that it could be happening subconsciously? Again, noticing that the location of the church at this point is Jerusalem. Noticing that that's a setting where those who are described as Hebrews are going to feel more naturally at home in this setting. Understanding that a good number of the people are from this Jerusalem region, isn't it possible that there's going to be a subconscious, though unintentional, tendency You know, is it possible that there can be, you know, a subconscious but unintentional tendency to give better treatment to those people? Isn't this something that easily happens in every sector of ordinary human society? And so again, it's something we shouldn't be completely surprised if it happens when it happens even in the church. Some in a certain group are looked to as if they are more naturally fit for certain privileges, and then others are then overlooked As if they are less naturally fit for those same privileges? Is it possible that this is happening here in Acts chapter six? Again, it would be kind of a natural tendency. It would be a natural tendency, um, even if unintentional, even if subconsciously so, it wouldn't surprise us if the Hebrews actually did receive better treatment. Perhaps again, subconsciously so, unintentionally so. Another possibility with the complaint though in Acts chapter 6 is that the complaint is You know, whether or not it has any reality to it. It could also just be rooted in perception. You know, sometimes people do get releasing Sometimes people who are overly sensitive are prone to see things even when those things aren't necessarily true or aren't necessarily there. It's a possibility that the Hellenists are looking at things a little bit overly sensitively. That's possible Um, you know, John Calvin makes note of this in his commentary. He notes how all that we know here, we know what the complaint is. The text of Acts does not make clear to us whether the complaint is fully justified or fully true. So is it possible that we have that going on in this case where, you know, the Hellenists are accustomed to being slighted by people who are Hebrews in their daily lives? And so perhaps they are overly sensitive to it and they are feeling like there is a disparity even when there is possibly not. Now again, when we look at acts, we don't know the answer to that. We know what the complaint is. We have some ideas that I've tried to suggest as to where the complaint could be coming from. Again, we shouldn't disregard it. It could be rooted in a reality. It could be rooted in something that is subtle and subconscious. Or it could be rooted in the Hellenists being overly sensitive in their perceptions. It could be rooted in it in either of those things. But again, it's not surprising that we might see this based on all of those realities. We don't know exactly what the situation is, but we know what the substance of the complaint is. We know what the discontentment is. One way or another, these Hellenist widows feel that they are not getting as good of a treatment. As the Hebrews are in these daily distributions made to the widows. So daily there is distribution for the needs of the widows in the midst of the believing community. And the Hellenists feel that they are not getting as good of a treatment as the others. Whether or not that's true, they feel that way. Now, what is the church's response to this complaint? How does the leadership of the church respond to what is being complained of here? Again, a complaint of discontentment, a complaint of unfair treatment. How does the church's leadership respond in our text Well, one thing we should take note of is that the apostles do not allow the complaint to disrupt the ministry of the word. Anytime in the midst of the believing community there is disr uh discontent or complaint, how easy it is for the for the leadership of a church to get sidetracked by that discontentment. And to allow it to sidetrack the church from fo putting its focus on the preaching of the word But notice that the apostles do not take the bait on that, and they do not allow themselves to be sidetracked in the preaching of the word. We see them say in verse 2, we see the twelve say It is not right that we should give up preaching the Word of God to serve tables. There's something that they have to keep doing. They have to keep preaching the word. And it would not be right if they gave up the preaching of the word for the sake of serving tables. Now we should understand very carefully This isn't a matter of elitism here. This is not the apostles saying that serving tables is somehow beneath them. Or that they're too good to engage in the task of serving tables. This is something else entirely Why should the apostles not give up the preaching of the word in order to serve tables? Them refusing to give up the preaching of the word. Is a matter of properly recognizing the church's dependency upon the Word Don't you know that the life of the church is so much rooted in a vital ministry of the Word that if you get rid of that Nothing else you do is going to be worth anything, anyways. You can have something that poses as a church community that is actively engaged in the service of tables And you will have tables being served. But what you will not have is a church. The church is so dependent on the vital ministry of the word. That that is its lifeblood, and that is what gives it the ability to do that which it it should do before God and on God's behalf. Again, that church community, it's so vitally dependent on a solid preaching ministry that to give up the preaching of the word would give up the very thing that gives the church life And in the end, it may even undercut the church's ability to do a good job in actually doing the work of the serving of tables that the church does carry on rightly so. So the apostles understand this. This is not a matter of elitism. It's a matter of recognizing what you depend upon. You sever the church from the root The root of life that it receives through the preaching of the word, you may be able to serve tables, but what you will be doing will not be the mission of Jesus Christ. The apostles are commissioned to speak a message, to preach a gospel, to teach a word. Again, if they put that aside in order to serve tables. Whatever this church is, it will no longer be a church before long. You cut off the ministry of the word, you are cutting off that which gives life. to the church and allows the church to flourish and allows the church to do well in that which it is called to do. So again, discontentment happens in the midst of God's people. Complaints will arise. God's people are sinners. Yes, there are things that will happen. Don't let it get in the way of the preaching of the word. Don't let it consume the ministry of the word. The word gives us the resources that are able to um that are able to deal with the problems of discontentment that arise. Keep the word and its preaching at the nerve and at the root of the life of the church. This is what the apostles do. They don't let the complaint get in the way of the word. They don't let the complaint get in the way of the word. But that being said Well, they don't let the complaint get in the way of the preaching of the word. Look what else they do. They also hear the complaint. They also hear the complaint, and they also deal with the complaint. Now, how do they deal with the complaint? Again, what do we know from this passage? We know what the complaint is. We know that the Hellenists feel they are getting the short end of the stick. We don't know how true that is or whether that's fully a matter of truth or just a matter of perception. What do the apostles do? They do not go and ascertain the truthfulness of the complaint, do they? What do they do? They answer the complaint, they deal with it. They deal with the complaint in a way that is loving They deal with the complaint in a way that makes provision, and makes provision irrespective of what the truth is regarding this complaint. They hear the spirit of the complaint. And they lovingly show kindness even to those who are making the complaint, whether or not the complaint is fully founded or not. They don't give up the preaching of the word. It would be deadly to the church if they did. But what do they do instead? They call for the choosing of these seven men from among the church. And these men will take on the work of serving tables. These men will take care of the work of service so that the apostles are able to remain devoted to prayer and to the ministry of the word. So what does the church do? They choose seven men. These seven men are set aside, set apart to care for these these other needs in the church, the the needs of uh temporal temporal needs, physical needs, daily distribution You know, we're probably thinking food in this case, daily distribution to those who have uh these physical, temporal needs. The church sets aside these seven guys to do it so that the twelve apostles do not have to do it, so that the twelve apostles are able to focus on that which is more vital and more central or more centrally vital to the life of the church. Now again, it's not that this other aspect is not vital, for it is vital and it is important. But it's a matter of putting the root before the fruit. And this is what the apostles do. They put the word as the priority But then they also deal with the the matter that needs dealt with. They appoint seven men. They have seven men come and take care of the needs of the widows and take care of this issue of serving uh serving the widows in daily distribution You know, in so many ways, it's very similar to what we read from in Exodus 18. Moses had received this advice from his father-in-law, this wisdom that truly was wisdom from God. Appointing these other men to help so that the load was not just falling upon him. The church should never be just about the whole load of the church falling just on one man carrying the whole load by himself. It should never be like that. That's not what the church should be like. Um it wasn't even what Israel was like in the days of Moses. Moses appointed these other men to help spread around the load of caring for the church. In many ways, the apostles do the very same thing here. It's a division of labor. They'll be devoted to the word and prayer. And they'll get these other men to take this this other part of the load in caring for the church, the labor of care that should take place in the midst of the church. Well, what do you notice about the names That are listed here in verse 5. The seven men who are chosen. What do you notice about their names? Listen to these names: Stephen. Philip, Prochoris, Niconor, Timon, Parmenas, Nicolaeus. What do those names sound like? Do those names sound Hebraic or Jewish? Not a single one of them does. Who are the men who are chosen? It seems like they choose seven who are Hellenists. You know, they don't even they don't even insist upon it, you know, we don't see them Coming up with, oh, but we need to make sure we have some Hebraic representation on this committee. We don't we don't see that move made in the midst of the church. Isn't that interesting? Notice The complaint comes from the direction of the Hellenists. What does the church do? The church appoints seven who are seemingly among the Hellenists To make sure that the Hellenist needs are taken care of. Isn't that interesting? We don't even see somebody with a more Hebraic name, you know, placed in the midst of those men to sort of keep them on track. Or to make sure that the church stays Hebraic and stays rooted on Hebraic foundations. No. Seemingly these seven men are Hellenists You know, the Hellenistic from the Hellenistic Jew Jewish variety, as we've already considered that, again, their names would suggest they are Hellenists. They don't have Hebraic sounding names, they have Greek sounding names. But this is the Spirit's leading of the church in Acts chapter 6. What are we to take from this passage? So again, we see this complaint that is dealt with. How do we see it dealt with? We see the apostles refusing to give up the ministry of the Word in order to deal with the complaint, and yet Therefore appointing others to help deal with the complaint, and yet, again, whom do they appoint? They appoint seven who would more naturally fall in line with the Hellenists. Again, who more fitting to show care or to to sort of show the Hellenists that they are not trying to cut them off, that they are not trying to neglect them. Who more fitting than seven who are even among their own ranks, seven who are Hellenists? And that's what we see in this text. Now what are we to take from this passage? Now we often look at this passage rightly so. As the passage that gives us the basis for the office of deacon in the church, we see the importance in the church's ministry of having something like a diaconal ministry. Having a form of ministry that tends to the more physical, temporary, temporal needs of the members within the church We see that that is an important and a dignified role to play in the church. Just because those who are engaged in diaconal work are not ministering the word does not make them less important or less vitally important in the larger broader ministry of the church as a whole. It is a very important, dignified role to care for those who are in need of care in their physical, temporal needs. To express the love of Christ To those who tend to be overlooked and neglected by the world. Here in Acts 6, we notice it is widows who are receiving that care. Widows, those who would easily be brushed aside by the world as unimportant, unworthy of attention and care. So often in the Bible, widows are often placed alongside mothers, the fatherless or the orphans, and also the poor. Those whom the world brushes aside as unimportant and unworthy of attention, the Church of Jesus Christ gladly cares for. The Church of Jesus Christ cares for these widows. And again, even in the case of these widows who are complaining. Whether or not their complaint is justified, what does the church do? The Church of Jesus Christ cares for them, cares for their concern Again, the Hellenists are cared for. They are cared for by men whom it would seem are also themselves Hellenists. They are given those who are able to be sympathetic to them, sympathetic to their cause, to show them That they are cared for and that they are loved. So we see that this is a vital part of the church's ministry. There's a crucial role in diaconal service. Now one thing it does Is it frees up the ministry of the Word, which is at the root of the church's life? But it's also an important aspect of the church's ministry as a whole. to care uh you know to care for the temporal physical needs of those in its midst. Now one other thing we might consider in this passage Is consider the effect that this diaconal work has upon outsiders around them Notice how the church acts in this way to towards those who are within her own myths, those who are within her own ranks. Notice what effect this has upon outsiders, especially in verse 7 of our text. Notice the word of God continues to increase. So the word goes forth unhindered. The apostles are able to focus on the preaching of the word, and they do so. And that word does bear fruit and does increase the number of disciples. But notice what else we see in verse 7. We see in verse 7 a great many of the priests becoming obedient to the faith. Now that is something that is interesting that we should not neglect in our text. Because what's interesting about that is that in the Old Testament, it was priests who were the ones Who would be engaged in the work of the daily distribution? It was the priests in the Old Testament who would care for the needs of people like the widow, the fatherless, and the poor. These who are priests in Jerusalem, they look at what the church is doing, and what are they able to see? They are somehow able to perhaps see and understand the reality of the gospel in a way that they were otherwise unable to see. By seeing the church in some way fulfill what their role was under the Old Testament form of the church. It allows them perhaps to hear and understand the message of Jesus Christ in a way that they otherwise were not able to see previously. So again, we ought to consider that. We ought to consider that the the preaching of the word has to be central to the life of the church, but there are many other ways that by our service and by our ministry in an extended sense We can bear witness to the gospel of Jesus Christ. Is it possible that our labors in the area of temporal care and the showing of love can in fact open up new roads? for people to hear the word in ways that they were otherwise unable to hear it. You know, it's not that the word itself can ever or that it's not that uh diaconal work can ever be a replacement for the word. But is it possible that diaconal work and diaconal service can open the way for the word to be heard in ways that the word would otherwise not be heard? So if that's true, we ought to consider that here in the Word. Again, here in this passage, the deacoman work that takes place in Acts 6 Seems to open the way for these priests to hear the gospel in a way that they hadn't yet before, and the effect is of eternal value. As these priests become obedient to the faith, as they seemingly hear the gospel, receive Christ, come to become part of his church. We have to understand that even in the area of temporal physical needs and providing service in that area, there is eternal value in such labor when it is done in Christ. When it is done in service to him and when it is done out of faith in him. So let's remember this. Let's uh be mindful of this, that there is this aspect That should be true of the church's ministry, the church ought to care for those who are unable to care for themselves We ought to think about that. We ought to think that it will have an eternal value. That it can have an eternal value. It certainly can have an eternal value. It can be a witness to outsiders that can direct them to the word So that they may hear the word. But again, both aspects of the church's life are important. Both the preaching of the word and this other form of care in terms of the temporal, physical needs of its people. Let's remember both these things and let's remain faithful to Jesus Christ above all else in these matters as well as all other matters. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we uh hear your word and we hear uh what you did. We hear what you did through the gospel of Jesus Christ. We hear what you did in answer to uh the complaint of the Hellenists. We hear how you stirred the church to appoint uh these seven men. Who would come to uh to help in that area, to who would take care of the serving of tables aspect of your church's ministry? We thank you for what you've shown to us in this word. We ask that you would bless us through the Lord Jesus Christ so that we may be faithful to you. Help us to be a fitting witness to you. In all that we seek to do, we pray that you would bless us. We pray that you would bless your church throughout the world in this way. We ask all these things for the glory of your name.