So we're turning now to the book of 1 Kings. 1 Kings, which is on page 334 in the Pew Bible, 1 Kings. We'll read a few verses from chapter five, and then we'll read a few verses more in chapter seven. So First Kings chapter five, we're starting at verse one This is the word of God. Now Hiram, King of Tyre, sent his servants to Solomon when he heard that they had anointed him king in place of his father. For Hiram always loved David. And Solomon sent word to Hiram, you know that David, my father, could not build a house. for the name of the Lord his God, because of the warfare with which his enemies surrounded him, until the Lord put them under the soles of his feet. But now the Lord my God has given me rest on every side. There is neither adversary nor misfortune, and so I intend to build a house. For the name of the Lord my God, as the Lord said to David my father, your son, whom I will set on your throne in your place, shall build the house for my name. Now therefore command that cedars of Lebanon be cut for me, and my servants will join your servants, and I will pay you for your servants such wages as you set. For you know there is no one among us who knows how to cut timber like the Sidonians. Okay, let's transfer over now to chapter 7. First Kings chapter seven. We'll start reading at verse thirteen. Verse thirteen of First Kings chapter seven. And King Solomon sent and brought Hiram from Tyre. He was the son of a widow of the tribe of Naphtali. And his father was a man of tyre, a worker in bronze, and he was full of wisdom, understanding, and skill for making any work in bronze. He came to King Solomon and did all his work. He cast two pillars of bronze. Eighteen cubits was the height of one pillar, and a line of twelve cubits measured its circumference. It was hollow and its thickness was four fingers. The second pillar was the same. He also made two capitals of cast bronze to set on the tops of the pillars. The height of the one capital was five tubits, and the height of the other capital was five tubits. There were lattices of checkerwork with wreaths of chain work for the capitals on the tops of the pillars, a lattice for the one capital, and a lattice for the other capital. Likewise he made pomegranates. in two rows around the one lattice work to cover the capital that was on the top of the pillar, and he did the same with the other capital. Now the capitals that were on the tops of the pillars in the vestibule were of lilywork Four cubits. The capitals were on the two pillars, and also above the rounded projection, which was beside the lattice work. There were two hundred pomegranates in two rows all around, and so would the other capital. He set up the pillars at the vestibule of the temple He set up the pillar on the south and called its name Jacan. And he set up the pillar on the north and called its name Boaz. And on the tops of the pillars was lilywork. Thus, the work of the pillars. was finished. Thus far the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated. And let's pray. Father, we have read this passage, these two passages from 1 Kings. They're a little detailed, they're a little complicated. We ask the Lord for the help of the Holy Spirit, for understanding. And would your spirit please be active among us this morning to make your word alive? Really alive. So that Dead hearts would be quickened, so that the faint-hearted would be encouraged, so that the brokenhearted would be comforted. And we ask, Lord, that you would build us up in strength in Christ Jesus, our rock and our redeemer. In his name we pray. Amen. Let's talk about temple architecture and temple construction. and temple furnishings. Here in 1 Kings we have three whole chapters all about construction and architecture and furnishings. And if you like reading this kind of stuff, you should go back to the book of Exodus, because there are nine whole chapters about architecture, construction, and furnishings for the tabernacle, which was the precursor to Solomon's temple. Lots and lots of details Now you may enjoy these TV programs about remodeling and interior decorating I must confess my wife and I are in that group. But many people, when they come to passages like this in Exodus very detailed kinds of instructions about design and dimensions and materials and how to make things might read through it rather quickly or even maybe skip right over it. Because after all, what relevance are is all this information to us today? And after all, we don't even have a temple anymore today. Well, is that right? Is that really right? Let's think about that just a minute. First, review the history of the temple. So first there was the tabernacle. The Israelites had been freed from Egypt, from slavery. They're in the wilderness, and God says, make me a sanctuary that I may dwell in their midst. He tells this to Moses And he tells Moses just exactly how to build it. Moses does it. It's finished, and we read that the cloud of glory covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And this cloud of glory, which they saw as a pillar during the daytime and a pillar of fire by night, it stayed in and over the tabernacle. When that pillar moved, Then the Israelites packed up the the tabernacle and moved with it for forty years. Eventually the Israelites come into the Promised Land, they settle, they settle down, and at some point King David wants to replace this portable tabernacle tent with a permanent temple building. But God says to him, Not you, David, your son will build a temple for my name. And that's exactly what happens. Then Solomon is king, it's a glorious temple that he builds, he dies, his son becomes king, Rehoboam, and within five years the king of Egypt comes in, swoops in, and loots. some of the treasures of the temple. And that was all because King Rehoboam was a wicked king. He led the Israelites into idolatry. And then about 300 years later, the Babylonians come along, completely conquer Judah, capture Jerusalem Go into the temple, ransack all the valuable stuff out of the temple. Remember the feast that Belshazzar had where they he said, Bring out those golden vessels from the temple in Jerusalem, and let's drink toast to our idle gods And that's not all. The Babylonians also completely destroyed the temple. Move forward 70 years Jews come back from exile in Babylon and they are able to rebuild the temple. You can read about it in the book of Ezra. And they rejoice that they've rebuilt the temple, but they know it's nowhere near as grand and glorious as Solomon's temple was. And then jump forward to the New Testament, the temple called Herod's Temple, which is really just this rebuilt temple after the exile called the Second Temple. Herod lavishly upgraded it. And that's the temple that Jesus and his disciples frequently visited, where Jesus taught, and where Jesus threw out the money changers, Herod's temple. And then go forward 70 years. A. D. 70, there's a Jewish rebellion. The Roman army comes, captures the city, and this time completely and finally destroys the temple. So is there no temple today? Again, wait just a minute Think about what is a temple? What does a temple mean? The temple really is not the building. The temple is the dwelling place of God with men. And in the Gospel of John, chapter 1, we read, John writing the word whom John identifies as Jesus Christ, the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And that Greek verb dwelt among us, I am told by the commentaries literally means pitched his tent or even tabernacled among us So Jesus Christ, born of a woman, he is already divine, now takes on a complete and real human nature. He has two natures, divine and human. God resides in his human body. God dwells in his human body. Jesus' human body is the temple of God. And that's why Jesus could say, destroy this temple and in three days I'll rebuild it. And John explains, he was talking about the temple of his body, which others didn't understand until, of course, much later. Then Jesus is crucified He's resurrected. We celebrated that last Sunday. He ascends into heaven, and in heaven he still has his divine nature, his human nature, his glorified physical body is with him in heaven. But he has sent his Holy Spirit to indwell us, the church, and each of us individually. Paul writes in 1 Corinthians that you It's a singular, you. Your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit. Therefore, don't do anything unholy with your body. But then it uh in 2 Corinthians he says that we, plural, we are the temple of the living God And in Ephesians we just read the same thing, that we the church are the temple of the living God. Right? So each of us individually, and all of us collectively together as the church We are the temple. This is the current day temple of God. Yes, indeed we do have a temple. But what about this other thing? Do we really have to pay attention to all these details? There are too many details you might think. Well, Exodus has nine chapters of details. 1 Kings has three. It's repeated in 2 Chronicles. Two chapters, and then even in Ezekiel, there's four chapters. Ezekiel sees a vision of the temple. Lots and lots and lots of details, right? Well, remember this that When Moses was told to build the tabernacle, God said to him, Exactly as I show you concerning the pattern of the tabernacle and all its furniture, so shall you make it. And several times in Exodus it said, Moses did all according to the word of the Lord. God gave him a lot of special revelation, all about the tabernacle, and here also for the temple. And in Hebrews, it is explained to us that the tabernacle was a copy and shadow of heavenly things. In other words, when we learn about the tabernacle, when we learn about the temple, these things can be connected to the New Testament church And we can learn from that. And that's why Paul says in Romans that whatever was written in former days was written for our instruction. So even details like this are for our instruction. Now, we can't go through all the details about the temple and its construction and its architecture and its furnishing. We're just going to look at one feature of the temple. And that's in 1 Kings chapter 7, these two pillars of bronze that stood on the outside right by the entrance to the Temple of Solomon. These two pillars have symbolic and spiritual significance. And let's see from these two pillars three things. One, God's power. God's presence and God's promise. Pillars, picture to us, power, presence, and promise. A lot of P words. So let's think about divine power and how this was shown by, first by the enormous size of these pillars We're told in 1 Kings 7 verse 15, they were 18 cubits high. And then on top of that there was a what's called a capital or a crown. on top of the pillar that was five cubits high, 18 plus 5 equals 23 cubits. What in the world is a cubit? And uh you have to look this up, but in the ancient times, they didn't have measuring rods, they didn't have tape measures, and what they did have was a built-in measuring stick in their arm. So from the elbow To the tip of their longest finger, the middle finger, that's a cubit. It's about 18 inches, about a foot and a half So 23 cubits high this pillar structure that would be about 35 feet, which is approximately the height of a modern-day three-story building, so rather tall. And uh circumference of twelve cubits, which if you divide by 3. 14159, uh gives four, so it's six feet. Diameter across pillars. These were really, really enormous pillars. They were not solid bronze, they were hollow And it says the thickness was, here again, is one of these bodily measuring instruments that's built into your hand, four fingers wide, so three, four inches thick all the way around. Enormous, nevertheless. It was cast in molds built into the ground because it was so heavy, and probably cast in pieces, and then put together just because it was so huge. And uh someone approaching the temple and seeing these two enormous, massive pillars would think The God for whom this is the temple is a God of strength and power and stability. So the size would certainly indicate the power of God. And that is also confirmed by the names that are given to these pillars. It's a little unusual to give names to inanimate objects. Admittedly, I do have some friends who have given a name to their automobile. They like it so much, I guess. But these two pillars are given names. The south pillar is called Jacan, and that name means firmly established. The north pillar is called Boaz, which means strong and mighty. And these names were deliberately given, and their meaning was deliberately chosen. So how do you explain these names? Well, there's a couple ways you can look at this. One is that it reminds the king, King Solomon, and also the people of Israel. God promised that he would firmly establish, Jacan, the throne of David through his descendants forever. And he would fulfill that promise by his almighty power, Boaz. So that's one way to look at that. And by the way, Boaz That name sounds familiar, doesn't it? Yes, that's a that's a family line name in the line of David. It was David's great-grandfather, the one who married the Moabites, Ruth. But more importantly, these two names on the pillars, Jacob and Boaz, bring to mind God Himself. God firmly established Jacob his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. God with his mighty power, Boaz, is the one who protects and delivers. Earlier we sang Psalm 21. It's an interesting psalm. The first verse begins with Boaz, strength. The last verse ends with Boaz, strength. Uh let me just remind you of that psalm. O Lord, in your strength the king rejoices. So the Israelites looking at these pillars would see God, His power, and His strength. In the New Testament church, which is the modern-day Temple of God. We have a very strong pillar in our lives. It is Jesus Christ Himself. And I I love this statement. This is a commentary by Philip Graham Riken. 1 and 2 Kings. Let me just quote this. Jesus is our pillar when everything else in life seems to give way. He is our pillar of strength when we feel weak. He is our pillar of mercy when we need forgiveness. He is our pillar of comfort when we suffer loss and grief. And he is the pillar of hope when we feel like we've missed out our chance in life and don't have much of a future. When Jesus is the pillar of our souls, no matter what trouble comes, we can say My heart and my flesh may fail, but the Lord is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Psalm 73, verse 26. That was the verse that I kept in mind as I was going into the operating room for my heart surgery. Divine power shown by the size and the names of these pillars. Let's move on to the divine presence. How do these pillars show the divine presence? Well, first of all, They show God's presence in their great beauty. These pillars are very beautiful. They're not plain. They're very beautiful. The entire temple was very beautiful. And if you read uh the intervening passage, uh chapter six and elsewhere You find that Solomon built the temple with stones and timber, and the stones are described, this is chapter 6, verse 17. as great costly stones, dressed stones. They were quarried in the mountains and then transported to Jerusalem to the construction site. That must have been a huge task because these are heavy, heavy stones. And in fact, uh chapter six verse fifteen, seventy thousand burden barriers 80,000 stone cutters in the whole country, and then 3,300 chief officers over the work. They're like the project managers, right? This is a huge test. Now, the commentaries told me that the stone used for the temple was white limestone. White limestone is very famous. for being beautiful. The pyramids are faced with white limestone. And uh it's used today for kitchen tiles, bathroom tiles, building materials, even statues are made from white limestone. And I found a website Let me just read you this. I thought it was so interesting. Are you looking for a sophisticated and elegant addition to your home or business? Look no further than white pearl limestone. This pristine white limestone is renowned for its exceptional purity and whiteness. Interior designers and builders have long favored white pearl limestone. For its luxurious look and feel, it is particularly well suited for grand residential properties and opulent hotel projects. And we should add for temple, for the temple of God. Yes, indeed. Now, a very curious little fact about the stones used for the temple. Again, it's back in verse 6. No iron tools were allowed to be used on the construction site for the temple in Jerusalem. So that meant that the stones were quarried in the mountains, and right there, at the quarry, the workers had to shape the stones using iron chisel, iron mallets. uh so that they were squared off and had rectangular shapes. And not only that, but so that they fit together exactly. So then after they were transported and delivered to the construction site, they could quietly be put together and that way the temple be built. I think you know this verse. The Lord is in his holy temple, let all the earth keep sonas before him. Often we begin worship services with this verse from Habakkuk. Great costly stones, dressed stones. Dressing a stone means shaping it like that. And then having built the structure with stones, Solomon proceeded to install wood paneling on the interior walls, on the ceiling, on the floor even. And that's where Hiram, King Hiram came in. He provided Cedars of Lebanon That's a very famous tree from antiquity, famous for the the beauty of its wood and also its height. It grows very tall. And in fact, uh interestingly enough Psalm 92 uses this as an analogy and says, the righteous shall grow as a cedar in Lebanon, tall, straight, good looking, in the Lord, of course. And so Hiram, King Hiram, cut these trees down, the Cedars of Lebanon, but also Cypress, Cedars of Lebanon for the walls and the ceiling. and cypress for the floor because it was a little more durable with with all the foot traffic. And he lashed them together into rafts, floated them down the Mediterranean coast from Lebanon down to Israel, and then over to Jerusalem. So, stone, wood paneling, he didn't stop there. He overlaid the interior walls, the ceiling, and the floors completely with gold. Amazing. This was gold that probably his father David had collected. David was not allowed to build the temple, but what David did was purchase the property for the site. stockpile a bunch of materials and also give the plans for the temple to Solomon, the plans that David had gotten directly from the Lord himself And here we have precious stones, valuable lumber, wood paneling, and glittering gold. And you can imagine the Temple of Solomon was a magnificently glorious building one of the wonders of the world to portray the great glory of Almighty God. Remember, Isaiah had this vision. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. David never saw the temple because it was built after he died, but prophetically he looked forward and said, One thing have I asked of the Lord that will I seek after that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Now the temple was never built during his lifetime. And yet in Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, he ends that psalm by saying, I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. He had an anticipation of eternal life with his God. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Those words are inscribed on the stone that marks the grave of my wife's parents in Japan. They were very fine Christians. So we see the presence of God in the beauty of these pillars and the beauty of the temple. We also see it in the ornamentation of the pillars and the temple So we read this passage in 1 Kings 7, where it says that the pillars were ornamented with fruit and flowers. The fruit was pomegranates, which in the Old Testament were a symbol of fruitfulness, because if you took this pomegranate fruit and sliced it open, it was chock full of seeds. And the other uh the flowers on the pillars were lilies. And here I learned from the commentaries that in Hebrew language The name lily, the word lily, sounds very similar to the Hebrew word for purity. So looking at these pillars, their ornamentation would bring to the mind of the Israelites. That God is a life-giving, fructifying God. And furthermore, that God is a pure and holy God. No question about it. Inside the temple there was also ornamentation. On the doors at the entrance of the temple there was ornamentation. It was engraved figures of cherubim, that's angels. and palm trees and open flowers. So looking at the doors, looking at the interior walls and the pillars Wouldn't the Israelites think about a garden with very lush vegetation? A garden with cherubim Ah, the Garden of Eden, also called paradise. So in that garden, God walked and talked with Adam and Eve. in wonderful fellowship until Adam and Eve sinned. And then God put them out of the garden, and he placed the cherubim with a flaming sword, Genesis 324, to Prevent them from re-entering the garden. They could not access the tree of life. But there's always that desire in our hearts. We want to regain paradise. We want to be with God in His presence. And this ornamentation would remind you of the presence of God lost, but perhaps restored. And then there is the structure of these pillars that reminds us of the presence of God. There are two pillars. When the Israelites were in the wilderness, there were two pillars. By day a pillar of cloud to lead them on the way. By night a pillar of fire to give them light. And in the New Testament We look at two pillars, and perhaps we're reminded of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the pillar of our souls, who has two natures, human and divine, in one person. So, divine power, divine presence, and thirdly, divine promise. Actually plural, many promises by looking at these pillars So I've already said that the the doors to the temple where the pillars stood were highly ornamented and decorated And in fact, so decorated that it brought to mind of the Israelites the Garden of Eden. And so the entrance to the temple was viewed as the gateway to paradise. the gateway to paradise, the portal to God's presence. And there was an entrance, meaning, yes, it would be possible to walk in and be present with God. But Ordinary Israelites were not allowed to enter. Only the priests from the line of Aaron could enter the temple, the front part of the temple, the holy place, and only the high priest And only once a year could enter the most highly place, that's the innermost room of the sanctuary, were the Ark of the Covenant, the Mercy Seat, the cherubim, uh the Ten Commandments, those um uh plaques were were limited. So the high priest on that day of atonement would very carefully prepare himself, bathe thoroughly put on these special holy linen garments, first offer a bull for himself as a sin offering, before he would enter the presence of God and offer A blood sacrifice for all the people. Sprinkle the blood on the mercy seat. So approaching God is not a casual matter. I think we ourselves should keep that in mind as well. Then when the uh temple was finished in chapter eight of verse uh of 1 Kings we read Solomon assembled assembled all the people In front of the temple, and they had this great ceremony. Solomon prayed a wonderful prayer, truly wonderful prayer, but he did not go inside the temple, even though he was king. Jesus never went inside the temple. And uh, you know, at age 12 we read he was, quote, in the temple, asking questions of the religious leaders. That's how religious instruction was carried on in those days. And I hope today as well in our Sunday school classes. There's lots of questions and answers because that's how we learn. But uh Jesus and his disciples, and then later after Pentecost, the disciples taught in the temple. They were probably, well, either the courtyard or more likely what was called the Porticle of Solomon. This long porch with columns that ran along the side of the temple building. So they're not in the sanctuary proper, but they're in the temple complex overall. Was there ever access? Yes. Jesus was being crucified, and at the very point where he gave up the ghost, Matthew, the Gospel of Matthew tells us that the veil. This heavy curtain that separated the most holy place, the Holy of Holies, from the holy place, the front part of the sanctuary of the temple, was torn in two top to bottom. And that was so significant, we read the explanation in Hebrews. We have confidence to enter the holy places. By the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that he opened for us through the curtain. That is, through his flesh. Every time we celebrate the Lord's Supper, we remember his body was broken and ripped and torn by beatings, by flogging. But by his blood shed, by his body broken, we are safe. We have access to God. Speaking of paradise Makes us think of the two thieves, the two wrongdoers that were crucified with Jesus, one on this side, one on that side. And initially both of them mocked Jesus. And then in his dying moments, one of the thieves had just a complete change of heart and said to the other thief, we deserve what we're getting. But this man is innocent. And then he turned to the man in the middle and said, Jesus, he addressed them by name, by personal name, Jesus, remember me when you come into your kingdom. You have this sign over your head, King of the Jews, remember me when you come into your kingdom. That was his profession of faith. And Jesus said to him, Truly, I say to you, Today you shall be with me in paradise. Truly. Amen. Amen. It shall be. You will be with me in paradise. So the temple has an entrance. It had doors to keep ordinary people out. Only the priests could go in as intermediaries for the people. Now the veil has been torn. And Jesus, just as we read for uh the assurance of pardon, Jesus is the door. And if you enter by him You will be saved. You will be saved. So such precious words. Today you shall be with me in paradise. I hope we all remember that in the final days of our earthly life. There's some other promises I just want to point out. Speaking of the death of Jesus, he was crucified and died for us on a pillar. The tall stake with a cross piece, planted in the ground on top of this hill called Golgotha, the place of the skull, which means it was the execution place. And it was a a horrible death, painful, humiliating, shameful, accursed death. And you look at that and you might say that was a supreme moment of weakness. But in reality, it was a supreme moment of strength and power. Because with that death, with that kind of death, Jesus totally crushed sin and death for us. He loved us, and he died for us. Now, something else is interesting. We read this, that Solomon hired this person called Hiram of Tyre. Don't get confused. It's not King Hiram. It's another Hiram. Hiram must have been a very popular name among the Phoenicians. And King Solomon used the very best materials to build the temple. Nothing was too good for his God. He also recruited the very best craftsmen and artisans And apparently Hiram was a world-leading master craftsman, a worker in bronze, full of wisdom and understanding and skill. And he made all this stuff. In 2 Chronicles we read also that he was very good working with gold, silver, iron, stone, wood, linen, dyes, and everything. And there's an interesting little fact told to us about Hieron, and that is that he was only half Phoenician. And half Israelite. His mother was an Israelite from the tribe of Naphtali. And we also read here that Solomon imported lots of workmen from King Hiram of Tyre. to work on the construction of the temple along with the Jewish workers. And this fact is significant because Isaiah later said, the temple of God shall be a house of prayer for all nations. That'd be a great name for a church. All nations, OPC. That's the verse that Jesus used when he threw out the money changers. He said, You've made this a den of thieves. It should be a house of prayer for all nations. For all nations. And we read this passage in Ephesians chapter 2. Paul says, Jewish believers and Gentile believers, and I think most of us in the room today are Gentile believers, we are built to gather. into one temple, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, all barriers broken down. That's a wonderful, wonderful promise that we should remember. Now here's something else about pillars. The Apostle Paul, after his conversion. went to Jerusalem and he met the leaders of the church there. Peter, James, the brother of Jesus, not the apostle James, who was killed by Herod. Peter, James, and John. And later in Galatians 2, verse 9, he refers to them as that they were esteemed as pillars. In other words, they were the strength in the church. And is this not the way that, 1 Timothy 3. 15, the household of God, which is the church of the living God, is a pillar and buttress of truth. Here in our church, we maintain the truth vigilantly, diligently, from the Word of God. And strong leadership means strong churches. Two more things. Uh John had a vision of New Jerusalem in heaven. He saw no temple. And then he explained that the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple. The Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple. All barriers separating man from God have been removed. And he says, we shall, his servants shall see his face. Now, here on earth, while we live, God has a building project underway. He's building the Church of Jesus Christ. He's not using limestone and cedars from Lebanon. As building blocks, he's using us. We are living stones being built into this temple. It's a little hard to see the progress. Dr. Riken in his commentary says the scaffolding is still up. It's hard to see what's going on, but progress is made But he says, at the end of history, the scaffolding will come down, and we will see the wonder of the world, the glory of God, in the Church of Jesus Christ. One more thing related to Pillars. The book of Revelation, in the beginning chapters, there are these seven letters, the seven churches. Jesus writes a letter to the church. Every one of those letters, of course, is meant for us as well. And in the letter to the church at Philadelphia, Jesus writes, the one who conquers, I will make him a pillar. in the temple of my God. And I will write on him the name of my God. These two pillars, Solomon's Temple, had names. We will be pillars. We will have God's name on us. That is a fantastic promise, and it is a trustworthy promise, worthy of full acceptance, because God will firmly establish this promise, Jacob, by his Almighty Power. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you are a mighty fortress, a bulwark ever standing. And just like in Psalm 18, we confess that you, O God, are my rock, my fortress, my deliverer, the one in whom I take refuge, my shield. The Horn of my salvation, my stronghold. We thank you, O God, for your great power. We thank you for your presence in our lives. We thank you for your promises, which are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. And we do ask that the Lord Jesus Christ Himself, and you, God our Father, who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace, that you would comfort our hearts and establish them. Establish them in every good work. And word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.