The Old Testament reading of God's Word comes from Exodus. This is a long reading, so please feel free to sit. Exodus chapter 9. We begin there in the middle of the chapter, verse 13, and go through chapter 10, verse 29. This is on page 60 of the Pew Bible We'll be reading of the seventh through the ninth plagues on Egypt. Let's give attention to God's word. Then the Lord said to Moses, Rise up early in the morning and present yourself before Pharaoh, and say to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews. Let my people go that they may serve me. For this time I will send all my plagues on you yourself, and on all your servants and your people, so that you may know that there is none like me in all the earth For by now I could have put my hand out and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth. But for this purpose I have raised you up, to show you my power So that my name may be proclaimed in all the earth. You are still exalting yourself against my people and will not let them go. Behold, about this time tomorrow I will cause very heavy hail to fall, such as never has been in Egypt from the day it was founded until now. Now therefore, send, get your livestock and all that you have in the field into safe shelter, for every man and beast that is in the field and is not brought home will die when the hail falls on them. Then whoever feared the word of the Lord among the servants of Pharaoh hurried his slaves and his livestock into the houses. But whoever did not pay attention to the word of the Lord left his slaves and his livestock in the field. Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over or toward heaven, so that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt on man and beast and every plant of the field in the land of Egypt. Then Moses stretched out his staff toward heaven, and the Lord sent thunder and hail, and fire ran down to the earth. And the Lord rained hail upon the land of Egypt. There was hail and fire flashing continually in the midst of the hail, very heavy hail, such as never has been in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation The hail struck down everything that was in the field in all the land of Egypt, both man and beast. And the hail struck down every plant of the field and broke every tree of the field. Only in the land of Goshen, where the people of Israel were, was there no hail. Then Pharaoh sent and called Moses and Aaron and said to them, This time I have sinned. The Lord is in the right, and I and my people are in the wrong. Plead with the Lord, for there has been enough of God's thunder and hail. I will let you go, and you shall stay no longer. Moses said to him, As soon as I have gone out of the city, I will stretch out my hands to the Lord. The thunder will cease, and there will be no more hail, so that you may know that the earth is the Lord's. But as for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear the Lord God. The flax and the barley were struck down, for the barley was in the ear and the flax was in the bud, but the wheat and the emmer were not struck down, for they are late in coming up. So Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh and stretched out his hands to the Lord. And the thunder and the hail ceased, and the rain no longer poured upon the earth. But when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunder had ceased, he sinned yet again, and hardened his heart he and his servants So the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people of Israel go, just as the Lord had spoken through Moses. Then the Lord said to Moses, Go and Go into Pharaoh, for I have hardened his heart in the heart of his servants. that I may show these signs of mine among them, and that you may tell in the hearing of your son and of your grandson how I have dealt harshly with the Egyptians, and what signs I have done among them, that you may know that I am the Lord. So Moses and Aaron went into Pharaoh and said to him, Thus says the Lord, the God of the Hebrews, how long will you refuse to humble yourself before me? Let my people go, that they may serve me. For if you refuse to let my people go, behold, tomorrow I will bring locusts into your country, and they shall cover the face of the land, so that no one can see the land. And they shall eat what is left to you after the hail, and they shall eat every tree of yours that grows in the field. And they shall fill your houses and the houses of all your servants. And of all the Egyptians, as neither your fathers nor your grandfathers have seen, from the day they came on earth to this day. Then he turned and went out from Pharaoh. Then Pharaoh's servant said to him, How long shall this man be a snare to us? Let the men go, that they may serve the Lord their God. Do you not yet understand that Egypt is ruined? So Moses and Aaron were brought back to Pharaoh, and he said to them, Go, serve the Lord your God. But which ones shall go, or are to go? Moses said, We will go with our young and our old. We will go out with our sons and daughters and with our flocks and herds, for we must hold a feast to the Lord. But he said to them, The Lord be with you if I ever let you go, and your little ones go. Look, you have some evil purpose in mind. No, go, the men among you. And serve the Lord, for that is what you are asking. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence. Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, so that they may come upon the land of Egypt and eat every plant in the land of So Moses stretched out his staff over the land of Egypt, and the Lord brought an east wind upon the land all that day and all that night. When it was morning the east wind had brought the locusts The locusts came up over all the land of Egypt and settled on the whole country of Egypt, such a dense swarm of locusts as had never been before, nor ever will be again. They covered the face of the whole land, so that the land was darkened, and they ate all the plants in the land and all the fruit of the trees that the hail had left. Not a green thing remained, neither tree nor plant of the field, through all the land of Egypt. Then Pharaoh hastily called Moses and Aaron and said, I have sinned against the Lord your God and against you. Now therefore, forgive my sin, please. only this once and plead with the Lord your God only to remove this death from me. So he went out from Pharaoh and pleaded with the Lord. And the Lord turned the wind into a very strong west wind, which lifted the locusts and drove them into the Red Sea. Not a single locust was left in all the country of Egypt. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he did not let the people of Israel go. Then the Lord said to Moses, Stretch out your hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, a darkness to be felt. So Moses stretched out his hand toward heaven, and there was pitch darkness in all the land of Egypt three days. They did not see one another, nor did anyone rise from his place for three days. But All the people of Israel had light where they lived. Then Pharaoh called Moses and said, Go, serve the Lord. Your little ones also may go with you. Only let your flocks and your herds remain behind. But Moses said, You must also let us have sacrifices and burnt offerings that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. Our livestock must also go with us. Not a hoof shall be left behind, for we must take them to serve the Lord our God. And we do not know with what We must serve the Lord until we arrive there. But the Lord hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go. And Pharaoh said to him, Get away from me. Take care never to see my face again. From the day you see my face, you shall die. Moses said, As you say, I will not see your face again. Thus far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. You pray with me. Our Father and our God, we pray now work powerfully in our hearts. Help us to see and understand all that you have for us this morning. We pray this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. As a result of the Israelites' sin As a result of their neglecting God, turning away from God, worshiping other gods The Lord God took them into exile. The Babylonians came and destroyed the land and removed the people from the land and brought them. to Babylon. And as they did so, they burned the house of the Lord. They ravaged the land. They broke into pieces the utensils, the stands, and the bronze sea. They carried them off to Babylon, the pots and the shovels also, everything. Seemingly destroyed or taken away. It was also that Ezra could return. And rebuild the temple. The existing temple had to be destroyed. Before Ezra could rebuild the new. That's a bit of what we have going on in the plagues. Complete destruction before rebuilding the new Moses has been trained up, he's been called out, he has begun to serve, and these plagues are a way in which he is serving his God mightily. We've studied. These plagues, we studied the first three and the second three. We've broken them into groups of three Each time God is showing his power, each time Pharaoh hardening his heart or having his heart hardened by the Lord God Almighty. Today, as we study these plagues 7 through 9, it's important once again that we remember why God was sending plagues upon Egypt, certainly to deliver his people out. of the hand of the Egyptians to bring them out and then up into a good land flowing with milk and honey He's doing it so that that they, his people, would know that he is the Lord their God. He's doing it so that the Egyptians Would know that he is the Lord. And God was working a change in hearts as he was bringing the plagues. Today, I want us to see that the fear of God changes hearts. Very simple proposal, very simple proposition for us this morning. The fear of God changes hearts. Three points this morning. The fear of God moves us to heed his word. Secondly, the fear of God moves us to his worship. And finally, the fear of God moves us to recognize his Recreative works. Well, first, the fear of God moves us to heed his word Pharaoh hardening his own heart now has been a common theme The entire interaction between Pharaoh and Moses began with Pharaoh asking the question, who is the Lord that I should obey his voice and let Israel go? Common theme throughout all the plagues, throughout all this interaction between Moses and Pharaoh. And he continues it through these next three plagues, the plague of Hale. We read that he sinned yet again and hardened his heart, the plague of darkness. Seemingly this is a great battle going on in all of these plagues between God and Pharaoh, the will of Pharaoh versus the will of God. We may be tempted to understand this these plagues in that way. But I'm hoping that we actually see that the real battle was not going on between God and Pharaoh, but between God and the hearts of his people. Because we know that God's word always prevails. There was no doubt, there was never any doubt whether Pharaoh would prevail or God would prevail. His word always prevails. Despite Pharaoh's adamant adamancy against the Lord, against his will, the hail falls from heaven. It destroys, just as God said it would Despite Pharaoh's adamant denial of God's word, the locusts come and the locusts destroy. They consume, they cover the land, just as God had spoken. And despite Pharaoh's adamant denial of God's sovereignty, the darkness pushed out the light, just as God had spoken. And Pharaoh continued to harden his heart, or to have his heart hardened, again, just as God had spoken. Despite the fact that the nation was crumbling around him, Pharaoh would not see. The Nile was fouled by blood, the land ruined by flies, the livestock stuck dread by pestilence. And now the hail has crushed every green plant. The locusts have eaten what the hail failed to get. And darkness has enveloped the land. Pharaoh's servants even ask him that question. Do you not yet understand that Egypt is ruined? Pharaoh was certainly seeing, but he just wasn't perceiving. He was not perceiving the judgment of God upon him and upon the nation of Egypt. Without a doubt, Pharaoh was seeing the destruction. Indeed, he says to Moses, Remove this death from me. He was seeing the ravages that were going on in this nation, and yet he was not perceiving the hand of God. He was not understanding the will of God. He was not understanding the holiness of God. He was not grasping the righteousness of God. He was not seeing the justice of God. Pharaoh was not perceiving the connection between the plagues and the very word of God. Calling for his people to come and worship him How is that possible? How is it possible that the king of a land could watch his country being decimated before his very eyes and not heed the word of God? Well, first, we know that the Word of God is foolishness. Foolishness to those who have not been saved. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 18. We know that the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him, because they are spiritually discerned. 1 Corinthians 2, verse 14. And Paul, as he writes to those in Rome, tells them very clearly: the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. The Word of God is foolishness to those who are perishing. Secondly, unrepentant sin leaves scar tissue upon the heart. It's exactly what we have in Pharaoh. The progressive nature of sin or its effects, things build up and get worse, like corrosion. As one remains in unrepentant sin, remaining sin becomes easier and easier because the heart becomes harder and harder. Sin becomes even normal. Continuancing hardens the heart. It creates that scar tissue. Where do we see that in Scripture? Well, throughout. Psalm 17. They've closed their unfeeling heart. Jesus spoke of it. Matthew 13, for this people's heart is grown dull. With their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed. John records these words of Jesus, for judgment I came into this world that those who do not see may see, and those who see may become blind. Paul may put it maybe even the best way in terms of our understanding the callousness of the heart. As he's telling those who were reading his letter that you must walk no longer as the Gentiles do, because they're darkened in their understanding, he says this: they have become callous. and have given themselves up to sensuality, greedy, to practice every kind of impurity. That's what's going on in Pharaoh. That's what goes on in the heart of those who remain in sin, unrepentant. Sin. But maybe the most important or the most prominent reason for Pharaoh's refusal Is the absence of the fear of God. As the hail falls, the thunder is going on, the fire is coming down from heaven. Pharaoh calls Moses to him and asks him to bring relief. And Moses complies, but before he does, he says this. As for you and your servants, I know that you do not yet fear the Lord. Seems to be the central focus of the passage. Despite the blood, despite the frogs, the gnats, or the lice, the flies, the pestilence and the boils, now the destructive hail and fire, despite hearing the very words of the Lord God of creation, Pharaoh does not yet Pharaoh has become callous. He's given himself up to sensuality, to greed, to practice every kind of He has closed his spiritual eyes. But then we see a great contrast in Moses, don't we? The one who recognizes now that Pharaoh does not yet fear The Lord God. We must suppose if if Moses recognized that, that he knows what it was to fear the Lord his God. Unless one knows what it is to rightly fear God, because he or she is fearing God, then it seems impossible to judge. whether others are fearing God. It's been a change in Moses' heart, hasn't there? As Moses was called by God to now therefore go, go back to Egypt when he was still before the burning bush. Moses replied, please send someone else. Moses was not merely questioning God's judgment. He was saying, I'm not going to heed your word. But now no longer questioning God, no longer questioning God's word, whether it would come to pass or not. No, Moses was completely 100% on board because now Moses recognizes what it was to be. Fear the Lord. Do you see how the fear of God moves a person to heed his word, to receive the word of God? Scripture speaks of the inseparable connection between fearing the Lord and heeding his word Psalm 112, praise the Lord. Blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in his commandments. Psalm 128, Blessed is everyone who fears the Lord who walks in his ways. Behold, the fear of the Lord, that is wisdom. And to turn away from evil is understanding. Job 28 Got to see the connection between fearing God and heeding his word That's part of what the fear of God is. Moses had come to that point. Pharaoh didn't Tom Chalice writes this in one of his articles about the fear of God. The fear of God is different than a terrified fear of an evil person. The fear of God, its motivation, is not the fear of consequences, but the desire to not bring dishonor or shame upon loved ones. If we love the Lord, if we love God, then to fear Him is to do that which pleases Him. It's to heed his word. What a great contrast we have between Pharaoh and Moses. That brings us to our second point. The fear of God moves us to his worship. And here throughout these plagues, or at least these last three, we see this attempt by Pharaoh to negotiate, or maybe better, to bend the will of God regarding his worship. Pharaoh's fear or lack of fear of God had moved him away, far away from the worship of God. We see no inkling in Pharaoh that he desired to enter into worship with the Lord. His Words, in fact, disdain or belittle the worship of God, so much so that he would not let others participate in the worship of God. And now we see as these plagues continue to pound the nation, there is a kind of bending in Pharaoh where he admits sin and then he says, Well, okay, I'll let you go. But not too far. Remember that from our last time in the plagues. But now Now he says at verse 8 of chapter 10, Go and serve the Lord your God, but which ones are to go? Who's going to go? Who's going to leave? So Moses has this great statement basically saying everybody's going. Everybody has got to worship. Our sons, our daughters, our flocks, our herds, our young, our old. We must hold a feast. Pharaoh said, if ever I let you and your little ones go, the Lord be with you. No. Go the men among you and serve the Lord. And then with regard to the plague of darkness, Pharaoh again tries to bend the will of God with regard to his worship. Verse 24 of chapter 10, Pharaoh called Moses and said, Go serve the Lord. Your little ones may also go with you, only let your flocks and your herds remain behind. Pharaoh wanted relief from the pain that the nation was suffering. Worship. But did you see that Moses' submission was to the Lord's will, not to Pharaoh's will? How easy would it have been for Moses to say, okay, great, I'll take this little concession that you've given me, and we'll take some, but not everyone. We'll take it. Moses doesn't do that at all. Moses responds With not Moses' will, not Pharaoh's will, but God's will with regard to God's worship. We must hold a feast to the Lord. Everyone, all the people of God must participate, young, old, sons and daughters, the whole congregation. Must assemble and join in this service of worship, the feast. What a word to describe worship. A feast And when Pharaoh suggests that the flocks and herds be left behind, Moses is so clear. No, no, we must heed God's word. We must worship in the way that He has called us to worship. And right now we're not even exactly sure what that's going to be. Our livestock must also go with us. Not a hoof shall be left behind, not one. For we must take them to serve the Lord our God We must be prepared to serve. I'm not sure exactly what that means, but we've got to take them all. I know that. We can't concede. There would be no bending the will of God with regard to his worship. Moses was convicted. The fear of God had set this in Moses' heart now. He wasn't trying to negotiate any longer as he did with God. Send someone else. Moses was brought to fear as he wasn't able to see and hear. Those plagues were not just for the Egyptians, they were for Moses as well. The power of God, the The love of God for his people, the faithfulness of God, doing that which which we said he would Think of all that Moses had been exposed up to this point. Attempts on his life, saved by God. Sustained by God in Pharaoh's house 40 years, sustained by God in the wilderness 40 years, brought back to Egypt by God, provided all things necessary by God, superintended by God. Moses fears God. And so he wants to worship his God and the way that God has called him to worship. Not man-made worship, not shortcut worship. No, the fear of God has led Moses to desire the worship that the Lord Himself had proscribed Brothers and sisters, when one truly fears the Lord, then God instills or impresses a desire to worship him in the way that he calls for worship. Confession puts it this way: the light of nature shows that there is a God who has lordship and sovereignty over all. He's good. He does good unto all, and he's therefore to be feared. Loved, praised, called upon, trusted in, served with all the heart, with all the soul, with all the might. Did you hear that? He's to be feared. He's to be worshipped. And Moses was seeking to do that. Pharaoh provided more than one opportunity to worship with some shortcuts and Suggested that Moses and the people of God might worship, but not with all the heart and with all the soul and with all the might. But Moses rejected these suggestions. Because they were shortcuts. They were not with all the heart, soul, might, and strength. The visible church today worships in many different man-made ways. Ways that God has not commanded. Jesus Christ said, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me. Remember as the Apostle Paul was going through Greece and saw that that altar to the with an inscrip an inscription to the unknown God. They thought that they were worshiping by having a plaque, an inscription. And Paul had to tell them about the only one who was worthy of worship who made the world and everything in it, since he is Lord of heaven and earth, does not dwell in temples made with hands, nor is he worshiped with men's hands Nothing from us. We fabricate nothing. We only worship in the way he calls us to Worship according to his will. And the fear of God, the desire to please him above all else, moves the true believer to worship in this way to the exclusion of all others. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. God has called us. To worship him in the way he desires. The fear of God does move us to his worship. Finally, the fear of God moves us to recognize his recreative work. What am I talking about? I think that's what we're seeing in Egypt. I think we're seeing the creation unraveling in a sense in Egypt through these plagues. In a sense, God was unraveling the creation in Egypt and Pharaoh was refusing to see it. Consider Genesis In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void. And darkness was over the face of the deep. It seems that God was moving Egypt back to that condition God created light. He separated land from the water. Trees, plants, shrubs arising from the earth, sun, moon, and stars filling the heavens, fish filling the seas, birds filling the skies. Beasts filling the land and man created in God's image to worship, to multiply, to exercise dominion And all very good in the sight of God. But now in Egypt, as a result of Pharaoh's refusal to submit himself to the Lord, Nothing seems to be very good. There was a lack of order, water and blood mixed together, not separated any longer, a deadly concoction, hail and fire falling from heaven, throwing all into confusion. and mass hysteria. Pharaoh's ability to exercise dominion over the nation of Egypt had clearly been taken away by the Lord. Frogs, gnats, flies, locusts invading the country, livestock perishing. crops destroyed, and now no light. Darkness. Certainly a sign of Pharaoh's heart The removal of all the light, such that only darkness remained Seemingly rever reverting Egypt back to the beginning of creation when the earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the deep The creation now unraveled in Egypt by the Lord of Lords and King of Kings And Pharaoh was not seeing it. The light of God had been removed, and Pharaoh was not understanding. The only thing that Pharaoh had to say was to tell the messenger of God. Get away from me. God, the light of the world, sends his messenger And Pharaoh's words to him were get away from me. The one thing that Pharaoh desperately needed, the word of God, the light of God, he refused to receive. Egypt would need rebuilding. In a significant sense, Egypt would need recreation The Egyptians needed light, and their hearts needed to be recreated. Since Adam and Eve, we've been sinning against God. Since Adam and Eve, we've been rebelling against God. Since Adam and Eve fell from grace. A recreation has been needed in the hearts of men and women and children. In Adam, the entire world was cursed. In Adam, the entire race was corrupted And Egypt, in its estate, upon the completion of the ninth plague, was a picture of our corrupted, dark hearts inherited from Adam. But the good news is that recreation is occurring. It's happening. God, through the Lord Jesus Christ and His Spirit, has been and continues His recreating work. The old man is being destroyed, torn down and cast off, and the light of Christ is replacing that which is cast off. Isn't that where we're headed? Isn't that what we read in Revelation 21? The city had no need of sun or moon to shine on it, for the glory of God gives it light and its lamp is the Lamb. One who believes, one who trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ Can see this work of recreation, of restoration. You can see it in yourself And you can see it in others. Because you've been given this light, the light of Christ. Ezra, the one who was sent to rebuild the temple, recognized this work Blessed be the Lord, the God of our fathers, who's put such a thing in this the king's heart, to adorn the house of the Lord, which is in Jerusalem. God had changed the heart of Artaxerxes to send Ezra back to rebuild the temple. Yes, the fear of God does change hearts. It allows us to see with our eyes his recreative work and give him the praise. May the Lord bless us with eyes to see His recreative work in our own hearts and in the hearts of others and give all the praise and the glory to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Father and our God. Thank you so much that you did not leave us in darkness. That you did not leave us in ruins. But Father, that you determined to recreate through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we thank you for the way you have instilled fear in our hearts. Father, that we would heed your word, that we would long to worship you in the way that you have ordained, that we would be able to see how you've changed us and others. And give you all the glory. Help us, Father. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.