If you would turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter 12. I think it's on page 971 of your Pew Bibles. And for context, I'm going to begin reading at verse fifteen. Preaching of the Word this morning will be on verses 22 through 37. Let's give attention to God's Word. Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there, and many followed him, and he healed them all and ordered them not to make him known. And this was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will any one hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, a smoldering wick he will not quench. until he brings justice to victory. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. Then a demoned oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, and he healed him So that the man spoke and saw. And all the people were amazed and said, Can this be the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, It is only by Beelzebel, the prince of demons, that this man casts out demons. Knowing your thoughts, he said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand. And if Satan casts out Satan, he is divided against himself. How then will his kingdom stand? And if I cast out demons by Beelzebel, by whom do your sons cast them out? Therefore they will be your judges. But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. For how can someone enter a strongman's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strongman? Then indeed he may plunder his house. Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. Therefore I tell you, every sin and every blasphemy will be forgiven people, but the blasphemy against the Spirit will not be forgiven. And whoever speaks a word against the Son of Man will be forgiven, but whoever speaks a word against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven, either in this age or in the age to come. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad. For the tree is known by its fruit. You brood of vipers. How can you speak good when you are evil? For out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good. And the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give an account for every careless word they speak. For by your words you will be justified, and by your words you will be condemned. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven As we now come to the preaching of your word, we ask for your blessing upon the reading of it And that you by your Spirit, Lord God, would lead and guide us this morning. We come once again to another difficult passage. And we need the Spirit to instruct us, to teach us, to lead us, to guide us rightly. So, Holy Spirit, work powerfully. Convict us of sin. Remind us of the beauty of Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible begins with powerful words God said, let there be light. And there was light. Let there be an advance in the midst of the waters. And it was so. Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place. Let the dry land appear, and it was so. Let the earth sprout vegetation. Plants yielding seeds, seeds, and fruit bearing fruit, fruit trees bearing fruit, in which is their seed. Each according to its kind on the earth, and it was so. God spoke into existence everything out of nothing. The power of God's words are set forth immediately as you open the scriptures. It can't be missed. Two chapters later, we read of the power of the words of Satan. As he questions God's words, did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? Powerfully probing Eve's soul. And then, not satisfied with merely questioning, he denied. God's very words. You will not surely die. And deceiving Eve, you will be like God. Powerful words of the deceiver. And then Even turning to the New Testament, we see the powerful words of even the chief priests and the elders Who persuade the crowd to ask for Barabbas and to destroy Jesus As Pilate asks the crowd, then what shall I do with Jesus who's called to Christ? They all said, Let him be crucified. Words spoken by men are so powerful. And it's because they come from the heart, as Jesus tells us this morning. They have the ability to build up and to tear down because they are spoken out of the heart. We'll see that this morning as we open up this passage. If we're careful, we see that There is a significant thread or theme throughout all of Scripture, but in particular here in Matthew's gospel, which is centered on speech or words. It may have begun in chapter 9 as the Pharisees questioned Jesus' disciples, asking, why does your teacher eat with tax collectors and sinners? Jesus has been healing by his words. He touches the two blind men and say, according to your faith, it shall be done to you, and their eyes were opened. He opens their eyes with his words. Jesus has called his disciples by his words, follow me. He's taught them that the harvest is plentiful and the laborers are few. And then he's sent them out. He's calling his disciples together. He's giving them, he's proclaiming authority upon them. Proclaim as you go, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. If the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it. He's sending them out with words. And now the Pharisees have attacked Jesus Christ with the words of their tradition. And Jesus has responded with the very words of God. Today, as we look at this portion in chapter 12, I want us to see that on the day of judgment, all will give an account of their words. Either to condemnation or to justification. On the day of judgment, all will give an account of their words, either to their condemnation or justification. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, unbinding the oppressed, secondly, blaspheming the spirit, and then finally, cultivating the heart. Brothers and sisters, this passage is focused, is fixed upon words. We tend to give very little attention. To our words. This passage should help us to reconsider the way in which we speak. Let's begin then, unbinding the oppressed. The scene begins with that demon-oppressed man in verse 22 who was blind and mute, who is brought to Jesus. Remember, Jesus has been healing. And that has served as the backdrop to several of these narratives. He was Healing. This comes directly out of Isaiah chapter 61. The Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted to proclaim liberty to the captives, the opening of the prison to those who are bound. Each of these healings represent those who've been bound in some way And so now as a result of this oppression, this demonic, this evil, wicked, this unjust possession, this one, this man had lost the ability to speak and to see. His sight, his sense of seeing the world had been taken away by this demon, this demonic oppression or possession, his ability to speak, to to communicate to family, to friends, to the community, to express himself had also been oppressed by this evil spirit. Just think of that for a moment. It appears that this man had his faculties. He had his sight, he had his vocal cords prior to this demonic oppression. He knew what it was to see the world, to see his family, to see his friends. to move about. He knew what it was to express himself verbally. He knew his home, his community by sight. He knew the joy of being able to communicate with those around him. And now he'd been silenced and blinded. He was in the dark and without a voice, unable to support himself. And if he had a family, unable to support them. That's the work of Satan, isn't it? Not merely to take away sight or our vocal cords, but his plan is to destroy To tear down, to tear down the work of his enemy, who is God the living God and His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we see Satan at work here, separating this one from his community, from joining the assembly of God even from worship, taking away that which God had given him as he was knit together in his mother's womb. How could this mute and blind man worship with his faculties as some of them have been taken away. We have to be careful when we consider this. We have to be careful about how we think of these afflictions. We know that there are many today who do not have the ability to see. There are many today who do not have the ability to speak. And yet this one was deprived of both at the same time. Scripture doesn't describe to us how this man was suffering in addition to a loss of sight and a loss of speech. We might assume that there were other aspects of this man's life in which he suffered because of this demonic possession. In a sense, this one had been removed In the place in which he once lived and was now placed in a spiritual exile. It's not that the physically afflicted cannot worship God. That's not what this passage is saying. But we do see impediments, we see obstacles that Satan places in the way of joyful worship as he afflicts the children of God. And this one was unable to commune with others in the way that he had been accustomed to interacting, in the way that he had been accustomed to speaking with God. There's a sense of his being placed in a singular exile imposed by Satan who is opposing God And this oppression forms and sets the backdrop for us once again as Jesus is now again verbally attacked by the Pharisees. Everyone knew that this man was demon-possessed. No, the scripture doesn't tell us that, but it does tell us that he was brought by those to Jesus. Now, the only reason that he was brought to Jesus was because he had these afflictions, because he was demon-possessed. This was the reason for going to Jesus And they knew that Jesus had the ability to heal supernaturally. They'd either been told it, they've been seeing it, they've heard of it. They knew that this one had the ability to restore. And so this oppressed man was brought by others who knew of his oppression and who knew of Jesus' ability to restore. And so we see those three words here in our English versions. He healed him. That's it. Sometimes scripture seems to get to that point where we're expecting a large explanation and we just get these short, short narratives. He healed him. Jesus was unbinding this oppressed man. He released him Like the Israelites were released from Egypt to the ten plagues and crossing over the Red Sea on dry water. Just like the Israelites being released from their bondage, this one was freed from his bondage by Jesus. This one had been under the power of Satan. Just like all of us Paul records that in Ephesians. And you were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power Of the heir, the spirit that is now working the sons of disobedience. Paul writes of Satan, all born of Adam. Are under the power of Satan. And Jesus Christ comes Than to proclaim liberty to the captives. He comes to open the prison doors That's exactly what he was doing in this passage for this one who has been bound by Satan, his lips silenced, his eyes shut, and Jesus opens both. He healed him. Well, the explanation actually for how he does so doesn't really come until verse 29. How can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man? Now, Jesus was saying this in response to the Pharisees' foolish speech. But see, that's how we understand this passage. That's what Jesus was doing. That's why he was sent. He first bound the strongman, and now he's referring to Satan himself. Then he may indeed plunder his house. That's what Jesus did with regard to this man. That's what Jesus does for you. See, by and through his crucifixion, and most particularly through his resurrection, Jesus Christ has bound Satan. You say, well, how did he do that? He took away his weapons of warfare. Don't you see? We repeat it quite often. He destroyed sin and death in the tomb, the weapons of Satan's warfare. Sin and death. That's what he uses. Those are the two big guns that Satan has, and what does Jesus do? He destroys them in the tomb. In a sense, binding Satan, restricting Satan. Jesus' obedience, his obedient death and his resurrection has tied up Satan Restrained him as he's destroyed bondage to sin and defeated death. See, if you're cussing Jesus Christ this morning, you've been set free. It's by the power of his word that you've been set free, isn't it? The gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Romans chapter 1, 16. You've been set free by the Word of God, by Jesus Christ. And we can give thanks for this one, this mute and blind man who was indeed set free. And as you do, you should be giving thanks. For your freedom. Paul writes to those in Galatia, it was for freedom that Christ set us free. It was for freedom. So you should not be subject again to a yoke of slavery, to sin. Or as he writes to the church at Rome, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. That's what Jesus has done. Just blind and mute man is it's actually happened. It's a picture that Matthew's giving us even this morning to know that you've been released, you've been unbound. That you should consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus You know, the scripture doesn't tell us what this man did after he had been unbound, after he had been set free. But doesn't stop us from asking the question What what are what are we doing with our freedom? How are we using the freedom that Jesus Christ has given us As we meditate upon this passage, as we meditate upon freedom, as as we meditate upon being unbound And then bound to righteousness, we should be meditating also on that question: what are we doing with our freedom? That brings us to our next point, our next head, blaspheming the Spirit. Well, that sets the backdrop for us. The demon-oppressed man now being freed. This supernatural healing, this miraculous healing is one set free. Well, what were the reactions? That seems to be kind of the centerpiece of this passage. What were the reactions? Well, all the people who were witnessing this they were amazed, and they said, apparently out loud to one another, Can this be the Son of David? The Pharisees, on the other hand, take another approach, saying it is only by Beelzebub, the Prince of Demons, that this man casts out demons. We have a contrast now set forth The people who are closely watching the words and actions of the Lord Jesus observe this exorcism, so to speak. And they watch as Jesus relieves this man of his afflictions. They're witnesses to that supernatural removal of the evil spirit from this one such that he is now able to see and speak. The once who was once trapped or exiled in his own singular community now is relieved and returned and restored to that community which he was previously part of before that possession And so they're struck with this supernatural, this divine healing, and ask that very simple question, can this be the son of David? Now they're not just merely saying, is he in the line of David? Does he have the David's blood in him? They're not just saying that. They're not asking that. It's a reference to one who is to come and sit on an internal throne See, that's exactly what David was told by Nathan the prophet, who was giving him God's very words. I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body. I will establish his kingdom. That's what they were looking for. He shall build a house for my name, meaning God's name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. They were looking for a forever king. Now they probably didn't quite grasp all of that But they were looking for one who would take the throne again. They were looking for one who would come from David, who was promised, who would come and take this throne. Which would be eternal. And so the people are wondering, they're pondering, they're asking. They knew that this was going to happen. They trusted God that He would send this one. And now they're asking, is this Him? Remember, that's what John the Baptist's disciples were asking. Are you the one who we are to expect? Is this the son of David? It's really the same question. And they're pondering, they're meditating, they're asking. The Pharisees, on the other side, take the opposite route. They don't ask a question, they don't ponder, they don't make this connection But they make a statement. It is only by Beelzebol, the Prince of Demons, that this man casts out demons. And so what they were doing was attributing the pure and perfect and righteous loving work of the Holy Spirit now to the evil one, to Satan. That's what they were doing, in effect. Holy Spirit's work is now evil, malicious. Well, Jesus makes quick work of the Pharisees' foolish proclamations. Knowing their thoughts, every kingdom divided against itself is laid waste And so Jesus makes the argument. He makes that divine logical argument that if a kingdom is divided against itself, it can't stand. You are foolish for even suggesting such a thing If I cast out demons by Beelzebub, by whom do your sons cast them out? But if it is by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God is come upon you. Once again, Jesus was answering the question asked by the disciples of John. He's answering the question that the people were saying amongst themselves, is this the Son of David? And Jesus is saying, yes. It's by the Spirit of God that this evil spirit has been cast out, and thus the kingdom of God has come. And then Jesus makes this statement: Whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. Jesus is speaking of the kingdom, obviously. He's speaking of gathering more lost souls. Bringing them in. Bring them from darkness into the light. Bring them into the kingdom of God. Making them children of God. Bringing them back and restoring them to the fold. Where there be protection and nourishment and growth and gathering is that reference to saving souls from hell and damnation from the eternal wrath of God which would be laid upon them if they remained outside of the Good Shepherd outside of Christ. So Jesus states that those who do not gather with him oppose him. They oppose his work of gathering. And thus the opposite of gathering is scattering. Think of the flock again, the sheep. The shepherd gathers together his sheep. They're under his care. He leads them to green pastures and quiet and still waters. But those who oppose the shepherd, the ravenous wolves, which Jesus warns against, don't seek to keep the fold together. They they do just the opposite. They seek to separate. They want to separate one sheep. And devour that one sheep. And then they want to separate another sheep and devour that one sheep. And so we see the opposite of gathering is scattering. The opposite of bringing together into the fold, into the assembly of the body of Christ, those who are opposed to Christ, those who are against Christ. Against that which he's seeking to accomplish by the will of his Father. See, this was the purpose of the Pharisees This is what they were trying to do. To separate. Now please don't miss this. That Jesus was making this statement in connection with the words of the Pharisees, with their words. See, they were saying that Jesus was doing this by Beelzebub by Satan. And so Jesus is responding to their words, not physical actions. They weren't physically removing people from the assembly. They weren't just carting people off. They didn't have swords drawn. No, they were using their words. They were making statements, even their foolish words, even their blind speech, proclaiming lies by their words, so that they might separate some from this gathering work, from this assembly that Jesus was putting together. That's why he speaks of their words. When he states, whoever is not with me is against me, whoever does not gather with me scatters, he's speaking of their words. There's power in their words. Power to lead others astray. Probably the greatest power was to sear their own hearts And that's what Jesus speaks of, doesn't he? I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give an account for every careless word they speak. He's speaking again of the Pharisees. For by your words you'll be justified, by your words you'll be condemned. These are penetrating words for those who have ears to hear. Think of that. By your words you will be condemned. The Pharisees were condemning themselves. What does that mean to condemn? To determine to be guilty, to judge to be wrong. That's what Webster's has. Proverbs tells us he will condemn a man who devises evil. Jesus was telling his disciples that The Son of Man will be delivered to the chief priests and scribes, and they will condemn him to death. Not rightly. But in their wickedness, they would condemn him, find him guilty, deserving of death. Jesus is saying that those who speak in this way are condemned Those who speak in this way, those who speak against the Holy Spirit, will not be forgiven. This is the only transgression that we read that of. Whoever speaks against the Holy Spirit will not be forgiven either in this age or in the age to come. This is blasphemy. Webster's describes this as speaking evil. to speak reproachfully of. And that's exactly what the Pharisees were doing. You see the power of their words? The words spewing forth from the mouths of the Pharisees were coming from their hearts. They had condemned themselves by their words which evidenced the unrepentant rebellion that was in their hearts. We have to see the connection. See, as Matthew had just quoted Isaiah 42 in those verses we read earlier, behold my servant whom I have chosen, my beloved with whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit on him He shall proclaim justice to the Gentiles. Jesus had just proclaimed justice to the man who was mute and blind. He just proclaimed justice to him by healing him. Do you see? And Matthew had just quoted Isaiah, who said, I will put my spirit on him and he shall proclaim justice. And the Pharisees who would have known Isaiah, who would have been so familiar with that passage in Isaiah, who would have known the prophecy concerning the Spirit, nevertheless, attribute the work of the Spirit to Satan. And thus they blasphemed the spirit and condemned themselves. See, brothers and sisters, Jesus tells us that words will condemn, but it's only because these words flow out of our hearts. So pay attention to the words of Jesus because you will be giving an account of your words, not just your actions, but your very words will be considered on judgment day. There is a judgment coming for everyone, and we must remember and acknowledge and be wary of these words of Jesus. Words will condemn because they evidence what's happening in our hearts That brings us to our third point. Cultivating the heart. Again, Jesus states, for by your words You will be justified and by your words you'll be condemned. They're two sides of the same coin, so to speak To be judged by your words, but there will be justification and there will be condemnation. Well, what does it mean? Justification. The opposite side of that same coin then is justification. By your words you will be justified. Now let's be clear. Jesus is not speaking about a works righteousness in this passage. He's not saying you have to say the right things in order to get into heaven. Jesus is not going to get out a list and say, okay, uh Chris said this and this and this and I judge that's no, no No, it's you were saved by the blood of Christ. And as you're saved by the blood of Christ, then something happens dramatically within your heart. Changing it from stone to flesh, and now the words that flow out of your heart are being proclaimed to the world. These words are those words that Christ has been working within us. So no one can say, well, I'm justified because I speak righteous words. You're justified because of your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who has died for you and now worked in your heart and allowed you and enabled you to speak in such a way That brings glory to his name, just to be clear. To be justified is to be pardoned and cleared from guilt. Justification is an act of God's free grace, whereby He pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous in His sight only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. Fix that in your minds. Even as you read this passage, fix that in your minds. It's not possible to justify yourself. But what Jesus is saying is, as your heart is changed, as I change your heart by the work of the Spirit, your words are going to be different. We stumble. We will stumble. But as we go back to the Lord and and seek forgiveness and ask him to change our speech as he changes our heart. He's pleased to do that. To be justified is to have that changed heart which trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ and being indwelt by the Holy Spirit so that your words change. Because your heart has changed. But that doesn't mean we don't have work to do. Look at verse 35. The good person, out of his good treasure, that's that changed heart, brings forth good. See, that's the work of the Spirit. And the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. Or Proverbs 10, the tongue of the righteous is choice. Silver. It's not choice silver because you did something. It's choice silver because the Spirit did something. Or Paul, as he writes to those in Colossae, let your speech always be gracious, seasoned with salt. See, that's the call this morning in part. Knowing that you're going to give an account, but also knowing that the Holy Spirit is the one who's working in you, so that you can bring out that good treasure. Because good treasure lies within your heart. Because the Spirit has set it there But you have work to do. Cultivate. Cultivate your speech. Cultivate your heart The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good. The evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. Think of those words just for a moment. Brings forth. Either make the tree good and its fruit good, or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. Do you see what Jesus is calling us to do? Produce that fruit. There's a picture here of cultivating good fruit in the form of your speech This doesn't happen on its own. One doesn't merely open his mouth and good words or evil words flow. It's not like turning on the water faucet. Well, good words, that good speech which is Christ honoring must be cultivated. And the answer and the question is how? What about the Pharisees? What were they using to cultivate, to nurture their speech? They were using the traditions of men They were using their pride. But how do you cultivate this kind of fruit? How do you do it? Well, if we think in terms of the farmer, I know some of you are gardeners, much better than me. You've got to plant the seeds, the right depths. And you've got to water them. You've got to remove the weeds that choke out the good plant. Gotta get rid of those invasive bugs that destroy the crop. You've got to fertilize. You've got to water some more. And you've got to pray. That all ensures a fruitful crop. It's the same thing with your hearts, brothers and sisters. Paul writes to those at Rome, do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. The psalmist actually explains what Paul is saying in the first Psalm. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. And as this one does that, he is blessed, and that blessing is described this way. He'll be like a tree planted by streams of water, which yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. Do you see? the crop growing, the good being brought out of the good treasure, the farmer planting and tending the crop so that the fruit will be good Brothers and sisters, that's how. Being the Word of God, meditating upon the Word of God, being immersed in the Word of God, and as a result, what comes out of your heart, that good treasure. will be that speech which is Christ honoring. Yes, on the day of judgment all will give an account of their words, either to their condemnation or justification. The words of Satan and the chief priests were powerful and led astray and deceived many. But the words of Christ are living and true. And they bring each and every one of those God has chosen to salvation in Him And they continue to change us. So, brothers and sisters, I think the call this morning is to fix your minds upon the words of Christ, which are living and true. And bring that good fruit out of the good treasure which He has placed in your heart by His Spirit. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you and praise you. For you have not left us nor forsaken us. You do not leave us to speak on our own without the work of the Spirit, and we thank you, Holy Spirit, for the way you work in us. Help us to season our speech with grace. Help us to be those who honor Christ in every instance, in every occasion with our speech. Oh Lord God. Help us, we're weak and frail. Forgive us for our careless words. And remind us of how powerful our words are. We thank you, we praise you, we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.