If you'd open up your copy of God's Word once again to the Gospel of Matthew We'll continue our study there in the Sermon on the Mount. We're in chapter 6. I think you'll find it on page 964 of your Pew Bibles. We're looking at the Lord's Prayer today. Matthew chapter 6, beginning at verse 5. Let's give attention to God's holy, infallible word. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received a reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then like this. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For if you forgive others their trespasses, your heavenly father will also forgive you. But If you do not forgive others their trespasses, neither will your father forgive your trespasses. Let's find the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we come now to what might be a very familiar passage What has been referred to as the Lord's Prayer. Father, we pray make it fresh to us this morning. Edify your children, guide us, that we might see that the Lord Jesus Christ was in truth teaching his disciples how they might practice righteousness. We ask this in Jesus' name and for His sake. Amen. Earlier this morning, we read a passage from First Kings about Elijah. And about the prophets of Baal. And as we heard, as we listened Regarding the, if we can call it that, the prayer of the prophets of Baal, a false god, an idol, a non-existent being. We read this that these prophets cried out from morning until noon. And received no answer. Then they limped around the altar, and as Elijah mocked them, calling them to cry out even louder, they cried aloud, and then they cut themselves. Thinking that their actions of bringing forth blood would cause Baal then to listen and act. But nothing happened. And the inspired writer tells us that they raved on until the time of the offering of the ablation, meaning they were crying out all day long. But there was no voice. No one paid attention. We didn't read it, but we can contrast that with Elijah's prayer. It's very short. O Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that you are God in Israel. That this people may know that you, O Lord, are God. If we were to continue reading there, we'd see that the fire came down and consumed Everything. The ox, the wood, the stones. Elijah's prayer was answered. What a great contrast we have, showing forth Right or righteous prayer versus false prayers that are empty, vain prayers Jesus is teaching about that this morning. As we now come to This portion of Scripture where Jesus is teaching his disciples on how to practice the righteousness that he has called them to. He's described their hearts that have been changed. The hearts of all those who are in the kingdom of God, the hearts of all those who are headed to the kingdom of God, He's described that for them. He's told them that you need to be righteous, the salt, the light of the earth Jesus has gone through portions of the commandments and explained them to his disciples, and now he's talking to them about practicing their righteousness. Last week we saw three examples of that. We touched upon prayer just briefly last week. Today we're really going to jump into it. As he gives us that model prayer, that prayer that we refer to as the Lord's Prayer Tonight I want or this morning I want us to see that righteous prayer flows out of a tender heart. Which has experienced forgiveness through the sacrifice of Christ. Righteous prayer flows out of a tender heart which has experienced Forgiveness through the sacrifice of Christ. We'll see that this morning and break this passage down into three points, practicing self-centeredness. Secondly, practicing Christ-centeredness, and then finally, practicing forgiveness. You might be asking this morning What's wrong with my prayers? Have you ever asked that question? Or when the answer is no to your prayers and it just doesn't seem that God is listening, you might be asking, what's wrong with my prayer? For you know that the effective prayer of a righteous man can accomplish much. You might be asking that question this morning, what's wrong with my prayer? This passage today is an answer for that question and much more That brings us to our first point, practicing self-centeredness, and that's really where Jesus begins. We must see this passage in its context. You know, there are books written on the Lord's Prayer. We've studied the Lord's Prayer. We've gone through the shorter catechism regarding the Lord's Prayer. We've broken it down petition by petition We're not going to do that this morning. We want to see this prayer in its context Because it's critical for our overall understanding of what Jesus is teaching his disciples what Jesus is teaching us, and that is how to practice our righteousness. How to act out of those new hearts that he's given us. Because we've been born again, there's a call to practice righteousness. And Jesus is saying, you're practicing righteousness if you pray this way. That's the context. We could structure our study of this portion of God's Word in this way. Number one, God won't hear you if you pray this way. Number two, God will hear you if you pray this way, and that may be an appropriate division. But I would rather think of it this way. What should not be going on in our hearts as we seek the face of God What our hearts should be fixed on as we seek the face of God. And what should be that attitude of our hearts as we seek to fellowship With our triune God. Well, first then, what should not be going on in our hearts is man-centeredness or self-centered Jesus provides three warnings as he begins or leads up to the model prayer. Look at verse 7. And when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases, as the Gentiles do. But they think they'll be heard for their many words. Do not be like them, for your father knows. He begins with a reference to what we might consider to be wrong or bad theology at best, or just plain unbelief at worst. First, do not heap up empty phrases The New American Standard translates this as meaningless repetition or the New King James vain repetition. The Greek lexicon defines the word this way. It's using the same words again and again, or speaking without thinking. That's important for us to fix our minds upon. Speaking without thinking. That's a vain repetition. That's meaningless. That's empty. So helpful. It's prayer without thought Prayer is communion with God. The larger catechism defines it this way: it's an offering up of our desires unto God in the name of Christ by the help of his Spirit with confession of our sins and thankful acknowledgement of his mercies. It's thoughtful. It's meaningful. It must be to commune with God. To commune, Kate, our desires, our confessions, our thanksgiving for his mercies, all in the name of Jesus, meaning according to Jesus' will. All this requires is a man's intimate, intense thought. Prayer is full of the intentions of your heart. And this is what is being communicated to God. But when the heart is spewing empty phrases or vain and meaningless repetition, there's no communion. Because there's no revealing or disclosing your heart. Secondly, Jesus refers to many words. Do not heap up empty phrases. As the Gentiles do, for they think they'll be heard for their many words. There's a sense in which these two are similar or maybe the same. Empty phrases, many words. But there may be a slight nuanced distinction between the two. The idea or the belief that as you use many words that God will hear has no biblical support to it. This thinking, this concept, this belief appears to be based upon the thought that I can control God. That as I pray, that as I use many words, I can manipulate God to hear me and to answer me. How else could we understand this? The one who prays in this way with many words is just believing that the God of heaven and earth is just waiting and counting My words. And then all that I need to do to get him to hear me is use a lot of them to open up my mouth, spew out many thoughtless, meaningless words. Appears to be the reference back to that same error being committed by the religious leaders of that day And when you pray, do not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners. Many words so I can be heard by you, so you can see my piety Remember the prophets of Baal. From morning until noon, actually from morning until the evening sacrifice, they continued crying out. How many words did they use? Many. But there is no voice. Those who pray in this fashion, and I use that word pray loosely, with empty phrases, with vain repetition, with many words, are not seeking the Lord of hosts. They're not communing with the living God, just like the prophets of Baal. They didn't know God. They were seeking after a dead, lifeless idol that they'd made up in their minds. A God of their own image and likeness. Now, as we think of many words, we have to qualify this So that we don't misunderstand Jesus' words. It's not wrong to use many words as we pray. Jesus was not prohibiting long prayers. He was not telling his disciples, don't spend much time in your prayer closet Keep things to a minimum. God has a lot to do. He can't handle so many words from you. That's not what Jesus was saying. Think for a moment upon Solomon's prayer in dedicating the temple. In 1 Kings at chapter 8, there are 33 verses that record his prayer. And we see no rebuke from the living God. Actually, in 2 Chronicles, as the chronicler records the prayer of Solomon, it's right after he finishes praying that the glory of God fills the temple. So much so that the priest can't even go in and minister. Many words. Using many words is not prohibited. It's the attitude of prayer. that Christ speaks to. And so we think of practice of that which flows out of the attitude of our hearts, the condition of our hearts. There's a third warning, and that is that the Father knows. Don't use those many words because you don't want to be like the Gentiles, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him God knows everything. But don't be misled by this one either. For this doesn't mean that we shouldn't pray. for our needs. Really, what Jesus is trying to get his disciples to see or to ask that question of themselves is why would God hear you The writer of the Proverbs tells us that the Lord is against the wicked, but he hears the prayers of the righteous. Why would God hear you this morning? If he doesn't hear because of your many words, if he doesn't hear Because of vain repetition or meaningless repetition, why? And the answer is that no one will be heard because of the words you use. The answer is that the Christian will be heard because of Christ, because of the intercession of Christ Jesus. You see, that's one reason why he had to return. That's one reason why he had to ascend. That's one reason why he is the high priest. That's one reason why he' With the right hand of God, that's one reason why he is interceding for you right now So that your prayers will be heard. You see, it's not based upon the number of words you use. It's not based. It's not based upon the things you ask for. It's based upon Christ. It's based upon Christ's petitions. Anthony Burgess was an English Puritan, and he puts it this way. There's not any one prayer that could ever ascend to heaven if it were not for Christ's intercession. You see what he's saying If Christ weren't there, if he were not interceding, there wouldn't be a single prayer that you could offer up that would make it into the ears of God, so to speak. He continues, it's the intercessory prayer of Christ, which is indeed the key of heaven, that opens it for thee and thy duties. What an image. Jesus Christ, his prayer, is the key that opens the door. And then through him, your prayers are heard. But the prayers of men contain much infirmity. Isn't that right? Yes, of course it's right. But the intercessory prayers of Christ are full and fervent for thee. There's no imperfection, no fault to be found with Christ. So it's not your words. This is why Jesus warns, do not be like them, meaning the Gentiles, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. He hears because of the intercessory. Prayer of Christ, your Savior. Praise be to the Lord. Amen. That brings us to our second point. Practicing Christ-centeredness. We thought about practicing man-centeredness or self-centeredness, and we see that Jesus speaks against that. And now we want to talk about practicing Christ-centeredness in our prayers. And if we take a bird's eye view of this model prayer from way up high, we would say it's very simple, at least on its face. We would also say it's very brief. Not many words. As the ESV translates it to only 52. Now they leave out the last portion. Because that's not included in the early manuscripts. That's why your ESV Bible doesn't have it. But if you include it, they're about 68. So still not a lot of words. But it's full. This model of prayer is full of theology, it's full of meaning, it's full of doctrine. It's so full, so deep, that as one is praying, you must be engaged in deep thought Sometimes we tend to meaningless repetition. But this repair requires Deep thought. Because it's full of theological truths about God, about his nature, about his power, his attributes. It's the opposite of empty phrases or meaningless repetition. By definition, it is a model of a righteous prayer, a guide for Christians in practicing righteousness. I want to touch upon the petitions, just touch upon them, so we can begin to understand and appreciate the depth and the thought that must go and be involved in a righteous prayer. Our Father in Heaven, your heart is to be awakened as you pray that beginning, that title, as your lips speak his name, as you use this familial title for your father. Your heart is to be awakened, isn't it? As you acknowledge in your prayer that this is the one who made you Who created all things out of nothing, who hung the stars, who made the sun and causes it to burn brightly, even now, even through the clouds. He's the one who formed your inward parts, who knitted you together in your mother's womb, who made you fearfully and wonderfully, who knows your frame, nothing is hidden from him. He is the one who loves you. Your heavenly Father. How precious is your steadfast love, O God. The children of mankind take refuge in the shadow of your wings. Psalm 36. Consider that as you're praying our Father, in heaven. Praise the one who resides in the heaven of heavens, but yet knows all things Who's intimately engaged as your sovereign over everything? He is transcendent above all things, but he's also imminent. Engage and Baal sovereign over the minute details of your life, knowing the number of hairs on your head. You know when I sit down, when I rise up, you search out my path and my lying down and are acquainted with all my ways. That's what should be happening in your heart. As you pray, our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name, the first petition. It's in the first place. Think of that. It's to have emphasis. It's to have priority. As you're praying, hallowed be your name. That means it's your desire that God would sanctify and consecrate his name before the world. As you bow your head before the Almighty. Is that what you're thinking? Is that your petition? That's part of righteous prayer. It comes with the second petition, your kingdom come. The disciples at this point should have been seeing a theme. That their prayers are to have an eternal heavenly kingdom of glory focus laser focus The prayer doesn't include earthly petitions, but these come later, and the design is for the one who's praying to be far more fixed and concerned with that which is eternal, the ultimate promised land, your kingdom come. That Satan's kingdom would be destroyed, that God's kingdom would be ushered in, that he would ensure that that happens. That should be the focus. Your will be done. Now, as one petitions the Lord and you ask for his will to be done, what are you actually asking for? Have you thought about that? Is your heart fixed upon that? Your will be done. Where do you find his will? Well, throughout Scripture, right? We can find God's will throughout Scripture, but most particularly we can find His will in the commandments, can't we? The commandments tell us of the nature of God, but the commandments also tell us, this is my will for your life. You've been saved. Just as the Israelites were brought out of Egypt into the promised land because they've been saved, because they crossed the Red Sea, now God tells them, I want you to live this way. It's the same for you Christ has changed your heart. He's worked in you. He's given you a tender, fleshly heart. And now God says, and now I want you to live this way. Your will be done. You're praying that God would mold your heart, that he would shape your heart. Because your heart, when you were born, was filled with corruption because of Adam. And now you're asking, please, Lord God, mold it, shape it into what is good and right. Cause me to do your will, that which is pleasing in your eyes. Just like it's done in heaven. What happens in heaven? Every being perfectly Doing that which God wills. Perfectly. Every single one. Oh God, make us like that. Make me like that. We know we're not going to be quite like that until we enter glory. But that's our prayer, that's our petition, mold me, shape me. Indeed, Jesus. Jesus' nature is seen in this petition. My food is to do the will of him who sent me. And then as he prayed in Gethsemane, not as I will, but as you will, do you see how Jesus was always fixed? Upon God's will being done. Give us this day our daily bread, the fourth petition. You might be thinking, well, why does Jesus call his disciples to ask for bread? It's a bit of a transition. It's a bit of a verse that recognizes that we are not only spiritual, we also fleshly. And so this petition is a confession and proclamation, just like all the others are. Jesus didn't say pray for monthly provision or yearly provision. He didn't say just ask for strength to plant your crops. No. He's saying, you've got to pray in such a way that you acknowledge your complete and utter dependence upon your Father every day. Every day. The Israelites knew this more than we do today. Farmers, shepherds. Couldn't count on when the rain was going to fall unless they petitioned God. Couldn't count on the sheep producing more sheep unless they Petition God. So as one prays for daily bread, there's an implicit confession that without God, without his daily provision, his sustaining hand, the created body will indeed perish. God is constantly and consistently sustaining you. He gives you your very breath. He causes your heart to beat. Indeed, God is the one who gives life, and Jesus is the one who sustains it. Think of that picture of the branch being in the vine. Without the vine, you are cast off. Forgive us our debts, the fifth petition. We're going to get into that in the third point, but this seems to be the centerpiece of the prayer. Lead us not into temptation, the sixth petition, but deliver us from evil. Clearly the prayer is swung back into the petitions of a spiritual nature. To be kept from temptation, delivered from evil, identifies our two greatest enemies, that one within us. The old man who continues to urge us to pursue sin. We're subject to temptation. We need to be kept from it in order to be kept from sin, and that's our petition, that's our prayer. Keep us from temptation. Lead us out of temptation. Deliver us from evil. Ultimately deliver us from hell. Deliver us from death. The greatest evil. And so as we pray these things, we we recognize there's only one way for this to happen, and that's through the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. As Paul wrote to the church at Rome, we know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. Brought to nothing. Lead us not into temptation. Sin would no longer be our master. And that death would no longer have dominion over us, and it's only through Christ. And beginning to see the Christ-centered nature of this prayer. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. This is not included in the ESV because it's not found in the early manuscripts, as I said, but it's in later manuscripts, and we use it And it's the basis, it's the foundation for seeking a favorable reply from God, isn't it? Not from me, Lord. Not for my sake, but do these things because everything is yours This petition shuts the door on self-centeredness Everything is yours. Yours is the kingdom. Yours is the power. Yours is the glory forever. It's a model prayer. I'm hoping we're seeing that this model prayer should be fixing our hearts upon Christ Jesus. Because Jesus was the author, wasn't he? And his first concern was for the glory of his Father And because of that focus, he tells his disciples that this model prayer is for your good if you're seeking the glory of God. This model prayer is for your good. He's concerned for the physical, the spiritual well-being of the children of God. His concern, his loving-kindness, his watch care shows through every word, every petition in this prayer. This prayer for the spiritual and physical well-being of his followers as they seek, as you seek, the glory of God. Yes, this prayer is Christ centered. That brings us to our last point, practicing forgiveness. And while you might say, well, we're done with the prayer itself, well, we've got to include these last two verses because they are certainly connected. Indeed, this is the only portion of the model prayer which is touched upon or opened up by Jesus. Everything else is kind of left for us to grasp by the work of the Spirit. This last portion though, if you forgive others their trespasses, your Heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you do not, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. Jesus was saying, disciples, if your hearts are not set on mercy. If your hearts are not having an attitude of compassion, if you're not desirous of practicing forgiveness, then this entire model prayer falls apart. There's no righteousness. That seems to be the idea. The prayer would have been of no use. In that condition, a condition where one was not seeking to forgive others, the model prayer begins to become vain repetition Empty phrases. If the disciples were not inclined to forgive, if they didn't practice forgiveness, then the Father would not forgive. This is so critical for us to grasp this morning. It gets to the significance of the condition of your heart as you attempt to seek the face of God. If your heart is not inclined to forgive, if your heart is not burdened with this attitude, then no prayer. No prayer of yours will be heard by God. It doesn't matter how many words you use. There's a bright line being drawn here, and I want us all to see it. As you're listening this morning, your desire is either to forgive or it is not. Period. There's no middle ground. Jesus did not speak of forgiving some and not others. He doesn't speak of forgiving this many times. We'll get into that later. But not this many. There's no safe harbor here where one can choose to hold on to some offenses and let go of others. There are no parameters. He doesn't give his disciples any parameters regarding this desire or The practice of forgiveness. Meaning there are no limitations. It was to be granted to all. Jesus' disciples were to be forgivers. There it is. You will either forgive or you will not be forgiven. This takes us back to the fifth petition, doesn't it? And forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. Again, this prayer cannot be prayed unthinkingly. It cannot be prayed in a routine fashion or as an empty phrase. This prayer must be Prayed as a pleading. Forgive us our debts. Because in reality we have forgiven Our debtors, in order for you to plead for forgiveness, you must be one who forgives. Now let me make this clear Forgiveness by God is not merit based. You do not earn forgiveness. Jesus was not preaching or proposing a merit-based forgiveness from God. He was not teaching that if you forgive others, then God will reward you, He will repay you. Because you've earned it. Brothers and sisters, you cannot earn forgiveness It is only through the unblemished, pure, the innocent blood of Christ shed on Calvary's cross. It is only through faith And trust in the Lord Jesus Christ that one can be forgiven. It cannot be earned. Let's be crystal clear. But this still stands. You must forgive. You might be scratching your head this morning. I hope you are. How can this be? What's the basis for this? How can one, how can I desire to forgive such that I actually do How do I practice this kind of righteousness when I'm inclined to hang on to offenses? When I'm inclined to get even sometimes, when I'm inclined to hold sin over someone's head Or receive sympathy because of the way I've been treated by others. Here's the only answer. And please listen carefully. It's only if you have experienced the forgiveness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Will you desire, even long for, the privilege of forgiving others? It's that simple. The only question this morning is: have you experienced the forgiveness of Christ? If you're here this morning, if you're watching on the stream, if you're listening to the recording, and you're thinking to yourself, I haven't. I haven't experienced the forgiveness of Christ. then clearly you'll have no desire and truly cannot pursue the forgiveness of others No true forgiveness for others, and certainly no true forgiveness for your own sins against the living God. He has been offended by you. And on judgment day, if you don't repent and turn to Christ, you will remain in your sins. And whether you admit it or not, your sins are weighing heavily upon you this morning. You will never have rest. And that is an experience that you are immersed in. The unrest of your sins weighing upon you even today. You cannot rest because you're carrying about this eternal weight. You're carrying about bitterness and strife, even hatred, which prevents you from forgiving others. And so this morning Christ calls out to you. Incline your ear and come to me. Listen that you may live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you. Christ calls out. The only thing you need to do is bend your knee before Christ, confess your sins, and plead for forgiveness. And he will cleanse you. He will remove the weight from you and enable you to forgive others. But if you're here this morning, if you're listening this morning, you say, Yes, I've experienced the forgiveness of Christ, praise God You felt the weight of your wretched sins lifted up off of your tender heart. You know the joy of your salvation, which is at its core, forgiveness. And then as a result of this experience, your heart is filled with thankfulness and joy that mercy has been poured out upon you. to the shed blood of Lord Jesus Christ, and then, and now you've been given the desire to forgive others. Indeed, indeed, this is one way you know that you've been forgiven. Because you're pursuing forgiveness. All because of Christ. All because of what He's done for you. All because that weight has been removed, because you're resting in him, and now you're pursuing that which he calls you to. Forgiving others. Yes, the righteous prayer flows out of a tender heart which has experienced forgiveness through the sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. The prophets of Baal had no communion. Despite their fervent cries and their bloodletting, their god, their idol, would not hear. Could not hear But the God of creation, the true, the living God, will hear every single one of your prayers. Through Christ Jesus, as they are centered upon Christ, and as you're pursuing forgiveness. Praise be the Lord. Amen.