Amen. If you turn your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there this morning in the Sermon on the Mount. We are now in chapter 6. Sunday we took a look at the Lord's Prayer and how that fits within the category of practicing righteousness. This morning we're looking at chapter six, beginning at verse 19 We'll read through verse 24. In my particular Bible, the heading here is Laying Up Treasures in Heaven. Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. The eye is the lamp of the body. So if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? No one can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we come to what might be a familiar passage, and yet what might also be a difficult passage. We pray, Lord God, that you would not only teach us, that you would cut us to the quick. You would pierce our hearts, Father, with your word as the Spirit takes it up. That you'd convict us of sin and Father help us to repent. And then, Father, that you'd set our eyes squarely upon Christ. Our Lord, indeed, our Master. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well this week if you've been watching the news you will have seen many reports about the fires in Maui. This morning, CBS News was reporting that ninety-three people have died. ABC News was reporting yesterday that the historic town of Lahanaya has been destroyed Two thousand two hundred and seven structures damaged, destroyed. Over two thousand acres burned. Some have described it as looking like a war zone. As USA Today was reporting and Talked with some people, they talked with the girlings, and the girlings were able to pick up a piggy bank, a bracelet, and watches. The rest of their things were gone. Mr. Garcia, as he sat under that banyan tree which you've seen on the news now charred. Reportedly said, if I don't do something I'll go nuts. He lost everything he owned. And then he said, I'm losing my faith in God. For many, everything gone. All the treasures of this world taken in an instant As much about what we're going to be seeing here in this passage as the Lord Jesus Christ is Speaking about our hearts, and he continues to do so. He began with the Beatitudes, and there was nothing within the Beatitudes about blessed are those who are materially wealthy. Not one word. Jesus wanted the disciples to fix their minds upon the law and And being sought in light as they sought to keep the law and project him and his father to those who were lost in darkness. And then we see a transition as we get to chapter 6. And as Jesus had been teaching about the law, now he speaks to them about practicing their righteousness. We saw those three examples of giving and praying and and fasting And even as we looked at the Lord's Prayer, we saw that that fit into the category of practicing your righteousness this morning. This morning, as Jesus speaks of treasures, I want us to see that Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world and Lord of all. Is the Christian's singular treasure. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world and Lord of all, is the Christian's singular treasure. See that this morning in three points. The vanity of earthly treasure, secondly, the necessity of good eyes, and finally the exclusivity of Christ. Brothers and sisters, the world and Satan are teaching, they're proclaiming earthly treasures. Jesus Christ is teaching something much different. As we go through this passage this morning, I want you to be asking yourself, Who am I listening to? Well, first, the vanity of earthly treasure Jesus begins with a warning do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth We'll get to the reasons given by Jesus in a moment, but right now we need to grasp that warning clearly. We need to understand it. He proclaims a prohibition. Do not Olaya. We might understand that pretty clearly. It means to gather, to save Paul, as he writes to the Corinthians, tells them on the first day of every week, put aside something and store it up. He's talking about the tithe, he's talking about their offerings. Set it aside. Store it up for later use. That's the idea when I'm storing or even accumulating. Something in a place where it can be retrieved and then used or enjoyed at a latter date, laid up. treasure is the thing being laid up, the thing being stored. Typically we think of material things, don't we? You need to understand though the breadth of this word treasure as Jesus uses it here in this context. We can loosely define treasure as those things or people or places, even events that we value, that we set our hearts upon. Think of the parables of Jesus as he spoke of the kingdom of heaven. It's like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and covered up. And then in his joy he goes and sells all that he has and buys the field. There's a picture of recognizing that which he has found and seeing the great value of it and seeing these other things don't matter to me anymore. It's just this one thing That's the idea. And then on earth, that seems to be the key to this prohibition. We know that Jesus does command the laying up of treasures in heaven. And here's the difference: laying up treasures on earth. The contrast is now set forth. Now we have to think through what does that mean? Earthly treasures. Our first thought might be money. Bank accounts, stocks, bonds. Last verse might come to mind. Verse 24, you cannot serve God and money. Don't store up money on earth. Money or finances certainly fall into this category of treasures. There's no doubt. But I think we need to broaden our thinking this morning beyond just money. As we think upon treasures on earth, we want to think about that which we might be tempted to lay up for ourselves. Across the board, certainly physical things, food, clothing, shelter, cars Think of anything physical that you could store up in treasure, whether it's a genuine need or merely a desire. But I want us to broaden our thinking beyond physical things. What else might you store up? You might store up education Massing it, getting more and more of it. What about accomplishments? Recognition from others for a job well done. We've covered this a bit as we spoke about practicing your righteousness before others. But in this context, it's a bit different. Storing up achievements, accomplishments, certificates, those accolades that say to yourself, I've done a good job, I've accomplished much, I've surpassed my peers, I'm in a class by myself Paul's words in Philippians 3 speak to that. The tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law of Pharisees, Ezekiel, a persecutor of the church, many accomplishments. I I persecuted a lot. But let's not stop there. About friends and acquaintances. Today's social media platforms cause you to desire to accumulate likes and more and more contacts, more and more friends. Who's my friend? How many do you have? It can certainly be a treasure. How many likes did I receive today? It has nothing to do with money. These are all treasures, money, education, achievement, friends, likes, which we tend in our corrupt hearts to lay up on earth. Now we need to qualify this. Because none of these things, people, accomplishment, events are evil, none of them. There's nothing wrong about them in and of themselves. They're not sinful The problem becomes, and the warning that Jesus Christ is giving to us this morning involves the taking of these things, these people, these accomplishments, and then laying them up as a valuable treasure. keeping them, storing them up, setting our hearts upon them, that they become something much more than in reality they are. The problem is when we set our hearts upon them, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. When these things or these people matter to us more than Christ. Now Jesus gives his disciples some reasons. Look at verse 19. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal? This is true because Jesus speaks it. But we've also experienced the truth of these words, haven't we? Moths have destroyed our favorite shirt or blouse. Rust eats away at our cars Most of us have had something stolen, taken without permission, not returned. We've experienced decay and loss Brothers and sisters, the earth and all that it contains is not eternal. In a sense, that's exactly what Jesus is saying. The Apostle John put it this way: do not love the world or the things of this world. The world is passing away. And Jesus alludes to that as he alludes to mods and thieves and Roths. It's passing away The Apostle Peter puts it this way: heaven and earth that now exist are stored up for fire. It's all temporal. Everything. Everything we see, the entire creation Jesus also sets forth the reasoning that you can't serve two masters. You can't serve God and money. We're going to get to that in our third point. But what I want us to see now, what Jesus wants us to see, is that there is vanity in seeking to store up that which will not last But there's another even more foundational or basic aspect for us to consider this morning. This world and all that is in it, people and events, were never intended by God to be that which man would set his heart upon. That was clear in the garden. That was part of the test. You've got all these trees, all this fruit to eat from, but this one? The tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat In other words, you shall not set your heart upon it But Eve was so enamored with the fruit. She saw it. It was good for food. It was a delight to the eyes. It was desired to make one wise. She Sought the fruit above God. It was vain for Eve to pursue Pleasure and wisdom in a way prohibited by God. She set her heart upon it. Consider King Solomon's inspired writings, especially in Ecclesiastes. He writes this because he experienced this and because the Lord was working in him. And inspired him. I made great works, I built houses, I planted vineyards for myself, gardens, parks, fruit trees, I made myself pools, bought male, female slaves. Great possessions of herds and flocks, silver and gold, the treasure of kings. Whatever my eyes desired I did not keep from them. All the pleasure, all the material wealth that God had given him And what was Solomon's conclusion? All was vanity, and a striving after the wind. There was nothing to be gained under the sun. Do you see? God did not create the material world to be man's greatest treasure. He himself was and is that In a way, this passage could be summed up the way Dr. Luke did as he recorded it. So is the one who lays up treasure for himself and is not rich toward God. That's the idea. As we store up treasures on earth, earthly treasures, it's not merely vain, it's ultimately self-centered. It's not God-centered. It's not Christ-centered. It's not recognizing Jesus as your greatest treasure. So the only question in this first portion of the sermon this morning is, are you pursuing earthly treasures today? And I think each of us have to say, in one sense or another, yes. And as a result, we all need to confess sin. You might be scratching your head and saying, well, where does the Bible say that? As Jesus summarized the law, he told us so very clearly: you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind, and your neighbor as yourself. Do you see there this leaves no room? For setting your heart upon earthly treasures. All your heart, all your soul. The command is exhaustive. And if you're really and truly seeking to do this, to love the Lord your God with all your being, there's nothing left. To love the world or the things of the world such that they take first place So Jesus is calling us to repent this morning. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth. There's no room in glory in heaven for those who have their treasures on earth. Indeed, how could anyone live a content existence in heaven with Jesus Christ when his or her heart is bound to the earth and earthly treasures? So the call this morning is to stop with the help of the Spirit to cry out, to plead. That we would be moved to stop laying up treasures here on earth. To run from doing so, to run to Christ and seek forgiveness, for He is rich in mercy. And we'll forgive all who truly repent. Brings us to our second point. The necessity of good or healthy eyes. This is kind of a strange verse. Doesn't seem to fit. The eye of the lamp is The eye is the lamp of the body, so if your eye is healthy, your whole body will be full of light. Seems out of place. But if we take it apart and unpack it a little bit, it will see I think it's exactly where it should be The eye here is the key. You know the function of the human eye is to see, and in a sense, a real sense is through the eye that light enters the body. And the eye here likely has a dual reference. First is a reference to your heart. Obviously, that's ultimately what Jesus is speaking about, the seat of your desires, the seat of your will. But the second aspect is that part of your being with which you look at everything Light, then, being a reference to that which is righteous or pleasing to God, darkness being just the opposite that which is evil and opposed or offensive to God. And then a good eye or a healthy eye is one which will seek out and let in and strive after all that is spiritually righteous and a bad eye. A bad I will then seek out and let in and strive after that which is spiritually unrighteous or dark. So Jesus is touching upon two different kinds of treasures as he's doing that. The one, the heavenly treasure, the pursuit of which is spiritually beneficial, the other, earthly treasures, the pursuit of which is deadly. And so now he's asking, in a sense, what kind of an eye do you have? What kind of a heart? One that pursues heavenly treasures or one that pursues earthly treasures? A good or a healthy eye sees earthly treasures for what they are. Jesus speaks of the uncertainty of earthly treasures. Isn't that exactly what he's doing? Moth, rust destroy, thieves break in and seal. Just don't know if they're gonna be there tomorrow. They're uncertain. And one has to have eyes in order to see that. Because the world is luring us, it's calling us to set our hearts upon it. And we have to have eyes that distinguish, that understand that earthly treasures provide no certainty, no hope, no assurance, no life. That's what Paul writes to Timothy is he's encouraging him in his ministry. And he's telling him now about the rich. As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches. Timothy is a pastor. Paul was his mentor. He's telling him, hey, here's what you need to tell them who have a lot of wealth. It's uncertain. Like those who feel they lost everything in the fires of Maui. One has to have good or healthy eyes to see that riches are a snare Treasures on earth are a snare. That's what Jesus speaks of, as he speaks of those four different types of soils, right? When the seed is spread. For the one that was sown among the thorns, this one is the one who hears the word, but the cares of the world and deceitfulness of riches. Choke the word. And it proves unfruitful. See, the bad eye doesn't let in the light which would reveal the deceitfulness of riches. Again, as Paul is writing to Timothy, he calls these riches a snare, senseless, harmful desires that plunge people into ruin. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil. You see, we have to have an eye that distinguishes between these earthly treasures and then the heavenly treasures. The good eye, the healthy eye is able to let in the light. And understands the unsurpassed value of heavenly treasure The heart, then, that's been born again, has eyes for this treasure. Think again upon the parables that Jesus speaks, that one of the merchant in search of the fine pearl, who on finding one pearl of great value went and sold all that he had and bought it. See, his eye was trained. He was a merchant in pearls. He knew exactly what he was looking for, and so when he comes upon it, he recognizes it, he knows the value of it. There's no hesitation. His trained eye, his healthy eye, his good eye, let in the light of this kind of pearl. That's the idea. We need a good eye, we need a healthy eye. to see the difference between these two. And then you might be asking yourself this morning, so then what is this treasure that I can lay up in heaven? It's set forth in various places in the scripture. Paul speaks of the singular goal of laying up treasure as the prize. As he writes to the Corinthians, he speaks about running a race. It all runners run, but only one receives the prize. Paul speaks about exercising self-control as an athlete in all things. He speaks about disciplining his body, keeping it under control, being temperate. James speaks about remaining steadfast under trial. John in Revelation speaks of being faithful unto death. These are the things that are being laid up. Self control. Temperate, being steadfast under trial, being faithful All to receive the prize, eternal life, the crown of life The healthy eye is fixed upon the prize, the imperishable wreath that Paul speaks of, the crown of life. Eternal life to lay up treasures To lay up treasures, to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. To have faith in Christ Jesus. To the end. So that you would receive eternal life in Christ An eternal existence with the Savior, with the God man, with the Lord of all, that you would be with Jesus at His feet, listening to His truth, His wisdom, gazing upon His majesty, His goodness, being the recipient of His loving kindness, able to Enjoy him forever because treasures were laid off in glory. Isn't that what Jesus told Nicodemus? For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. The contrast is said. The one who believes shall not perish, but have eternal life. Those are the two possibilities. And through laying up treasures in heaven, you will receive the crown of life. Now please don't make a mistake here. No one earns the crown of life. It's a gift that's given. The ability to have faith is a gift. The ability to lay up treasures in heaven, good works, steadfast faith, loving your neighbor. These are all gifts given to you by grace. You're not earning the crown. But you are called to lay up those treasures in heaven so that you can receive the ultimate treasure. The Lord Jesus Christ. It's that simple. Believing Having faith is equivalent to laying up treasure in heaven. Just a question for each of us this morning. Do we have eyes that are able to let that light in? Does our heart long for life with Jesus Christ forever? If you do, you should be praising God this morning and saying, Thank you, Lord, for giving me a healthy eye, for giving me that new heart. If not, if you're saying to yourself this morning, I don't think I do. Christ is ready to change your heart. Even now, pray to him, call out to him. That he would take your heart of stone and replace it with the heart of flesh. And that heart of flesh then has eyes to see and let the light in, so that you will indeed Come to faith in him and begin laying up your treasures, not here on earth, but in glory. That brings us to our third point, the exclusivity of Christ. And now we get to that last passage, that last verse. No one can serve two masters. There's so much false teaching that abounds in this world. And much of that false teaching goes Directly opposite to what Jesus tells us this morning. Yes, you can serve two masters. Joel Alstein writes this. God has created you to be a victor, not a victim. Jump start your day by celebrating the very best that God has for you. The daily inspirations that he writes are intended to be a very important To equip you to be everything God intends you to be. As Joel Wolstein writes about money, he writes this Money is simply a tool. It can help send your children to college, bless a person in need, and help you accomplish your dream. Money shouldn't be your goal. Fulfilling your destiny should be your goal. You see, Mr. Olstey is trying to combine two masters The idea is you should serve yourself, accomplish your dream, fulfill your destiny. Money will help you do so, and at the same time, you can also believe that God has created you to be a victor. But you're in a relationship with God and He intends something for you But Jesus says so very clearly that God cannot be the master of your life if you're focused upon serving yourself. As created beings, we can only have one master. No one can serve two masters. Now, I don't mean to pick on Joel Olstein, because this was going on in Elijah's day. As Elijah was about to compete with the prophets of Baal, he says to the people, all of the people who have gathered, how long will you go limping between two opinions? If God, if the Lord is God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the people did not answer him a word. Why? Because that's exactly what they were trying to do. They were trying to serve multiple gods with quotation marks around that word. You see, all men, women, and children were created to have a single master, one king, one leader, one ruler, one God. That's exactly what we read in the scripture. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Every man, every woman, every child called to love him, which John tells us is demonstrated by obedience. And you were made by him. And so you belong to him God created man in his own image, male and female, he created him. Jeremiah the prophet speaks to this. Return, O faithless children, declares the Lord, for I am your master. For the Christian Christ is the only master. Jude tells us that so very clearly. For certain people have crept in and none notice who long ago were designated for this condemnation on godly people who pervert grace of our God into sensuality and deny Our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ You can only serve one master, and the only question is who will you serve? You may also be asking the question: what does this have to do with the rest of the passage? But you see, your choice of treasure, whether it's going to be earthly or heavenly, depends upon who is your master, doesn't it? Who do you want to serve? Are you going to serve yourself? Or are you going to serve Christ? Everyone must make a choice. Joshua called the people to make a choice. As they had now gone into the promised land, as they've defeated many nations, if they've pushed out many so that they could occupy the land. What does Joshua tell the people as they're gathered? Fear the Lord and serve him. Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the river and in Egypt, and serve the Lord. They brought their gods with them. And so they were trying to serve all. And Joshua was saying, you need to make a choice. Choose this day whom you will serve. Elijah called the people to make a choice. How long will you go limping between two different opinions? And Jesus Christ calls you today to make a choice. Come, everyone who thirst, come to the waters. He who has no money, come by and eat. Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which does not satisfy B. C. Saying, drink, feast on me. Nothing else satisfies. Make a choice. Brothers and sisters, if you have made that choice this morning, consider this. You have the privilege of serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Think of that. The one who made all things, the God man The one who went to the cross for you, who suffered, who suffered the eternal wrath of God for your sins. And then who defeated sin and death in the tomb, who is risen, who is now King of Kings and Lord of Lords, he wants you. To serve him. Indeed, you are his workmanship Created in him, in Christ Jesus, for good works You're a vessel for honorable use, set apart, as holy. And now grasp this just for a moment. You're useful. To the master. Sometimes we can get discouraged. Sometimes we can think, what am I doing? What good am I? And if you belong to Christ this morning, if you're called by the Master to serve him, you are useful. To him. Just meditate upon that for a moment. Jesus Christ is the greatest, the single, the exclusive treasure. Of Christians. And as your master, he's calling you to the privilege of being a useful servant to him. And now you have to see that connection back to laying up treasure in heaven. Because as you're a useful servant, that's exactly what you're doing. Laying up treasure in heaven. Jesus Christ, the Savior of the world and Lord of all, is the Christian's singular treasure. We're grieved over the loss of life in Maui. But it just shows us how fleeting earthly treasures are. And how precious our Savior is. Amen Heavenly Father, we thank you and praise you for Christ. We thank you, Father, that He indeed is our exclusive treasure, our singular treasure, our greatest treasure. Work in us powerfully, Lord, to cast off the treasures of this world and to continue laying up. Those treasures in heaven. Father, we long to see Christ. We long to sit at his feet. Help us, Lord. Preserve us. Preserve us in our faith. Until He returns. We ask this in Jesus' name.