Amen. If you turn now to your copies of God's Word, to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there this morning In chapter six, you'll find that on page nine hundred and sixty-four of your pew Bibles. Matthew chapter six, beginning at verse one Let's give attention to God's Word. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. For then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do. In the synagogues and in the streets, that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. And when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and in at the street corners that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. I'm going to jump down now to verse 16. And when you fast, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites. for they disfigure their faces, that their fasting may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you fast, anoint your head and wash your face. That your fasting may not be seen by others, but by your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now we ask as we come to what may be a difficult passage Not necessarily to understand, but as it cuts to our heart, as it reveals to us, Lord God, what is happening within our very souls. Help us, Lord God. Not only convict us of sin, but then Lord God, we pray that you remind us of all the promises that are in Jesus Christ. Guide us this morning by your Spirit, we pray. Help us, Lord. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the Acts of the Apostles, there is a scene recorded with regard to this man whose name was Simon. He was a magician. And he apparently performed magic acts that amazed everyone They all paid attention to Simon because of what he was doing, and even said, This man is the power of God that is called great. He was amazing, and he was receiving all of the attention until Philip came Philip now proclaims Jesus Christ. And many believe, and many are baptized, even Simon himself. And as a result of hearing that these had received the Word of God, Peter and John are sent. And they realize that they had not been baptized properly. And so they lay hands upon them. And they receive the Holy Spirit. And Simon is watching all of this, and Simon says to Peter and John, give me this power. He offers them money. So that he too may lay hands. If you're familiar with the passage, you'll know that Peter rebukes Simon. Tells him that he has no part in this matter. For your heart is not right before God. Repent therefore of this wickedness of yours. Peter was able to see into Simon's heart, so to speak, as he was offering money to be able to give the Spirit, so to speak. Simon wanted the power, but Peter was able to judge his heart and saw his evil intent and his wickedness that he did not want to give the glory to Christ. But to himself. Jesus, here in chapter 6 of the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew, Is teaching, he begins teaching on the motivations or the desires of our hearts He has been describing the condition of the heart, a heart that is following after him. We saw that in the Beatitudes. He calls his disciples to serve as light and as salt in the community, projecting his image, his radiance to the entire community. And then he gave them boundaries as they served, which we might learn as or know as the law, as he opens up the law to more depth than the disciples had ever contemplated in their lives. And then he ended with that single verse, you must be perfect, as your heavenly father is perfect. Jesus wrapped up his teaching upon the law, the boundaries that were set forth before the disciples in that way. And now he begins. To teach the disciples of what their service should look like this morning I want us to see that sincere followers of the Lord Jesus Christ will seek his glory in their good works. Sincere followers of the Lord Jesus Christ will seek his glory in their good works We'll see that in three points this morning, seeking vain glory, secondly seeking the true glory, and finally seeking the Father's reward. As we go through this passage, we're going to be skipping over this portion on the Lord's Prayer. We're not going to cover that today. But I want you to be asking yourselves, what is my motivation? What motivates me to obey the Word of God? What motivates me to serve others? What motivates me to do good works? What motivates me? Well, first then seeking the vain glory. Now that Jesus has described the hearts of those who are following after him or who are already in glory, we saw that in the Beatitudes. He begins now to describe the behavior of those who would serve him. Obviously, there's a connection, a direct connection, between the condition of our hearts And how we behave. That which we set our hearts upon The things it affects the things that we say, the things that we think, and certainly the things that we do and how we do them in this world. And so in this portion on the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 6, we see that Jesus' focus is primarily on behavior or actions, which flow directly. Out of the condition or desire of our hearts. So Jesus opens With a problem. Jesus knows our hearts, and and we must grasp what Jesus knows about our hearts. And he says that there is this general desire that all have who descend from Adam by ordinary generation. And that general rule is that we want others to see. We want others to notice. We want others ultimately to praise us. Look at verse 1. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. Notice that this warning was directed to Jesus' disciples, those who were called to practice righteousness. In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works. They were called to let their light shine. And now Jesus is speaking about just that very thing, practicing your righteousness. But Jesus knew that there was a problem within their hearts. Why else would he begin with this warning, this general warning, beware? Beware of how or with what attitude you do this, you practice your righteousness. This has been a problem since the fall. As we think of Cain and Abel and them bringing their offerings to the Lord God God has regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering, God had no regard, so Cain was very angry. Cain considered that what he had brought was good. He brought an offering. He considered that he was owed praise by God for what he had done. He wanted recognition. He deserved recognition. He coveted recognition and praise for his work. Nothing has changed since Cain. Our lustful hearts cry out constantly, I want you to see me. I want you to see what I have done. I want your praise. I want you to tell me how good I am. I want you to give me the glory that I think I'm due because I'm a good person. I want you to build me up. Isn't that the case? Isn't that what's going on in your heart? We may not say it that way. We may not think in these explicit terms, but this is exactly what happens in your heart when When you do something good for someone and he or she does not thank you. Or maybe you achieved some goal or you had a birthday and no one noticed or mentioned it, whatever it was. How do you feel? How did you respond within your heart, if only silently? You were likely disappointed. You were discouraged. Why? Because I want you to build me up. And now Jesus gives three examples. And I don't want us to be misled. He's not saying, well, just consider these three examples. Jesus is saying, no. Consider your entire life. All of your righteous works. How do you do them? He gives us three examples to dig into our hearts a bit. First, giving to those in need. Sound no trumpet as the hypocrites do. This word hypocrites is interesting. In the Greek lexicon, it has this mostly in the sense of play actor, a role player. That's a hypocrite. Someone who's pretending, someone who's wearing a mask. So you can't really see who I am. I'm showing you something else that I'm really not. That's a hypocrite. Now giving is right. Giving is good. It's commanded. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it's in your power to do it. Proverbs 3. It's an imitation of God, isn't it? But when we seek the praise of others We're outwardly keeping the command, but inwardly we're breaking it. Paul puts it this way: if I give away all I have, if I deliver up my body to be burned, but have not love, I gain nothing. Do you see? If our heart is not loving God while we're giving. What good is it? What about praying? Again, Paul uses that Excuse me, Jesus uses that phrase, when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites. They love to stand and pray in the synagogues, that they may be seen by others. Again, praying is good and right. It's commanded. It is that which God calls us to. It's a joy, it's a privilege. And so we're beginning to learn that there can be this outward performance of that which God calls us to, giving or praying, the physical keeping of the law. And yet, even as it's being performed outwardly, inwardly, it's not being kept. That's the idea of being a hypocrite. An actor, one who's putting on a mask, pretending to be someone else because in their hearts they're not that person Their hearts are not aligned with keeping nor desiring to keep the law as a means of loving God. It's only a means to be heard by others, praying on the street corner, praying in the synagogue. And then fasting. Again, do not look gloomy like the hypocrites But they disfigure their faces that their fasting may be seen by others. It's difficult to fast. It's called for. It's a command. We can show the the agony that we're going through on our faces, can't we? We can show that wow something is happening to you. What's going on? Oh I'm fasting. I want you to know. I want you to see how pious I am. Means of being seen by others. Well, what was the result if the disciples were to pursue these earthly rewards from men? Consider that this warning is repeated actually four times. First in verse one, you will have no reward From your Father who is in heaven, and then the three examples he gives, they have received their reward. If you give to be seen, if you pray to be heard, if you If you fast so that others may see how pious you are, you will have received your reward. The clear implication is that there's no reward from the Father. Four times. If you persist in seeking your own glory, that which you receive from men, if anything will be it, there will be no other reward Only an earthly, only a worldly reward, which is of no eternal value. Consider what Solomon wrote in Ecclesiastes. Then I considered all that my hands had done. And the toil that I had expended in doing it, and behold, all was vanity and the striving after the wind. And there was nothing to be gained under the sun. It's all vanity. Seeking praise from men. Calling others to see, look at me, I'm giving, I'm praying, I'm fasting. It's all vanity. Jesus was warning these disciples who would become apostles. About their practicing their righteousness in a God-honoring way. The only question this morning is: are you hearing What Jesus is warning you against. That brings us to our second point, seeking the glory of God There is an alternative then to seeking the world's recognition or seeking glory from the world Seeking to have men, your friends, your your family, your neighbors see your goodness, your righteousness, and that is to point them to the Father, to point them to Jesus Christ. Exactly what Jesus had already taught. Let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Peter and John came upon a lame man, one who was lame from birth. Who's brought to the temple gates and who was there to ask for gifts, alms. Because he couldn't work for himself. And Peter told him that he didn't have any gold to give him, but he did give him this in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth. Rise up and walk. He does. The man is healed And all around him stands an amazement of Peter and John. And Peter says this. Why do you wonder at this, or why do you stare at this as though by our own power or piety we have made him walk? And who do they point to? The God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob, the God of our fathers, glorified his servant, Jesus. And then they're called in before the rulers, the scribes, the elders, and they're asked, how did you do this? By what power? And Jesus works so powerfully in their hearts that Peter does not say wasn't It was not by my power. Peter says, No. Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by him, this man was standing well before you. See, they turn all the praise away from themselves to Christ. That's the goal, isn't it? Doing good works, pointing all the glory to Christ Now we go back to those three examples. And you might be asking yourselves this question this morning, how is it that giving to others in need secretly gives glory to God? How is it that praying in a closet gives glory to God? How is it that fasting secretly gives glory to God? Calls for us to think about it a little bit. First giving. As the needs of others are met, not by the government, not by civil authorities, but by the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Not by individuals sounding the trumpet. As the community, as the people Around those in need, see the outcast, the marginalized, their needs being met by the congregation of the people of God. They're seeing the body of the Lord Jesus Christ displaying compassion. They're seeing a bit of the love of the Lord Jesus Christ being poured out. They're seeing a bit of the light shining forth, being reflected, the light of Christ shining forth on these who have been neglected. You're the light of the world. It's not an individual who's being praised for his work, but it's the church, it's the congregation, it's the body of Christ which is giving unconditionally Without expectation of return. And thus Christ is exalted. For He's the head. You see, the body working together is pointing to Christ. For he is the head. This truth is easily overlooked When an individual touting themselves as the gracious giver is calling attention to their liberality as opposed to pointing to Christ. Think of one who gives an anonymous gift. A gift lacking that trumpet blast. It only happens because Jesus has changed a heart. Our stony hearts constantly desire acknowledgement of others. That we are good people, and by giving without personal recognition, it demonstrates the power of Christ's death in an individual heart. Let me ask, have you experienced that desire? To give without recognition or or without knowledge of others, to give in secret. It's a mark of one who has truly been changed by Christ. One who's been purchased by Christ and given abundant life. What about prayer? How does prayer in your closet bring glory to God? To understand this, we've got to contrast what Jesus is speaking of, that that prayer on the street corner, versus one in your closet. The one praying on the on the street corner is not praying sincerely from the heart, seeking to commune with the living God. No, this one is hypocrite. is acting like someone else. He's acting like one who is in communion with God. The one who prays on the street corner has placed a mask on his face and he's trying to get others to see something which he is not. He's trying to get others to see something that he's really not doing. Because he's not pursuing intimate biblical communion with the Creator God. But the one in the prayer closet, the one who's closed the door It's focused upon the things above. The heart and mind are not mixed. They're set upon the Father. They're set upon Christ. There are no distractions or reasons for him to enter that room other than to commune with his Heavenly Father. Think of the Lord Jesus Christ just for a moment. I'm not sure that we have any recorded instance in Scripture of Jesus not going off by himself and praying. Think of Mark's record, noting that Christ went off early by himself to pray and people were looking for him because they didn't know where he was. Think of Think of the Garden of Gethsemane, leaving behind Peter and James and John so that Jesus could be fixed upon that intimate communion with his Father. No one was to distract him From his fellowship. So many things take us away from communing with God with an undivided heart. And as we bring other things with us into our prayers, God is not exalted and praised in the same way He could be when the world is set aside. When you're purposeful and pursuing communion by faith, which is pleasing to God, for without faith it is impossible to please Him. The prophet Jeremiah wrote this: Then you will call upon me and come and pray to me, and I will hear you. You will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. Prayer does bring glory to God. And finally, fasting. How does fasting in silence or without any outward signification glorify God? How could it be that the living God would be praised for your act of fasting without letting others know about it? Now you need to consider the motivation for fasting. As with all these examples, Jesus brings to our attention the singular question, why? Why are you doing it? Whether it be giving to the poor or praying or fasting, Jesus is asking the question, why? The aspect of motivation here in fasting comes to the forefront since fasting is that which is designed to draw one through your physical dependence. Even into more intimate communion with God. As your stomach aches or growls for sustenance, you're led to feed more expressly and purposefully on His Word. You're called to remember that he, meaning Jesus, is your all-sufficiency. Through fasting, you're experiencing that in your body as well as your soul. And so when you insincerely fast for the purpose of gaining praise from those around you, you're taking away from God because you're depending not upon God. But upon others and their praise, as opposed to giving God the praise. That's what happens when you fast sincerely. You're praising God because He's sustaining you. He's your all-sufficiency. You're being reminded and you're leaning into Christ and you're saying, you're all that I need. You're serving him in faith, and he receives praise from you. Do you see all of this is embodied in a sense by John the Baptist? As his disciples were so concerned that others were baptizing and they were going away from their group to Jesus' group and they weren't receiving the praise And John said, I'm not the Christ. He's the friend of the bridegroom. Who stands and hears him and rejoices greatly in the bridegroom's voice. He said, Therefore, this joy of mine is now complete. You see, he was so, he was overjoyed because he had heard the voice of the bridegroom and he's saying, I'm not the bridegroom He must increase, but I must decrease We see it perfectly in the Lord Jesus, don't we? Even as he healed people. Even as he healed the leper. In Mark chapter 1. Even as Jesus was moved with pity and stretched out his hand and touched the leper and said to him, Be clean And then he sternly charged him and sent him away, see that you say nothing to anyone but show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded. Do you see what Jesus was doing? Saying, give glory to God. Be obedient to the law. Don't mind me. Don't give the glory to me. Christ must increase. Doesn't that sum up all these examples? I must decrease You know we're quite mistaken when we think that God, our God desires mere outward behavior, which seems or appears to be in accordance with the strict letter of the law. And it's not the mere act that the Father desires. He's not asking for us to turn to Exodus 20 and go down the list and say, okay, let's, everybody, let's do this one. Let's record that we've done that one. He's not asking for that. In sacrifice and offering, you have not delighted. I delight to do your will, O my God. That's what God wants. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit and a broken and contrite heart. Oh God, you will not despise. Do you see? It's not the mere act that God desires. It wants your heart. He wants a broken spirit and a contrite heart. And that's what Jesus is trying to teach us Brings us to our third point, seeking the Father's reward. Well, the reward seems to be a significant aspect of of this passage of uh his first statement and then of these three examples. This reward is mentioned not once but three times by Jesus in the examples. With regard to giving, and your father who sees in secret will reward you with regard to praying, and your father who sees in secret will reward you with regard to fasting, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. This isn't a form of a promise. Future giving, promise upon the condition of secret giving, secret praying, secret fasting. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. Now this is not a new concept Throughout Scripture, we see this idea of being compensated, so to speak, and we're going to talk about that in a moment, by God. Psalm 62. For you will render to a man according to his work. Proverbs 24, does he not who keeps watch over your soul know it? And will he not repay man according to his work? Jeremiah, I the Lord search the heart and test the mind, to give every man according to his ways. In Revelation 22, behold, I'm coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay each one for what he has done. Well what is it then? What is this reward if you give in secret, if you pray in secret, if you fast in secret? First we need to recognize But Jesus is not saying you're going to merit, you're going to earn anything. Jesus is not saying that you're going to earn eternal life. That's certainly not what he's saying here. Christ has done that. You can't add to it. He's not saying that that you've got to work in order to gain God's favor The Heidelberg Catechism puts it this way, why can't our good works be our righteousness before God, or at least a part of our righteousness? The answer, because the righteousness which can pass God's judgment must be entirely perfect. We've read that. We know that. Jesus taught that. Even our best works in this life are all imperfect and stained with sin Or how can our good works be said to merit nothing when God promises to reward them in this life and the next? The answer, the reward is not merited, it's not earned. It's a gift of grace. It's all grace. So, what is it then? How do we understand this? Well, first we can certainly understand that this reward is eternal. Paul speaks of that which is pressed on for, the crown, the trophy, so to speak, the eternal life. And again, we know that it's not earned. It's that which Jesus has earned. Well what about now? What about rewards now? And we have to say, of course, there are rewards that are given to the sincere Christian in this life. This indeed should be part of your motivation. This should answer that question that we asked up front, what is your motivation? This reward should be that which drives you, moves you, spurs you on to do that which you are not naturally an atom inclined to do, giving, praying, fasting in secret. It's not your first choice. But as your heart has been changed, as you have been given a heart of flesh now, this fatherly reward should be that which spurs you on. Of course it is. So what is it? First, we must see that as you do that which is in accordance with God's word You are, in a sense, from a human perspective, pleasing the Father. The reward is that which motivates the believer, the follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, to give in secret And now the Father is pleased that from your heart, out of the sincerity of your love for him, that which he's placed in your heart. You've given up and cast off the reward from men, the earthly reward, in exchange for pleasing him. That's the motivation. Knowing That seeking to give him the glory is pleasing to the Father. What a reward It's not that you've changed the Father, but from our human perspective, He's pleased with this. Its value is inestimable What else? The reward is the ability and desire to boast in the cross. Do you see the alternative is boasting in yourself, but as you've died, as you've died with Christ Jesus As you died to yourself in and through Christ, what are you able to do now? You're not seeking the glory for yourself. You're seeking the glory for the Father. You're boasting in the cross. Think of what Peter and John were able to do as they as they healed that one born lame. They didn't say, yes, we did it. They said, no, Jesus did it. And then they were able to talk about Jesus, the one whom you persecuted, the one whom you killed, the one whom God raised from the dead. You see, they were able to boast in the cross as they deflected the glory to Christ. That's a reward. That's what you get to do. What a privilege But finally, finally your reward is being raised up by God. Consider the Lord Jesus Christ, who humbled himself. That's a centerpiece of these three examples, isn't it? the central call of the Lord Jesus Christ to humble yourself. And as the Son of God, the very second person of the Trinity, comes and takes on a human nature, Jesus. He did nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility counted others more significant than himself. That's what God did, the Son of God. Although that he was in the form of God, he did not account equality with God, a thing to be grasped That's a critical point for us this morning. As Jesus Christ teaches upon the attitude of our hearts and that which flows out in our actions, we must see that He, the Son If he were to have grasped his equality with God the Father, if the Son were to have sought his own glory and not emptied himself by taking on the form of a servant, there would be no salvation There would be no atonement for sin. You would be remaining in your sins this morning, but you're not Because he didn't count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. And what was Jesus' reward? What was the son's reward? Therefore, the God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name. Therefore It's a result of his humility, as a result of his contrite, his obedience. God has highly exalted him. See, Jesus was being offered up to those at Philippi as an example, an example of one who has a humble and contrite heart. But we must also see that he was not only offered up as an example, but as one who had been raised up. And if you died with Christ Jesus, if you're trusting in him this morning, you have also been raised up. With him. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, he made us alive together with Christ. By grace, you've been saved. It's all grace, brothers and sisters, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Do you see your reward? You've been raised up. Now, yes, we can think of that in terms of eternity. But he was speaking presently. And so if you're in Christ this morning If you're following Christ, if you're trusting in Christ this morning, then your actions of giving in secret, praying in secret, fasting in secret is evidence, brothers and sisters. That you have indeed been raised up with Christ. You're seated with him in the heavenly places even now. This is your reward. This is your reward. Praise be to God. Yes, sincere followers of the Lord Jesus Christ will seek his glory in their good works. Simon was seeking his own glory. Peter recognized it. Brothers and sisters, we need to be those who are praying. And God would work this in our hearts that He would call us to recognize that indeed we are constantly receiving the reward that He promises in Christ.