Amen. If you turn your copy of God's Word now, once again, to Matthew's gospel, we'll be in chapter 6. We're at the end of chapter 6, actually. You'll find that on page 965 of your pew Bibles. And I'll be reading beginning at verse 25 of chapter 6 through the end of the chapter We'll be breaking up this portion into two sermons, leaving the last two verses for next week, Lord willing. Let's give attention now to God's holy infallible word. Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life What you will eat or what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. It's not life more than food, and the body more than clothing. Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, and yet our heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they? And which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? And why are you anxious about clothing? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow. They neither toil nor spin, yet I tell you, even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. But If God so clothes the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more clothe you? O you of little faith. Therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them all. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Therefore, do not be anxious about tomorrow, for tomorrow will be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. As far in God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a passage which may be difficult For many of us to hear. We pray this morning, Lord God, that you would minister to our hearts, that you would cut deeply That you, Father, would teach us this morning, that you would lead us by the Spirit, that Father, you would Cause us to see how we have offended you. And then, Lord God, we pray that you would lead us in a way that follows after Christ. That you'd increase our faith, that you'd cast off our doubts. Help us, Lord. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen Our Old Testament reading this morning was in Exodus chapter sixteen, and we know that Exodus chapter 16 was set chronologically just after the Israelites had exited from Egypt. The ten plagues had fallen on Egypt and The Israelites had crossed through the Red Sea. God had done marvelous things in their sight. And then as we get to chapter 16. We read that the people, the congregation, the assembly of God grumbled against God. That word grumble or grumbling or grumble is used seven times in the first fifteen verses Of Exodus sixteen. At its root was a failure to trust In the providential hand of God. Remember that they had just seen him part the Red Sea, granting their exodus from their bondage. And then they cried out, would that we had died by the hand of the Lord in Egypt, where we had a lot to eat. They were anxious, they were worrisome about tomorrow's food For you brought us out to this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger. So they grumbled. You might substitute the word worry or became anxious about what they were going to eat the next day So we've been studying the Sermon on the Mount, we've been in chapter six. In chapter six, we have been considering What the Lord Jesus Christ has been telling us, telling his disciples about the practice of righteousness. He set forth what righteousness is in chapter 5. And now he has been informing his disciples as to how to practice that. Part one was to beware of practicing your righteousness before men, to be noticed by them. Part two was the Lord's Prayer. That righteous prayer flows out of that tender heart which has experienced the forgiveness through the blood of Christ. Part three was laying up treasures in heaven, and now we get to this fourth part. Anxiousness or worry. I want us to see this morning that worry is the result of a small faith. Which must increase through the means of grace. Worry is the result of a small faith which must increase Through the means of grace. This morning we'll see that in three points. First, the prohibition against worry, secondly, the reasons for trust, and then finally the root of anxiety. Brothers and sisters, this is a critical portion of Scripture for each of us this morning. We tend to think of worry. something normal in our lives. It couldn't be further from the truth. First then, prohibition against worry. Jesus says so very clearly, therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about Your life. Do not. A prohibition. The commands are filled with negatives. The first three commands of the ten commandments are all negatives. You shall have no other gods. You shall not make for yourself the carved image. You shall not bow down, you shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. So here, do not be anxious. about your life. Do not worry. There's a therefore there we might want to Think about why it's there, therefore he's tying it back to something that's gone before it, and it could be that he's tying it back to the fact that if you are doing what he's already said to do, that is lay up your treasures in heaven, then there's no cause, no need to be anxious about tomorrow. It seems to be the connection. Therefore. What is it to be anxious or worry? I think we all know that. Greatly concerned is what Webster tells us, respecting something future or unknown. It goes on to say, painful, being in painful suspense. That's worry, that's anxiety, an uneasiness of mind. Painful uneasiness, unquiet. Fear or serious apprehension of evil. It's a picture that Webster's paints with regard to this word worry. Ties it to harassment. A shepherd dog worries sheep. It's constantly harassing the sheep to keep them in one place. That's the idea. That's worry. That's anxiety. Constant rough, aggressive attack. What is it that you're anxious about this morning? What is it that you worry about? This passage speaks of being anxious about your life. Now that word life could be translated soul. Do not be anxious about your soul, your life, what you will eat, what you will drink, nor about your body, what you will put on. A few of the basic necessities of life are set forth by Christ. He points to them. You may be thinking to yourself, well, I'm not too worried. I'm not anxious about food or drink or clothing. What about getting a job? What about keeping a job? What about wringing your hands about your retirement account as you see the stock market not doing well? What about whether or not Social Security will have any money left in it by the time you're ready to start collecting Ultimately, these things all boil down to being anxious about our future food, drink, and clothing. What about other things? If you have children, you may be inclined to worry, be anxious about your children. You may worry about their food, drink, or clothing, their future, what they'll be doing in the future. Will they be successful? Will they have a good job? Will they find a spouse? Will they walk with the Lord Jesus Christ? You may be concerned about your health. Can't see inside our bodies. We're not really quite sure what's happening. Don't know what the future will bring. You may have a family history of cancer. Or you may be afflicted even today with cancer or other maladies. What will tomorrow bring? Will there be healing? Will there be a decline? Will there be pain? What will the test results show? Will they be positive, negative? Will they reveal some affliction which will ultimately be terminal? We become anxious about our health. What about time? What about being at a traffic light? And now you may not have enough time to arrive at your destination. Once it turns red, what happens? You become anxious. You become worrisome as the light stays red. Clock keeps on ticking. You're not getting any closer to where you're supposed to be. What happens? More times than not, anxiety begins to arise. You become worried. You become frustrated with light. You start talking to him. Turn greedy. Let's go! What's happening in your heart? You began worrying that you're not going to make it to where you're supposed to be when you should, and so you're anxious about the future. You're anxious about being late. This happens quite often. We don't even think a second thought about it. It's being worrisome It's allowing your anxious heart to control your mind, your very being, until you become so absorbed in your lateness and worry rises up that trust in the Lord just fades. Your faith has literally taken a back seat to your anxiety, your worry. You may be able to relate to some of these, and you may also be saying, so what? The world does not consider worry or anxiety to be wrong. Psychology Today has on their website anxiety is now the leading mental health problem. Around the world. They call it a disorder. The general rise in anxiety is the burden of uncertainty in almost every domain of modern life. The National Institute of Health says that occasional anxiety is a normal part of life. Many worry about things such as health money or family problems. You can almost take that quote and paste it into the Mayo Clinic's website because they basically say the same thing. In his book called Respectable Sins, Jerry Bridges lists several sins which Christians today engage in. And consider them to be respectable. In other words, not really serious. We all do these things, right? Worry or anxiety is one of those he calls respectable. Now he doesn't believe that any sins are respectable. He's just setting forth what Christians today would put into a category of these are okay. Don't be so concerned about them. But he calls them out for what they are: sins, transgressions, breaking of God's perfect law, wretched, filthy abominations before a holy God. Brothers and sisters, we may not all do this. But sometimes as we're talking with one another, we speak about being worrisome or being anxious. Not as being a sin, but as that which we do, we engage in it. When was the last time that you considered your worry or anxiety to be sin? When was the last time you confessed your worry and anxiety to your holy God, your Father? When was the last time you repented of your anxiety? Let me say generally we don't. Because we don't consider it to be sin Or if we do, it's one of those little sins that we don't really need to think about or confess You may be asking yourself right now, well, what is the sin of worry? Where is it in the Bible that I'm told that anxiety is a sin? Well, we have it before us this morning, don't we? Do not be anxious about your life It seems to be fairly clear, concise statement of the law of God. It's a crystal clear prohibition. These are the words of Christ Himself Bridges writes, Anxiety is sin for two reasons. Anxiety is a distrust of God. The Apostle Peter writes, Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, casting all your anxieties on him Because he cares for you. See, when you don't cast your anxiety, when you don't cast your cares on God, what's happening? You're not believing that He cares for you. It's a distrust. Bridges goes on, and secondly, anxiety is a sin also because it is a lack of acceptance of God's providences. It might be better to say that worry or anxiety is a refusal to acknowledge and accept God's providential hand As that which flows out of his perfect and holy wisdom and love for his children. You're not accepting it that way Brothers and sisters, this must be received this morning as a call to repentance for all of us Our lives are full of worry. And we think of it as one of those respectable sins, but it's not It's not respectable. It's wretched, and we must confess it as such Bridges points out, and we must think like that father who brought his son to the Lord Jesus Christ and a spirit that made his son mute, and he said to Jesus, if you are able. If you can do anything, have compassion And Jesus responded, if you can, all things are possible for one who believes And so the Father cries out, I believe, help my unbelief. We need to be crying that, brothers and sisters. When anxiety begins to rise up, we need to be crying out, I believe, help my unbelief. Every single time we worry, it falls into that category of sin. Please don't be misled this morning. Please help me to be crystal clear every time. Each worry, each anxiety is a sin against our holy and pure and perfect Creator, God, and we must grasp that truth this morning. We can no longer Talk with our friends, our relatives, our brothers and sisters in Christ about being worried about something, about being anxious about something, without asking for prayer, that the Lord would forgive me And give me the strength to repent, to cast my anxiety and care upon Him. Brings us to our second point, the reasons for trust. This is the centerpiece of this passage. We might think that it's the prohibition, but the the centerpiece of the of this passage, of this call not to be anxious about your life. The center is trust in God. You may say, well, where is that? And it's caught up in these four reasons that Jesus gives as to why you shouldn't be worrying. Now we might be able to count up more than four, but that's what I've got for us this morning. Why worry or anxiety is unbiblical, why it's sinful? He takes six verses here out of the ten to just describe these various ways, the reasons. The first one, look at verse 25. Is not life more than food? The body more than clothing? Yes. Reason number one, life is more than food. It appears to be the headline, the umbrella, for all the other reasons given by the Lord Jesus Christ. They seem to fit under this main heading. We can be so fixed upon the world, upon our material, our physical needs, certainly upon the needs of others. The body, the body. But Jesus states so very clearly, is not life more? than food. The body more than clothing. That's the crux of the matter. It's a powerful rhetorical question. He's not looking for an answer from his disciples. It's the foundation of the command, this prohibition, which pushes, it moves the child of God to heed this call by Jesus Christ to say, Yes, yes. My life is not taught up in my material needs. Yes, we have physical needs. Yeah, that can't be denied or neglected. Jesus recognizes and addresses the fact that we do have physical needs. But if you're in Christ Jesus this morning, your life is in the world, but truly it's caught up beyond the world Paul writes, for me to live is Christ. For me to live is Christ. He goes on in chapter 3 of his letter to the Philippians, said, I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ. All the things of the world he counted as rubbish Indeed, if you're trusting in Christ this morning, you've been raised up with him, you're seated with him in the heavenly places Isn't that what Jesus has been teaching so far in the Sermon on the Mount? All those descriptions of those who are blessed, the Beatitudes describing the spiritual nature, not the material, not the physical. As he described the treasures which are to be laid up, not those on earth, not your food stores, no, the ones in heaven. Life is more than food. The body's more than clothing. That's what Jesus is trying to drive home to us this morning. Secondly, the Father cares for his creation. Look at verse 26. Look at the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feeds them. Verse 28, consider the lilies of the field. How they grow, they neither toil nor spin. God so clothes the grass of the field, which is today alive, tomorrow is thrown into the oven. Will not he much more clothe you? Jesus is now actually using the physical world to show the disciples how his father cares for his creation, how he watches over it, how he sustains it. According to the Smithsonian, their website, a study in 2021, there are at least 50 billion wild birds. I don't know how they came up with that number. That's a big one. Think of that. We know that there are a lot of birds. God cares for them. Each one. He feeds. He feeds the beasts their food and to the young ravens that cry, Psalm 147, verse 9, he clothes the lilies. And if God cares for these animals, these birds, these lilies, not made in his image. How much more, that's what Jesus is saying, how much more will he care for you? The one he's made in his image. Third reason, you cannot add an hour to your life. Look to verse twenty-seven. Again, a rhetorical question. Which of you, by being anxious, can add a single hour to his span of life? To worry suggest that you're able to do something by and through it That it actually does something. And Jesus is saying, no, it doesn't accomplish a thing The Greek word here goes something like this. By wording, you cannot even add a single qubit to your length. You can't extend your person. You're not going to get any taller You can't do it. So he uses this extreme example because no one would think of that. To tell his disciples that as you can't do anything about your height, your worry is not going to do anything. In a positive way. He uses an outlandish illustration By worry or anxiety, by being anxious over your bank account, you cannot cause it to increase. By worrying about your health, you can't make yourself healthier You can't heal your loved ones. Through your anxiety over their physical conditions, you will have absolutely no positive effect. By worrying about what tomorrow brings, you can't change what tomorrow will bring. You can't have a negative effect By worrying or being anxious, you place your thoughts on the things of the world, and through your anxious heart you attempt to become more dependent upon yourself, and as a result of your anxiety, you can bring yourself into an a state of depression and melancholy because you can't actually change anything, but you're invested in worrying about it And then through your worry you lead others into the same sin. So you can't add an hour to your life by worrying. And finally and fourthly, your Heavenly Father knows your needs The Gentiles seek after all these things, and your heavenly Father knows that you need them. You should plead for daily bread. We have it in the Lord's Prayer. But this is a recognition of your complete dependence on Him And Jesus is saying, recognize, no, believe that your Father knows your needs. Yes, pray for them. Don't worry about them. Believe that he will give you bread in his good timing. God knows. The only question is, do you believe it? At this point, you should be asking yourselves, why would Jesus spend so many words setting forth the reasons against worry? Ultimately, because he was building the case for trusting. It does bring us to our third point: the root of anxiety or worry. Here in verse 30 he exposes the root. If God so close the grass of the field which today is alive and tomorrow is thrown into the oven, will he not much more? Clothe you, O you of little faith. Jesus gives his disciples the reason for their anxiety. And worry. Their faith is small. Jesus is cutting deeply into their hearts As he's able to see the the smallness of their faith. And the smallness of their faith is that which is allowing them, enabling them, even encouraging them to engage in worry and anxiety. And this part is hard. We know that God is love and that Jesus is kind and compassionate, and yet He speaks truly And so in love, he speaks to his disciples and he's speaking to you this morning because he loves you so much and he's telling you as he does, he tells you, even now you worry because your faith is small. Ouch. That hurt. It should. Just let that cut for a moment. Let that sink in. If you're here today and you can say, yes, I I have engaged in worry and anxiety, Jesus is telling you that your faith is small. What's that mean? There's a sense in which we can take the reasons given by Jesus in this passage and turn them around. To say your faith is small because you're not acknowledging, you're not recognizing, you're not believing in these truths That your life is more than food. That the Father does indeed care for his creation. That he knows your needs. Well, there it is. A difficult truth for us to accept this morning. It is an absolute truth spoken by the Lord Jesus Christ about each of our hearts. If we're warriors, if our hearts are anxious, our faith is small. So what's the solution? How do we increase our faith? I think we should spend just a moment thinking about that this morning. How does a Christian have their faith built up such that worry and anxiety fade? Indeed, such that we mortify. Bridges noted that there are two routes to our problem, first being Not believing sufficiently in the promises of God and the second not welcoming and receiving His providential hand as that which is good And so how do we correct those things? As we leave here this morning, how should the warrior, the anxious heart, address his or her little faith? And the answer is use the means of grace. Use the means of grace first. Read your Bible. You might be thinking, Pastor, you tell us that all the time. It's nothing new, and that would be right, but here let me be a little bit more specific As you read your Bible, they look for the ways, the many ways, the various circumstances in which God has cared for his people. For he's provided for his people. It's constant. It's consistent. It's throughout Scripture. Even Moses told the people, don't go out to harvest, even when it's time for harvest, on the Lord's Day, on the Sabbath. Don't do it. If you're a farmer, you're thinking, well, I've got to go. No. Don't do it. Trust the Lord. Rest. Rest on the Sabbath. God was consistent. He was constant. He provided, even as they were faithful, to rest on his Lord's day. We're told to be those who are ready to tell others of the reason for the hope that is within us. One of the foundations for the hope that is within us is knowing how God has worked in the past, how He has confirmed to us. By his past works, that he will indeed keep his promises which are future. Read your Bible. We read through Exodus 16 this morning a portion of it. Before we get to Exodus 16, we talk about Joseph in Genesis and we see all the ways in which God provided for Joseph, even while he was in prison. God brought bread from heaven. He provided clean water out of the unclean. He sent quail. Meditate on the way he provided for his people while they were in exile. Meditate on the way that Apostle Paul was able to praise God even when he was in prison because he knew the word of God was still going out. God was providing for his people in all of these circumstances. Circumstances. As you read the word, as you focus and meditate upon the way God has provided, the Spirit will take this up. He will remind you of the way your Heavenly Father has cared and convict you that his promise is sure. Secondly, come to worship. There are many who don't. There are many who have other things seemingly more important, more relevant, more pleasing things to do. There are many who are worrisome that they will miss something else. some pleasure, some other necessity by going to worship. There are many who will come to morning worship and not come to evening worship. But we've been told so very clearly that part of the corporate worship of God is the encouragement of one another. Hebrews 10, and let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another all the more as you see the day drawing near. It's so easy to become anxious and worrisome about tomorrow when you're not in the assembly of God. When you're outside of the assembly of God, you're constantly exposed to the world and all of its concerns, all of its worries, all of its anxieties. When you're inside the assembly of God's people, you're being exposed, you're immersed with the peace and the rest of the living God, and you're encouraging your brothers and sisters, and you're being encouraged. by your brothers and sisters. It's one of the means of grace. The Lord Himself, the Lord God will provide for you that encouragement Which should lead you away from anxiety and worry and build up your faith. Finally, feast upon Christ. See, the Lord's Supper is another specific means of grace, which is designed, it's intended, it's purposed to build you up in your weak faith. In the supper, you feast upon the body and the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ spiritually by faith. It's a great mystery, but it's true. It's true. We go to our supper tables to feed for our bodies. We come to worship. We come to the Lord's Supper, the table to feed upon Christ. We have to recognize, and indeed, I think we have recognized that we're weak in our faith. We have a little faith, we have small faith, and we need to feed upon Christ. Every time we miss the Lord's Supper, which is offered here twice a month, we're missing that spiritual meal. We're missing that opportunity to feed upon Christ. Our faith is not being built up. But it's remaining small and in a weak estate. Pray. Pray that the Lord would bring you to the supper. Pray that he remove all obstacles that you would get here, that you'd feed upon Christ, and he would use it to strengthen your faith. Brothers and sisters, these are means of grace Nothing new. It's just what God gives us to build us up in our faith Worry is the result of a small faith, which must increase to the means of grace. Sometimes we like to point fixed fingers at the Israelites. They were grumblers, they were complainers, but we can just substitute the word worry. They were anxious about tomorrow. God gives us those pictures, those images, so we can see what's going on within our own hearts So that he can drive us to use the means of grace to build up our weak faith. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, this has been a hard teaching, a hard lesson, a hard truth spoken by the Lord Jesus. And Father, we feel that you've touched our hearts this morning. Convict us, Lord God, that our worry, our anxiety Is far from respectable. It is an egregious sin against you. And so we ask for God, build us up in our faith, use the means of grace, Father. To increase our faith, to cast off our doubts, allowing us, enabling us To cast all our cares upon you, knowing that you care for us. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.