Let's turn to 1 Timothy chapter 2. And uh unlike what says in the bulletin, I'll be reading from one verse 1 to 15. First Timothy chapter two verses one through fifteen. Hear the word of the Lord Therefore, I exhort first of all that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks may be made, excuse me, be made for all men. For kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life, in all godliness and reverence. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator between God and man, the man, Jesus, Christ Jesus. Who gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time? For which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am speaking the truth in Christ and not lying. A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. I desire therefore That men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In the manner also that the women adorn themselves in, in like manner also, that the women adorn themselves in modest apparel. With propriety and moderation, not with braided hair or gold or pearls or costly clothing. But which is proper for women professing godliness with good works. Let a woman learn in silence with all submission. And I do not permit a woman to teach or have authority over a man, but to be in silence. 4. Adam was formed first, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived. But woman, being deceived, fell into transgression. Nevertheless, the will be saved, she will be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith, love, and holiness with self-control. Thus far is the reading of God's Word. I won't be dealing with all of this today. The focus of my remarks will pick up around verse six and extend on in to verse nine. Normally I can say that Last week, as we preached this sermon, you'll remember that I said this. You'll remember that I said that. And I refer back and try to give us all an update This last sermon on Timothy was preached more than a month ago. So I'm not going to give an update. I'm just going to get started uh and uh and talk about uh first of all verse three and then leading into the rest of the verses It starts off, verse 3 starts off by saying, this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior. When uh the word acceptable is used there, it is suggesting the idea that this is pleasing. Whatever the this is is pleasing to God. Now, we're going to look and see what is it that pleases him according to our text. I mean we could say many things that please God. And they wouldn't be wrong, but the text has a particular focus and a particular emphasis. And I want us to take a look at in the text, what does it say pleases God? And as we, obviously, verse 3 with the word 4 is related to the previous verses. It's a cause and effect relationship that's being spoken of here. What does God want? uh verses or or not verses but it it's further explained in verse three. So let's back up a minute back to chapter one Where we find the words, it is good and acceptable in the eyes of God. Notice verse 1 and now also verse 3. Both speak of what is good and acceptable in the eyes of God And it's good and acceptable in verse 3. It's not in verse 1, I'm sorry. But that harkens back to what Paul has just said And what he has just said is, I exhort therefore, that first of all, supplication, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings, for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in godliness and honesty The focus of what is good and acceptable is simply this, that God expects us To embrace and do what he considers to be good and acceptable. And what is good and acceptable is what pleases him. And what it is that pleases him Will in turn yield, verse 2, a quiet and peaceful, peaceful life. And what is it? That he says will do such a thing, do all those things. What else does he say? How will this be accomplished? Well, he says we ought to pray for all men. We have to pray for all men. This is good and pleasing in God's sight. We ought to lift up supplications, intercessions, and thanks. For all men, for those who are in authority, kings, leaders Political leaders, governmental leaders, rulers of the land, in order that we may live a quiet and peaceable life This is not always an easy thing to do. And we all know that. I mean, we've all been in situations where we don't feel like praying. for the leaders of our realm, because we don't see oftentimes any Christian emphasis in their lives. In fact, in some cases, we have seen just the contrary to that. We don't see policies that are good in God's eyes. This makes this petition very difficult. But it isn't any more difficult for us today under our current government than it was for the early Christians under the Roman government. And it's not been difficult, it's not been easy always in any government to do this throughout history Nevertheless, it is not our privilege, because of what we see in our leaders, it is not our right and our privilege to neglect praying for them. Yes, Lord, we confessed. But he does say that this is will be good and quiet and lead we will be able to lead a peaceable life Now, I'm not saying to you that automatically if you do this, you'll lead a good, peaceful life. I but I think because because oftentimes, you know, our lives are in jeopardy For the positions that we take in Christ. The Lord Jesus said they would be. He said they hated me, they'll hate you. But take these I have overcome the world If we may not live quiet and peaceful life here The odds I don't think are 50-50. I think they're worse. But we will one day live a quiet and peaceful life. In glory, perhaps. But also in Christ, we lead a quiet and peaceable life. Because in him we know That we're secure. In him we know that we are his and he is ours. And he will not allow a hair to fall from our head, to fall to the ground, or a sparrow to fall from the air, without his knowledge. And more and more, the thought of leaving this earth And being in heaven is a whole lot more appealing to me. So while I'm here, I should do what the Lord asks me to do. And let the Lord handle The outside circumstances that happen to come my way. I am not called to be one, and we as Christians are not called to be those. Who are to be conformed to the world, who are to adopt the attitudes of the world toward leadership. We are called, we are to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. That we might prove what is good, acceptable, and the perfect will of God. You may not understand God's perfect will, but there is no doubt about what he wants. You can't miss understanding this. It's direct. It's clear. And of course, I would exhort all of us to listen and to do. First Timothy, excuse me. Second Timothy one, verse eight and nine add a little bit more to this. It says, there, be not therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be partakers of the afflictions of the gospel, according to the power of God, who saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. Which was given to us in Christ Jesus before the world began. The text makes clear that God is the one who saves us. He is our Savior and Redeemer from before the world began. He saves us with a holy calling. He calls us to salvation, which is never earned by our works. They have nothing to do with God's calling us. They have nothing to do with God's saving us. But God saved us according to his own purposes and grace before the foundation of the world in Christ. So we do we our salvation is not according to our plans, neither is neither is our life. It's by his leading and guiding that we live and do what pleases him. Our understanding about how God saves us in 1 Timothy needs to be consistent with the teaching of 2 Timothy 19, which writes. God wishes that all men be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. As I have said before, the all there cannot mean every single person. I believe all there refers to all types of people, whatever their station in life. Paul means that there are no people and no rank But simply because they hold that rank, or all those kinds of people, that they are to be excluded from salvation. Because God wishes that the gospel is to be proclaimed to all, to all races, to all kinds of people. Our prayers, you see, then for the authorities. Conforms to the desire of God because we haven't neglected all men who are to partake of salvation. We've not categorically excluded all leaders, for example. And thought that their prayers are not, prayers for them are not important. But who knows? God seems to be suggesting that they too are In need of the gospel. They too can be the object of his will. Even a president, even a former emperor. He goes on to write an important aspect of the um salvation in Christ. When he says there is, verse 5, one God and one mediator between man and God, the man Jesus Christ. There is but one God. The Jewish people had a verse And not just had, but still have a verse that is identified and called the Shema. And you'll hear Jewish people say it on a regular basis, so much so that it's identified with their understanding of who God is. Deuteronomy 6, 4 Shema, O Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. He is one. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh can be justified in his sight. The law is, through the law is the manifest, the knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets. The righteousness of God, which is by faith of Christ Jesus unto all, and upon all of them that believe, there is no difference. This is part of what we need to proclaim about the one God and the one mediator, Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians reminds us, as we read earlier, that though there are many who be called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, chapter 8, verse 5 and 6. As there may be there may be God's many and Lord's many, but to us there is but one God. One Father, of whom are all things, and we in him, one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. He is the one God and Father of all, who is above all, through all, and in all. In verse 5, the word for there is explaining the why and how all men may be saved. Back in verse 4. Because in the world, you see, there is only one God, regardless of all the many gods. There is only one true God, and there is only one mediator between God and man, because there's only one way. And that's Christ. He is the mediator. He is the one who arbitrates between God and men. Whenever Whatever their station in life, and he is the one who brings reconciliation between God and them when they manifest faith. Hebrews chapter nine, reflecting on the eyes of the eyes. The Lord Jesus Christ and the blood shed says, verse 14, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot in God? How much more shall it purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God? For this cause he is the mediator of the new covenant, and by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions That were under the First Testament. They which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. You and I have this amazing privilege that Hebrews chapter 12 refers to. In verse 18 and following, you're not come to the mount that might be touched, and that might, and that burned with fire. nor unto blackness, darkness, tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words, which voice they that heard entreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more For they could not endure that which was commanded. And if so much as a beast touched the mountain it would be stoned, or thrust through with a dart So terrible was the sight that Moses said, I am exceedingly afraid, and quakes. You're not come to that mountain. You're come to Mount Zion. You're come to Mount Zion, unto the city of the living God. That's where you live. To heavenly Jerusalem, to the innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly and church of the firstborn. Which are written in heaven, to the God and judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect, and you have come To Jesus, the mediator of a new c of the new covenant, to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than the blood of Abel. Jesus gave himself as a ransom for all. He gave his life in our place. He paid the price for our sins. This is what we are to pray about. This is what we are to use as our evangelistic method and message. Doesn't matter who we talk to, the message is the same The mediator is the same, the God is the same, the way of salvation is the same, whether they be the high and the mighty, or the low and the meek. Or anywhere in between, whether they be black or white or yellow or red or purple. Doesn't matter. Message is for all men God has decreed it. So we should offer up prayers for all men. God desires to see all men saved. There's one mediator between God and all men. Christ has paid the ransom for all. Not for all men individually, but for all nationalities, races, and tribes, individuals within Our world. Far from being an argument, you see, over the design of the divine atonement, which this verse usually is. What do you mean by all men? Who did Christ die for? Far from being an argument over or a proof text for the divine atonement. Whether it's by God's grace or whether it's by man's work. This text Really has an evangelistic thrust to it. Pray for all. God desires it. Christ is the mediator of all. He paid the ransom price. Proclaim it. Amen. To all men. Amen again. Let us pray. Most gracious Heavenly Father, thank you for your people who have stayed today. And wanted to be a part of worshiping you, for we are invited, Lord, to proclaim your praises day and night. Especially, Lord, on the Lord's day together with God's people. But that isn't the only time and the only place where we can proclaim your praises. And we can proclaim your praises, Lord, as we walk down the street and visit with men and women who need Jesus, who need salvation. Lord, help us to have the boldness of your spirit, the confidence that the grace of God is at work in our hearts Help us to fear God, and to fear God more than men, that our mouths might be open, and we might proclaim the good news, the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. That though men are sinners. God has overcome our so God has overcome our sin. And he has overcome our sin by personally becoming man and giving himself. For this world, for these people, for all the people of the world who believe with faith in Christ Jesus Whether they be of any particular nationality, race, or any particular social standing, or or leadership responsibilities, gospels for all Encourage us, Lord, to pray for those who are in need of the gospel, whether they be rich Rich people need the gospel too. Or whether they be poor, poor people are not necessarily a sign of greater spirituality All need Christ. Give us grace that we might carry out your call. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.