If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Paul's letter, to the church at Philippi You'll believe you'll find that on page one thousand one hundred and sixty-six of your Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading from chapter four, just four verses. Let's give attention to the Word of God, Philippians four, beginning at verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding. Well, guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Amen. Praise be the Lord. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God As we come to the preaching of your word this morning, we ask that you'd quiet our hearts. By your spirit you would teach us, edify us. That you would reveal to each of us our sins and yet comfort us with the peace of Christ. And we ask this in his name. Amen. How do you plead before God? What does it sound like? What's your attitude as you make requests of him If you think of that account in Esther, where Mordecai had learned of Haman's plans, To annihilate the Jews, what does he do? How does he plead? He tears his clothes, he puts on sackcloth cloth and ashes, he goes out in the midst of the city, he cries out with a loud and bitter cry. Danger was at hand. But his cry was not one of thankfulness. Now you might say that's an odd way to put Mordecai's cry, his pleading. But that's exactly the way Paul puts it for us today in these four verses. Paul's been writing to the saints at Philippi from his imprisonment. He writes to the saints. He writes in the name of Christ with grace and peace. And Paul's thankful. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. And he begins this letter with joy. The word joy or rejoicing seems to be knit throughout this letter. Such that we come to the end of the letter. And Paul is summing up his teachings, his preachings, so to speak, to the saints And so he calls upon them here to rejoice. He reminds them to let their reasonableness or their gentle spirit be known. To be anxious for nothing, to pray with thanksgiving All the while promising that the peace of God would be poured out on them It's a full summary, it's the culmination of this letter to those at Philippi, calling them to all of these things. We might sum up the teaching here in just these four verses this way. The one who prays with thanksgiving, Experiences the nearness of Jesus Christ and his peace. The one who prays with thanksgiving experiences the nearness of Jesus Christ. and his peace. We'll see that in three truths or three points this morning. First, the sin of worry pulls one away from Christ. Secondly, the nearness of God slays the sin of anxiety. And finally, the practice of thankful prayer brings peace. As we're going through these four verses, these full four verses, I want you to ask yourself that question again. How do I plead before God? Well, first, the sin of worry pulls one away from Christ. What's the theme here of these verses? You might say, well, he's continuing the theme of joy. Indeed, the entire letter could be summed up under the heading or the one word of joy or rejoicing. Rejoice always. And in a general sense, that would be correct. This letter, these four verses, could be summed up in those words: joy or rejoice. That's the call. That's the common theme. So why does Paul need to revisit that here at the end of the letter? There's an emphasis upon it. There's a there's a rehearsal of it again. What's the problem? These verses appeared to address an issue going on in the church at Philippi with amongst the saints. Something was keeping them from rejoicing or being content. It seems that that that's the particular matter that Paul's seeking to address in the conclusion of his letter. It is related to rejoicing, but Paul's getting to one of those obstacles in the way of rejoicing or in the way of being content. And that obstacle is an anxious or a worrisome heart. We see it here in one of the imperatives or the commands. There are several imperatives or commands at the end of this letter. The first is rejoice in the Lord always. That's the first one. The second one. There's an imperative to be reasonabless and let your reasonableness or your gentle spirit be known to everyone And then here's that call. Be anxious for nothing. And he wraps it up with let your request be made known to God. Four separate commands or imperatives. But they all seem to be centered upon this one: be anxious for nothing. Paul knows the people to whom he writes in Philippi. He knows their warriors. He's aware of their human, their fallen human nature which succumbs. To being anxious. Paul knows that an anxious heart, a worrisome heart, is a sinful heart, and he knows that an anxious heart is one that is not at peace. And he knows that a worrisome heart is not one that can truly rejoice in the Lord Jesus Christ. If I'm right, if all of these commands are actually centered upon this one idea of being anxious for nothing, then it will be important for us to understand what it means to be anxious. That's the way the Greek word is defined in the lexicon, apprehensive, being unduly concerned. Webster defines anxiousness as a concern respecting some event. Which disturbs the mind, keeps it in a state of painful uneasiness. I think it's a good description. What's the problem with being anxious? Webster has already given us an idea. Well, first it's sin. That's the way Jesus refers to it. In the Sermon on the Mount, he says, Therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life. It's a command. Don't be anxious about it. Which of you by being anxious can add a single hour to his span of life? It's vanity. It's vanity. Jesus already pointed that out. The psalmist in Psalm 127 states, unless the Lord builds the house, those who build it labor in vain. It's vain. That you rise up early and go to bed late, eating the bread of anxious toil. An anxious heart is a heart of vanity. It's a heart of doubt, isn't it? Isaiah writes, say to those who have an anxious heart, be strong, fear not, God will come. He will come and save you. And an anxious heart is a heart that lacks faith, maybe not completely Jeremiah writes, Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is the Lord, like a tree planted by water. And is not anxious in the year of drought. He gives us that picture The one who trusts in the Lord is like that tree planted, and even as the drought comes, is not fearful. For it does not cease to bear fruit. That's the problem with anxiety. What's the root of your anxiety or your worry? Some would rightly say that anxiety forms in the heart when we doubt that we will receive what we desire or what we think were due from God. Some would say that worry forms as we've received something from God that we don't think we should have gotten. Webster's once again says it usually springs from fear or serious apprehension of evil. In all of these instances, we can see the root problem that anxiety or worry forms as we doubt or disbelieve the goodness of God. Again, from the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus preached, O you of little faith, therefore do not be anxious, saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? Your heavenly father knows that you need them all. So Paul writes, Be anxious for nothing. See, that's the imperative, that's the call, which goes exactly goes to your ability to rejoice in the Lord. What does that mean? Do not be anxious about anything, be anxious for nothing. It means very simply that in all circumstances, in all situations, whatever events of your life Come your way by the providential hand of God, whatever you're waiting for, whatever's transpired in the last five hours, or whatever you think is going to happen in the next five hours But Jesus Christ, the Word of God, is clearly saying, do not be anxious about it or anxious for it. Be anxious for nothing. Are you anxious? Jesus Christ knew his disciples were unduly concerned, that they were anxious. And that's why he says to them In the upper room discourse, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives, do I give to you. Let not your hearts be troubled. Neither let them be afraid. He knew. He was about ready to leave them And so they're concerned, they're anxious, they're worried. What does this mean? Where is he going? What are we going to do? What's tomorrow going to look like? I've said these things to you that in me you may have peace. You see the folly of anxiousness? Anxiousness and worry are the tools of Satan to draw you away from Christ. Anxiety is simply that quiet, unannounced sin harbored deep in the heart, which constantly chips away at and draws you away from the peace of Christ. You see, Jesus suffered on a cross. He laid down his life He paid the full price of God's wrath for your sin so that you would have peace. By grace. Why are you chipping away at it with your worry? Why are you drawing yourself away from Christ every time you enter into a worrisome estate? The Lord told Cain if you do well Will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at your door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it So that presents the question, how do you rule over anxiety? Brings us to our next point. The nearness of God slays the sin of anxiety. That seems to be the solution that Paul is suggesting to everyone. How do I slay this wickedness of worry or anxiety? How do I mortify the sin of anxiousness? He provides the answer. Look at verse 5. Let your reasonable list be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand The New American Standard translates it as the Lord is near. That's it. That's the solution. The nearness of God slays the anxiety of, or the sin of anxiety. But you may be asking yourselves, okay, so what? The Lord is near. I don't see the connection. How would that help the folks 2,000 years ago in a Philippi who may have been experiencing persecution? Paul was in jail for preaching Christ. Not too far to think that those in Philippi might have been experiencing persecution themselves. How would the fact that the Lord was near help Paul as he was suffering in prison, wondering about tomorrow? The Lord is near. How does that help you when you're not sure whether you're going to have enough money to pay next month's rent? The Lord is near. In order to grasp this concept of the nearness of the Lord and how that applies to anxiety or slaying anxiety, you first must understand who the Lord is. And you might be thinking to yourself, okay, I I know. Let's move on. And I actually want to stop here. For a moment. And let's just consider who the Lord is. First, He's sovereign. You must understand that the Lord governs everything. He made all things, he sustains all things, he upholds all things, he established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. Psalm 103. And as governor, he works his most holy and perfect will in everything and in everyone. He's the king who rules through his son Jesus. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Nothing happens in this world. Nothing. That is not done in accordance with his most holy and perfect will. This is called the sovereignty of God. That's the first point. But you must understand when you consider the nearness of God, He's sovereign, who set His Son on the throne to do His will. The second point is that He's all-knowing. The Father knows that you need them all. What you should eat, what you should wear, what you should drink. He knows that. He knows you need it. He's a w not just a wise God. If we can put it that way. He's a knowing God. Before your requests hit the tip of your tongue, he knows your words. And he knows your needs. He's sovereign and he knows. But that's not where it stops. Because he works all things. That's the third point. He works all things for the good of those who love him and keep his commandments. That comes from Romans 8, 28. For those who are called according to his purpose, he works all things together for good. The sovereign one. who governs and directs everything and he's doing so. He's working all things for your good if you're loving Christ this morning Those two truths are brought together. Sovereignty, He's all-knowing, and He works all things for your good so that you could begin to understand what it means to you that the Lord is near. As you meditate upon that. As Satan casts fiery arrows of anxiousness at your heart, you must remember these things. And there's one more That he is truly near. Now I'm trying to define the nearness of God and you say, Well, you can't you can't use that to define this nearness, but I have to. He's not far off. The one who created the earth, all things, and all people on it, who did not Did not set it like a top on a table and walk away. He's not sitting in the heaven above heavens And he's left the world, the earth, his people on our own. He's not. He's not far off. He hasn't forgotten. He's not engaged in other aspects of his omnipotent being while he neglects the world. The earth, his people. No, he's near to his creation, to his people. By and through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who works in and through his spirit. Who abides in each and every one of you who's trusting in Jesus this morning? He's present. He's engaged in every aspect of your life. He's near, he's at hand, he knows you He knows the very hairs on your head. He knit you together in the womb of your mother. He's intimately knowledgeable about what you need It is this sovereign, this almighty, this all-knowing Lord, the Creator God, the one who works all things for the good of those who love him and serve him, all events, all circumstances, he's the one who's near you. To be God to you and to your offspring after you. That's his promise. He's near to the brokenhearted. He saves the crushed in spirit. He's near to all who call upon him, all who call upon him in truth. Don't you think that Paul was meditating upon this truth as he sat in prison, waiting upon the civil judge? Paul didn't know what tomorrow would bring. Death on the cross? More unrighteous imprisonment? There's a sense that the events of tomorrow really didn't matter to Paul. That wasn't his concern. For he knew that the Lord was near at hand, even closer than the Roman guard who apparently was chained to him. And so Paul called for rejoicing, not despair, not worry, not anxiety. Is the Lord's nearness slaying your anxiety? You may be thinking at this point, well, how do I actually know of the Lord's nearness? How can I experience the nearness of the Lord Jesus Christ? That actually brings us to our third point. The practice of thankful prayer brings peace. So it's one thing to write down or speak of the truths set forth in the Word of God. We have those truths here for us. The Lord is near or at hand. And we've confirmed that truth by referencing other passages in the Scripture and walking through it. But how do you know? Exactly how are your anxious hearts put at ease by knowing the nearness of Jesus Christ? How did Jesus experience the nearness of his Father? Well he prayed, didn't he? We see that throughout the gospel accounts. Jesus Prayed. Mark's recorded. And rising very early in the morning while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate place, and there he prayed. That was his communion with his father. That was his the nearness that he experienced with his father here on this earth. Think of Jesus Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane before, just before he's arrested and taken to the cross. Sit here while I pray. And he took with him Peter and James and John and began to be greatly distressed and troubled. He said to them, My soul is very sorrowful, even to death. Now you might think if if anyone is going to be anxious about tomorrow, it would have been Jesus Christ. The eternal wrath of his heavenly father was about to be laid upon him The sinless one, receiving the punishment for your sins, an eternal weight which we really can't grasp. If anyone had a right, if we can put it that way, to be anxious about tomorrow, it was certainly Jesus Christ. He was greatly distressed, he's troubled, he's sorrowful, and what do we read next? And he prayed. He prayed. He prayed three times He went to his father. And I don't think we have the entire prayer as recorded for us. But I can only imagine that as Jesus is praying, he's praying with a thankful heart. And so that's exactly what Paul suggests. His suggestion for you this morning to experience the nearness of the Lord is to pray. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. See that's how you experience the nearness of God. It's prayer. It's a unique form of communion that only believers in Christ have with God the Father, the Almighty, the maker of heaven and earth. It's that human divine interaction that that That communion, that fellowship, which provides the experience of knowing the nearness of the Lord. So here now he's giving you the solution to that age old sin problem of worry and anxiety. Such that you can rejoice, truly rejoice in the Lord. It's significant prayer. But my purpose this morning is actually to focus on this one aspect of prayer that Paul mentions in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Did you note that? It's critical How many times have you entered into your prayer before a holy God and treated it as what might be thought of as a routine event? Something you do before you eat a meal or or something you do before you you go to sleep. It's become a habit. The model prayer, the Lord's prayer. Maybe you pray that without really thinking about what you're saying. How many times do you enter into prayer Without really thinking about it. That's the first thing Paul's saying here. To pray with thanksgiving means that you're actually engaged in in your communion with God. You're doing it in with a particular attitude. You're doing it in a particular way. You're thankful. Can requests be made known to God with thanksgiving Requests. That's what Paul is speaking about in terms of prayer. Now prayer has many aspects to it, doesn't it? Supplication or request or just one aspect, but that's the aspect that Paul writes about this morning to us. He's seeing that we might not rejoice. If we're not thinking we're receiving that which we're due, that we've got so many things that we need, and so we're not ready to rejoice and yet until we receive them. And Paul's saying, hold on. Yes, ask for them. Plead for them. Petition the Lord for them. He's the one you depend on. He's the only one that can that can provide those things that that you really need. But do it with thanksgiving. Do you see the contrast then between being anxious and then entering into prayer? Specifically, prayer requesting that which you think you need or desire from God. That's the contrast Worrying about whether or not you receive it versus asking for it with thanksgiving. That's what Paul's saying. The way to experience the nearness of Jesus Christ and to duck as Satan fires off his deadly arrows of anxiousness at you is through supplicating prayer. That's a curious thing, isn't it? What's really curious is that Paul calls for Thanksgiving. An attitude of thanksgiving before you receive what you've asked for. Now, we're accustomed to thanking after we receive what we think we're due or what we've requested. Think of your birthday. You expect to receive something. Maybe just a birthday greeting or birthday wishes, a gift. And then when you do, you thank them. Thank you for remembering my birthday. That's very kind. You usually don't do it before. Paul's saying, as you're making the request, do it with thanksgiving. That doesn't mean that you understand and expect that God is going to exactly fulfill your request. God, I'm asking for this, and I know you're going to do it. So therefore I'm thankful. God says no many times. Many times we're asking for something good, and God says no, or he says, not now. We have that experience, don't we? And so that's not what praying with thanksgiving means. Well, what does it mean? First, it certainly means that you know God hears you What a privilege to be heard by the living God. God doesn't hear everyone in the same way. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. That's praiseworthy, isn't it? And the only way you can be righteous, as you know, is in Christ. And so if you're praying in Christ's name God hears. That's how Jesus prayed. Father, I thank you that you've heard me. But what else does it mean? What else does it look like? What else does it sound like? To supplicate or lift up your request to God. Make your request be known with thanksgiving. Well it must go back to to knowing who God is, doesn't it? That God is a is the Lord who gives good things to his children, and so as you pray, as you request, as you supplicate, it can be with an attitude of thanksgiving For you know that for whatever you ask for, that God's going to give you something good. It may not be what you've asked for. But he will give you something good. The Heidelberg confession or catechism asks this question: what's your only comfort in life and death? And among other things It recites this. He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Father in heaven. In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. Isn't that what God is doing? Is you make your request to him. He's working all things together for your salvation every time you supplicate with him. Jesus said it this way on the Sermon on the Mount. Which one of you, if you ask the sun for bread, we'll give him a stone, or if he asked for a fish, we'll give him a serpent serpent? If you then, who are evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him? And so as you request, whatever you request, as long as it's according to the will of the Lord Jesus Christ, God will answer with that which is good for you. And so you can pray expectantly for that goodness with thanksgiving. That's where the attitude the heart of Thanksgiving arises from. Because you know every time you Pray in the name of Jesus Christ according to his will. And because of Jesus, because of let me say it again. Because of Jesus You can pray expectantly, knowing, and thus thankfully, that whatever your request is, according to the will of God, that He will answer it with that which is good. Isn't that cause to be thankful? Isn't that cause for rejoicing? And now you can see the connection. Asking God, supplicating before Him with thanksgiving, leads to rejoicing It slays your anxiety. Try it. Pray, plead, supplicate before God according to his will. Do it with thanksgiving. Knowing that he's going to give you good things. Allow your anxious heart to be slain by the abiding spirit, by the nearness of Jesus Christ. Because you can experience the nearness of God through prayer and through your divine requests as you offer them up with thanksgiving. As you come to God empty-handed as a beggar, confessing your complete dependence, as well as your love for Him. And you make your requests known, proclaiming them, pleading them, and as he hears you, the God of creation will be near to you as you pray with thanksgiving. Do you do you see peace in this? That's the promise. Right? This this passage ends with that promise, doesn't it? And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. Guard against what? Anxiety against worry, against doubt, against the lack of faith. It's got to guard your heart. As the Spirit is guiding and leading you in thankful prayers, that's the promise. That's the result. It's the peace of Christ through the Spirit The result is the death of worry. The result is the peace of Christ ruling and reigning in your heart, guarding your heart against the sin of anxiousness. And so as you continue in your supplicating prayers, seasoned with an attitude of thanksgiving, the promise is that you'll experience The blessed peace of God in Christ Jesus. Yes, the one who prays with thanksgiving experiences the nearness of Jesus Christ and his peace. Mordecai was worried about his nation, about the Jews. But he prayed with bitterness. Oh, that we would be those who would pray, would supplicate, we'd request of God with thanksgiving. And as a result, experience the nearness of Jesus Christ. Amen Father and our God, we're weak, we're frail. We are sinners, all of us. All of us, I think, can confess that that we have entered into the sin of anxiety and worry and doubted. Lacked faith. Help us, Lord. Help us to be those who pray with thanksgiving, knowing that you will answer our requests with your goodness. In such a way that will always lead to our salvation. We thank you, Father. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for the Spirit. We thank you for the ability to commune with you in prayer in such a way that leads to rejoicing. Help us, Father, to be those who rejoice always in you. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.