Let us turn to scripture reading this morning, 1 Corinthians 11, verses 23 through 29. You'll recognize this as the words of the institution of the Lord's Supper. And uh follow along with me uh as I read. Let us hear the word of the Lord. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. Now the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body, which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner, he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread And drink this cup. You proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner We will be guilty of the body and the blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself and so let him eat Of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Peace be seated. There's so many things we could say this morning about the Lord's Supper. So many things from this particular passage of God's Word that would be beneficial and enlightening to us. The Lord's Supper, as one of the two ordinances that Jesus determined that his New Testament church would celebrate along with baptism, is both of these ordinances are things that the church has argued about for years. And that it's even resulted in division. And those divisions have continued for years and centuries We're now in at centuries, maybe millennia, in terms of some of these differences. You know, you might just be wondering, uh, what are we doing when we celebrate the Lord's Supper? Uh what uh actually are we saying uh what are we uh um saying about what we believe. And ultimately we understand that the Lord's Supper is a a picture representation of the death and resurrection, the death of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. But uh there is so much more that we can say, and I don't think it hurts us to review uh some things about the Lord's Supper, particularly when we're about ready to partake of these things. things ourselves. So today I want to focus your attention on verse 26 After he has uh the Apostle Paul has given God's word in which he talks about uh breaking the bread and eating the uh drink breaking the bread and drinking the the wine. Um he uh connects that to uh Christ's uh uh sacrifice for us And then he says in verse 26, For as oft as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. And I'd like to share some thoughts with you about that verse under the title Preaching Jesus from the Pews. My message today is narrowly focused on just this verse, on one aspect of our Lord's Supper observance. In the King James Version, it says, For as oft as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show the Lord's death until he comes. It is the new King James and the ESV that add the word substitute the word instead of show proclaim. Paul is saying that as believers participate in the Lord's Supper They are showing the Lord's death and they are proclaiming the Lord's death until he returns Now I want to unpack the meaning of the word that is used there for showing or proclaim. The word itself is a compound word with a beginning four letters, a prefix that is used to strengthen The main word. The main word in this particular passage is angelo. And angelo is a proclamation or an announcement. This is generally it's a it's it's uh it would be usually it's translated proclaim. It is sometimes translated as show But it does seem to indicate that there's some sort of verbal activity going on with this. It is one of the words the New Testament in a whole family of words. It's not the main word, but it's one of the words the New Testament often translates as preaching. Or preach. And when you proclaim something, or when you preach, you normally associate that with loud speaking. You know, if I was silent, I wouldn't be able, you wouldn't hear me. And if if I was uh and sometimes when I'm really soft you can't hear me anyway. So it behooves the preacher to proclaim. Now this word doesn't have as its background The most frequently used word for proclaim for preaching, the most frequently word used for proclaiming is the Greek word keros or Kate Rousseau. And that actually has the idea of a king being preceded by a herald. A king who is coming into the presence of his people, and his coming is being announced by the herald that goes forth and proclaims. Here comes the king. And he does that loudly, because it's time to give homage to the king. And this word is somewhat close to that, in the sense that at least it is a loud proclamation. There are 17 times that this word is used in the New Testament, this particular word. All but three translate it preach or proclaim or declare. The other three times it is translated show. Some of the examples where this is translated by preach or proclaim would be passages like Acts 13, verse 5. Reflecting on the ministry of Paul, it says, when they were at Salamis, they preached the word in the synagogue of the Jews. They preached the word. That's the word. Verse 38 and 39 of the same chapter, Paul said. To those same men, he said, Men and brethren, unto you therefore that through this man, and that man he's referring to as Jesus, is preached to you the forgiveness of sins. Preaching about this man through this man is the forgiveness of sins. I'm just using certain passages now to talk about the fact that this is a proclamation. This is a proclaiming. And the use of this word. In chapter 15 of Acts, Paul and Barnabas' ministry is referred to in verse 36. Let's go. Let's go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the Lord. You cannot preach the word of the Lord quietly It has to be proclaimed. Right? It has to be it has to be audible Now, uh verse uh uh chapter 17 of Acts, verse 3. Christ must needs to have suffered and risen again from the dead. and that this is this Jesus is whom I preach to you. Other passages you can look at. 1 Corinthians 9, 14 Philippians 1. 18, Colossians 1. 27. All translate this word here as either preach or proclaim or declare. All of which I submit to you are all verbal, audible Activities. Much more frequently translates this word, proclaim or preach. We ought to realize that the Lord's Supper is more than just showing something. When Christians take the Lord's Supper, it is, and this is funny to say, it is nonverbal preaching. But it speaks very loud to a cer to certain hearts When you take the Lord's Supper, the elements, when you take them in faith, when you in a few minutes are going to take the Lord's Supper in faith You are preaching Christ from the pews You are preaching about how God has saved you by grace through faith in Jesus Christ. You as individuals and as one body of Christ are a powerful witness. Preaching that Jesus is your Lord, that Jesus is your Savior, and that you are saved only by his blood In addition, the content of what you are preaching can be described in various different ways. It says in our text, you're preaching the Lord's death, you're proclaiming the Lord's death until he comes. That's part of the content. Unpack that. You're preaching about Jesus, and you're preaching that Jesus is Lord You're preaching that Jesus is Lord. And when you preach that Jesus is Lord, you are saying that Jesus is Lord over all. That all things are his. All things will bow down before him. He's not just a king, he's not just a lord, but he is king of kings and lord of lords, yours personally and the world's as well. Even though they do not acknowledge it. Jesus is Lord over your life, and He's Lord whether it's the winds and the waves Or he's Lord over the forces of nature, quote unquote, or he's Lord over all men, as Philippians 2. 10, which we read earlier, said. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. What is that? It doesn't say Lord, but it's acknowledging What you do before lords and kings. Every knee should bow of things in heaven, things in earth, things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father, not Buddha, not Mohammed Not Allah, not the Almighty Dollar But Christ is Lord. You're not only proclaiming that Christ is Lord But you're proclaiming that Christ you're proclaiming the Lord's death. Now that on the surface sounds a little strange. uh is surely some lord who uh uh should be able to uh figure out a way that he wouldn't die Normally all people die. And of course, Jesus died. The Lord died on the cross. But that wasn't the end of the story. You proclaim the Lord Jesus until he comes. Now, in order for the Lord Jesus to come, and if he was dead, he must be in a grave, then he must have gotten out of the grave. He rose again from the dead. And he is alive. Because he is the way. He is the truth. He is the life. Or as 1 Corinthians 15, 45 says that because of his resurrection He's the life-giving spirit. He's not only the Lord, he's not only the Savior, but He's the life-giving Spirit. The life-giving Spirit, Lord, Who Is coming again. And we proclaim his death to any who hear To any within earshot, whether it be in our neighborhood, or whether it be on the internet, or whether it be in our congregation. We're proclaiming his death as the only death sufficient to save us from our sins. And all the other wonders that are attached to that. We're proclaiming his death for until he returns. And oh yes, the scriptures are saying is that the one who died and rose again is going to return. And he will return as the same Jesus, the Lord of all life. He will return this time to judge the world, even as he said he would. When you take the Lord's Supper, you are preaching this Jesus. You are preaching this Jesus. You're preaching everything about his gospel. You're preaching everything about his person. You're preaching everything about his work. And you're preaching it in a very personal way. For you are the one who has been redeemed. By that word and by his work. You are the one who received the benefits of his death and resurrection by being in union with him. Again, if you go back and look at those verses I shared with you earlier about this word preaching. the content of what you are preaching, even though it's nonverbal, by taking the Lord's Supper And perhaps that's why the King James chose to use the word show. Because it's such an odd thing to think about. Nonverbal preaching. But nevertheless, nevertheless, the content is that you are preaching Acts chapter 13, 39, the forgiveness of sins through Jesus. Jesus Christ. You are preaching that we are justified in him. Acts 13, 39. You're preaching That he must have he had to suffer and to rise again from the dead. Acts 17, verse 3. You're preaching the good news, 1 Corinthians 9, verse 14, or the gospel You're preaching, as Colossians 1, verse 27 says, to whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of his mystery among the Gentiles, which is Jesus Christ, the hope of glory. Well, you're preaching nonverbally. Weird. Weird thought But the next question comes, as you preach from the pews, who are you preaching to? Who are the targets of this nonverbal preaching? Well, I think I can isolate three You're preaching, and no special order, you're preaching to each other. You're preaching to each other in the fellowship of God's people. This is one way in which the Lord's Supper ministers grace to us. It's not saving grace that we Need at this point through the taking of the Lord's Supper, it doesn't convey saving grace. It conveys a kind of a sustaining grace. Or encouraging grace or supporting grace. Upon partaking of the elements, you are not preaching that Jesus is being crucified over and over again. for you because of the sins that you committed this week. Jesus Christ was crucified once for all. Hebrews 10 verse 10. All sin, past, present, future. We're not crucifying him again when we take the Lord's Supper. We're not sending out that message. This bad Instead, we are preaching the very clear and relevant truths to one another That we need this sacrifice in Christ And you're saying it to your closest people on earth next to your family As we see other believers of our church partake, they are preaching to us that they too believe in Jesus They too have been impacted by the God of grace. They too have been made alive by God's saving power. And God is still working. God is still saving and sanctifying Christians and sinners and making them his people. And you see this, and you see people that still believe, maybe for a long time or maybe for a short time. As they take the Lord's Supper, they are being faithful and they're persevering in his grace. And you conclude from that, I'm not alone. In believing in Christ, I'm not out here all by myself on an island I wish you could see yourselves coming forward as I see you coming forward to take the Lord's Supper. When I see that event happening one after another, people coming forward What I see is nothing less than encouragement. I'm encouraged every time I see you come down the aisle to take the Lord's Supper. And I think to myself, isn't this a grand sight? And I wonder, I wonder, as the power and the amazing grace of God's saving work is evident in your walk And you're coming forward to take the Lord's Supper. I wonder what heaven is thinking. I think isn't this grand? And I think heaven itself is pleased That the God of heaven has given to you the faith to believe in His beloved Son and to keep persevering. for him. So that's one group that you're preaching to. The second group, any unbeliever that comes in here and sees us coming forward. Nonverbal preaching, but it's nonverbal that's still communicating. Imagine if you go into a situation that you're the only one who's different. And you see everybody else doing the same thing. And you see them coming forward to take the Lord's Supper. You know, that's going to have an impact on your thinking. It's going to cause you to question. To question what you're doing. And of course when you connect this to the fact that all these people are coming forward uh as to to to take the Lord's Supper In affirmation of what they believe, you're going to ask yourself, the unbeliever has to be faced with, am I right or are they right? Am I or are they wrong or am I wrong? Now, without the grace of God, they're gonna c think that you're wrong. In fact, they're gonna think you're weird, and some of them will think you're nuts But that doesn't matter. The process has started. The the confrontation Is in their mind and it can't easily get away. That witness bearing that you are doing by simply by this nonverbal preaching. That's not that's something God is going to use. Who knows? God has used in people's lives, and you talk to people about how they become Christian, you'll find that they became Christians in many different ways. sometimes really strange ways. This may be the way that God might be using to bring into one person's life the truth of the gospel. So you're preaching the grace of the Lord's death until he returns. Your preaching is focused on his forgiveness That only by faith in his son are you forgiven, for he is the only wrath-bearing sacrifice that God has given. Your nonverbal preaching shakes the unbeliever to his core But the last group that you're preaching to is in reality God with us and all the heavenly hosts. The triune God is receiving your praise and glory. As Christ, the eternal Son, and his work is exalted by your commitment. A commitment that God enabled you to have. While you receive the elements. Our Heavenly Father Himself, who promised that God will be with us That Jesus is our Emmanuel, that God's redemptive plan is all-encompassing. Very soon the Father will receive all glory from Christ, who is all in all. Your nonverbal preaching anticipates that day. It anticipates the day when all the saints in glory are praising God for his mercy unto us poor sinners The day when all such saints will ascend into heaven. And your eternal Father waits for that day. He waits. He waits. He waits for the last elect sinner to be saved by his son. For now you're preaching to heaven, and heaven is rejoicing. Because throughout the earth there are people and there are pockets of saints where God and Jesus are still being praised in the highest. Praise the Lord that we can be part of that group when we take the Lord's Supper. For how long are you to be a preacher in the pews at the Lord's Supper? The text answers that question until he returns. When he returns, according to Acts chapter 17, verse 31, he will judge the world in righteousness. By the man whom he hath ordained, whereof he hath given assurance unto all men that he in that he hath raised him from the dead. At the Lord's Supper, you faithfully proclaim and you warn others to repent and believe in the man, believe in the man that the Father had ordained. Jesus the Christ. Believe in him before the day comes. You, the elect members of God's of Christ's body. Preaching in the pews at the Lord's Supper. You're preaching a message of encouragement to other believers. Jesus is all you need Jesus is with us. Jesus has saved us. Jesus has died for us. Jesus has rose for us. Has risen for us. We are united to him in his death and resurrection now and forever. Christ and his righteousness is always ours. He is coming to take us home. And when you partake in the Lord's Supper, you are preachers in the pews Your preachers and all, all AWE, of what God has done for you and Jesus. In this case, your actions truly do speak louder. No, your words truly do speak louder than your actions. You speak to your heart, and you speak to the hearts of all men And at the same time, the gospel of Jesus Christ is echoing throughout the halls, the hallways of heaven. So let us now take the Lord's Supper and proclaim Jesus, the Lord and Savior, to the glory of God the Father. Amen. that. Let us pray. Oh Lord, may it be that we might be encouraged from this message. Be encouraged, Lord, not to forget from where our salvation come. Not to Be weary of testifying to its to the to the work of the triune God Help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, to take in faith and to always take the Lord's Supper in faith And let us appreciate, O Lord, the reality of our proclamation. For the glory of your Son. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.