Now we read the Old Testament. From Genesis chapter two. Genesis chapter two. I could have chosen very many places to read In preparation for this preaching today, but I wanted to point out in Genesis 2 a particular thing that God gave a meal to his people at the very first. Before the fall, God gave food. He gave a meal. And in a sense, he shared it with them because he was there with them and enjoying their communion So listen to the reading of God's Word from Genesis 2, 4 through 17. This is the history of the heavens and the earth when they were created and the day that the Lord made the earth and the heavens. Before any plant of the field was in the earth, and before any herb of the field had grown, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the earth, and there was no man to till the ground But a mist went up from the earth and watered the whole face of the ground. And the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life And man became a living being. The Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden, and there he put the man whom he had formed Out of the ground the Lord God made every tree grow that is pleasant to the sight and good for food. The tree of life was also in the midst of the garden and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Now a river went out of Eden to water the garden, and from there it parted and became four riverheads The name of the first is Pishon. It is the one which skirts the whole land of Havilah where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Delium and the oxen stone are there The name of the second river is Gihan. It is the one which goes around the whole land of Cush. The name of the third river is Hidekal. It is the one which goes toward the east of Assyria. The fourth is the Euphrates. Then the Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to tend and keep it. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden you may freely eat, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. This is the word of the Lord for which we give thanks to God. Please remain standing. I failed to have you stand for the Old Testament. It is the Word of God just as much as the New. But now let us remain standing for Luke 24, 13 through 35. Luke twenty-four beginning at verse thirteen. This is God's word. Now behold, two of them were traveling that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was seven miles from Jerusalem. And they talked together of all these things which had happened. So it was, while they conversed and reasoned, that Jesus himself drew near and went with them. But their eyes were restrained so that they did not know him. And he said to them, What kind of conversation is this that you have have with one another as you walk and are sad Then one whose name was Cleophus answered and said to him, Are you the only stranger in Jerusalem, and have you not known the things which happened there in these days? And he said to them, What things? So they said to him, The things concerning Jesus of Nazareth, who was a prophet, mighty in deed and word before God and all the people. And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death and crucified him. But we were hoping that he it was indeed he who was going to redeem Israel. Indeed, besides all this, today is the third day since these things happened. Yes, and certain women of our company who arrived at the tomb early astonished us When they did not find his body, they came saying that they had also seen a vision of angels, who said he was alive. And certain of those who were with us went to the tomb and found it just as the women had said, but him they did not see. Then he said to them, O foolish ones, and slow of heart to believe in all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to enter into his glory? And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, He expounded to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And they drew near to the village where they were going, and he indicated that he would have gone farther But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to stay with them. Now it came to pass as he sat at table with them that he took bread, blessed, and broke it, and gave it to them. Then their eyes were opened, and they knew him And he vanished from their sight. And they said to one another, Did not our heart burn within us while he talked with us on the road And while he opened to us the scriptures, so they rose up that very hour and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven and those who were with them gathered together, saying The Lord is risen indeed and has appeared to Simon. And they told about the things that had happened on the road. And how he was known to them in the breaking of bread. This is the word of the Lord for which we give thanks to God. Amen. You may be seated. Again, I'm very happy to uh serve God in your pulpit today. I want to begin this message by asking a couple of rhetorical questions. The first is, how would you tell the story of your life? How would you tell the story of your life? Would it be a list of dates? Dates and events, you know, I was born on this day in this place. And then I graduated from middle school on this date in this place. Then I moved to another place and graduated from high school on a certain date And then after that I did the next thing, and then I got married, and then our first child was born, or whatever sorts of dates there might be Would that be the way you would tell the story of your life? Or would it perhaps be a list of awards and accomplishments? I received a trophy for running a race. I played on this team and was given an award. Or maybe it would be a list of trials and troubles. I had this accident. And I was injured in this way. And then I became sick in this way. And then this thing happened to me. A list of trials and troubles. I lost my job. And if you were to tell your story, what would be the theme of your story? How would you theme it So that's the first question. How would you tell the story of your life? And the second one is: what is the message of the Old Testament? Which, by the way, was the Bible of Jesus and the apostles. What is the message of the Old Testament? Is it uh uh a bunch, a collection of Bible stories With no apparent theme or overarching idea, just the story of Noah and the Ark. The story of Abraham, the story of David and Goliath, and various other Bible stories that you might find in a children's Bible story book. Would you therefore say that it is just this collection of stories and you can maybe draw some moral lessons from it? Be brave and strong like David before the giant Goliath. But don't be like David when he's looking out the off the rooftop at Bathsheba Be like Samson, the strong one who destroys the temple of Dagon, but don't be like Samson in the tent with Delilah getting his hair cut Would you think that the story of the Old Testament is a fail of plan A? God had plan A, and it it failed, got mucked up. And then you had to move on, God had to move on to plan B after that. Is that the way you would characterize the story of the Old Testament, the message of the Old Testament? Well, Jesus brings perspective to both of these questions, the story of your life and the story of the Old Testament. And he does it here in Luke chapter 24, here at the very end of this wonderful gospel of Luke. Because here on Easter evening, you see two men walking along on the road to a village called Emmaus, about seven miles from Jerusalem. And here they are discussing the news of the day. The news of the day is that Jesus' tomb has been reported to be empty. He died, he was crucified, he was buried, but now this news is that the tomb, as some have said anyway, was empty. Some women claim to have seen angels who said that Jesus was alive. So these two walking along recalled what Jesus had said about rising on the third day, but they were still discouraged. That's pretty hard to believe, you know. They hadn't seen Jesus, and resurrections don't happen. So their dream of Israel's redemption Was evaporating like the fog on a sunny day. Their lives had been defined by this hope. We had hoped that he would redeem Israel But that was now passing away. So what Jesus did here is he caught up with them in their discussion. And he rebuked them for not knowing their Bible better. They should have known, he says, that the Messiah had to suffer before being glorified. And then he gave them an on-the-spot lesson in what we call hermeneutics, the science of interpretation, hermeneutics. Later in the day, the same men told the other disciples that Jesus had indeed appeared to them on the road. Then suddenly Jesus arrived and gave them the same lesson. We didn't read it, but we'll get to it. He gave them the same lesson in hermeneutics That the Messiah, which means anointed one, must suffer and rise from the dead. And that redemptive blessings would then go out to all the nations As a result, here Jesus refers to what is written about him in the law and prophets and psalms, which is just shorthand for saying the whole Old Testament. The law, prophets, and psalms identify the three major divisions of the Hebrew Bible. And notice this, my friends: Jesus doesn't say that he fulfills a few proof texts. Isolated verses here and there, like someone looking for the Where's Waldo, Waldo in the Where's Waldo puzzle. No, not just a few isolated proof texts He says that the whole Old Testament is about himself. He says that he is the goal to which all the parts are striving. Jesus identified himself as the anointed one in this word to them. Anointed one means in Greek it's Christ, Christos. And in Hebrew, it's Messiah Hamashiach. Now, think about this. He says that he's the anointed one, but there were other anointed ones in the Old Testament. There were actually three offices that required anointing, having that oil poured, that ceremonial oil poured on the head, in order to achieve this office. The three offices were prophet, Priest and king. They were all anointed ones. In various capacities, the prophet, priest, and king represented God and served his people. And certain passages in the Old Testament anticipate that someday all three offices would converge on one man. One man. Let's look at those three offices for a moment. One place that we see the first office is the office of prophet in Deuteronomy 18, 18. Verses 15 through 19, and I have it in the English Standard Version written out here. Listen to this. This is about profit. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers It is to him you shall listen, just as you desired the Lord your God at Horeb on the day of the assembly, when you said, Let me not hear again the voice of the Lord my God, or see this great fire any more, lest I die. And the Lord God said to me, They are right in what they have spoken. I will raise up for them a prophet like you from among their brothers, and I will put my words in his mouth And he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words that he shall speak in my name, I myself Will require it of him. So this is way early in the Old Testament, this announcement of a prophet like Moses, who will have the very word of God, and you have to listen to him, or else A prophet like me is coming someday. It's promised, according to Deuteronomy. And We're not going to dig into it deeply right now, but the priest was also an anointed one and was promised the unusual priesthood of Melchizedek. That is announced in Psalm 110. Psalm 110. The Lord said to my Lord I have made you a priest according to the order of Melchizedek. Melchizedek, this very unusual person who had no record of beginning and no end at all. His priesthood is forever. And so that is the priest that we're looking for. And then King is another anointed one in 2 Samuel 7 David was told that someone would come and reign on his throne and sit on his throne, a son of his own body would come someday, who would reign forever and ever, and his kingdom would have no end. We see that celebrated in Psalm 72, which is paraphrased in the Trinity hymnal, Jesus shall reign where eer the Son does his Successive journeys run, his kingdom stretch from shore to shore, till moons shall wax and wane no more That is the other office. All three offices, therefore, converge on Jesus. He said he was the anointed one that must suffer, but the anointed one with all three of these office. Because Jesus as prophet declares the will of God par excellence. And you have to listen to him. Anyone who won't listen to him, there is no other salvation. There is no other name among men, given among men, whereby we must be saved. We must listen to Jesus the prophet Jesus as priest, who makes atonement for the sins of God's people by giving himself as a sacrifice for sinners. And Jesus as King, who breaks the power of sin in the world and transforms the world through the gospel of His self. So, as this anointed one, Jesus does not represent something completely new when he's talking to these fellows. He holds the three Old Testament offices and performs those tasks more fully than any others that came before him. He brings the offices to fulfillment. But note specifically what Jesus said to them. He said, first, the anointed one must. Suffer. The anointed one must suffer. Now, the Jews may not have expected their Messiah to suffer, but the Old Testament scriptures did. Throughout the Old Testament, God's servants suffered, and a pattern begins to emerge. Think of Abraham, who suffered the scorn of some of his contemporaries In the land of Canaan. Think of Moses, who suffered the rebukes of God's people at times and his own troubles, and Difficulties. Think of Joseph, who was sold by his brothers and then thrown into a pit and suffered many injustices. Think of David who was hunted by Saul for many years and suffered. Think of Zechariah of the smitten shepherd that is described there who would suffer Think of Lamentations, chapter 3, which mentions a vindicated man who identifies with the fallen Jerusalem, the suffering Jerusalem. God uses the suffering of the righteous to advance his redemptive plan. And by the way, while we're talking about the sufferings of Messiah. I want to encourage you and tell you, as you live in this world and encounter various troubles and trials, that God uses even your suffering for good. It's not apart from his sovereign plan. It's normal, not extraordinary. 1 Peter chapter 4. It says, beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you, as though something strange were happening to you, but rejoice Insofar as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. So Jesus explains his own sufferings in view of this Old Testament pattern. It wasn't some accident of history. He wasn't unfortunate or misguided in his zeal to right wrongs. The Old Testament tells the story of suffering servants and of the suffering servant. Jesus made vicarious atonement through his sufferings. While we're here, let's make another connection. Vicarious atonement recalls the whole Old Testament sacrificial system. It all pointed to Jesus, who gave himself as a sacrifice for our sins. Because what happened to sacrificial lambs and other animals that were brought into the temple? They were slaughtered. They suffered. They died for human sin. What is Jesus, but, as John says, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world? Secondly, see that Jesus says here that the anointed one, the Messiah, must be vindicated. And exalted. He must suffer, and he must also be vindicated and exalted. Now, Jesus' favorite title for himself in the New Testament is Son of man. Son of man. Now that is referred to by Ezekiel as himself. But there's a place in the Old Testament where Son of Man has an obscure situation and meaning. And that's what Jesus is referring to himself, not just as a human being or as some reference to Ezekiel. But as the Son of Man from Daniel chapter 7. There, the title, Son of Man, has to do with dominion The Son of Man will take dominion over everything. And that's what Jesus says of himself. He is this Son of Man from Daniel chapter 7. Think back to Genesis chapter 1, which begins with dominion over the earth. God gave man dominion over everything. He named and classified everything. He had complete rule over the whole earth. And think of the Psalms like Psalm 72 which which idealize the kingship and dominion of the Messiah. We see that God and His King will put down all evil and restore creation. In other words, in the end, God will win and will be vindicated. Now, the resurrection and ascension represent this vindication and this exaltation of Jesus. The one who suffered must be exalted and vindicated. Christ has conquered the enemies of God by breaking the power of sin. Now he sits at God's right hand, ruling over all things for God's glory The Old Testament, therefore, anticipates the reign of God, and that reign is now begun in the exalted Jesus. That's what he was telling them That the Messiah must suffer and be vindicated. The third thing that Jesus says That the work of the anointed one will bring about world evangelization. The work of the anointed one will bring about world evangelization. Now, as we think back to the Old Testament, especially the early parts of the Old Testament, particularly about Abraham. We see that at certain times God narrowed his focus down upon one man and his family, Abraham. And the others around were not in that were not in focus, but God narrowed his focus down on one man, Abraham and his family. Abraham and his descendants, however, were not. were not an end in themselves. They were to be focused upon and blessed and chosen and redeemed so that they could be a blessing to all nations. So all nations were in focus even as God focused in on this one man. Abraham and his descendants are to be a channel of redemptive blessings. Paul identifies in Galatians Jesus as who? The seed of Abraham. And who are you in Christ? You are those who inherit the promises to Abraham. In other words, you and I become a kingdom of priests to the nations. We in Christ, united to Christ, are to bless the nations, the whole world So it's great to think about how I've been chosen by grace, I've been promised redemption, I've been given the salvation of Jesus Christ, as very righteousness as my own, and I can just go enjoy it all by myself, but no. It is not just for me, it is for all the world, and I am to be a channel of that blessing to all those around me. Jesus said that repentance and forgiveness will be preached in his name. That's what he told them that evening on the road to Emmaus. The Old Testament prophets called people to repentance and promise forgiveness, and they announced the new covenant that would transform the heart. Jesus saw the fulfillment of the prophets in his atoning work. So Jesus' final words in Luke Pertain to the Abrahamic covenant that we've been talking about here. Genesis 15, that says, In your seed all nations shall be blessed. Here's what he said at the end of Luke, which I didn't read earlier, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations. beginning from Jerusalem. You are my witnesses of these things, and behold, I am sending the promise of my father upon you. But stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high So Jesus would send out his disciples to bear witness to what he had accomplished. And the book of Acts would record the coming of the Holy Spirit to equip Jesus' disciples. And the nations be blessed by the seed of Abraham. We could continue making connections over and over between Jesus and the Old Testament. But let me just reiterate the basic thesis that I'm trying to propound to you today: that Jesus believed that the Old Testament was a book about himself. The anointed one, the one who would suffer, the one who would be vindicated, the one from whom the world would be blessed. And it was all a book about him. He taught this to his church to read and preach the Old Testament as a Christian book. To read it, to understand it, as all about himself. That's the thesis. That's the thesis. So, in answer to that, first, the second question really: what is the theme of the Old Testament? What is it? It's Jesus, prophet, priest, and king. The vindicated suffering one who sends out his spirit and his people to be a blessing to all nations. It's all about him. Every part of it, the Psalms, the prophets, everything is about him. But back to the first question I asked you. Because this is also the story of your life, in a sense. The story of your life. Because right smack In the middle of Jesus teaching this hermeneutics lesson, what happens? What happens? I hope you didn't miss it, but if you did, I'm going to tell it to you anyway. What happens is a meal. A meal. And this is no accident. It's not insignificant Go back to the garden that we read earlier. God created man, had daily fellowship with man, and gave him food in abundance, including the sacramental food of the tree of life. Then man sinned in the garden by eating a meal with the devil, Satan And later on we read in the Old Testament that God's covenant from Melchizedek, who came out mysteriously to Abraham and brought out bread and wine All the way from there to Passover, where God gave a meal of redemption, of fellowship. All this is throughout the whole of the Old Testament. So before he went to suffering and death Our Savior Jesus Christ transformed that meal, that second meal, the Passover meal, into the Lord's Supper. Which is communion with him in his body and blood, which is his salvation, his saving, incarnate death And his triumph over death on the third day, his vindication as well. Remember The story of the Old Testament Passover in particular is about him, isn't it? That's what he said in Luke 24. He is the new Moses that delivers his people from bondage. Who defeats the enemy and leads them to Canaan, the promised land? He is the Lamb whose blood was shed to avert death. And so it is appropriate to come to this table today and to eat this bread and drink this cup. And so by faith to receive Christ Himself, His body, His blood, His saving death for us, His life, His victory for us as well In the eating and drinking of this meal. You see, he put that meal right there where he was saying, I fulfill everything, so that when you eat this meal It shows you again and again and again that He fulfills everything, everything for you Let me finish a little bit of this reading again, just to remind you what was said earlier. Luke 24, verse 28 through 35. So they drew near the village to where they were going. He acted as if he were going farther, but They urged him strongly, saying, Stay with us, for it is toward evening, and the day is now far spent. So he went in to stay with them. When he was at table with them, he took the bread and blessed and broke it and gave it to them. And what happened? Their eyes were opened and they recognized him Then later on, when he's when they're reporting this to their friends, then they told what had happened on the road and how he was known to them. In the breaking of the bread. The breaking of the bread is the shorthand for the Lord's Supper as it's developed in New Testament understanding. So I want to say to you, this meal, answering that question about how you would tell your life story, this meal is a hermeneutic of the whole Old Testament. And also of your life story. And let me tell you how that works. Your nourishment is in him. Your union with him is strengthened and deepened. Your victory is secured in him, and you are in him as you receive him by faith. And this meal is The sacramental reception of Christ by faith. Let me illustrate it this way I'm not very good at football illustrations, so I made sure I got this one right. But imagine that you are on a team, a football team. And your running game is not very good. You've had very few first downs. And your passing game is poor. Many passes have been incomplete. Your defense is getting crushed. Your offense is nearly always pushed back. It's the fourth quarter. The score is your team 0 and the opposing team 42. But then A fantastic champion player joins your team. He gets possession of the ball and runs it to goal over and over again. He is battered and bruised by the other team, but he keeps gaining ground. And sometimes, just before he crosses the goal line, he passes the ball laterally to you. And you actually score. Over and over he scores until the clock runs out, and your team score is 140-42. What do you say in the cheers at that final moment? Do you say, he won? Yes, you do. But you also say, we won. We won. The story of your life, my dear friends, may be insignificant in the eyes of the world. It may not have been played especially well. You may not make the headlines. Maybe no one will ever write a biography of you. But if your life is bound up with the life of Christ, you win! You win. It's the story of your life. You win in him, with him. All your sufferings are sanctified and healed by his suffering. And you triumph in him. All the ways that you have been wronged unjustly are bound up and made right in his vindication, crushing his and your enemies as your king. And your spirit-driven works are made effectual to bring God's kingdom to all the world. The world is blessed through you as you win in Christ. And he is still, still communicating himself to us By faith, by the Holy Spirit, but in a meal, in a meal which He has ordained for us. It's called the breaking of the bread, which is a shorthand for the whole Lord's Supper, according to the Apostle Paul. According to the book of Acts, they broke bread together. That was the Lord's supper, my friends. The meal called breaking of bread signifies and seals and remembers and nourishes you in your union with your champion. The whole testament is about him. And united to him, you share his victory. Come, eat, share in the story of Jesus, who is prophet, priest, and king. And victor and champion. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, how we thank you that our victory is wrapped up In Jesus. It's secure in Jesus The whole Old Testament pointed to him, Lord, as the Messiah, the prophet, the priest, the king. And now he gives us himself. In the breaking of this bread and the drinking of this cup for our salvation. We ask your blessing in Jesus' name. Amen.