If you open up your copy of God's Word now to Joshua, we'll continue our study there this evening in chapter 1. I think that's on page 210 of your Pew Bibles. Begin reading there at verse ten Let's give attention to the very word of God, Joshua chapter one, beginning at verse ten. And Joshua commanded the officers of the people: Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people: Prepare your provisions. For within three days you are to pass over this Jordan to go in to take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving you to possess. And to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. Joshua said, Remember the word that Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, saying, The Lord your God is providing you a place of rest. And we'll give you this land. Your wives, your little ones, and your livestock shall remain in the land that Moses gave you beyond the Jordan. But All the men of valor among you shall pass over armed before your brothers, and shall help them, until the Lord gives rest to your brothers as he has to you. And they also take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving them. Then you shall return to the land of your possession, and shall possess it, the land that Moses gave the servant of the Lord uh that Moses gave the servant of the Lord gave you beyond the Jordan toward the sunrise. And they answered Joshua, All that you have commanded us we will do. And wherever you send us, we will go Just as we have obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you. Only may the Lord your God be with you, as he was with Moses. Whoever rebels against your commandment and disobeys your words, whatever you command him shall be put to death. Only be strong and courageous. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, now as we have read your word, we ask that you would add your blessing to it. That by your Holy Spirit you would grant us ears to hear, eyes to see. That you'd convict us of the truth of your word and that you would certainly apply it to our hearts. Help your servant, weak and frail as I am. To speak your words of truth and only your words of truth tonight. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you willing to do to take possession of the kingdom of God? In part that seems to be the question asked by our text tonight. What are you willing to do to take possession? Think of what Jesus was telling his disciples in that passage that we read earlier this evening from Matthew's gospel. He told them that he was going to have to suffer. He told them that he would have to die. He told them that he would have to be raised on the third day. And this was not understood by his disciples. Indeed, as as he was telling them these things, Peter exclaims, This shall never happen to you. And Jesus said, Get behind me. You're not setting your mind on the things of God. In order for the disciples to actually follow Jesus, in order for the disciples to deny themselves and take up their crosses and follow Jesus as that which he told them. They would have to be setting their mind on the things of God. They would have to be willing to do whatever Jesus would call them to do To take possession of the land. Tonight as we go back to Joshua We've seen that Moses has died. That's the first part of chapter 1. That's what we have read last week. That's what we studied last week, that Moses had died. And we know that the first attempt to enter into the promised land was a failed attempt. We know that the people refused to go in, even at Moses' call, even at The call of Caleb and Joshua that the land was good and the Lord had given it into their hands, the congregation sought to stone them instead, and so the Lord sends them back out into the wilderness for forty years And so we come to Joshua. Moses is in fact dead. The author of Joshua reminds that twice in the first two verses of This particular book, Moses has died and now the leadership has changed. God is still about his promise Of bringing his people into that land that he promised in covenant to give to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob And now Joshua's heard from God himself. Arise, go over the Jordan, you and this people, into the land that I'm giving to them, just as I promised Moses. No man shall be able to stand before you. I will not leave you nor forsake you. Be strong and courageous. Do according to all the law, the book of the law shall not depart from your mouth. Our text this evening is rather straightforward. Now Joshua takes what he's been given, the Word of God, and now he takes it out to the people. He commands the officers of the people, calling them to go throughout the camp and tell the people, tell the men of valor, meaning the warriors, to prepare. Go throughout. Prepare your provisions. Get ready to cross over the Jordan and take possession. This is said apparently to all of the tribes through their officers. And then Joshua speaks very particularly to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. Those who have been already given their land on the east side of the Jordan. Joshua's calling them to prepare. He's calling them to pass over. But as he speaks very particularly to those who have already been given rest, he tells them he reminds them to go with your brothers and see that they also enter into their rest. And you hear the response. All that you commanded us, we will do. Wherever you send us, we will go. Be strong and courageous. We might sum up the teaching here in this last half of the first chapter of Joshua this way. Taking possession of the kingdom of God requires provisions. Unity and obedience. Taking possession of the kingdom of God requires provisions Unity and obedience. We'll see that tonight in those three points, basically. Taking possession requires provisions. Taking possessions requires unity. And finally, taking possessions requires obedience. As we go through this text this evening, I ask you to think about that question. What am I willing to do to take possession of the kingdom of glory? Well, let's go to our first head then, our first doctrine, taking possession requires provisions. And that's exactly what Joshua commands the officers of the people To proclaim, prepare your provisions. The officers of the people, it's an interesting word, it's an interesting title. He commands them Those officers, those elders, those judges, that's different titles given. And I think they all really mean the same thing. They were elders. They were mature men who were appointed, who were called to judge in righteousness as heads of a particular portion of the people of God. And so he calls those officers, those elders, those judges together. And he calls them to go out amongst all of the people, six hundred thousand men. All the warriors to proclaim that which Joshua has been told. Pass through the midst of the camp And command the people, prepare your provisions proclaiming the word to the warriors, the fighting men. Speaking face to face, presumably with those who would join the battle, officers sent throughout the camp taking the word given to Joshua. and now spreading it, disseminating it throughout all Israel. Well, what was that word? The word was very simple, prepare your provisions. Certainly the ultimate command was, you're going to go over the Jordan and fight for the land. And three days from now. But right now, this day, the first call, the first command, the first order, the first step, the first order of business, prepare your food. The call to make provisions, to gather that which would sustain them physically during the battle. These warriors of God. These agents of God, being sent to purge the land of unrighteous occupants, were called to gather provisions, prepare provisions, that they would be upheld and sustained in the battle. Remember what Joshua is told. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. Remember the word of God is It's indeed food. And now there's this parallel, there's this similarity in in calling the warriors to prepare your food. Joshua is being sustained by the Word of God, and as he commands now, is that as he sustained through the Word of God, he's asking the warriors to prepare their provisions. Those things that will sustain them to the battle, to ensure that they'll be strong and courageous. This book was likely given first to the Israelites after they had actually entered into the promised land to reflect upon what had happened, what had transpired. The initial battles have been fought and won, yet there were still more battles to come. We just need to turn to Joshua excuse me, Judges and see all the battles that that would come. Or to to Samuel. And we hear of the battles that David engaged in. uh to continue to to capture the land, so to speak, and and enter into peace, which really didn't occur until Solomon's day So those who received this book would have read and heard how their forefathers prepared For battle. And as they, those who first received it, would be entering into additional battles, they would know, oh, this is the way that God has called us to prepare. Prepare to fight righteous battles that still needed to be waged, to be strengthened and to be sustained in those battles. What are your provisions today? Do you even need provisions? Now I'm not speaking of physical food. We know we need physical food for our bodies. But I'm speaking now with spiritual provisions. What spiritual provisions are you preparing for the battles ahead of you, even this week? Let's be clear, there are spiritual battles ahead. Just as there were physical battles ahead for the Israelites, even as they received this book of Joshua, there were physical battles ahead. for them as they'd entered the promised land. It wasn't done, it wasn't over yet. And even as you have professed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, even this evening, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ for your salvation There are battles ahead. Even as you have arrived, crossed the Jordan of faith in Christ Jesus, been baptized into Christ Jesus, there are spiritual battles that lie ahead. The Apostle Paul writes of them in Ephesians in chapter six. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against authorities, against cosmic powers. over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. And then he goes on to tell you about your your armor that you need to put on. Why would he do that unless he knew that there were spiritual battles ahead? He knew that there were enemies. And he knew that we needed to continue to fight Paul knew that there were battles. He knew that there were flaming darts that were headed toward him and all those in Christ. Before you came to faith in Christ, you were living the easy life. Not concerned about your own sin. Not concerned about the sin of others around you. Not even concerned about the darts and arrows of Satan. But now, as you're in Christ, you're at war. Think of this, even as you try to set this day aside as holy, spiritual forces of the realm of darkness are seeking to pull you away. Away from this day. The call of physical rest, the call of family time, the call of recreation, all good things. But they're used by the cosmic powers to draw you away from keeping the day holy. Physical rest, family time, recreation are good things, but filling the Lord's Day with these activities appears to be in conflict with keeping the day holy unto the Lord. From using the whole day as a day to worship and glory in God and praise and rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. So there's a battle going on. Here in this place and will be throughout the rest of your life until Jesus returns, how do you prepare for it? What provision do you store up? How are you readying yourself for the next attack? This text gives you a suggestion. Remember, hold tight, meditate upon the promises of God in Christ. Joshua was given promises. No man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. I will not leave you nor forsake you. What about you? Jesus said, whatever you ask in my name, this I will do. It's a promise of Jesus Christ. Jesus said to his disciples, and to you, even tonight, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. It's a promise of Jesus Christ. For the Father Himself loves you. That's a truth and a promise, isn't it? In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. Romans chapter 8. And then as you think about the Sabbath and the attacks, specifically the attacks that you're that you're receiving, the darts and arrows you're receiving, even today on the Sabbath. Think of Isaiah 58. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your own pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath a delight. The holy day of the Lord honorable, if you honor it, not going your own ways, or seeking your own pleasure, or talking idly, then you shall take delight in the Lord. And I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. Promise of God. Promise of the Lord Jesus Christ. These are your provisions. Keep them. Keep them ready at hand. They're not the only ones, but they're a few. Keep them ready to pull out. Even when the enemy is not attacking, Jesus said, the one who endures to the end shall be saved. So you need these provisions. You need to store them up. They'll sustain you. For they're the words of Christ, His covenant promises. Even when you're in the foxhole awaiting the next round of fiery darts. Like physical food, take them out. Ingest them, meditate upon them, ponder them, cling to them, be encouraged and strengthened for the battle that's coming. They will sustain you. For these promises are not only from Christ, they're yes and amen in Christ. Yes, taking possession requires provisions. That brings us to our next head. Taking possession requires unity Well we know the general call went out to the entire camp. Pass through the midst of the camp and command the people, prepare your provisions. For within three days you're to pass over this Jordan, go in and take possession of the land that the Lord your God is giving to you to possess. All the warriors. All the warriors were told. We're headed out, we're going over the Jordan, get ready. The officers calling them to prepare those provisions. Interestingly now, Joshua narrows his discussion, narrows the audience that he speaks to with the verse 12. First, it was the officers of all Israel, now to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. Just them. Just these who had already been given their land on the east side of the Jordan. He speaks very specifically to them. Remember, they've asked for, they've been given their land on the east side of the Jordan River. They've placed their families there, along with their children, their livestock. At this point in the history of redemption, in the history of the Israelites entering the promised land, these two and a half tribes have already received their land in a very significant way, they've received their rest. They've entered into their resting place. They've been given that which God had planned for them to have after forty years of wandering in the wilderness. But these warriors, these men of the two and a half tribes, they're not done yet. No, they had agreed. If Moses would have given them this land, which he did. Which God did. They committed to fighting alongside the nine and a half other tribes as they would enter into the promised land on the west side of the Jordan. Joshua calls these to remember their agreement. Your wives, your little ones, your livestock shall remain in the land. Indication of rest has already been achieved. But all the men of valor among you shall pass over, armed before your brothers, and shall help them. That was what they had agreed to. This must be really significant because the author here, the inspired author author, uses up a lot of words here in the first chapter. to describe what the two and a half tribes are to do. They had committed to going. In Numbers chapter 32, we read their very words. We will build sheepfolds here for our livestock and cities for our little ones, but We will take up arms, ready to go before the people of Israel, until we have brought them into their place. Will not return to our homes until each of the people of Israel has gained his inheritance or his rest. So now Joshua was reminding them of their commitment to pursue rest for their brothers on the west side of the Jordan. This tells us that they thought of themselves as one people. Even though the tribes were divided, twelve tribes, they were a singular people. They were the people of God. They were the nation of Israel. And the covenant, I will establish my covenant between you and and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. That word offspring is singular. As the Lord speaks to Moses out of the burning bush, he says, I have surely seen the afflictions of my people. Not my twelve tribes, my people. Singular And so even though these two and a half tribes have secured their rest on the east side of the Jordan, they truly couldn't rest until their brothers had entered into that same rest on the west side of the Jordan. So now Joshua calls them to that work of seeking rest for their brothers. Again, as this book is received by the first recipients, They're encouraged to act as a singular, a unified assembly of God. They had entered the promised land now. And they would have seen the unity of the twelve tribes, even though we we see disunity throughout the Old Testament. They would have seen, even through this book of Joshua, the unity. They would have known by this passage that they were all one in God, a singular nation, and that the nine and a half tribes needed the two and a half others. In order to accomplish the will of God and to enter into their rest. Doesn't that describe the church? That we need each other? Let me ask you this. Do you ever consider that your brothers and sisters may not be in a restful estate Even when you are. Do you consider that we as the body of Christ may have differing states of restfulness in Christ You consider that as as Christians undergo trials and tribulations, and each of us are different, and battles, warring against the powers, the schemes of the devil, the spiritual forces of wickedness. That there exist differing conditions of rest. Do you think of that? I think it's a fair statement to say that's a true statement. And while the Lord may be pleased to give you a season of quiet, peace, and relative rest that other brothers and sisters are not experiencing that same condition We know that we're to mourn with those who mourn and rejoice with those who rejoice, but how do you come alongside someone in unity Who may be in a season of relative unrest when compared to your season of rest. How do you help? Like the two and a half tribes who who settled their wives and children their livestock on the east side of the Jordan and strapped on their swords and went across the Jordan to be with their nine and a half tribe brothers. Leading the way. What do you do? What can you do? Well, first we must obviously know of the unrest of our brothers and sisters. How? Certainly one way is by coming to worship and and engaging with each other in fellowship after the service or during a fellowship meal. It can also be told during our times of corporate prayer. When we meet, when we share with one another, we usually share requests for others. How often do we share requests concerning our spiritual rest? In order to do that, we have to trust one another with that very personal and intimate experience that we're having. Of unrest. Oh, that we as a particular body of Christ would listen and hear the struggles of unrest that our brothers and sisters are experiencing. Well what then? If we do know, how do we help today? We're not strapping on our swords. We're not entering into physical battle. For our enemies are spiritual. How do we help? Well, obviously we must pray for one another. But we're also called to encourage one another, aren't we? How do we how often do you pick up a Bible verse? And bring it to those of our number who are experiencing undrest. Hey, this might this might help. I saw this in the Word of God this week. This might help you as you're experiencing that turmoil, that tribulation, that unrest. I just wanted to share that with you. Or how often do we just go and sit? Sit with another member who is in that turmoil, is in that tribulation, just to be quiet. Just to be present. Just to say I'm here. I'm with you. As you are in battle. I'm next to you. Taking possession requires unity of the entire body. Brings us to our third point. Taking possession requires obedience. Look at verse sixteen. And they answered Joshua. Now the question is who are they? Could be the officers. Officers of all Israel. Or it could be the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. Now, since the last one's spoken of By to from Joshua were the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, it would seem and appear that the they who respond Are the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. They're the ones who are given lots of instruction. They were the ones who say, remember what you promised to do. And so they respond, they answer. In verse 16, I say, all that you have commanded us We will do. Verse 17, just as we obeyed Moses in all things, so we will obey you. The obedient response of these two and a half tribes that have been called to accompany their brothers across the Jordan to ensure that they enter the rest given to them by the God of creation. Conditioned only this way in verse 17, only, may the Lord your God be with you. That's it. We're going to do everything you tell us to do. As long as God's with you. And He's promised to be so. Compare that to their fathers. Forty years ago, when they received the report of the spies who went into the land, there was no obedient response There was no submission by the entire assembly of the Israelites, the people. At that point, they were so unsubmissive, so disobedient, that as Joshua spoke to them of the good land, they were ready to stone him and Caleb. They hated the word so much, the call to enter the land that they wanted to silence them in death. But now there's a new generation. More than that, there are new hearts, seemingly receiving the very word of God through Joshua. We will obey you. Remember what Joshua was told to do by the living God. Heed the Word of God. Meditate upon the Word of God. Do not turn to the right nor the left from the Word of God. Let it be on your mind continually, the word of God. Did these men see that in Joshua? Now I can't speak for them. But we have a sense that, yeah, they saw that in Joshua. They saw that he was moved and controlled and hemmed in by the word of God. That he was a man of God, that he was following the word of the living God, a leader who sought to do the very will of God. Like Jesus. Isn't that what it makes it easy? To say to Jesus, I will obey you, that he is a man of God, that he is a follower of the will of his Father. Indeed that he's God himself. But then did you notice Did you notice what they added to their words, we will do? Verse 16, and wherever you send us, we will go. Now remember, they're entering into the promised land. It's a big area. And they know Joshua is going to be sending some here and some there and some here and some there. And so they're saying to Joshua, we're going to obey you and we're going to go wherever you send us. The thing is that they hadn't entered into the land yet. They hadn't crossed over the Jordan yet. They hadn't experienced their first battle yet. They didn't know how big their opponents would be yet. The spies had not been sent out and returned yet. They didn't know what kind of weapons their opponents would have. They were unaware of how fortified the cities were that they were told and would be called to go to by Joshua. They didn't know. And yet these men were professing that they would go wherever Joshua sent them. That's quite an amazing statement of submission. It would seem clearly that the Lord was working on their hearts. They had heard the word of God, they heard the call to follow, and they said, Here I am, I'm ready to go. Just like Isaiah. When the question is asked in the temple, who will go for us Isaiah raises his hand. He didn't know what he was supposed to say. He didn't know where he was supposed to go. And yet he said, Here am I, send me. The submissive and willing servant, preceded by these two and a half tribes, Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. We'll go wherever you send us. It's obedient to submissive statement. culminates in this encouragement to Joshua. Remember, Joshua was reminded by God, no man shall be able to stand before you all the days of your life. I'll be with you. And possibly even at that point in time in Joshua's heart, he's milling about how How is it that no man shall be able to stand before me? How is it that God you'll be with me? And here the Lord uses the words of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh to say, we're in submission to you We're going to obey you. We're going to go wherever you want us to go. All tied together as these men reminded Joshua of God's words, only be strong and courageous. Jesus Christ issued the same call, didn't he? If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Isn't that what Joshua was asking these two and a half tribes? Deny yourselves. Take up your cross and follow me. Where are you willing to go? Isn't that, in a sense, the question that this passage is asking us tonight? The Rubites, Gadites, the half tribe of Manasseh said they were willing to go wherever Joshua would send them. In obedience to the word of God given to them through Joshua in submission to that word. They committed themselves to going wherever he would send them. Now they weren't trusting in Joshua. They were trusting in the God of creation who had called Joshua To hide his word in his heart and to lead this people into the land that he had promised by covenant to give them into the land that they would dwell with the living God. If tonight you're believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ, he's He's done the same thing for you. Jesus Christ is calling you, he's leading you into glory The living God, through Jesus Christ, His Son, has promised to bring you into glory, to dwell with Him through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ for eternity, and to be led there by Jesus. And so until you get there, the question is: where are you willing to go? What are you willing to do for Jesus? Are you willing to go and talk to strangers about their eternal estate? Are you willing to talk with those you've never met before about salvation in the Lord Jesus Christ? That's what Jesus did Are you willing to share with those who may reject it and reject you your testimony as to what God has done in your heart? In a sense, that was what Jesus was doing throughout his entire ministry. Are you willing? If you're here tonight and you're listening on the record or listening on the recording and you're saying to yourself, I'm not sure. You have to ask yourself the question, why? Why are you not willing? What obstacle have you set before yourself? These Reubenites, Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh were willing to give up their lives as they submitted themselves to go wherever Joshua would have them to go into harm's way. I suppose the question becomes, what are you willing to give up in order to say, I will go wherever you send me? Isn't that exactly what the Son of God did? Isn't that what Jesus did? Did he not give up everything to go where the Father had called him to go? To the cross, to the tomb? He gave up everything. He gave up his life. He shed his blood. He allowed his body to be broken. He took your sins upon himself, the sinless one, for the guilty. He took God's holy wrath Upon himself, he gave up his peace His relationship with his father for a time. He gave up everything to go where the father called him to go. This is the attitude which we are called to have, the attitude which Christ had and has. And this is the attitude which every single Christian needs to cultivate Because we're not born with it. On the day of conversion, we we are not ultimately we are not immediately made into the attitude of Christ. And so there needs to be a cultivation. There needs to be much prayer. This attitude of being able to say to Jesus, I'm going to go wherever you call me to go, it's an attitude for which you must pray. God, give me a willing heart to go wherever Jesus would call me to go in order that we can take possession of the kingdom of God. Not everyone was called to the foreign mission field. I recognize that, but it's possible that the Lord would call you to speak to a neighbor down the street. It's possible that Jesus would call you to come and join our Wednesday night prayer meetings and go out into the streets and pray for our neighbors. It's possible. Will you go Ask the Lord to remove any and all obstacles that you may have placed in your way of committing yourself to go wherever Jesus would call you to go to follow Him. All the way to glory. Yes, taking possession requires obedient, trusting, and submissive hearts. Indeed. Taking possession of the kingdom of God requires provisions in unity and obedience. Peter didn't understand these words of Jesus. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me until the Holy Spirit was sent. And then, then Peter was willing to die to self and truly follow Jesus wherever he would call him to go. So that the church could take possession of the kingdom of God May we all be praying for the Spirit to move powerfully that way in our hearts. So that we might have the attitude of Christ about us when He calls us to go. Amen. Our Father in heaven, we praise you, we thank you for this passage. We thank you, Lord God, for the way you worked in the hearts of the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half-tribe of Manasseh. That they would utter these words, these spirit-led words. And so we ask, Lord God, tonight, help us. We're weak and frail, we're fearful. Forgive us, Lord. Forgive us Crush our fear of men. Increase our right fear of you. And help us, Lord, to meditate upon the promises of Jesus Christ. Those provisions that we need for the battles are coming, and we need to be filled with Christ. And help us to remember that we need one another. We need to be in unity as the body of Christ. And Father, we pray, give us those obedient, submissive hearts to Christ, to receive his call when it comes. When he tells us to go, that we be ready to say, here I am, send me. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.