Brothers and sisters, our Old Testament reading tonight is from the Psalms. Psalm 132, I believe that's on page 614 of your pew Bibles. It's one of the songs of the sense. Let's give attention now to the reading of God's Word, Psalm 132. A song of ascents. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor, all the hardships he endured. How he swore to the Lord and vowed to the mighty one of Jacob, I will not enter my house or get into my bed, I will not give sleep to my eyes, or slumber to my eyelids, until I find a place for the Lord. A dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. Behold, we heard of it in Iphphoth. We found it in the fields of Jar Let us go to his dwelling place. Let us worship at his footstool. Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might Let your priests be clothed with righteousness, and let your saints shout for joy for the sake of your servant David. Do not turn away the face of your anointed one The Lord swore to David a sure oath, from which he will not turn back. One of your sons of your body I will set on your throne. If your sons keep my covenant and my testimonies that I teach them, their sons also forever shall sit on your throne. For the Lord has chosen Zion. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. I will abundantly bless her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread, her priests. I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy. There I will make a horn to sprout for David. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine. God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, I come before you tonight and ask for your blessing to be added to the reading of your word. We pray that you'd be with your servant tonight. As I try to open your word, Father, we pray that the Spirit would lead and guide tonight. That as we open your word tonight, we would hear you speaking so very clearly to each of us. Help us, Lord God. Have your way with our hearts. Continue to mold and shape them according to your will. We ask this in Jesus' name. If you were to turn in your scriptures tonight to Genesis, at the end of chapter three, You would see what had happened as a result of Adam's sin You know the context. Adam was told that he could eat from any tree of the garden with one exception, and the day that he ate of that tree, that one exception, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, that he would surely die. So at the end of chapter three, what we see is a glimpse of the death that the Lord God was speaking of. As Adam was removed from the garden. He had defiled the garden, that meeting place, that dwelling place of God with man. had been defiled by Adam's sin. And so now as chapter 3 comes to a conclusion, we read, he, meaning God, drove out the man. No longer did man dwell with God because of man's sin. And in a sense, that's where all of Scripture begins after the creation, after the account of the creation of Adam and Eve. We see the sin, and then we see the fall from grace. We see then the defilement of the land, and then the separation of God and man. And the rest of Scripture is in a way the reunification, that finding of a new dwelling place for God and men together. This Psalm Tonight, one of the songs of ascent, speaks very clearly to that. The Song of Ascents, which we started our study in August 2021, and at that point in time we learned that there were 15 of these songs. King James calls them songs of degrees. From Psalm 120 to Psalm 134, they are grouped together. Four of them were written by David, one by Solomon, and the other ten are not identified as far as the authors are concerned. And no one knows exactly why each of these Psalms are grouped together in this way or entitled this way But they were certainly grouped together for a reason, something that they were used as people went to Jerusalem three times a year for the festivals. Some believe that they were used as people would go up the 15 steps to the temple Some also have thought that they were used by those in exile as they were looking forward to returning to that worship with the living God. Can't be sure as to how they were used, but we can be sure that they were grouped together. And we can also be sure that they focus on Zion and Jerusalem and the worship of God. That's the central theme of These 15 Psalms. And Psalm 132 is one of the most in which we see that emphasis. Tonight I want us to see that the Lord has chosen and will prepare a place to dwell eternally with his people. The Lord has chosen and will prepare a place to dwell eternally with his people. with his people. We'll see that in three points tonight. First finding a place, secondly desiring a place, and then finally establishing a place. Well first then, finding a place. There's a sense in which history is recounted in these first Few verses in Psalm 132. Remember, O Lord, in David's favor all the hardships he endured. begins with this call to the Lord to remember. Remember, these are songs that were to be sung. And the the singers were now asking the Lord to remember. Remember, O Lord. For David. First all the hardships that he endured. It's hard to know exactly what was in the minds of the singers, certainly what was in the minds of the psalmist. as he wrote about David's hardships that he endured. We know that it was difficult for David. We know that King Saul pursued him and tried to kill him. And David had to flee from him. He suffered much at the hands of unrighteous Saul. And certainly as a warrior, David would have suffered much in battle. But it's not likely what the psalmist was referring to as he refers to all the hardships he endured. If we were to turn to 1 Chronicles in chapter 22, as David is explaining to his son Solomon, who would ultimately build the temple, He said, This, with great pains I have provided for the house of the Lord. And he goes on to explain. 100,000 talents of gold, a million talents of silver, bronze and iron beyond weighing. For there is so much of it. Timber and stone, too, I have provided. So David states clearly, with great pains I have provided for the house of the Lord. That's possibly. It makes sense as to what the psalmist is referring to as he writes how David suffered, as he amassed. These materials to be used in the building of God's dwelling place, the temple. But the Lord was also called upon to remember how David swore And vowed to the mighty one of Jacob, I will not enter my house or get into my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids until I find a place for the Lord. David had shared with Nathan the prophet his desire to build a house for the Lord. We see that in 2 Samuel chapter 7. David, as he spoke with Nathan, was referring to his own dwelling place. I dwell in the house of Cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent. Remember, at that point in time, the tabernacle still existed. A tent, and that's where the ark of the Lord resided, and David was not complaining, but realizing that he was living in luxury, so to speak, while that dwelling place of God was in a tent. And Nathan said to the king, Go do all that is in your heart. So David clearly intended to build the temple. Ultimately, he was told that he would not be the one to do that by the Lord himself. And it's confirmed again in 1 Chronicles 22, David said to Solomon, My son, I had it in my heart. to build a house to the name of the Lord my God. And Solomon himself, as the temple was finished and being dedicated. Refers to this. Now it was in the heart of David, my father, to build a house for the name of the Lord the God of Israel. Was David's desire. And so this vow gets recorded here in Psalm 132. He swore to the Lord, I will not enter my house yet into my bed, I will not give a sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids. Until I find a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob. That was David's desire. It was his heart to find a place for the Lord to dwell with his people. That should cause us to think about Jesus. Ever since Adam's fall in the garden, there had not been a fixed dwelling place for God and men together. As we referenced earlier, since the fall there had been that great separation. The tabernacle which was to be a symbol of God's dwelling with his people, was temporary. It was transitory. It was picked up and and moved from place to place. They knew that it wouldn't be forever. So this psalm begins with the recounting or recalling of this history and David's desire to build that fixed place of God's dwelling with men. So as we consider David's desire to find a dwelling place for the God of creation, once again our thoughts should turn to Jesus. Does not this desire of David, that historical account, and his suffering bringing materials together for the dwelling place of God, doesn't that point to Jesus? Wasn't it Jesus' desire to find or establish that dwelling place again? Wasn't that what he was called to do Through his own suffering? Might we not ascribe similar words to Jesus? I will not enter my house or get into my bed. I will not give sleep to my eyes or slumber to my eyelids until I find a place for the Lord. We referred to that this morning. There's no resting place for Jesus As a scribe comes to Jesus as Matthew records it, teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. Jesus said to him, foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus wasn't saying this because he was poor. Do you see the connection? He had nowhere to lay his head because he was busy about the Lord's work. He was busy finding a place for the Lord to dwell with his people and the hardships he endured. Yes, David, David endured hardships. But what about Jesus? A shorter catechism 27 asks this question: wherein did Christ's humiliation consist? And the answer is it consisted in his being born. And that in a low condition, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God, the cursed death of the cross, and being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time, Jesus endured hardships and finding that dwelling place for the Lord with his people To find a dwelling place for the mighty one of Jacob was in essence to prepare a people to be able to dwell with the mighty one of Jacob. Do you see what good would the dwelling place be if there were no people to dwell with God? And so Jesus was about the work of preparing a people. to inhabit the dwelling place. The psalm is ultimately about the work of Jesus, isn't it? David did desire to build a house for the Lord, but one of his sons, indeed Jesus, would be the one to truly find and make that dwelling place. First in his blood, in reconciling God and his children, in cleansing the children that they would be righteous. before him that they could dwell with God, making each one of them blameless such that he could then leave. Let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God. Believe in me. In my father's house are many rooms. If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? We see the work of Jesus here, don't we? Indeed, in the next head, we see the result of Jesus' work. That brings us to that head, desiring a place. Look at verse 6. Behold, we here heard of it in Ephraim. We found it in the fields of Ja'ar. Let us go to his dwelling place. Let us worship at his footstool. This records a change of heart. As the people were singing this, as this was now on the hearts of the Israelites as they were possibly in exile, possibly going to Jerusalem, possibly going up to the temple. They were singing to one another. They were singing to God, let us go to his dwelling place. Let us worship at his footstool. What a change from what we read in Genesis in the garden. When the woman saw that the tree was good for food, that it was a delight to the eye, and the tree was desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate. Where was her desire to worship the living God? We can't find it in those verses. We can't find it in that statement that she makes What about the descriptions of the descendants of Adam? Lamach said to his wives, Ada and Zillah, hear my voice, you wives of Lamech, listen to what I say. I've killed a man for wounding me a young man for striking me. Where's the worship of God in Lamak's voice? What about God as he looks down upon the earth? In Genesis chapter six, he saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Worship of God was not on their hearts and minds. In the Tower of Babel, as the people say to one another, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top and the heavens, let us make a name for ourselves. They had no care for God's name. They had no care for the worship of God. But now, now do you see the change? Let us go to his dwelling place Let us worship at his footstool. Here in these words, in these inspired words, man is not at the center of life. Man is not all in all. Each of those we just went over, that was the case, wasn't it? No, God the Lord is, and the people have concluded that He alone is to be worshipped. He alone is the center. At these desire to go together. They're singing. They're singing the psalm. They're singing this song. Their single purpose is to worship this one, this God, exactly the people who Jesus was looking for as he speaks with the woman at the well. The hour is coming, and it's now here when true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth, for the Father is seeking such people to worship him. Do you see the change? Did you see the humbleness of heart? Let us go to his dwelling place, let us worship at his footstool. A recognition of just how small The people of God are in comparison to the God of creation, worship at his at his footstool. It's a recognition that we are not his equal. We are so far below that the only place we could gather to worship this one would be at the place where he lays his feet. The desire to worship is so strong that these are willing to go even to subject themselves to this lowest of positions, the footstool, to worship. James recognized that that was a low position. My brothers show no partiality as you hold the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ. For if a man wearing gold ring and fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing comes also in, and if you pay attention to the one in fine clothing While you say to the poor man, you stand over there or sit down at my feet The people knew, James knew, worshiping at the footstool was a low position, but they were so desirous of worshiping the triune God, of going before Him, that they were willing to humble their hearts. A great change of heart From the first sin in the garden to a humble desire to worship. Do you see the work of Christ? And then the Psalm continues, there's a calling upon the Lord. These were so desirous of worship that they now call upon the Lord Jehovah. Arise, O Lord! Go to your resting place, you and the ark of your might, calling upon the Lord to go. Knowing that they were in such communion that they could call upon the Lord this way. Go. Go to your dwelling place. Equating the dwelling place of the Lord with a place of rest. Arise, O Lord, and go to your resting place. People who sang this psalm knew that worship was also a place of rest. The dwelling with the living God was a place of rest for them. And the ark representing the presence of God Himself, knowing that God is a spirit and would not be physically seen, so that the ark would be physically seen and represent to the people his very presence Rise, O Lord, go to your resting place, you and the ark, so we know that you're there. We know your presence is with us. And did you notice they call upon the Lord for righteousness and joy? Let your priests be clothed with righteousness. Let your saints shout for joy. There must be righteousness before the Lord, and if anyone would actually worship him, if anyone would come into his presence, there must be righteousness. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord, Psalm 24, and who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. Only those. And the priests, the ones who represented the people before God in the day of the tabernacle and certainly in the day of the temple, only the priests could enter the Holy of Holies. And that once a year and with blood. The priests weren't righteous in and of themselves, but with the consecrated garments that they were wearing, and with the blood they could enter in on behalf of the people. And so this call by the people was asking that the Lord would make his priests righteous so that they through the priests Could worship the living God. We have to see Christ in that For it's only it's only in the righteousness of Christ, our true priest, that we can approach the living God in worship. Let your priest be clothed with righteousness. And our prayer would be, Christ is clothed with righteousness. Allow us to come before you in his righteousness. It calls for us to see Christ. And it calls for us to be joyful. See, they also asked for that, didn't they? Let your saints shout for joy. Brothers and sisters, as you think of Coming before the Lord God Almighty in the righteousness of Christ, doesn't that cause you to shout for joy, to be joyful? Should. And then it continues, for the sake of your servant David, do not turn away the face of your anointed. Once again, the people were recognizing recognizing that they needed the anointed to look upon them. It was demonstrating the change of heart that Jesus had accomplished And they were speaking of the Lord's anointed. Remember Psalm 2. Why do the nations rage and the peoples plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. The anointed refers to his son. As for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy mountain, his His son is the anointed. He is the eternal king. And here the plea is that the anointed would continue to look upon the people with favor. Do not turn the face of your anointed. The king, as he looks on his people, if he's looking on his people, he's looking on them with favor. That's the idea Do not turn the face of your anointed away. It's only through the anointed, the king on Zion, that the people of God may come to rest. And as they even plead this in their song, there's assurance given, isn't it? There's assurance remembered. Look at verse 11. They've asked that the anointed would not turn away from him, and now they recall the promise of the Lord. The Lord swore to David, a sure oath from which he will not turn back. One of the sons of your body I will set on your throne. Psalmist is recalling 2 Samuel chapter 7. As God promises to David through the prophet Nathan, when your days are fulfilled and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come for your body, and I will establish his kingdom. God had promised. We refer to it as the Davidic covenant. And we know those who sang this song knew Even as they pled, don't allow your anointed one to turn his face away from us, they knew that he wouldn't. They were rehearsing the promises. And they pled and at the same time were assured that God would remember and that he would keep his covenant And so as they sing, as they offer up this prayer and their desires, they know they will be heard and they know they will be answered with yes. Do you see the powerful work of Jesus in their hearts? This is his work in preparing a dwelling place. How often, brothers and sisters, how often do you give thanks that He has worked this same desire in your hearts? You see the desire of the people as they sang? Their desire was to worship the living God. And you're here tonight. You made a choice tonight. To be here. I understand that there's a football game on. You've made a choice to be here. Praise God. But that's the work of Christ. In your heart, just as he was working in the hearts of those who were singing this wherever they were. So desired to worship the living God. That brings us to our third point, establishing a place. And now we get to that point in the psalm where it's, in a sense, turned on its head. Up until this point, it's been David's desire of finding a place, it's been the people's desire of worshiping and calling upon the Lord to go to his dwelling place so that they could worship him and establishing that worship through the anointed one. Now, now we read that the Lord has chosen. God has already determined, He's desired Zion as his dwelling place with his people. Look at verse thirteen. For the Lord has chosen Zion. Here Here I will dwell. He has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place forever, for I have desired it. Up to this point in the Psalm, we might get the impression that the idea of a dwelling place of men with God was the brainchild of David. But now it's turned on its head. We know that God has chosen. And we know that the psalmist and the singers of the psalm know as well. They knew it was God. They knew it was the Lord who establishes his dwelling place amongst his people. They knew that the garden was ruined by the sins of the first Adam. And that as Adam was cast out, he could do nothing to re-establish that dwelling place with God. He couldn't go back in. He was locked out. He was unable to re-establish the worship that he had broken with the living God. Indeed, no mere man can re-establish the worship which Adam had broken. No, if it would be done, if it would be done it all, it had to be done by God Himself. And so we read here that in fact God has already chosen. He's chosen a place. It was found in a sense. It was established by God. God will dwell with his people. Didn't we read that in Revelation tonight? The end of the Bible tells us so very clearly, He will dwell with them, and they will be His people, and God Himself will be with them as their God. We also read of it here in the middle of the Psalms. For the Lord has chosen Zion, he has desired it for his dwelling place. This is my resting place. Here I will dwell, for I have desired it. There's a reason the psalmist repeats that word, desire. It's confirming the truth. He says it twice. It's now fixed. It's quite amazing that God would desire to be with his creation. Think of that just for a moment. The Lord God of creation, the Holy One of Israel, would desire Zion, a place on earth to dwell. To choose a dwelling place with a people of his making, that in and of itself is quite amazing. But now take it one step further, that he would desire to dwell with sinners. Sinners saved by grace. To commune with the people who had rejected him to dwell with the people who had sinned against him, to be with the people who had defiled his temple, who had neglected his worship, who had run after false gods and created idols of their own making And yet we read here that the living God desired to dwell with these people. That he loved his people so much that he would heal them, so that he could dwell with them in eternity. Brothers and sisters, if that doesn't bring praise to your hearts tonight, not sure what will I will abundantly bless her provisions. I will satisfy her poor with bread. Her priests I will clothe with salvation, and her saints will shout for joy. I will make a horn to sprout for David. That's not only worth memorizing, that's worth meditating upon for the whole week Not only has God chosen Zion, not only has he desired it. For his dwelling place. Not only has he desired to dwell with sinners like you and me, but then he goes even beyond that. I will abundantly bless her provisions, I will satisfy her poor with bread. Her praise I will clothe with salvation. And it doesn't stop there. His place, as it's being established. Look at what the psalmist writes in verse 17. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. If a place is being established, and we see that right now it has been, God has chosen Zion, it is his resting place forever. He will dwell there. And now we read, I have prepared a lamp for my anointed. If God is going to dwell with men, there must be men, women, and children to fill that dwelling place. And so here he tells us so very clearly: I have prepared a lamp. from my anointed. The lamp, the lamp I believe, is is the people of God. We see that throughout Scripture, this idea of the people of God being light. In Proverbs 4, the path of the righteous is like the light of dawn. Matthew's gospel Jesus says very clearly, you are the light of the world. In John's Gospel, we read in the beginning chapter, in him was life, and the life was the light of men. Continuing on in John's Gospel, we read As Jesus spoke to them, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. In chapter 12, John writes, you may become sons of light. And as Paul writes to the Ephesians, he writes to them, now you are light in the Lord. And as he writes to those at Philippi, among whom you shine as lights in the world. Those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ are constantly referred to as light, and here the lamp The lamp is referred to as the bride of Christ. The lamp is the church. The lamp is the very people of God. I have prepared a lamp for my anointed, for my son, for the king, for Jesus Christ. God is speaking and utters this truth. The dwelling place that He has chosen will be inhabited by the lamp The people of God, the church. This is similar to what we studied this morning in Matthew's Gospel in chapter nine, where Jesus tells his disciples that the harvest is plentiful, not that the harvest will be plentiful. Not that at some point in time the harvest will be abundant. No, at the point in time that Jesus Christ spoke, as he was speaking to his disciples, at that point in time the harvest was already plentiful. And as the psalmist writes this psalm, at that point in time, we read, we hear, we know that God has already prepared a lamp for the anointed. A people for his son. What's the significance of that for you tonight? What's the significance for the lamp? What's the significance for the church tonight? What were the Israelites singing of as they went to worship and included this within their song? What was this? What was the psalmist thinking? The answer appears in this verse The lamp that God had prepared, past tense, already done, for my anointed. The church, the bride, was for his son, Christ, the king of Zion. It's his. The lamp is Jesus's. He died for her. And so now this lamp, this church, the bride, it belongs to Christ, such that God has prepared her for his son. Think upon that just for a moment. If you're confessing Christ tonight, you belong to Jesus. You are his lamp. Prepared by the Father for his son. And it seems to get even a bit better. Look at verse 18. His enemies, meaning his anointed. His enemies I will clothe with shame, but on him his crown will shine. Now this crown is likely a reference to the crown of righteousness, that which Jesus wears. but will wear in eternity. Especially as it said in contrast to the shame of the unrighteous enemies. But this crown might also refer, might have a double meaning, and refer to his bride. The lamp. In Isaiah chapter 62 we read this, referring to the people of God. You shall be a crown of beauty. in the hand of the Lord. As Jesus, Jesus Christ the anointed, was crowned with righteousness, but he also holds in his hand, even now, even now, the crown of beauty, the lamp, his bride His beautiful illuminated crown, his beautiful illuminated bride. Do you think of the church that way At this lamp, shining lamp, this crown that Jesus holds That he possesses. You think of yourself that way. As a lamp. The one who belongs to the anointed. The one who could be referred to as that crown that he holds. You think of yourself that way in Christ. Christ. The one that He cherishes and holds so tightly. You should. If you're believing upon Christ tonight. Should see yourself that way. Not to boast, but to praise. To praise the Lord. living God. Yes, the Lord has chosen and will prepare a place to dwell eternally with his people. And casting out of Adam from the garden began this whole process of finding a new dwelling place. Where God would dwell with his people forever, and tonight we've seen a Jesus Christ again. Has done it all, has done it all well, and continues to do it for his bride, the lamp, so that we might dwell with God forever. Amen. Our Father and our God, we are so very thankful for this psalm There's so much in it, Father, for us to meditate upon, to memorize, to use as we praise you, and to use as we exalt Jesus. Father, we pray that you'd help us, as we trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, to know that we are that lamp. To know that we are being cherished and held as a crown by Christ Jesus. We thank you, we praise you. And we ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen