Please turn with me now to the Word of God as we find it written in the book of Amos in the fourth chapter. And we begin reading at the sixth verse. And we continue uh on through the end of the chapter, through verse 13. Remember again that the Lord is uh promising to bring judgment to the northern kingdom for its sinfulness. And uh the first couple of verses in uh chap uh verses six and following uh speak of the Lord making many efforts to turn the people's hearts back to him, but without success. And the last uh couple of verses uh tell the Lord tells them um what what's coming next. So follow along as we read God's word. Also I gave you cleanness of teeth in all your cities. And lack of bread in all your places, yet you've not returned to me, says the Lord. I also withheld rain from you when there were still six months to the harvest. I made it rain on one city, and I withheld rain from another city. One part was rained on, and where it did not rain, the part withered. So two or three cities wandered to another city to drink water, but they were not satisfied. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I blasted you with blight and mildew. When your gardens increased, your vineyards, your fig trees, and your olive trees, the locusts devoured them. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I sent among you a plague after the manner of Egypt. Your young man I killed with the sword, along with your captive horses, made the stench of your camps come up into your nostrils. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. I overthrew, I overthrew some of you As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and you were plucked like a firebrand from the burning. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. Therefore, I will do to you, O Israel, because I will do this to you, prepare to meet your God, O Israel. For behold, he who forms the mountains and creates the wind, who declares to man what his thought is, and makes the morning darkness. who treads the high places of the earth, the Lord, God of hosts, is his name. And that ends the thus far the reading of God's Word. Once again, last time as we were together, we reviewed verses 6 through 11. And uh in those verses, God is establishing the point to the people of Israel, the northern kingdom, the rebels against God. that nothing he has done to them or for them has turned them away from their sins. Nothing has turned them back to God. If God afflicted them with a lack of food and material things, As it records in verse 6, I've given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities because there isn't any food to eat. It doesn't say that, but that's the idiom. And uh and then it does say in verse six, I've not only given you cleanness of teeth, but lack of bread in all your places. So God has brought on a famine throughout Israel. Not enough food. No one is spared. But that refrain. Yet you have not returned to me, says the Lord. And we whenever it says, return unto me in the Old Testament, that's a that's a direct s that's a direct statement of repentance. You haven't repented. Um the this this goes on. This God citing the various things that he has done to try to get Israel's attention, to try to get them to return back to him. And then there's always this kind of mournful refrain. Yet you have not returned to me. Again, you can look at these things, you can see them. It's not for lack of effort on God's part. It's not for lack of warning. It's obvious too that since some of the things that God is doing have to do with the creation itself, that God is even using the creation. to do things which it doesn't normally do. For example, raining in one city and not raining in another. Or having the locusts come right at the time when harvest is is near. You even have God talking about afflicting Israel just like he afflicted Egypt with the plagues in Egypt. And yet Always, always, six times, six times in verses six through eleven, you have this refrain, yet you have not returned to me. Six times God is pleading with Israel to repent, and six times they refuse. These actions of God are unmistakable, and the nation is completely not blind and not ignorant, but rebellious. There is no desire to repent. There is no desire to return to him. They are afflicted with the hardness of heart. the pride of their own sinfulness, and they will not bow the knee. They will not come back to the God who has given them the very prosperity and the land which they enjoy. But they prefer to worship other gods. And it's at that point, it's at this point now we come to the the verses tonight, verses 12 and 13. And uh you I don't know about you, but I can't help but when I read verse twelve and when it says, Therefore I this I will say to you, O Israel, because I will do this to you. Prepare to meet your God. That that doesn't send chills up your spine. Uh um that is a uh that is an incredible statement. Um and uh it it uh it it portends, it pref it it it predicts the coming of God in judgment. There isn't going to be any more chance for repentance. And there's going to be a situation occur in which Israel is going to come right up against the presence of God. They're going to be in God's presence and they're not going to feel his benevolence. They're going to experience who God is. And um it lay leaves open the question, um, how can a person prepare to meet God? How can a person be ready to meet God? And particularly, how can a person who is in sin prepare to meet God? Yeah, repent. But it's an it's an awful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. It's a terrifying thing. And most people today, if they have any concept of God, it isn't the God who is pictured throughout the scriptures. as the God who even in our text, in verse 13, starts to reveal uh himself. Um it's it's it's a picture of God as some sort of nice father who uh who loves us and doesn't want anything to happen to his creatures and is really very permissive. He allows his creatures to do, he allows his children to do whatever they want to do And um never seems to imply any kind of correction. At least that's the that's the contemporary thought about what what God is, if people even believe there is a God or the God. But what is God like? What is he like? If you're going to prepare to meet somebody, You need to know what they're like so that you can prepare. If you were suddenly given an invitation to meet the President of the United States. You would want to know what he's like, so that you could have a conversation with him, or that you could be in his presence in a respectful way. We read in verse thirteen a description, just a bare bones description of what God is like. The God that Israel is about to meet. It starts off by saying, for lo, he that formed the mountains Createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth The Lord, the God of hosts, is his name. God in these verses does reveal unto Israel who he is And for anyone who reads these words, he formed the mountains. Obviously, a reference to his creative ability. He made the mountains He created the wind. On display here is God's creative ability and power He declareth unto man what is his thought. That he who knows the mind of man, he knows the heart of man. He knows what men are thinking before they say it. He understands what man is all about. He makes the morning darkness. When it suits his purpose, the morning can become very dark instead of the light which we normally expect. He treadeth upon the high places of the earth. Uh he did it he just walks across the Himalayas without without any without batting an eyelash without having any difficulty whatsoever whatsoever. He moves wherever he wishes. He does whatever he wants. This is a testimony to the writer declaring that God has absolute independence. He has absolute power, and he is absolutely unconquerable by man. It is not we, he who serves us, it is we who serve him. He is the creator of mountains. He's the creator of wind. He is the creator of life itself. And then it winds up this description in verse thirteen. The Lord, the Lord of hosts is his name. It tells the people of God first that his name is Jehovah, the Lord of the covenant, the covenant name. He tells the people here that they're talking to the same God that Moses talked to I am who I am. Tell them that I am sent you. That's the word that's used here for Lord. He is the God of hosts. That is the phrase that you hear sometimes translated Lord or El Sabeof. The Lord God Almighty, the one who has complete and utter power. He is the God of grace. of the covenant. He's the God who his people are to serve. He is the God who blesses. He is the God who curses. And he is the God who redeems. And all that is wrapped up in one who is almighty, all-powerful, and rules over everything. This is the God that is on that Israel is about to meet. And this this concept that God is almighty, he's all powerful, he's the Lord God of hosts. He rules all things. That particular word, uh El El S uh uh El uh uh Sabaoth. Um Lord God Almighty, that phrase uh gets a lot of treatment in the book of Revelation. The God is often revealed as the Lord God Almighty. There are seven times for this word all-powerful, the God the the all-powerful one. is used in the New Testament. First, it's used once in 2 Corinthians 6, verse 16. Where it says, What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For you are the temple of the living God, as the Lord said, I will dwell with them and walk with them, I'll be their God, and they will be my people. Where will come out from them and be separate, says the Lord? Touch not the unclean thing, I will receive you. I will be a father to you, and you shall be my sons, says the Lord God Almighty In that particular case, it's pretty interesting that 2 Corinthians passage is a passage by Paul pleading with the Corinthians. Not to go down the way of idolatry. And that's the problem that Israel, right here in our text in Amos, is experiencing. And he says, don't go there. And he says, if you don't, I will be your father, you'll be my sons and daughters. And then he adds to that, says the Lord God Almighty. If we understand that thought as being an expression of God's covenant relationship with His people, as the I am who I am, as the one who is all-powerful. Creator and Redeemer, you can see that that is an enticement not just to worship God, but it's an enticement to experience Not his wrath, but his mercy. It is in and of itself an expression of his mercy. Over and over again. This phrase creeps up. We'll be his sons and daughters, sons and daughters of the Lord God Almighty. If we repent, if we turn, if we hear his voice. Revelation 1, verse 8, in the context of the coming great judgment and return of God. It says, I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the ending, says the Lord, which is, which was, and which is to come, the Almighty. This is the God that Israel is to be preparing to meet The Almighty God. Verse chapter 4, Revelation, verse 8. The four beasts had each of them six wings about them. They were full of eyes, they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty, Lord God Almighty, angels, holy, holy, holy, Lord, God Alm which was and is and is to come. This is the God that Israel is to prepare to meet. Revelation 11, verse 17, saying, We give thee thanks, O Lord God Almighty, which art and was and art to come. Because thou hast taken to thee great power and hast reigned. The Lord God Almighty is a great king. As we just read in Psalm 47, the Lord God Almighty, He is a King, a great King over all the earth. Revelation 15, verse 3, they sing the song of Moses, the servant of the Lord, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are thy ways, King of Saints. This is the God that Israel is to prepare to meet. I heard another out of the altar say, even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are your judgments. Revelation 16, verse 7. The God that Israel is to prepare to meet is a God who is true and righteous in his judging. 19 verse 6, I heard as if there were a voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters. The voice of many thunderings saying, Hallelujah, for the Lord God Almighty reigns. Even his voice is described in great power and detail. Revelation 21, 22, I saw no temple therein. This is speaking of the New Jerusalem. For the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple. The Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple. Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel To those who refuse to repent and believe in spite of the Lord God Almighty's many efforts to turn their hearts in Israel. Prepare to meet thy God, O Israel. Prepare to meet him in judgment. Prepare to face his righteousness. Prepare to face his wrath. When they meet God, it won't be pretty. They'll come face to face with the the being Our God who is all powerful, almighty, and they will not stand a chance. This is What God is trying to communicate to Israel. It's not for lack of trying. It's that our hard hearts will not believe. The same Lord God Almighty Who is all-powerful, all-knowing, all-just, all-righteous, all-holy, omnipotent? He will receive repentant sinners. He pleads for repentant sinners to turn. He did it six times. In this particular section of God's Word. He does it all the time. Every day that the Lord delays his return is another day for repentance to occur of sinners. He who is the holiest of the holy is also he who is the richest in mercy to his people. The message that we have here of God pleading for the people of Israel with all of their sin and all of their rebellion to turn from their wicked ways and live is the same message that we speak We speak to the go of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ to the world around us. We do not Uh and and uh you know, even though the the idea of God having his own covenant people living in a land is now gone, uh the covenant people live in The church, they live in the land of the continuing city, as we talked about this morning. But there are people yet out there who are experiencing every day the same kind of godly efforts to keep people to turn from their sin and live The same kinds of things. God the Creator, God the Redeemer, making one appeal after another, whether it's in from general revelation or whether it's a on the behalf from his people or from his word, encouraging sinners to repent. I know in many ways I'm kind of preaching to the choir tonight, but prepare to meet thy God. I believe that by God's grace, even though coming into God's presence is going to be an earth-shadowing, a very difficult event It isn't going to be like it will be for the unrepentant. Because you have Jesus. And meeting your God face to face will be the blessing that God intends. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord our God, no matter how many times the word goes forward and makes the plea, For sinners to turn from their wicked ways and live. Lord, you keep making the plea You keep doing it in a multitude of different ways. You keep doing it around the world. And it will continue that way. Until the Lord Jesus returns. And his vindication will be accomplished. And his retribution will be exacted. And the honor of his name will go forward all over the earth. We do ask, O Heavenly Father, that thou might yet cause a mighty harvest. of the of your elect people who are out there but yet not have not yet heard the word, who are living their lives in sin like there was no tomorrow But we pray, O Heavenly Father, that by your grace you will get draw some who are your children into the household of faith. Encourage us, Lord, as we seek to continue to live for you and to serve you and to give honor to the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ. In His name we pray, Amen