If you turn in your copy of God's word now back to Second Peter. There we'll continue our study this afternoon in chapter three. Reading verses 8 through 13. Find that on page 1209 of your pew Bibles. Let's give attention now once again to God's very word. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved and the earth, and the works that are done on it, will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Would you pray with me? Our Father in Heaven, we ask now that you would make our hearts alive That you would give us attention, Lord God, to your word as it's opened and preached. Father, we may be tired. And we ask, Lord God, that you would awaken us That we would receive your word by the work of your spirit. That he would lay it up in our hearts Father, we would see all of the riches that are in this passage, and that you'd use them powerfully, according to your will. In our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you turn your minds back to the time of King David in Israel And if you remember that he desired, he so desired to build a temple, a house for God. But he was told by Nathan the prophet that he would not be the one to build the house. He knew that a house was to be built. Indeed, Nathan explains this to him as he receives the very word of God and he gives this to David and he tells him that it will be his son who will build the house Specifically, he said, He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. David knew that the temple would be built. He knew that the house of God would be placed. They're in Jerusalem. And he knew that his son would build it. He knew that event was coming. And so even though he couldn't build it, even though he was prevented from building it, he knew it would happen. And so what does he do? He prepares for the building of the temple. Scripture tells us that he provided great quantities of iron for nails, bronze, cedar timbers, all for Solomon. Because he knew that Solomon would be the one to build it. And so David made preparations for it. We do the same thing. As we have events that are coming up that we know of that will be in our future, we do it quite often. Many of us just finish preparing for Christmas with friends and families. Many of us are preparing to celebrate the new year. We'll prepare for examinations in school. We'll prepare for graduations. We'll prepare for weddings and the birth of a child. We'll prepare to move. And we'll prepare for retirement. When we know something is coming, or we think something is coming, some event, as it approaches, as it nears, we make preparations for it. And that's what's happening in this text we have before us this afternoon from 2 Peter. Second Peter, in this particular letter, Peter is describing a coming event. The destruction of the heavens and the earth, and the new heavens and new earth which will be coming in its place. He's describing an event, and Peter is calling the church, the entire church, to prepare for it. This afternoon I want us to see that Jesus calls the children of God to live in holiness as they wait for the new heavens. And earth. Jesus calls the children of God to live in holiness as they wait for the new heavens and earth. We'll see that in three points this afternoon. Coming like a thief, living in holiness, and then finally waiting for the day. Well, first, coming like a thief Look at verse ten in chapter three. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief What's Peter referring to? He refers to the day of the Lord, and it's good for us to just look at some other scriptures to understand what he means by this. It's described in Psalm 96. He will judge the world in righteousness. That's the day of the Lord. Jesus, as it's recorded in Matthew's Gospel, states this: when the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, he will sit on his glorious throne. Judgment. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. The sheep to go to eternal life, the goats to go to eternal death. Judgment, separation Jesus on the throne. This is the day of the Lord. As Paul writes to the church at Rome, he tells us that each of us will give an account of himself to God. This is what's happening in the judgment. This is what's happening in the day of the Lord. And then we get some very specific details in 1 Corinthians. He writes, Paul writes to the church there, that our Lord Jesus Christ will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. Guiltless in the day of judgment. He continues in chapter 5, you are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of his flesh, so that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord, in the day of judgment. Other passages tell us what the day of the Lord will look like in Joel The prophet Joel describes the day of the Lord as being that in which destruction occurs. Let the all the inhabitants of the land tremble. The earthquakes The sun and moon are darkened. The stars withdraw their shining. For the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Zephaniah, another prophet, writes this, a day of wrath is that day. A day of distress and anguish, a day of ruin and devastation, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. It's the day of the Lord, a day of judgment, a day of Christ sitting on the throne, a day of giving an account, a day of separation. A day of wrath. And no one knows when it will come. At least no one here No one knows when the thief will come. That's the idea. That's what Paul writes. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief Thieves usually come at night when no one is watching. Thieves usually come when no one is expecting. This is the day of the Lord, the day of Christ's return, the day of judgment. The day and time is unknown. Jesus Christ Himself did not know. But concerning that day or hour, no one knows, not even the angels in heaven, nor the Son, but only the Father. It's a day of destruction. This is how Peter describes it. Look at verse ten, and eleven, and twelve. The heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. Verse 11, since all these things are thus to be dissolved, the New American Standard uses the word destroyed. And finally, in verse 12, the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. This is Peter's description of the day of the Lord. This is the event. This is the event that Peter is saying is coming The day of the Lord, the day of judgment, the day of Christ's return. And in a sense In a sense, Peter is asking, Peter comes to what I believe might be the culmination of this letter, and he's asking, how then will you respond? How then will you prepare? You who know, you who've been told, you who believe that this day is coming, how will you prepare for this event? That does bring us to our second point. Living lives of holiness. And so given that backdrop, given that truth, given his description of what is coming, we see that question in verse 11. What sort of people are you to be? Since all these things are thus to be dissolved. Meaning the heavens and the earth. What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? Peter's now cutting to the heart. He's reminded his readers that the heavens and the earth are to be destroyed. They already knew that. And now he's coming to that reminder. He's told them that God has been patient and desires all to come to repentance. We talked about that. We opened that up this morning. And that's why the heavens and earth have not yet been destroyed. But Peter is saying the day of the Lord is coming. All you see, whether you're looking at the stars and the moon and the sun. The clouds wafting by, or you're peering out upon the earth in all its beauty, your current home, Peter is saying all will be destroyed, dissolved of nothing. He's reminding you that the wicked will be destroyed in the judgment of Christ, that the day of judgment, the return of Christ, will be when all are called to give an account. That Jesus will separate the sheep from the goats, that the blood will cover his people, and that there will be death and damnation for everyone else. The day's coming. And you know it. And Peter's question is, what sort of people ought you to be today knowing that? Believing that. And so he issues this call to the people. He issues this call to the entire church. What sort of people want you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God? Now you may be thinking, well, that's not a call at all. It's a question. What sort of people ought you to be? It seems to be a rhetorical question, though, put in this way for emphasis. Peter was not setting forth a multiple choice exam. It wasn't question and answer. No, Peter was issuing a call to the church. He's issuing a call to us. Given your knowledge of the coming day of the Lord along with his judgment and the destruction of everything that you know New Peter's brothers and sisters The ones who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who have escaped the corruption of the world, as he sets forth in his letter, are called to lives of holiness and godliness. That's the call So you know this is coming. This event is coming. And so he's saying that you need to prepare for it in lives of holiness and godliness. That's the call. This entire letter seems to be leading up to this point. Peter has already set forth in his letter these words for the church. Make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue, virtue with knowledge, knowledge with self-control, self-control with steadfastness, steadfastness with godliness, godliness with brotherly affection, brotherly affection with love. And now these few words at the end of the letter Seem to sum up that initial call. It becomes an emphatic call To live lies in holiness and godliness. What is it then? If this is the culmination of the letter, it behooves us to spend some time thinking upon what this means, upon how we are to do this. What does Peter mean by holiness and godliness? Indeed, we could spend much time on these two words this afternoon, just digging into them. It's more than this afternoon. But let's keep it short. To live lives of holiness and godliness is to be Christ-like. It's to live a life pleasing to God the Father. So how do we do it? Let's spend some time now trying to apply this call to our hearts for the year ahead. Now we're going to consider how to strive after or live lives of holiness and godliness using three means. First Forgetting what lies behind. Secondly, reading scripture. Finally, praying. First, forgetting what lies behind. You might recognize those words from Paul's letter to the church church at Philippi. As he's writing that letter, he's calling the church to forget what lies behind so that they can fix their minds on what lays ahead. Here are his specific words. From Philippians chapter 3, not that I've already obtained this, or am already perfect. But I press on to make it my own because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I've made it my own, but one thing I do Forgetting what lies behind and straining forward to what lies ahead, I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus This is part of striving after holiness and godliness. Forgetting what lies behind. So that you can fix your mind and heart upon what lies ahead. Now, Paul was in the midst of telling the church at Philippi that they needed to do this, that their worldly accomplishments were indeed nothing but rubbish. In comparison to the riches of Christ, Paul had just explained that he had lost everything. Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Remember how he described himself, the Hebrew of Hebrews. He was a Pharisee. He was one who kept the law. He had done much. He had accomplished much. He was at the top of his game, so to speak And then he writes this: For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. His education, his status in the Jewish community, his bloodline as in Abraham, Paul had lost everything for Christ. And that is what I believe he means when he calls the church at Philippi to forget what lies behind. If Paul were speaking to you today, he might say, forget your education. Forget your degrees. Forget your business accomplishments. Forget your employment accomplishments. Forget your victories in sports. Forget your success in the arts in order in order to fix your minds upon Christ and that which lies ahead, the crown of righteousness, you cannot be engrossed or preoccupied with this. world. That's what Paul's saying. Specifically, you can't lust after this world. You cannot see your purpose as being worldly. You cannot belong to the world because you belong to Christ. Paul had fixed his heart and mind upon Christ. And so that's what Paul had done, and that's what the call is. He'd be calling you to do the same. Yes, you need to work, you need to take care of your family, you need to pursue your education, but there's a difference between pursuing these things as a Christian who is seeking the things above. And pursuing them for the sake of worldly gain, to live lives of holiness and godliness, you must forget what lies behind Which is centered upon you and upon the world and strain forward to what lies ahead To press on toward the goal of the prize or the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. That Living lives of holiness and godliness. Secondly, immerse yourself in Scripture There may be no better individual way for you to pursue holiness and godliness this coming year than to immerse yourself in the Word of God. As Paul writes to the church at Rome, he writes this: Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing you may discern what the will of God is. See, Paul calls the church to be transformed by the renewal of their minds. Notice first that Paul cautions his readers, do not be conformed to this world. Certainly do not be conformed to the lust of this world, do not be conformed to the transgressions of this world. Do not be conformed to the rebellion of those who are in Satan. But also do not be enamored. of the world. Do not be in love with the creation and set your heart upon the things of the world. Set the world aside. So that you can be transformed by renewal. We should be asking ourselves what What does it mean to renew? How can I renew? For in Adam my heart and mind have been corrupted. They need to be made new in Christ. The Holy Spirit is about that work. And everyone who is trusting in Christ Jesus now is being worked on by the Spirit. So that your mind is being renewed. But you must participate. Paul writes again to the Philippians, therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now not also not only in my presence but also much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. That participation. Involves in part immersing yourselves in the scriptures, the very Word of God. The scriptures that set forth the will of God Our corrupt hearts have taken us away from the Word of God and His will. We see that in the garden. Immediately in the garden, we see it. As Eve engages with the serpent or with Satan. And Satan tells her, you will not surely die? He leads Eve away from the Word of God. Satan denies the truth of the Word of God. And as Eve listens, she does the same thing. See, in Adam, we have inherited hearts that stray away from the Word of God. So how can we know the very will of God if it's contained in the scriptures and we are straying from them? Just meditate upon that for a moment. If we're called to do the will of God, and his will is contained in the scriptures, And we're not immersed in them. How can we be people of holiness and godliness? But in Christ, indeed, you've been given a love for the Word of God I think I can say that affirmatively. The psalmist in Psalm 119 writes this: I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. I love your commandments above gold, above fine gold. Consider how I love your precepts. Give me life according to your steadfast love. This is a psalmist. This is one who is inspired of God, but this is one whose heart has been changed. whose spirit is working upon him just like the spirit works on your heart. Just like your heart has been changed. And so I can say with confidence. If you're trusting in Christ Jesus, you have a love for his word. Your heart's been changed. From that corrupt heart which is straying from it, to a heart which loves to hear God's voice, Jesus' voice speaking in it. And if you love something, you tend to spend time in it. To be immersed in scripture is to read it daily. To be immersed in scripture is to meditate upon it. To be immersed in Scripture, the very will of God, is to memorize the Scripture. So it becomes part of our very being. Now, to say that we love the scriptures and that each of us are spending every single day in it may go too far. We need help. We fill our time with so many other things that we think are so necessary. But, brothers and sisters, few things are more necessary for you than the Word of God. We must have the Spirit's help. Because Adam was our first father. And the old man still remains within each of us. And the old man urges us. to find other things to fill our time. But with the help of the Spirit, we will not be merely reminded But he will give us a greater longing and desire for God's word. And as you pursue it, as you read it, as you meditate upon, you will be made more like Christ. You will know more of the will of God. This is living a life of holiness and godliness Finally, finally another mean, my third mean, is prayer. Brothers and sisters, I think we can say together that we neglect prayer. And I think we can agree that it will be difficult for us to be made more holy and godly this year if we continue to neglect it. Consider Jesus and how much time he spent in prayer. Now you may be thinking, well, this is one who has two natures. One divine, one fully human, and that's why he spent so much time in prayer. That doesn't make any sense though Because the human nature was constantly praying to his father. The human nature entered into communion through prayer with his heavenly father. And it wasn't because he was joined in one person with the second person. We see throughout the Gospels that Jesus was zealous for prayer. But like scripture reading, we tend to set prayer aside. We pray before meals, we engage in prayer in the worship services. If we come to Wednesday nights, we will engage in prayer, in corporate prayer, but how often are we entering into our prayer closets individually to commune with the living God, our Creator? I don't think I'm going out on a limb to say that if we do not pursue prayer, if we do not set aside time for prayer, it will be extraordinarily difficult for us to pursue holiness. and godliness. Why do we neglect prayer? It may be because we don't truly believe that the Father hears us It may be because we don't truly believe the Father answers us. And it may be, it just may be that we don't get what we want when we pray. Let me address those very briefly. First, the Prather hears every single prayer that you utter to him. Scripture bears this out. Proverbs 15, the Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayer of the righteous. Psalm 145, the Lord is near to all who call upon him. He does hear your prayer. Second, the Father answers every single prayer you offer up. Scripture again bears this out so clearly. Psalm 145. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. Matthew chapter 7, as we studied this a few months ago, ask and it will be given to you, seek and you will find, knock, and it will be opened to you for everyone who asks Receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Now those two were fairly easy to deal with. The Lord hears and the Lord answers. The third one is a bit more difficult. Because it strikes at your pride and it strikes at the sovereignty of God. I don't get what I want. We all want to be sovereign over our lives. We think we know best. We think we know what's in our best interest as we pray. But the truth is that as the corruption still remains within us, we don't in our human hearts know what is best for our salvation. And sanctification. And if we don't know what's best for ours, we certainly don't know what's best for others. God does But then you also have to deal with the truth that you're not sovereign. Part of that transformation, part of that renewal is not only grasping and understanding and believing that God is sovereign over all things, but almost more importantly, that his sovereignty is good for your salvation and your sanctification. We don't think that way. But God is indeed pursuing your spiritual well being Every time. Every time you pray to him. Every time he answers your prayer. He's pursuing your spiritual well-being. That brings us to our third and final point. Waiting for the day. See, Peter's call has another part to it. We find it in verses eleven and twelve and thirteen. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved. What sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God? So the striving toward holiness and godliness is to actually hasten the day of the coming of God. That day. Remember why the Lord exercises patience. We saw it this morning Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises, some count slowness, but is patient toward you not wishing any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. And so as you pursue holiness and godliness, you are indeed reaching repentance. You're coming to repentance, are you not? It's included. It must be. And this will hasten the coming of the day. Thus we see two things happening as holiness and godliness is pursued. First, you'll be able to wait Waiting for and hastening, you'll be able to wait contentedly for the coming day of destruction. And you'll also be hastening the very same day as you're pursuing holiness and godliness. Because as you pursue holiness and godliness, you're reaching repentance as well. And then Peter ends with this reminder. Not only will the Lord bring about the destruction of the heavens and earth as we know them, but according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness Dwells. There's a sense in which the letter's been negative. He's been talking about destruction. But now, now he turns it around and he talks about the positive, the ultimate promised land. That's what it is. The new heavens and the new earth in which righteousness dwells, isn't that what you've been waiting for? You're not only waiting for the destruction of that which has been corrupted by our sin, you're also waiting for the new This new will come when all should reach repentance. Do you see the connection? Ezekiel helps us here greatly. After setting forth an account of destruction, which Ezekiel refers to as a cleansing of the land, he takes four chapters then to describe a new temple. Ezekiel is given a vision of one who takes him around as measuring the new temple, a restored city. And then he hears, Son of Man, this is the place of my throne. He's given his vision four chapters or so, very detailed. And then he hears the word of God, Son of Man, this is the place of my throne and the place of the souls of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the people of Israel forever. And the house of Israel shall no more defile my holy name. And then the Lord says, this is the law of the temple. The whole territory on top of the mountain all around shall be most holy. Do you see? Do you see the new heavens and the new earth in which righteousness dwells? Everything, everything shall be most holy There's the plan. The Lord is preparing you. Throughout this here As you're dwelling upon the coming destruction, and you're dwelling upon the new promised land, the new heavens and the new earth, which the Lord is preparing, which will come In which all will be holy, in which all will be righteous. He's preparing you even now Throughout this year, as you are pursuing holiness and godliness by the work of the Spirit, He's preparing you for this event for the coming of the new heavens and the new earth to dwell with him for eternity and his son in righteousness And the only question is, will you join him in that preparation this year? Yes, Jesus calls the children of God to live in holiness as they wait for the new heavens and earth. David made significant preparations for the temple his son built. The spirit spirit is preparing you Throughout this year, in all things, to strive toward holiness and godliness So that you will be prepared to dwell with God in righteousness forever. Amen. Our Father and our God, as we close this year in worship, Lord, what a joy it is to be reminded. That Jesus Christ is returning for his bride. And not only that, Father, but that you are executing your plan. To dwell with your people in holiness, in righteousness, and that you are even using this time now Father, helping us, moving us to strive after lives of holiness and God. Godliness in preparation for the day of the Lord. Help us, Father. Cause your Spirit to work powerfully in each of us. We would give you all the praise. Thank you and praise you and ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.