Our New Testament reading this morning comes from the Gospel of Matthew. If you would stand, if you were able, for the reading of God's Word, Matthew 25. Be reading the first 13 verses there. This is the parable of the ten virgins. Five wise and five foolish. Let's give attention to the Word of God. Then the kingdom of heaven shall be likened to ten virgins who took their lamps and went out to meet the bridegroom. Now, five of them were wise, and five were foolish. Those who were foolish took their lamps and took no oil with them, but the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps. But while the bridegroom was delayed, they all slumbered and slept. And at midnight a cry was heard: Behold, the bridegroom is coming. Go out to meet him. Then all those virgins arose and trimmed their lamps, and the foolish said to the wise, Give us some of your oil, for our lamps are going out. But the wise answered, saying, No, lest there should not be enough for us and you, but go rather to those who sell and buy for yourselves And while they went to bye, the bridegroom came, and those who were ready went in with him to the wedding, and the door was shut. Afterward the other Virgins came also saying, Lord, Lord, open to us. But he answered and said, Assuredly, I say to you, I do not know you Watch therefore, for you know neither the day nor the hour in which the Son of Man is coming. Amen If you turn in your copy of your gospel, meaning your scriptures, To the book of Genesis. We'll be reading there all of chapter 38. It's a long chapter. And if uh if you need to sit, please feel free. Joseph at this point has been sent to Egypt And now Moses turns to Judah. Let's give attention to the reading of God's word. It came to pass at that time that Judah departed from his brothers and visited a certain Adulamite, whose name was Hera. And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite. whose name was Shua, and he married her and went into her. So she conceived and bore a son and called his name Ur. She conceived again, and bore a son, and she called his name Onan. And she conceived yet again and bore a son, and called his name Sheila. He was at Chezeb When she bore him. Then Judah took a wife for Ur, his firstborn, and her name was Tamar. But Ur, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the Lord, and the Lord killed him. And Judah said to Onan, Go in to your brother's wife and marry her and raise up an heir to your brother. But Onan knew that the heir would not be his. And it came to pass when he went into his brother's wife that he omitted on the ground, lest he should give an heir to his brother. And the thing which he did displeased the Lord. Therefore he killed him also. Then Judah said to Tamar, his daughter in law, Remain a widow in your father's house till my son Sheila is grown. For he said, Lest he also die like his brothers And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house. Now, in the process of time, the daughter of Shua, Judah's wife, died. Judah was comforted And went up to his sheep shearers at Timnah, he and his friend Hira the Adulamite, and was told Tamar, saying, Look, your father-in-law is going up to Timnah to shear his sheep. So she took off her widow's garments, covered herself with a veil, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place which was on the way to Timnah, for she saw that Sheila was grown, and she was not given to him as a wife When Judah saw her, he thought she was a harlot, because she had covered her face. Then he turned to her by the way and said, Please let me come into you. For he did not know that she was his daughter-in-law. So she said, What will you give me that you may come into me? He said, I will send a young goat from the flock. So she said, Will you give me a pledge till you send it? Then he said, What pledge shall I give you? So she said, Your signet and cord and your staff that is in your hand. Then he gave them to her and went into her and she conceived by him. So she arose and went away, and laid aside her veil and put on the garments of her widowhood. And Judah sent the young goat by the hand of his friend the Adulamite to receive his pledge from the woman's hand, but he did not find her. Then he asked of the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot who was openly by the roadside? And they said, There was no harlot in this place. So he returned to Judah and said, I cannot find her. Also the men of that place said there was no harlot in this place. And Judah said, Let her take them for herself, lest we be ashamed. For I sent this young goat, and you have not found her. And it came to pass about three months later that Judah was told, saying, Tamar, your daughter-in-law, has played the harlot Furthermore, she is with child by harlotry. So Judah said, Bring her out and let her be burned. When she was brought out, she sent to her father-in-law, saying, By the man to whom these belong, I am with child. And she said, Please determine who these are, the signet cord and the staff. So Judah acknowledged them and said, She has been more righteous than I, because I did not give her to Sheila my son. And he never knew her again. Now it came to pass at the time for giving birth that, behold, twins were in her womb. And so it was when she was giving birth that the one put out his hand, and the midwife took a scarlet thread and bound it on his hand, saying, This one came out first. Then it happened, as he drew back his hand, that his brother came out unexpectedly, and she said, How did you break through? This breach be upon you. Therefore his name was called Peres Afterward his brother came out who had the scarlet thread on his hand and his name was called Zera. Would you play with me? Well Lord God, we come to this passage of Scripture this morning and ask for your blessing upon the reading of your word. That Father, by your Spirit, you would guide our hearts. That you would convict us, each one of us, of our sins. That you would comfort us, Lord, with seeing how you preserve your children in the blood of Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, as we read that account of the parable of the ten virgins this morning. What is it that lies behind that parable? We might think it's the need for oil Five virgins bring oil with them as they're waiting on the bridegroom to come. Five virgins fail to bring oil. The need for oil, then. That's what really lies behind the parable. Well, not really. Really, it's the arrival of the bridegroom, isn't it That's the stage which's been set. That's the backdrop to the entire parable, the coming of the bridegroom. And we know that he's been delayed, but he's coming. For some unstated reason in this parable, the bridegroom had left. He wasn't with the people at that point in time, and they were waiting, they were anticipating his return. He was returning for his bride. That's what lies behind that entire parable. So the question becomes, how are these ten virgins living? We have a contrast, don't we, between the wise and the foolish. How are they preparing to receive the bridegroom whenever he arrives That becomes the subplot. The main teaching is that the bridegroom is coming back. He's only gone for a season. The only question is Would the people be ready? This morning, as we turn to this chapter 38 and in Genesis, I'm going to spend a little bit of time focusing upon the context. Because it's important, significant, it's always important, it's always significant, but this is unusual because of what comes before it and what comes after it As Genesis 37 closes, what do we read? We read of Joseph, don't we? Indeed, as Genesis 37 opens, we're reading all about the generations Of Jacob, all of his descendants, all of his children. But clearly the focus from chapter 37 to 50 is on one of his sons, Joseph. And chapter 37 opened with the sale of Joseph. He's gone to Egypt now, no longer in Canaan, sent by his brothers far off. And even as we skip over chapter 38 and begin in chapter 39, we pick up again with Joseph. Now Joseph had been taken down to Egypt. But right in the middle, we have this particular passage. Joseph has been sold off, the dreamer of dreams. Which foretolds his rise to power and authority because of his brother's hatred has been sent away. And in between Moses inserts Judah. Jacob is in Egypt, and chapter 38 gives us the impression of many years passing by. But Moses wants us to focus our attention now on Judah while Jacob is away, while Jacob is gone, while he's been cast off. Some would say that this is just someone putting together scripture, not the same author, throwing things here and there. It's not the case This is an artfully written word of God given to us in this particular fashion and form to teach us. To teach us about who God is and who man is before God. Who is it that preserves the Seed of the woman. I want us to see this morning that while sinful men cast off the rule of God, he glorifies himself by preserving a way of salvation. While sinful men cast off the rule of God, he, meaning God, glorifies himself by preserving a way of salvation. Three simple points this morning. First, casting off the word. Secondly, casting off the kingship. And then thirdly, casting off sins. As we walk through this passage, we want us to be asking ourselves: how are you preparing yourself? For the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is returning. He's coming back. How are you preparing yourself? How are you living today in light of knowing that He's coming? Coming back, knowing that he's been crowned king of all, and that he will return. Our first point then, casting off the word. As I said before, this whole chapter 38 occurs as Joseph is in Egypt And it gives us the sense as we walk through chapter 38 that there are many, many years going by as Joseph is In Egypt, away from his brothers, away from his father, living as a captive, so to speak, away from his God, away from all that might bring him comfort At least 20 years are passing by in this chapter 38. It was not until children were born to Joseph in Egypt that he even received a bit of comfort. Genesis thirty-eight appears to be occurring during these twenty plus years of Joseph's life in Egypt. Egypt. The only question is what does Judah do with that time? What is Judah doing while his brother, Joseph, destined to become a ruler Is in Egypt. How does Judah spend this twenty years? How does he live before the Lord as his brother was gone? The unrighteousness of the brothers, specifically now Judah. And his family is set forth before us. And it will be contrasted with the righteousness of Joseph as we get to that. But right now, we have Judah's life. set before us and the contrasts are striking. First, Judah takes a wife. Look at verse 2. And Judah saw there as he goes to visit a Certain Adulamite. He saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite whose name was Shua. He married her and went into her. We know he has children. By this woman. Now we might rejoice. That might be our first response. Here was one of the twelve brothers who would become the twelve tribes of Israel. The family now starts growing. God has called his children to multiply, to fill the earth. More people are now being added to the family of God, those that would go down to Egypt and be preserved. the people of God, and so we might think this is it this is good. This is a good thing. The problem is that the woman here is not named. Moses doesn't provide a name for this wife. It's been taken by Judah. Why is that? She's referred to as the daughter of Shua. Guess what? Shua is a Canaanite. And so Moses wants us to see not this particular woman, but her lineage. He wants us to focus on where she's from, what people she is of. This was not the kind of wife that Judah was to marry. Well, there's no specific command yet written for us in Scripture. Clearly, clearly the history has shown us That Judah was not to marry a Canaanite woman. Think of Abraham. Think of what he told his servant with regard to Isaac's wife. You will not take a wife from my son from the daughters of the Canaanites. You absolutely will not go back to my homeland. What about Isaac and Rebekah? Their lives are made bitter. As Esau takes wives from the Hittites They made life bitter for Isaac and Rebekah because he didn't take a wife from the right people. Isaac even tells Jacob unequivocally and clearly, you must not take a wife from the Canaanite women Judah clearly knew his father would have passed this on to him. And yet, he takes it Canaanite. In violation, most likely, of the Word of God that's been passed down to him. And what happens as a result of his taking a Canaanite wife. Wickedness is born out of this relationship between Judah and the Canaanite woman, not righteousness. Look at Ur verse 7. Judas firstborn. He was wicked in the sight of the Lord. How does this come about? Well, that's what was in Urb his heart. But it certainly didn't help that his mother was a Canaanite. Wickedness is born out of this relationship. And so as the Lord sees the heart of Ur, he's struck down. He's killed. What about Onan? Go in to your brother's wife, marry her, raise up an heir to your brother. This again is the is the law of God being passed down from Father to father. This was what they were to do in accordance with God's word. Go in, raise up an inheritance for your dead brother now. Decides not to. Decides he would not provide an heir for his brother. And that which he did was this pleasing to the Lord, and therefore that he killed him also, meaning the Lord You see the wickedness that prevails now, that is borne out of this relationship between Judah and a Canaanite woman. And it continues, the lie of Judah. And he tells Tamar, the widowed daughter-in-law, Remain in your father's house until my last son gets old enough, and then it will be given to him. But you'd have never intended to give Sheila to Tamar, or to give Tamar to Sheila. And this further uh is exasperated by the deception of Tamar. She takes things into her own hands. She's childless, which would be as significant for a woman who has no husband to have a child who would ultimately care for her. And so her desire to have a son bears not righteous fruit, but deceptive Fruit. Tamar becomes the deceiver in a family of schemers and deceivers. She covers herself with a veil. She sat in an open place. She told everyone that was passing by, I'm a harlot. Deceiving even her father-in-law. And then Judah enters into sexual sin. He goes into Tamar, not knowing that she She is his daughter-in-law, but thinking clearly that she's a harlot. He's not wanting a wife, he's not wanting a helpmeet, Judah was not seeking to multiply and fill the earth. No, he was merely seeking to do that which was prohibited. by the word of God. Think about this. Joseph wasn't comforted, as he was living a life of righteousness. Jacob wasn't comforted as he had now lost his son Joseph, and yet Judah, who was living in the absence of the word of God, was comforted in his Sin, as he goes in to what he thought was a woman of harlotry. And then finally, the proposed punishment and hypocrisy of Judah. As he finds that Tamar is now with child, he calls for her to be brought out and burned. He he was the one who should have been burned so to speak. He was the one who sought to commit the sin. He was the one who did commit the sin. And the hypocrisy of Judah is glaring, but not only hypocrisy. See, burning was only in accordance with God's law when the woman was a daughter of a priest. Leviticus twenty-nine, excuse me, twenty-one nine At every turn, it seems that Judah is defying and neglecting the Word of God. Why? Why did Judah head in this direction of sin? What is the reader being told? The word has been buried As Joseph was thrown into the pit, as he carried the Word of God with him in dreams, he was thrown into the pit into a pit. The brothers sought to bury the word of God in a deep pit and then that wasn't good enough. They they cast him off too a far land to Egypt so that the word of God would not be heard by them. come to pass. What was the result? There was nothing to guide Judah. As we see this metaphorically, there was nothing to guide his wife. There was nothing to guide his sons. There was nothing to guide Tamar Because the word had been cast off, it had been buried in their hearts. The word of God was not speaking to Judah. The Word of God was far off from Judah and his family, such that they reveled in darkness. Brothers and sisters, our scriptures, the w the word of God is is our rule for faith and life. And Judah didn't have it. He purposefully got rid of it. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction. For instruction in righteousness, and then that is exactly what Judah threw away. He had nothing to instruct him in righteousness. As we think of this account, it's so good for us to remember what Solomon wrote in Proverbs. Proverbs six, my son Keep. Keep your father's commandment. Do not forsake the law of your mother. Bind them. Continually upon your heart. Tie them around your neck. When you roam, they will lead you. Judah was roaming And they were not leading him. He failed to tie them to his neck, to bind them upon his heart. And when you awake, they will speak with you. The Word of God was gone from Judah. He was not speaking to him. The commandment is a lamp and the law a light, reproofs a lamp Instruction are the way of life to keep you from the evil woman. If only he had this proverb before him, if only he had laid it up in his heart, if only he had practiced it in his life. Brothers and sisters, this is what we need. We need the Word of God. We need to bind it upon our hearts We need to keep it and not forsake it. And when we do, it will speak to us. Praise be to God that he's given us his word. We've not cast it off. That brings us to our second point, casting off the kingship Of God. Well, it's very clear that God was overseeing and superintending all things in this passage. We know that he does throughout all scripture, but it's so very clear here that that's exactly what he was doing. We see it with the death of Ur, don't we? Judah's firstborn was wicked in the sight of the Lord. He's overseeing. He's on his throne. He's watching over all things, over every heart. This is God as King. The Lord searches all hearts and understands all the intent of the thoughts, 1 Chronicles 28. He sees the mind and the heart. He was seeing Ur's heart. We don't know what he did. We don't know what words thought God did. The king knows. The one who is superintending all things, even he knows his own hand, fails to do that which his father called him to do, raise up an inheritance For your brother, God sees, He's overseeing, He's superintending, He's watching over this family, He's considering their hearts and their actions which flow out of their hearts. And what does Judah do? He casts him off. You see that? Despite all of that which was happening before Judah, his first two sons being smitten Being stricken by God and his kingship, Judah determines that God's kingship must be cast off. He first did it in lowering Joseph into the pit. As Joseph tells him, through a dream that I'm going to become your ruler. Judah says, let's put him in the pit and let's sell him off to traitors who are going to Egypt. Let's get rid of him because I don't want that authority over me. And now here is his first two sons are stricken by God, he casts off the authority of God This problem was being presented to Judah. How would he preserve his line? Remember now he has three sons. The first two are dead because of their wickedness. The Lord has taken them. And he has one son left at this point. And the question for Judah is: how do I keep my line alive? How do I preserve my line? He doesn't consult the Word of God. Remember, it's been cast off. He doesn't, or at least it's not recorded that Judah goes to God in prayer. He takes the seat of the king, doesn't he? He determines for himself, using his own wisdom, how to save Sheila and thus to preserve Islam. He saves Sheila by not calling for him to go into Tamar. He preserves Sheila by not giving Tamar to him as a wife. He preserves Sheila by lying to his daughter-in-law. He preserves Sheila by keeping Tamar away So that through Sheila, Judah's name, his line would be preserved What happens when men cast off authority? What happens when people bury the Word of God, not in their hearts, but in a pit, never to be read or heard? What happens when people reject the Lordship of Jesus Christ? You don't have to look far. In those days, meaning in the days of judges, there was no king in Israel. He was in fact a king, it was God. But the people didn't see him and understand him as their king. In those days there was no king in Israel. Everyone did what was right in his own eyes As one casts off the kingship of God, that headship must be filled. There can be no void. In rule and authority, in headship. We were created, each one of us, to exercise dominion over this place But that was given to us by the true King. And therefore, every man, woman, and child, each one of us was created to be in subjection to another. To the one who is truly king over creation. So when men reject the true king, a replacement needs to arise and fill the spot. That's exactly what we read in 1 Samuel, isn't it? The people reject God as their king. They want a human king. And that grieves Samuel's heart and grieves the Lord's heart. Brothers and sisters, are we not guilty of the same? And we don't wait on God When we don't wait upon his wisdom, when we don't wait upon his perfect timing, when we take matters into our own hands Judah sought to manipulate the hand of God, the providence of God, such that his line would be preserved as Judah saw fit. Such that Judah would, in essence, break the law of God in order to keep his line alive. So the rule of Judah was sin to stay alive. But the rule of God is just the opposite. Keep my law and live. Oh, brothers and sisters, we need to repent when we don't wait on God. We need to repent when when we don't wait upon His wisdom. We need to repent when we don't wait upon His perfect timing. And then we need to rejoice. Because we know that His wisdom, his timing is perfect and right and good. That brings us to our final, our third point, casting off the sins of men. Here then is the great thrust of this passage. We might think that it's the sin of Judah and Tamar and the brothers and the and the sons. But the great thrust of this passage is life. A passage which is full of grief and misery, of sin and death. But yet at the end there's life, the birth of a son in the line of Jesus Christ. In essence, the preserving of the line of Seth right here in this passage is given to us as Perez, is in the line of Jesus. Christ is it's preserving of the seed of the woman, that which was promised in the garden. The Lord tells the serpent that the seed Of the woman would crush the head of the seed of the serpent. A reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we know that the seed must be preserved. And it's through Perez. That the line of Seth, that the seed of the woman is preserved. What a wonderful place to find this. In the scriptures, the birth of Perez was unexpected. Look at verse twenty-nine as the midwife is is helping uh Tamar give birth and it happened as twins are in her womb as he drew his hand back, meaning the first one That is brother, that meaning Perez, came out unexpectedly, and she said, How did you break through? The word unexpectedly is really not in the Hebrew. In fact, this is one, if not the only, version, the New King James, that inserts the word unexpectedly. What is in the Hebrew is behold! Which is a sense of. I didn't expect that. I didn't expect that that the hand that would come out wouldn't be the first one, that the second one would actually break forth in his place. It is an unexpected event. And it's reinforced by the midwife's comment. How did you break through? It was unexpected that the second son would break through to become the first pair as his birth was unexpected, but it was unexpected in so many more ways. It was unexpected that both Tamar and Judah should have been put to death, both of them. The birth should not have occurred. You shall not uncover the nakedness of your daughter-in-law. If a man lies with his daughter-in-law, both of them shall surely be put to death. Leviticus 20, verse 12. I know that this comes later on in Scripture, but This was on their hearts. This is the law of God given to them and placed upon their hearts. They have committed perversion. Not only was Tamar not burned Judah was spared. And Tamar gives birth unexpectedly. What about Judah? This birth shouldn't have happened. Judah, along with his with his brothers, should have been put to death. This is what God tells Noah, as the flood has come and gone. And now he tells them, he enters into covenant from with them and says, From the hand of every man's brother, I will require the life of a man whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed. What do you say? Judah didn't shed blood. He hated his brother. And Jesus Christ tells us that that's murder in our hearts. Isn't it? Nothing changed in the Old Testament. Jesus just opens it up for us and tells us this is what it really means. As Judah hates his brother, he should have been put to death along with all of his brothers. From a human perspective, Judah should have borne no children, but by the mercy of God, this line, the seed of the woman, Continues. Paras was necessary to sustain the line such that Jesus Christ could be born. This afternoon, just take out the Gospel of Matthew and look at the genealogy. You'll see Paras' name. You'll see Jesus' name. What does all this lead us to? That great unexpected birth. All this brings us to the birth of Jesus, doesn't it? The incarnation of the Savior of the world. If there was ever an unexpected birth or breach, it was the conception of the Lord Jesus Christ as God descends From heaven, as he condescends to us, as the Spirit causes the Virgin to be with child, as he takes on a human human nature. That was an unexpected breach. God breaking into the world to save all of his children. Children. What was being conveyed by Moses here to the people? of God. What was being said by the illegitimate conception and subsequent birth of Perez that God will forgive In a sense, yes, that God will preserve, yes, in a sense. Why didn't God just destroy them? Why not justice immediate? Because the seed Needed to be preserved. Certainly. Certainly so that the plan of redemption, the covenant of grace, would be fulfilled and must The seed, Jesus Christ Himself would preserve, be preserved ultimately for his second coming. You think, well, for his birth, yes For his sacrifice, yes. For his resurrection, yes. For his ascension, yes, but ultimately for his second coming While Jesus Christ has ascended, while he's not with us for a time, he will return for his bride To bring her to glory. So that those who are watching and waiting will be allowed to enter the banquet, the wedding banquet. To glorify the Father. Do you see? All of this glorifies the Father. Isn't that it? Amidst all of this wretched sin, this turning away from the Word of God, this casting off his kingship What does God do? He humbles himself, he lowers himself, that he would continue making a Way for his children to be saved. You see the glory of God in that. Brothers and sisters, we must We must see the glory of God as his people turn away, as they stray, as they have not laid up his word in their hearts, and yet he comes and runs after them Humbling himself in the midst of men who he was saving, who were hating him, defiling his word and his name. See the grace of God here. He's pouring out grace even on Judah and Tam And all of it asks us a question today. How are we living? Are we living in light of the truth that Jesus is returning? Coming for his bride? How are you preparing for him to come back? Judah was not. There's no sense within this passage that Judah was preparing for his brother Joseph to rule. And he led his family, not expecting the return of Joseph, not expecting him to persevere in the Lord, but in turning away. Are you living today knowing that God has done all of this to preserve you? That you will be able to enter into his glory, his decree of election, his unchangeable love The merit, the intercession of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Spirit that abides in you, the nature of the covenant of grace, all of that is working. To preserve you today, so that Christ will return and bring you into glory. Yes, while sinful men cast off the rule of God, he continues to make a way of salvation for his glory. Five foolish virgins were not prepared for the return of the groom, but gloriously five were prepared. Ready and waiting. By the grace of God, may He continue to preserve us as we wait and watch Shh for the groom to take up his bride. Amen. Father in heaven, how glorious is this account this morning! Amidst sin, amidst rejection, amidst casting off of you as their head. Lord God, you bring life. You preserve the seed of the woman so that we can be, even we can be saved. So, Father, we thank you, we praise you. Help us to be those That would fix our minds upon the author and vector of our faith, even Jesus Christ, and help us to prepare for his return. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.