So here we are in Psalm 16. Psalm 16. So once again, you've heard a little bit of Psalm 16 already. Earlier this morning, we heard from some of Psalm 16. in connection with Acts chapter 2. And now we go back to the original setting. Psalm 16, a prayer of David, a psalm of David, and a psalm in which David prays for the Lord. He prays for preservation by the Lord. Psalm sixteen, the whole psalm, this is God's Word. Listen to the reading of it. Preserve me, O God, for in you I put my trust. O my soul, you have said to the Lord, You are my Lord. My goodness is nothing apart from you As for the saints who are on the earth, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. Their sorrows shall be multiplied, who hasten after another God. Their drink offerings of blood I will not offer, nor take up their names on my lips. O Lord, you are the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You maintain my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance I will bless the Lord who has given me counsel. My heart also instructs me in the night seasons. I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will rest in hope, for you will not leave my soul in Shaol, nor will you allow your holy one to see corruption You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. That's far the reading of God's word. May he add his blessing to it and also to its preaching this morning. Wasn't it clear here that David feels threatened or at least is threatened? Um again, what is his prayer to the Lord in verse 1? Preserve me, O Lord. Preserve me, O God. Literally, keep me. Literally, guard me, keep and protect me in the face of some threat. David is threatened here. He is under some threat. You only pray to be preserved from a threat When there's some threat that you need to br be preserved from or need to be preserved in the face of. David is threatened. He's under the threat where he needs to be preserved. It's also clear that this threat, whatever it is that he needs to be preserved from, also puts before David, puts in front of David the possibility that he might die. The possibility that he might head to his death. In verse 10, what is it that he needs to be preserved from? Notice in verse 10: For you will not leave my soul in Sheol. Sheol, that's a Hebrew word for the place of the grave, the place of death. The place where people go when they die. Their bodies go down to the grave, they go down to Sheol. Sheol is the place of death. Sha'ol is the place of the grave. So again, his prayer is to be preserved. Being preserved means not being let to die, not being left so as to end up in death. Being spared from what? Being preserved from what? Being preserved from death. Being kept from going down into the place of death. So again, we see David the Psalmist is under some threat. This threat would cause him to think that there's a possibility that he might die, or at least someone is trying to bring about his death. This threat, whatever it is, is aimed at his death, and yet this death that he is being threatened with is just the thing he asks God to protect him from. And we know from the life of David. There were some times when David's life was being pursued unto death Remember especially King Saul. King Saul is the one who sought David's life, perhaps with more fervor than any other. Um Saul had become jealous of David and had sought to kill him. David was the one who, you know, originally um you know he he was going to be the one who would eventually replace Saul as king. And yet Saul became jealous of David at the moment when David became a hero in the eyes of the people. This happened the moment when David defeated the giant Goliath. And yet Saul witnessing the popularity of David became jealous of him and then ended up seeking his life. There ended up being this extended history, this extended amount of time in which Saul was trying to seek David's life. And yet, along the way, the Lord spares David. The Lord repeatedly spares David and saves him from Saul trying to seek his life, trying to seek to put him So any of that could have easily provided the backdrop to what we're seeing in this psalm, obviously, right? Here in this psalm, David is concerned that he might be sent to the place of the grave. But who is it who will keep him from the grave? It is God who will keep him from the grave, and so he preserved again. Preserve me, O God, for in you I put my trust. So again we see a threat. We see a threat against David. Someone is after David's life. Could it possibly be Saul? Possibly. Somebody is after David's life. He prays to be preserved because there is a threat upon his life. Yet, even though there's this threat on his life, there's this threat that he might be pursued unto death, that his life could be taken from him. What is David's mindset in this thing? Psalm. What is David's disposition? What is his composure like underneath this threat? The way he presents himself in this psalm, even though he's threatened with the possibility of death, What is he like? We see him presenting himself as though he is himself, nonetheless, unshaken. A threat of death against him, yet he presents himself in these words, as though he's not shaken. Verse 8, I have set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. When someone is threatening you, when someone is seeking something, perhaps when your life is in danger, how easy it is to feel shaken How easy it is for your life to feel and to be moved. You feel this pressure of something weighing against you. Your whole life seems to be affected by the thing that is weighing against you, the threat. David, in the face of this threat on his life, nonetheless says, confesses, Because the Lord is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Having the Lord as his companion means He is stabilized. Things that would shake him, things that maybe should shake him, do not shake him. Why? Because of the Lord. He's under the threat of death. He's facing the prospect of death. Somebody's trying to seek his death. He's not moved in verse 8 because of the Lord. Not only is he not moved in verse eight. What else is true of him in verse nine? Not only is he not moved in verse eight, in verse nine, he's also described as Glad and rejoicing. Now imagine that. Someone seeking your life Someone seeking to put you to death, to put an end to your life, and you manage to find reason to be glad and to rejoice, as David says in verse 9. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoices. My flesh also will rest in hope. There is this thread upon his life, but even with this threat upon his life, there is joy, there is gladness. There is even hope. There is even rest. Sometimes the threats that are made against us take away our joy. And take away any sense of hope we might have. Because we look ahead to the future and we say see no good way out of this. We see no way for there to be hope. Sometimes threats against us, things that would threaten us or cause us difficulty or danger, take away our rest, take away our ability to rest, our ability to be at peace. In the midst of difficulty. And yet here in Psalm 16, David, with somebody trying to seek his life, he finds, because of the Lord and in the Lord, gladness Joy, hope, rest. David, with his life being threatened Says what about his total overall situation in life? He calls his total overall situation, even in the midst of the threat against him, he calls his total overall situation in life Pleasant. Pleasant. Something pleasantly assigned to him by God. Verse 6. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Lines which circumscribe the boundaries of my life and my experiences, the things that have been given to me from above, the situation and the position I've been given and assigned from above It's good. It's pleasant, David says. Now, he he says that knowing that that's not true for everybody. He's saying not necessarily that everybody has a pleasant allotment from God. Not everybody has a something pleasant assigned to them from God But he's saying he does. And again, he does, even though somebody is threatening his life and seeking to put him to death. His inheritance from God is something good, he says in verse 6. Again, the lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. Yes, I have a good inheritance. How can this be true? Again, somebody seeking his life, somebody seeking him to send him to the place of the grave, the place of Sheol. Nonetheless, he finds reason to be glad. He finds reason to find hope, joy, rest. He finds reason to look at his situation and call his overall situation pleasant. Good. How? How can he say this? How can you say this in this situation that David is in? How can you say that your situation is pleasant and good when someone is seeking your life Is it possible? And if it's possible, how is it possible? It's only possible because of what we see in verse one. So verse 1, notice his prayer. Again, the opening line of his prayer. The second part of verse 1 is a reason why he can have this disposition. Preserve me, O God, for In you I put my trust. How can you have David's state of mind? the state of soul he is expressing here. Hope, joy, rest, pleasantness, even when someone is seeking your life. How can you have that disposition and how can it be genuine in that situation? Only if you have the Lord as your Lord, as your God, and only if you really trust in Him and are able to trust that He is turning things towards your good. As he says in verse 2, O my soul, you have said to the Lord, You are my Lord. My goodness is nothing apart from you. There is no good that I have, except for that which I have in you, Lord. When your soul is able to say that to the Lord, that's when you're able to find joy, hope, rest, even in the midst of somebody threatening you. When you know that you have the Lord, and when you know that all the goodness that you need and ever will need is either in the Lord or from the Lord, and you already have the Lord now. Then you know that you have all the good you are ever going to need. And this is where David is. He knows the Lord. He trusts in the Lord. He knows he has no goodness except for that which is in the Lord. And if he has all that goodness in the Lord And he has right now all that he needs in order to have hope, joy, rest in the present, even under the threat. Again, how can his inheritance be good? How can it be pleasant? As he'd said in verse six. Because of what he said in verse 5, O Lord, you are the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You maintain my lot When the Lord Himself is the center of your inheritance, then you know that your inheritance is good. Even if your inheritance and even if the the lines that have fallen to you involve difficulty, trial, suffering, you're better off going through difficulty, trial, and suffering, having the Lord. than having no trial and yet not having the Lord. This is just where David is in our passage. Verse 8 I have set the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand I shall not be moved. David is able to rest in who the Lord is for him, and in the Lord he is able to find the joy, the hope, and the rest that he needs, even in the midst of a threat against his wife. And of course, the very height of what God provides to those who belong to Him shows up for us in verse 11. Now notice in verse 11. How is it that we are able to have hope, joy, rest in the midst of this life, even when there are threats against our life? Well, the ultimate anchor for that hope, joy, and rest is the reality of the eternal life that is promised to us. And that's what comes up in verse 11. Verse 11, the very climax of the song, the very climax of where it is that David finds his hope coming from in the Lord. What is the goodness that comes from God? What is the goodness that we have from God? The very height of the goodness that we come from God is expressed in verse 11. You will show me the path of life. In your presence is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. The reason we can rest secure that we have all the good we will ever need When we have the Lord is because when we have the Lord, we have the assurance and the promise that we will come to an end in the presence of God. And in the presence of God, we will have perfect life, perfect joy, and in being in God's presence, we will experience pleasure. Forevermore. Enjoyment of God. Enjoyment of God in spite of whatever we're going through now. Whatever we're going through now, even if there's a threat on our life, we have this assurance, just like David had this assurance. We have this assurance that we will come to an end in the presence of God. And if that is our destiny, if our destiny is to live in His presence forever, in eternal life and in eternal enjoyment of Him. And that's how we're able to trust today and have the hope and the rest and the joy That David has. Here's how we're able to look through whatever it is we're experiencing today and going through today and think of it as something that is really just a minor bump on the road into God's presence. If we understand where we're headed, if we have a sense of where we are headed, then we can rest even today. Now, you know, David has this assurance and understanding. Because the Lord is his God, because he knows uh God's promises. But we understand in full how this is true, and we understand in true in full how God accomplished it. How is it that we know for sure that God will bring us to life in His presence? How is it that God intends to bring people to life in his presence? David understood he had some promises from God. We understand those promises a lot more clearly today. Because we have heard and we have seen testimony of the risen Christ. We have heard and seen what eternal life looks like. Because Jesus Christ went down to death for our sins, bore the curse that our sins deserved, bore the death that our sins deserved. Died the death that our sins deserved, yet did so in order to overturn death, in order to come back from it, in order to triumph over it in eternal resurrection life. This is how we know that we will be raised to life eternal in the presence of God. Because Jesus was raised to life eternal for us on our behalf. The eternal life that Jesus was raised to is that which we too will be raised to. We understand that David had a sense of this. Now he didn't understand it clearly, right? He didn't know exactly the name Jesus. He didn't know exactly what his son would look like when he would come. But he still knew the Son of God and he still knew the Son of God who was the Son of David, and that's how he had this assurance. Well we understand it clearly now. Now that it has been fully revealed. It's been revealed that Jesus Christ is the Son of David. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And so now we can share in David's prayer. Yet we can also pray it in a way that is We have more clarity than David had. We can pray, preserve me, O God, for in you I trust. And we can pray this looking forward to the day when God will bring us to Himself and knowing that it's through Christ that He brings us. to himself. Knowing that God himself will preserve us for that day, that day of eternal life in his presence. Knowing that God has already sent his only begotten Son. In order to bring us to that day. That day when we will finish our travels along the path of life, that day when we will arrive in the presence of God. And when we will receive the fullness of joy that comes from being at his right hand and being in his presence. Let's remember that our God is the same God who is David's God that we share in the same promises that David Um enjoyed. David enjoyed the assurance of the very same promises that are made to us. David looked to his son, the Lord Jesus Christ. As his Lord, as his Savior, we look to the Lord Jesus Christ as our Lord, as our Savior, and as we do, we have the assurance. We have the promise that he will not leave us in the place of the grave. Yes, it's true. Our bodies might go down into the grave. David's body went down into the grave. But we like him. We'll be raised if we belong to Christ. And so may that be who we are. People who belong to Jesus Christ, people who therefore are spared death and the graves. And we'll be spared from from these things, we'll be lifted up from these things, we'll be raised to life forever, to live in God's presence forever. Well, let's continue to serve our God, let's continue to give thanks to Him, and as we do, let's continue to pray together with David in light of Jesus Christ. Preserve me, O God, for in you I put my trust. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we give praise to you this day and we give thanks to you that again you have Given to us these great promises of eternal life in your presence. Thank you that we are like David, that we are preserved by you, that we have a promise from the Lord Jesus Christ. And that his work is enough to cover our sins, to raise us up ab above the possibility of death and sin, and that by his resurrection he has accomplished this forever. Father, help us to look to him and to trust in him. Help us to trust in you in the midst of the things we go through here upon this earth. We pray, preserve us, O God, preserve us. And help us to put our trust in you in the midst of the things that we face. Help us to look to you and to receive from you that which you have for us, knowing that it comes from a good and fatherly hand. We praise these things in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.