If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Psalm 13, I believe that's on page 534 of your Pew Bibles. We'll be reading all the verses one through six times. Let's give attention once again to God's Word. To the choir master, a psalm of David. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord my God, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death Lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, once again we come to your word and we count this a blessing. That you give us time, Lord God, that you give us your spirit to open your word. That you've revealed yourself to us through your Son. That you love us so much that you would keep your word and lay it up in our hearts. Father, we ask that you do that tonight with this psalm. Should allow us not merely to hear, Father, but to take these words and by the Spirit set them securely within us. Guide us now, Lord. Give us understanding by your Spirit and apply these words to our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. It's been a little while, but we went through that portion of Genesis wherein we learned of Joseph. Indeed, the last portion of Genesis is much about Joseph. And if you think upon Joseph, what is it that you remember? You might remember that he became second in line, a ruler in Egypt, just below Pharaoh. But before that happened. Joseph was thrown into an empty pit by his own brothers. Joseph was sold off as a slave to Midianite traitors taken to Egypt. He's put into prison, law wrongly accused by Potiphar's wife. And then in prison he had to wait and wait and wait What might have been on Joseph's mind through all of those events? Day after day, night after night. Maybe he was thinking he was forsaken by God. Maybe that God had neglected or forgotten him, no longer loved him, no longer cared for him. Possibly crying out to the Lord how long It's exactly what we have tonight in this Psalm. It wasn't written by Joseph. It was written by David. And we really don't know why he wrote it. We don't have the circumstances set forth before us. Some psalms we have that, this psalm we don't But we do know that it's grouped in other psalms. Psalm nine. We have a headline or backdrop. The Lord sits in throne forever. He has established his throne for justice. The Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed in times of trouble. The needy shall not always be forgotten. And so we have a similar sense in Psalm 9. In Psalm 10. We read, Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? In Psalm 11, we read, In the Lord I take refuge, how can you say to my soul, flee like a bird to your mountain For behold, the wicked bend the bow, they have fitted their arrow to the string, and shoot in the dark at the upright in heart. There is that conflict between the righteous and the unrighteous set forth There's the idea that God may hide himself in times of trouble, and it continues on here in Psalm 13. I'd like us to see tonight that at times as the Lord seems distant That the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ must be brought from behind the works of the enemy to lie in front of the distress. As the Lord seems to be distant from the child of God, the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ must be brought from behind the work of the enemy to lie in front of the distress. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, pouring out distress, secondly, recognizing the need, and finally, knowing the truth. Well, first, pouring out distress. That's exactly what we have here in these first couple of verses in Psalm 13. And we have to confess there are times in our lives when it appears when it seems as though the Lord has forgotten us, that he's forgotten his children. The Christian, for various reasons, is brought into seasons when we perceive little or no communion with our God, a spiritual desert, dryness, barrenness. We may perceive this because of events in our lives, because of relationships, because of health, because of financial well-being or lack of well-being or employment. When things are not going as we planned them to go, as we think we deserve, when we're in pain, physical or emotional, when those who are unjust Are seemingly living the good life. When our enemies who love sin and love to remain in sin prosper. Then we conclude, we may conclude that God has forgotten. He's far off, he's not present with us Again, that is the beginning of this Psalm 13. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? As we consider the author of this psalm, we would consider that to be a very strange thing for David to be thinking or speaking, the inspired king of Israel. Even contemplating that the Lord had forgotten him, but now we have to consider the depth of his distress. Four times he asks that question, how long? He's waiting. And he isn't seeing God's presence with him. He's not feeling it. How long? How long? It seems to be that he's forgot been forgotten, out of God's mind, out of God's thinking, that God has turned away from him. He is unable, David is unable to look upon the face of God, so to speak, that the presence of God has been taken away from him, that he's been forgotten, cast aside. This is a difficult thing. We can hear it in David's voice. But it's a difficult thing for us as well as we Think we've been neglected, uncared for, unloved, unwanted, all caught up in being forgotten. This is because we're a communicative people, a people who have been made for communion, for fellowship. We long for attention in a good way. And so being forgotten is difficult. It's as if God has something better to do. So much so that David's taking counsel within himself. Look at verse 2. How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? He isn't taking counsel from God. God is silent. And so now he's speaking to himself in a way. I know you've done that. I've done that. David's heart is downcast. He's sorrowful, not just for a few moments, all the day. And not just one day, most likely. He's asking that question: how long, how long, how long? How long will God be silent? How long will David be feeling alone with the exception of his inner voice, his own counsel And how long will his enemy be exalted over him? He's feeling the exuberance of his enemies. In their heated pursuit, David is hearing the cheering and the jeering of those who oppose him in the kingdom. Why do we feel this way at times? I think we generally need to admit this sense of being neglected by God, a sense of His forsaking us, is real. If it were not, it would not be here in the Psalms. And it's the result of the fall. How did Adam and Eve feel when they were cast out of the garden, certainly separated from God, because they were. Their sin had separated them from God. It's only through Jesus Christ that we're brought back into communion with him. And so this feeling of separation, this feeling of neglect by God, this feeling of being forgotten Even as you trust in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ and submit to him as your Lord and Savior, nonetheless you will at times feel this imperfect and incomplete communion with God. A feeling that He is not close but far. A feeling that God's face has been turned away. It might be the result of a particular sin. Just as the Israelites went after false gods and suffered evils. Moses warned them, then my anger will be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them and hide my face from them. While there's no more condemnation for those who are in Christ, there will yet be times of chastisement by your heavenly Father. Which may very well include the feeling of being forgotten, of his being far off. Oh Lord, why do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Psalm 10 We may feel this way because of sin at times. Why else? Another reason might be the failure to keep God's promises in view. We enter into times of despair and our soul becomes downcast at times because we fail to remember the promises of God. Psalm 9, for the needy shall not always be forgotten. That truth has already been set forth if you're working your way through the Psalms. And Moses did not give the command to the people, you shall teach them diligently to your children, and talk of them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, when you rise up You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as frontlets on your eyes. Meaning the words, the commandments. Yes, they were for teaching our children. But they're also for keeping God's promises before us constantly Why do we feel this way at times? At times it's because we tend to live in our own strength. To solve our sin issues in our own way, with our own power. And in that there will be despair and depression. Because that's a rejection of our dependence upon Christ. Through these human feelings that we experience, this despair. He's even calling us to a greater dependence upon the Lord Jesus Christ, isn't he? Why do we feel this way? It may also be because we don't fully grasp God's plan and never will. We're finite and He is infinite. He's perfect, we're corrupt. We doubt and we do not trust him fully, as he is working out his perfect plan daily and hourly in our lives, and we must learn to increase our trust in him who knows the beginning from the end. We must pray that God would not reveal the future to us, but grant that our hearts would be changed from despairing hearts to trusting hearts, that our doubts would be cast off. I think these are some of the reasons why we tend toward this feeling of despair and feeling we're neglected. What is the call tonight? I think the call is to pour out your heart. Isn't that what David was doing? Yes, he was in despair, he was in distress, he was feeling neglected, but he was pouring out his heart before God. He was telling God, this is the way I feel right now Why he was feeling that way, we're not quite sure. We can speculate though on why we feel that way, why we enter into these times of despair. And so that means it's time for us to confess before him our fears, our anxieties, and our worries. And if necessary, to seek forgiveness. And to ask for an increase in trust and in faith, and ask for a change from doubting God's plans to resting in his perfect plan Even in his silence. Certainly the distress may be the the temptations of Satan as he seeks to lure you away from Christ and and lure you to the lusts of the flesh and of the world The distress may be your battling with besetting sin. And so the call again is to cry out, to pour out your heart to the living God, to ask for the Spirit to continue his work in your heart. And as you do, that will be balm, a soothing balm to your soul. That heart which is entangled in a spiritual battle looks to God, looks to the Lord Jesus Christ, the only one Who can restore your heart as you pour it out to him Yes, pouring out distress to the Lord God Almighty. That brings us to our second point, recognizing the need Well, at its root, what is the psalmist's concern? As he continues in his plea, it's fairly obvious that he's concerned. In verse 3, light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice. Because I am shaken. Those three lests seem to be the summation of his concern. Death, the enemy prevail, the foes rejoice. Certainly, unless God were to answer David, he would perish. I sleep the sleep of death. Death reigns. Outside of Christ, death reigns over all. He is crying out. This is, he seems to be on the edge of death, so to speak. He knows that life comes from the living God. And he's crying out for that. But even more than that, he's seems to be crying, if I were to die, what would happen to my kingdom? Don't know if he'd been anointed yet As king or to become king, it seems that he might have been. But if David were to die, what would happen to Israel? What would happen to the kingdom that would be under God? I think that's where he goes in verse 4. Let my enemy lest my enemy say, I have prevailed over him. Lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken. Notice he's concerned about the kingdom. He's concerned about it being shaken. Psalm 2 would read, The kings of the earth take their stand and rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. And this Psalm 13 continues that battle Between the Lord Jesus Christ, the anointed of the Lord, and all his enemies. And so David seems to be concerned that the enemies of God would prevail If God were not to answer him, he is concerned that God's enemies would prevail and would rejoice and would be those who would raise up their hands in revelry and show that they had defeated the living God. David was concerned. David was concerned that the desire of Satan might come to pass, that he would shut the doors to heaven. It seems to be the ultimate fear for the psalmist who would be king, a concern for the kingdom. Just as Christ's concern was not for himself, but to bring glory to his Father. To bring glory to his father's kingdom And so we see that great plea that's coming from David in this Psalm that God would stop the enemy's triumph. That God would preserve his life. Light up my eyes. Thest th I sleep, the sleep of death. You must see the picture here. That David seems to be saying that if you preserve my life, then you'll preserve the kingdom. He's in a state of darkness right now, as he's crying out to God. He's on the verge of death, so to speak. He's on the verge of entering into Sheol and he's calling out, light up my eyes. The condition of being near to death, because he wasn't hearing the very words of God. He was feeling far from God, and God is life itself, and he wasn't hearing his words, he wasn't receiving that which he needed. He wasn't being answered, and so he was in a state of darkness. And he knew that he needed the word of God for light, for life, and without it he would die. Think for a moment on that passage we have in 1 Samuel chapter 14 when Saul Told all of his people, his whole army, that they couldn't eat until they had defeated their enemies. Saul said, Cursed be the man who eats food until it is evening, and I am avenged on my enemies. But his son, Jonathan, returning from the battlefield, takes his staff and he puts it in the honey and puts it to his mouth and his eyes were brightened because he tasted a little bit of honey That was a picture of the physical nourishment that Jonathan needed, even as his father had laid a curse on those who would eat. You see the picture we have there. David the psalmist needed relief from his enemies who was trying to keep him from the Word of God, and he so sought the Word of God, he knew that would provide that which would light up his eyes. The Lord is the one who gives life. His word is life. And we know that Jesus Christ is the Word. Do you see the connection? David was crying out that his eyes might be enlightened because he wasn't hearing the word of God, he wasn't hearing from God. Our eyes need to be enlightened by receiving Christ. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. That's what John tells us in his gospel. Jesus himself states, I am the light of the world. In order for our eyes to be enlightened, in order for us to have life, we must have Christ. We must have the very Word of God, and that is Christ Jesus. And that's what the psalmist is crying out for He's recognizing need for the word, for Christ, for communion with his God. So that he would not be shaken. Did you see that? Lest my enemies say I prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken. The one who receives the Word of God cannot be shaken. The one who receives Christ is grounded in Christ. He's founded in the rock. And cannot be shaken, cannot be removed, can never be severed from the love of God if you are in Christ. There is an impossibility of shaking the saints in Christ. Let me ask you tonight. Do you believe that you are unshakable? In your own strength, you are shakable But in Christ, in Christ Jesus, you have become unshakable. Let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. Hebrews chapter 12 Brothers and sisters, if you're thinking, ah, I'm not sure if I am unshakable, cry out to Christ. Ask for assurance that you're in Him. And if you're in Christ, it's impossible for you to be shaken. Yes, pouring out distress and recognizing the need, the need for communion, and finally our third point, knowing the truth. Well, the truth of this psalm is that God never forsakes his children. The God of creation never leaves his children. In Matthew's gospel, we read, Fear not, therefore you are more valuable than many sparrows. He's the one who kneaded you together in your mother's womb. He's the one who knows your very thoughts. He knows when you sit down. He knows you when you rise up. He's searched out your path. He knows Everything about you, even before a word is on your tongue, the Lord God knows it altogether. He knows, he remembers, he searches, he scrutinizes, even from his throne room above the heavens. For this one who knows you so well, knows you in such detail, knows you with such intimacy. Would he do so only to forget you? Would he take so much time caring for you that he would set you aside uncaringly? No, the reality is that the Lord is attentive. That his ears are always open. The Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayers of the righteous. Proverbs 15 The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous, and his ears are open toward their cry. Psalm 34. He has regarded the prayer of the destitute and has not despised their prayer, Psalm 102. God hears the prayers of his children. And this is just part of the reality that God does not forsake his people Psalm thirty seven, he does not forsake his godly ones, they are preserved forever. What has our Lord told us? He's told us that He's the good shepherd, that He lays down His life for His sheep. The hired hand, one who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, but not Christ. Jesus was forsaken so that the children of God would not be forsaken, would not be forgotten. You see, this is the God who sent his only eternally begotten Son to the cross to suffer for the sins of his children for you tonight if you trust in him. How could this God who gave up his son now forget those whom he sent his son to save? Jesus cried out on the cross, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So that you would never have to cry that prayer. Now, as David cries out It seems as though the Lord answers him as he's even crying out in this prayer. Verse 5, I have trusted in your steadfast love. What a contrast. David has been brought to know the truth, maybe not while he was writing this psalm, but possibly. I've trusted in your steadfast love. He begins the psalm by crying out, How long will you forget me forever? In verse 5, he is to the point where he can say, I've trusted in your steadfast love. Love He's come to realize how could the God and Father who has sent his son for him, how could this one who has done such a thing then forget the object of his love No, our living God is unchanging and his love is eternal and thus steadfast. And David recognized that even when he was in this state of feeling neglected. He was not trusting in his eternal counsel, but in God's steadfast love. And then he rejoices in the salvation of God. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. Think of Paul for a moment, who was in prison languishing. And yet, even then, rejoicing, knowing that Christ was being proclaimed even as he sat in prison, knowing that God's plan was being worked out, even as he sat in prison, knowing that God was caring for him, even as he sat in prison. And David, knowing even as he felt God was far away at that point, that he could yet rejoice in the salvation that he had in Christ. And then possibly the most amazing passage in this psalm, as I read verse six, I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me. You must see the wide expanse of the Christian life here in these six verses. As David goes from asking the Lord, how long will you hide your face from me to singing to the Lord, knowing that he was hearing, because the Lord had dealt bountifully with him. David was now remembering what God had done for him and to him That he wasn't this one who was neglected. He wasn't this one who was forgotten. But God has dealt bountifully with him. And he goes from crying out to being able to sing before the Lord. Calvin writes this. It becomes us to engage in prayer in such a frame of mind as at the same time to be ready to sing the praises of God. A thing which is impossible unless we are fully persuaded that our prayers will be effectual. See, David was fully assured that his prayer would be effectual, even though it might not have been at that very moment. He was yet able to sing to the Lord because the Lord had dealt bountifully with him. Calvin continued, we may not be wholly free from sorrow But it is nevertheless necessary that this cheerfulness of faith rise above it. That's where David was. This cheerfulness of his faith, this remembering the steadfast love of the Lord, how he had dealt bountifully with him, his faith was above His distress as he trusted in the Lord. Isn't that really our call tonight? We have many things that distress us. Many things that seem to place us at a distance from God, but our call tonight It should be those who set our minds not upon the distressing situation or condition, but bring to front the things that are above. To set our hearts upon Christ, that He, the majesty, the person, the work of Jesus is overlaid above and across and all around our entire life. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. And so he doesn't merely lie behind the distress. But before the distress. He's over the distress. In such a sense that you know, you believe, you trust that it's not possible to be forgotten That even as the Christian is walking in this life, even as you experience the pain, the suffering of this world, even as you come under attack. For calling upon the Lord as your Savior, even as you're chastised for your sin. And all of your distresses and tears and emotions and feelings that God has left you defend for yourself, He has not. It's just the opposite. He's constantly with you. Like Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego thrown into the fiery furnace. He may be using this time of quietness to purify you. He's calling upon you to depend even more upon his son, who has experienced all of these distresses that you're experiencing even more So even in these times of perceived quietness of God toward you, he is there. And as Francis Schaefer penned, he is not silent. He's dealing bountifully with you, even in those times of quietness. We must remember that our God is working to cause each of his children to walk before Him. keeping every single one of us from stumbling. And he continues to deliver each one of his dear ones from death and their eyes from tears. This psalm finally calls us to meditate upon how God has dealt bountifully with each of us tonight. How many times do we ponder that question? How has God dealt bountifully with me? So many times we fixate ourselves on those negative things, the afflictions that we experience, the pains, the lack of funds, whatever it might be. And we don't consider how God has dealt bountifully with us even in and through those afflictions. But brothers and sisters, as we do, as we meditate upon the bountiful dealings of God with us, we're going to come into closer communion and union with the Lord Jesus Christ. We will be more grateful, more thankful for his loving kindness, for his grace, for his mercy And our praise will be sweeter. We will long for the Lord's day, knowing that As we think of the bountifulness of God and how we long to come into his courts and to give him praise, our worship will be much sweeter. Yes, when the Lord seems to be distant, the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ must be brought out from behind the works of the enemy to lie in front of our distresses. Remember Joseph. It seems as though he didn't realize the hand of God was upon him until the last chapter of Genesis. thrown into the pit, sold off and suffered. It took years for him to grasp the powerful hand of God at work in his life. May the Lord be merciful to us and allow us to bathe in the bounty that He's granted us by grace, even in times of quietness. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this psalm and for its breadth. As David goes from crying out in despair to remembering your steadfast love and your bountiful dealings with him. Help us, Lord. Help us to be those who do the same. Help us to meditate upon how you deal bountifully. with each of us and give you the praise. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.