If you turn your copy of God's word now to Leviticus, we'll be in chapter eight tonight. I think you'll find that on page one hundred and six. Excuse me, one hundred and two of your Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading the whole chapter. Let's give attention to the very word of God The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and the bull of the sin offering, and the two rams, and the basket of unleavened bread, and assemble all the congregation at the entrance of the of the tent of meeting. And Moses did as the Lord commanded him. And the congregation was assembled at the entrance of the tent of meeting. And Moses said to the congregation, This is the thing that the Lord has commanded to be done. And Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water. And he put the coat on him and tied the sash around his waist and clothed him with a robe and put the ephod on him and tied the skillfully woven band of the ephod around him binding it to him with the band, and he placed a breast piece on him, and in the breast piece he put the Urum and the Thummim. And he set the turban on his head, and on the turban in front he set the golden plate, the holy crown, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it and consecrated them. And he sprinkled some of it on the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all its utensils. And the basin and its stand to consecrate them. And he poured some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head and anointed him to consecrate him. And Moses brought Aaron's sons and clothed them with coats and tied sashes around their waist waist and bound caps on them as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he brought the bull of the sin offering. And Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the bull of the sin offering, and he killed it And Moses took the blood with his finger, put it on the horns of the altar around it, and purified the altar and poured out the blood at the base of the altar, and consecrated it to make atonement for it And he took all the fat that was on the entrails and the long lobe of the liver and the two kidneys with their fat, and Moses burned them on the altar. But the bull and its skin and its flesh and its tongue he burned up with fire outside the camp, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he presented the ram of the burnt offering, and Aaron and his sons laid their hands on the head of the ram, and he killed it, and Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. He cut the ram into pieces, and Moses burned the head and the pieces and the fat. He washed the entrails and the legs with water, and Moses burned the whole ram on the altar. It was a burnt offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering for the Lord, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then he presented the other ram, the ram of ordination. And Aaron and his sons lay their hands on the head of the ram and he killed it And Moses took some of the blood and put it on the lobe of Aaron's right ear and on the thumb of his right hand and on the big toe of his right foot. Then he presented Aaron's sons, and Moses put some of the blood on the lobes of their right ears, and on the thumbs of their right hands, and on the big toes of their right feet. And Moses threw the blood against the sides of the altar. Then he took the fat and the fat tail, and all the fat that was on the entrails, and the long lobe of the liver, and the two kidneys, with their fat and the right thigh And out of the basket of unleavened bread that was before the Lord he took one unleavened loaf, and one loaf of bread with oil, and one wafer, and placed them on the pieces of fat and on the right side. And he put all these in the hands of Aaron and in the hands of his sons and waved them as a wave offering before the Lord. Then Moses took them from their hands and burned them on the altar with the burnt offering. This was an ordination offering with a pleasing aroma, a food offering to the Lord. And Moses took the breast and waved it for a wave offering before the Lord. It was Moses' portion. of the ram of ordination, as the Lord commanded Moses. Then Moses took some of the anointing oil, and of the blood that was on the altar, and sprinkled it on Aaron and on his garments. And also on his sons and on his sons' garments. So he consecrated Aaron and his garments, and his sons and his sons' garments with him Moses said to Aaron and his sons, Boil the flesh at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and there eat it. with the bread that is in the basket of ordination offerings, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it. What remains of the flesh, and the bread you shall burn up with fire. And you shall not go outside the entrance of the tent of meeting for seven days, until the days of your ordination are completed. For it will take seven days to ordain you As has been done today, the Lord has commanded to be done to make atonement for you. At the entrance of the tent of meeting, you shall remain day and night for seven days performing what the Lord has charged, so that you do not die. For so I have been commanded. And Aaron and his sons did all the things that the Lord commanded by Moses. Let's find the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we come now before you and ask for the Spirit's work powerfully in us tonight. Father, we come once again to a passage where we are not quite familiar with all of these things that were called to be done. Two and four Aaron and his sons, the priests of Israel. Guide us tonight, Father. Show us how all this applies to us, to our hearts, to our lives as those saved by Christ. We ask for help by your spirit. In Christ's name. Amen. What do you know about Jesus' preparation for his earthly ministry? What do you really know? If someone were to ask you that question, where would you go in the Bible? Probably most of us would, with a knee-jerk reaction, go to the Gospels We did that before we read this passage in Leviticus. We read a short portion, one of the Gospels, in the Gospel of Luke. And that tells us a little bit about Jesus' preparation. It tells us that he grew and became strong, and he was filled with wisdom. The favor of God was upon him. And then we learned as he was twelve years old and his parents go up to Jerusalem and they go home, leaving him behind unbeknownst to them. He was in the temple. He was feasting upon God's word. All who heard him were amazed at his understanding and his answers. God was preparing him. And even as his mother asks him, why did you do this? Well, I must be in my father's house. He was submissive. And we learn that he grew in favor with God and with men But I think even as we read that passage in Luke, we'd have to say that we find very little in the gospel accounts with regard to Jesus' preparation for his earthly ministry. One writer has put it this way, the thirty years or so of silence that follow gloss over almost without comment the time Jesus spent in Nazareth. He's referring to that time of preparation, so to speak. We have a desert of information, so to speak, of regarding Jesus' 30 years prior to his baptism. So where would we go? How do we know? Well, we might turn to Leviticus. You might be thinking, well I didn't see Jesus' name here in chapter 8. You'd be right, it doesn't appear there But if we look closely, we may see a bit of Jesus' preparation here as we consider the preparation of the priests for their ministry. Well we've learned so far here and as we've been studying Leviticus that God has delivered a people, He saved the people out of the bondage, He's delivered them to worship He's appeared to them on the mountain. He's given them the Ten Commandments. He's called them to live in accordance with those Ten Commandments. He's given them a place to meet with himself called the Tabernacle or the Tent of Meeting. a sanctuary that he designed and he called them to create, to build. The taboo tabernacle was erected, but Moses was not able to enter into it. We saw that at the end of Exodus, because God filled it. So there was more to be done. We've learned that. We've been learning that as we've been studying the sacrifices. The design of God, allowing his people to approach him, this is what Leviticus at least the first seven chapters have been all about. And now as we enter into chapter eight, we're we're looking at how the priests, those who would be ministering before God, those who would be ministering on behalf of the entire nation, how they were prepared to now enter into that place which had been closed off so far. How would they get in? Chapter 8 is really telling us about these priestly preparations for their entry into the tent of meeting. Tonight I want us to see that Jesus purified you by his atonement, covered you with his righteousness. And anointed you with his Spirit, all, so that you could serve the living God Jesus purified you by his atonement, covered you with his righteousness, and anointed you with his spirit, all so that you could serve the living God. We'll see that in three points tonight. First the covering, secondly the anointing, and finally the cleansing. Please make no mistake. This chapter in Leviticus is once again all about Christ. So let's open it and see Christ here. Well first the covering As we look at this chapter 8 in Leviticus in a broad brush fashion, we'd say that this is the chapter that tells us how the sacrifices described in the first seven chapters of Leviticus were to be used With regard to the priests and how the priests were prepared for their ministry before the Lord, we have many details. Many physical details describing how God by His Word prepared these ministers to serve before him, to minister On behalf of the entire congregation, the entire nation of Israel. And in a sense, it begins with the congregation. We think this is all about the priests. A good bit of it is. But did you notice that Moses was called to assemble the congregation? We see that in verse 3. And we see it in verse 4. Moses did as the Lord commanded him. The congregation was assembled. So to think this is all about the priests really, in a sense, misses what's happening. As all this is going on, the congregation has been assembled. They're watching. They're seeing what's going on with the priests and how they're being prepared to minister on their behalf. It's an amazing picture. Well, the first thing done to the priests was this washing. Look at verse 6. And Moses brought Aaron and his sons and washed them with water. This is in accordance with what Moses has already been taught in Exodus chapter 30. When they go into the tent of meeting or when they come near to the altar to minister to burn a food offering to the Lord, they shall wash with water so that they may not die It had to be washed. This is the first thing that Moses does. These priests were filthy in their own sins. You see, they were about to put on holy garments. garments, clothes which were designed by God and fabricated using his word for the purpose of serving him And before they could even do that, they had to be washed, the symbolic cleansing prior to putting them on. Think about the parallel to Jesus as he washes the feet of his disciples. Yes, he was projecting what he was about to do on the cross, but he was also preparing them for their ministry, cleansing them, washing them. First thing. That was the first thing that needed to happen before they could put on the garments. We had those garments set forth before us in verses seven through nine. Now if you want detail in these garments, we just have to go back to Exodus because All the patterns are given to Moses, and then we see how the skillful weavers put them together. But we see a coat put on him, a sash around his waist. A robe, and then the ephod to go over that, and then a band, a skillfully woven band, to bind the ephod to Aaron And then the breast piece was placed on Aaron. And in the breast piece was placed the Urim and the Thummim. And on his head a turban was set. And if you remember from Exodus, there's a plate, a golden plate, which goes on the front of the turban, the holy crown, described here in Leviticus for us. All of these garments, designed and ordained by God, priestly garments, garments that identified them, identified Aaron as the priest. a garment which set him apart from everyone else in the nation of Israel. Remember, 600,000 men, plus women and children, over a million. He's the only one Garments which proclaimed to the Lord, I am here to serve you, God Most High. Imagine what must have gone through the mind of Aaron, his sons, every time they put these things on. I'm going to serve the living God. I'm being set apart at this very moment with these garments, with this turban, with this golden plate, to enter into the tent of meeting, to minister on behalf of the nation before my Creator. Garments which covered them. Just think of that for a moment. The priests were required to be covered before they could minister. Indeed, their whole being, with the exception of their faces, their eyes, their ears, noses, their mouths, maybe their hands were not covered, I'm not quite sure But other than that, they were entirely covered with garments that were acceptable to God. You see, their inward man, their inward corruption, their inward sinfulness had to be covered In order that they could minister before the Lord. You see that in the garden, don't we? With Adam and Eve, as they sinned against God, what does God do? Before he sends them out, he covers them. He made suitable coverings for them. The coverings that they had made for themselves were not suitable. And so God makes suitable coverings for them before they're cast out. Coverings of animal skins, blood was shed. In order for them to be covered because of their sin and their sin nature You see, even if the priests weren't engaged in active sin, active transgression at that very moment, yet their beings, their persons had to be covered. In such a way that was acceptable to the Lord prior to their entering into his service But as we read in Luke, unlike the priests of Levi, Jesus needed no garments. He needed no covering, first because his father knew him. There was no need for identification. But moreover, Jesus had no sin to cover. There was nothing in Jesus that needed covering. Indeed, when his flesh became transparent, so to speak, and the Mount of Transfiguration, what did those who were watching see? His face shone like the sun. His garments became white as light. Jesus needed No covering. Do you ever stop to think about the wretchedness of your sin? Do you ever stop to think that because of your sin nature, just your very being in a sense Is offensive to God? In Adam, we've inherited each one of us a corrupt and sin-inclined nature. Westminster Confession reads this way, They being the root of all mankind, the guilt of their sin was imputed. And the same death in sin and corrupted nature conveyed to all their posterity. descending from them by ordinary generation. That's a description of us. Indeed, when Adam lived 130 years, he fathered a son in his own likeness. Do you remember the difference between that verse and the verse we see in Genesis 1? Created in the likeness of God, and now we read that Seth is created in the likeness of And after the image of his Father. In Genesis six, we read that the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and every intention of his thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. In Romans five, we read that if many died through man's one man's trespass, meaning Adam's trespass. For as by the one man's disobedience many were made sinners. Brothers and sisters, each one of us has a corrupted, sin-inclined nature. But you're thinking, well I I'm trusting in Christ tonight. Praise God. Praise God. The Lord has changed your heart from stone to flesh and you've come to a true saving belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. You're no longer a slave to sin. Yes, yes, but the old man still resides Paul writes, I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but the very thing I hate. You see, this must have an effect upon God, and so a covering is required. Tonight, as you trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are in a much better way than the Israelite priests. You've been given the righteous garments of Christ. You see, you need covering And God provides it, doesn't he? What a joy to think upon this. It's prefigured by the Lord in the garden. The Lord God made garments of skin for Adam and for his wife. He clothed them. It's prefigured by the prophet Ezekiel. What is he writing about the Israelites? He's writing about their origin As for your birth, on the day you were born, your cord was not cut, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt. He's saying nobody wanted you But I did. I clothed you with embroidered cloth and shod you with fine leather. I wrapped you in fine linen and covered you with silk. It's prefigured by the prophet Ezekiel, and it's stated expressly. The garments we receive from Christ is stated expressly by the prophet Isaiah. I will rejoice greatly in the Lord. My soul exalts in my God, for he has clothed me with the garments of salvation. He's covered me with a robe of righteousness. Do you see? It was figuratively stated by Paul. Well, he writes about the armor of God and calls you to put it on. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, having put on the breastplate of righteousness. And ultimately, ultimately, as John the Apostle John writes in that last book of Revelation. As he writes about the return of Lord Jesus Christ, as he writes about the bride who's made herself ready. It was granted her to clothe herself with fine linen bright and pure. You see Brothers and sisters, we need clothing. We need to be clothed. We need to be covered in the pure robes of Jesus' righteousness. Even now, like the Israelite priests, the living God sees you dressed in Jesus' garments, appropriate garments, garments of righteousness, which like the priests enable you to approach and commune with him through his son Praise be to God. That brings us to our second point, the anointing. Look at verse ten. Then Moses took the anointing oil and anointed the tabernacle and all that was in it and consecrated them. See, the first thing he does is he sets apart the consecrate or consecrates the tabernacle. What was in it? A lot of things. A lot of things that God had designed that had been fabricated according to his design. It was that place where where Moses was to meet with God. And the first thing he does is he sets it apart with his oil. And he sprinkled some of it, meaning the oil, on the altar seven times and anointed the altar and all its utensils and the basin and its stand to consecrate them So now not only the tabernacle and the things in the tabernacle, but now that which is outside the tabernacle, the altar, that which the burnt offerings would be set upon, he consecrates that, and now he pours some of the anointing oil on Aaron's head and anointed him to consecrate him. The word consecrator, consecrated, is used three times here. Tabernacle and everything in it, the altar and its utensils, and now finally the servants of God. Consecrated with the oil set apart. That's what that word means. If we go into a Hebrew dictionary, it means to transfer something to the state of holiness. That's the idea. Set apart. Made holy by the Word of God. So that these things could be used to serve him, so that these people, Aaron and his sons, would be servants of the Most High, anointed by that which symbolically set them apart from others. This oil. It's very specific. We read of it in Exodus 30 again. Finest of spices, flowing myrrh, fragrant cinnamon. Fragrant cane, cassia, olive oil, all mixed together, the work of a perfumer, a holy anointing oil, a special mix called for by God the Almighty, applied to Aaron and his sons to consecrate them, symbolically setting them apart, carving them out, so to speak, from the rest of the people. It was not enough that their bloodline was sufficient. They were of the tribe of Levi. But that wasn't enough. They had to be set apart, set aside, separated. God's anointing had to be set upon them. That oil, that special mix, that combination crafted by the Lord was poured out upon them and symbolized their being set apart for his service. They were to minister to the Lord. And the anointing oil was that which set them apart for that work. The priests needed that oil, that anointing, to enter into his service. Now think of Jesus. How was he anointed? Where was the oil? He wasn't a Levite. He was of the tribe of Judah. He didn't have the blood of the priestly line of Levi. So how was he set apart? Hopefully you're answering that question by saying, well, it was by the Spirit of God. Remember at his baptism, after being baptized, Jesus came up immediately from the water, and behold, the heavens were opened, and he saw the Spirit of God descending as a dove and lighting on him. A voice out of the heavens said, This is my beloved Son with in whom I'm well pleased. Jesus was clearly anointed by the Holy Spirit, descending upon him like a dove, lighting upon him, dwelling in him. He was chosen by God. Just as the tribe of Levi was chosen by God to minister before him, Jesus, as Luke records in chapter 9, out of the voice of the clouds, saying, This is my son, my Chosen one. Listen to him. This one man, this God man, was chosen by God, this Jesus. And that outward visible sign of the Holy Spirit descending upon him, no oil being poured down Jesus' spirit if he had one, no anointing. setting him apart as was done with the Levites. The anointing was by the Holy Spirit. Visually observable, just as the oil was. But this anointing was spiritually powerful. How was it that Jesus withstood Satan's powerful temptations three times? Luke in chapter 4 writes this: Jesus, full of the Holy Spirit. Returned from the Jordan and was led around by the Spirit in the wilderness forty days, being tempted by the devil. He's full of the Spirit. Do you understand how he was able in the flesh to fight against the lust of the world, the lies, the deceptions of Satan is because of the filling of the Spirit? Think of Peter's preaching before Cornelius in Acts chapter ten This is after Peter has been given a vision. Eat. Kill and eat. Everything. Everything's clean. He sees now that the Lord is saving Gentiles. Not just Jews. He's saving Gentiles. He's sending the Spirit for Gentiles. As for the word he sent to Israel, preaching the good news of peace through Jesus Christ, He's Lord of all. You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed how God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power Peter didn't stop there. He, meaning Jesus, went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. See, that's the work of the Spirit. That's the filling of the Spirit. That's the anointing of the Spirit which was on Jesus Not only was he able to thwart the temptations of Satan, but now, by and through the work of the Spirit, he's doing good. He's healing all who were oppressed by the devil. For God was with him. This is the filling. This is the anointing of the Holy Spirit that set the human nature of Jesus apart. Now here's the amazing truth, if that's not amazing enough. If you know Jesus savingly tonight, you have been anointed as well. Not with oil, but with the same Holy Spirit. The same one Jesus has baptized you. That's what John John the Baptist was saying. I'm going to baptize you with water, but but Jesus, he's going to baptize you with the Holy Spirit. That word baptize in Greek means to wash ceremonially for the purpose of purification. He's got to purify you with the Spirit. And he sent His Spirit to indwell you. This isn't a once and done. It's not like the foot washing in the upper room. I'll ask the Father, he will give you another helper to be with you forever. We don't usually think of those words. To be with you. Forever to indwell you. Emmanuel, God with us. Do you see Brothers and sisters, you should be amazed at that truth tonight. It's the same Spirit who filled Jesus Christ, who's now been sent by Jesus Christ to purify you. And to dwell with you forever. That's the anointing that you have received as you believed upon the Lord. That brings us to our third point, the cleansing. The cleansing And we see most of this chapter is really about that external cleansing as we bring forward now all those sacrifices that We've read about in chapters 1 through 7. Now we see how they're actually used. They were described for. It was like an instruction booklet. And in 1 through 7, do this, do that, do this. And now it's, hey, this was done. They were used. On the priests. Verse 14, then he brought the bull of the sin offering. Verse 18, then he presented the ram of the burnt offering. Verse 22, then he presented the other ram, the ram of ordination. The sin offering was to atone for their sins. Now there's mix, we've we've understood that. There's overlap between these offerings. But we can say just generally the sin offering was to atone for their sins. It comes first. Right? That needed to come first. They needed atonement. Before anything else could be done. And then the burnt offering, that that being completely devoted to the Lord, everything given up. Purified, and then completely devoted to the Lord with the burnt offering. And then the ordination offering being set apart to serve the living God, atoned for. completely devoting themselves to the Lord. And now that it's being set apart, that ordination offering to to serve the living God. And then finally In verse 30, Moses took some of the anointing oil and the blood that was on the altar and sprinkled it on Aaron and his garments, consecrating Aaron and his garments and his sons with him. See everything there is external. Everything was visual. Remember the congregation's watching. And they're seeing all of this. The cleansing with blood, the smoke, wafting up from the altar where the burnt offering was being wholly consumed by fire, the placement of blood on on Aaron's right ear and and thumb and and big toe. Aaron being consecrated from head to to toe But the picture of cleansing didn't stop there with the external. For men, these priests, were corrupt throughout their entire being, and sin flows from the heart. So there needed to be an internal cleansing of that which was unseen, the heart. And I think I might be going out on a limb here, but I think that's what we see beginning at verse 31. Moses said to Aaron and his sons, Boil the flesh at the entrance of the tent of meeting, and there eat it. With the bread that's in the basket of ordination offerings as I commanded. The remains of the flesh and the bread you shall burn up with fire. They were there for seven days. You have to ask the question, why? Why wasn't this a once and done? Why when the oil was poured, the everybody sacrificed, the blood was sprinkled, why why don't we just start the ministry? But God said, No, seven days. It will take seven days to ordain you Well, according to the Mayo Clinic, it takes anywhere from two to five days for food to move throughout the digestive system. You see, these men had been consuming food that hadn't been consecrated. And so that needed to be purged from their systems. And the consecrated food had to be consumed. So it seems to me that for the priest to stay seven days, that the day of completion, a day of perfection, seems to align with an internal cleansing that was going on. Eating that sacrificial meat and ordination bread. They were being cleansed internally. At least symbolically, as well. Here is where the comparison to Jesus Christ falls apart, For there really is no comparison. Jesus needed no cleansing. Not external, not internal. No purification, no atonement was needed for Jesus to serve his Father. No, he was the cleanser. He was and is the purifier. He was the sacrifice. He is the atonement. And you see, because of Jesus, what you're able to do, what you're called to do. Indeed, we we read it tonight. It's part of our confession. He's entered into once for all the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. He's done that for you. He secured an eternal redemption. The blood of bulls and goats, the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctified for the purification of the flesh. How much more with the blood of Christ who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. You see, that's why you were saved, at least in part. The priests who were given all of these words and commands so that they could serve God. And now Christ, Christ has purified you, He's atoned for you Indeed, he's clothed you with his righteousness. He's anointed you with the Holy Spirit, why, for good works. That's exactly what we read in Ephesians chapter 2, don't we? For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, it's the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Do you see? What a privilege! That Christ has provided you with all of this so that you could serve just like the Levitical priests. Well, in a different way, but All of that given to the priests so that they could serve all of Christ given to you so that you can serve the living God. And so as we go home tonight, as we meditate upon this passage, we should be asking ourselves, Am I? Am I doing that which the Lord has called me to? Am I serving the living God because Jesus has atoned for me, because Jesus has clothed me in his righteousness, because he's given me his Holy Spirit. Am I serving? Because he's purified my conscience from dead works for this purpose to serve the living God, am I? Am I serving him? Brothers and sisters, we need to examine ourselves and ask that question. Pray that the Spirit would show us Yes, Jesus purified you by his atonement, covered you with his righteousness, and anointed you with his spirit, all so that you could serve the living God. Praise be to Jesus Christ. Amen. Father, we thank you for this book. We thank you how it points us to Christ constantly, consistently, again and again, pointing us to your Son. His person and his word. And tonight we we have to take a moment to thank you and to praise you that he indeed has purified Every single one of your children. He has covered every single one of your children with his righteousness, that he's anointed every single one. of all those who trust in him with his spirit. And so tonight we ask, Lord God, even now we ask, by your spirit, work in our hearts individually and certainly collectively as a church. To help us, Father, to know whether or not we're serving you in the way that you would have us to serve you. And if we're not, Lord God, convict us of that. And point us, Father. Point us in the direction you have us to serve. Work on our hearts. Father, be gentle with us, for we are frail and saved only by grace. But we need your Spirit to work in us, to direct us and guide us. But how, Lord God, you desire us to serve you. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.