Now let us turn to the evening series of sermons from 1 Timothy today in 1 Timothy 5. And we'll be reading verses 1 through 7. 1 Timothy 5, 1 through 7. And hear the word of the Lord as I read. Do not rebuke an older man, but exhort him as a father, younger men as brothers, older women as mothers. Younger women as sisters with all purity. Honor widows who are really widows But if any widow has children or grandchildren, let them first learn to show pity at home and to repay their parents. Where this is good and acceptable before God. Now she who is really a widow and left alone, Trusts in God and continues in supplications and prayers night and day. But she, who lives in pleasure, is dead while she lives And these things command that they may be blameless. But if any one does not provide for his own, and especially for those of his household, he has denied the faith. And is worse than an unbeliever. Thus far it ends the reading of God's uh of God's word. We uh previously have begun looking at this section and uh and uh we uh saw that uh This section deals with all different kinds of people in the church, uh young uh young uh men, old men, young women. uh old women and then uh widows as well. And this would uh basically cover almost all uh people who would be in a in a in a church And uh and uh the first part of it, uh Paul is giving instruction about how to treat uh the older and the younger people and uh uh uh how to um rebuke them if that's necessary or exhort them if that's uh needed. And then beginning with verse 3, he picks up the question of how to deal with widows. And the widows are a subset of the kind of people who we would normally say are needy people, uh the poor, the indigent. Um and so this becomes uh uh uh uh a section about uh uh specifically uh spoken of widows, but some of the principles here are applicable. to all people that the church come in contact with who have material needs. And so the the problem of uh uh of a person being a widow in that culture is even more devastating than it is in our culture uh because a widow didn't have uh anyone uh your uh or didn't have uh her own husband or perhaps her children if she was childless, that she didn't have anyone there who could take care of her. And certainly there was no social safety net uh that was uh working within the culture of the time. But the fact that he singles out widows is something that I think we can pay attention to and also learn from. The Bible does have a lot to say about widows, whether it be Old Testament. uh or New Testament. Um they prop they they come into the conversation fairly frequently And and some of this I said the last time, but not all. We remember that the book of Ruth uh is uh about a number of things, but it's about uh uh widows and uh caring for widows And uh we find that in the uh according to uh God's Word, uh Old Testament Israel uh left the corners of the fields uh ungleaned or unharvested. And they were for uh the the the the widows and other needy people to go out and to be able to glean themselves uh uh enough to uh uh uh have uh food uh in there and uh to to to make food. And we see this coming into play with in the book of Ruth. Naomi, the daughter of Ruth. went out on behalf of Ruth into the fields of one of the rich men in the community, his name was Boaz, who followed this law. And she was gleaning uh uh corn, ears of corn, or wheat, whatever it was, and uh she managed to be well treated And uh she was able to bring home uh much food uh for an uh for Naomi Now, additional places where widows crop up, we read about one in 1 Kings chapter 17, the widow that Elijah helped. He didn't just help her with food, but he also helped resurrect her son in one of the great miracles of the Old Testament But there are other widows who figure prominently in the New Testament, in the life of Jesus. They cross paths. Mark chapter 12, verse 42 speaks of a certain poor widow. We recently looked at this passage. She threw in two mites. into the church's treasury, which made a half of a cent. Jesus, observing this, called his disciples together and said, She is given more than all those who paid previously. And certainly What Jesus was getting his disciples to understand was not the numerical amount of what was given, but the very gift of w one that involved sacrifice. He says she gave of her life. For her this woman, this widow, it it meant maybe not eating the next day. That uh she gave uh the little bit of money that she had, and and it I I think it's a wonderful story about how Christ noticed that. And made that a point of instruction for his disciples. We also know about the story in Luke chapter 2, verse 37 of a woman named Anna. It says she was a widow of about fourscore and four years. Now, if my math serves me correctly, that means she was a widow for 84 years. And it says that she did not leave the temple, but she served God there with fasting and prayers night and day And you remember that on one particular day, after 84 years, on one particular day, she happens to see the baby Christ. In Luke chapter four, verse twenty-six, it reflects on the first Kings 17 passage where uh Elijah went to the wit woman in Zarephath, the widow. and uh helped save the life of her son as well as give them food. I'm just drawing out a number of different places in the scriptures where it talks about widows. Luke chapter 7 verse 14, Christ is leading the city of Nain, and there he sees A man being carried out. He's dead. He's the only son of his mother who was a widow. And many people were there with her, and the Christ raised that dead woman's son, that dead widow's son, from the grave. James 1, verse 27 makes that stunning statement. Pure religion and unbefiled before God and the Father is this, to visit the fatherless and the will and the widows in their affliction. And to help keep himself unspotted from the world. He actually defines pure religion. True religion in the eyes of God is the ministry to the fatherless and the widows. Not simply what you say, but also who you care for, who you're willing to serve. And then we find that it was uh that the that there was because there was an argument between uh the the sons of uh the Greek widows and the he the widows of the Hebrews The widows, one of the widows were being neglected in the daily food distributions, and that gave rise to the first deacons. being chosen and instructed in the early church in Acts chapter 6, verse 1. The verses which are before us tonight or this afternoon speak to the fact that God still realizes there will be widows In the life of God's people. And it talks about how to care for them. It probably must assume also that that uh these widows do not have much means of support, uh that they're poor. And he goes on to say in verse 4 that their first line of help is their immediate family. If any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to show pity at home, to repay their parents for that is good and acceptable. in their sight, in before God. So what Paul is saying to Timothy, the church's responsibility kicks in But not until after the widow's children or even nephews have done their diligence to help. He even goes on to say that that's a good thing in God's eyes that a child would dare to help his parent or a relative would help a widow who is their relation. Honor widows, he says, who are widows indeed. Now here comes the one of the principles about how to care for widows is first exhaust Or not first, but first make sure that the family's on board. The family has done what it set can do. Secondly Discern that the widow is a widow indeed. How do you do that? Paul left explicit instructions. And I think that this probably this these instructions probably would be very helpful For anyone who's in need, he happens to be talking about widows, but I think it would apply to others as well. He says She that is verse five, she that as a is a widow indeed, manifests certain A widow indeed means this. Desolate, which probably means she has very little resources. But she trusts in God. Secondly, she has to be a believer. If the church is going to help. And that she continues in supplications and prayers night and day. She's a person who is on her own She's left alone, except that her hope and her expectation and her trust is in God. So she's never quite all alone. And she has the greatest helper she can have. But nevertheless He says that her hope is in God. She trusts in God. She trusts in God's promises. Her faith As Hebrews 11, verse 1 is, says, is the substance of things hoped for the evidence of things not seen? And if God, if you're a believer, you know that God is the one behind all blessings that come to his people. She continues in supplication and prayers night and day. That's a fairly uh dramatic statement. night and day adds to the uh uh uh uh sense of how frequent she is involved in prayer because it says She continues in prayers and supplement uh prayers and and com and supplications night and day. She is consistent. She stays at it. She has bulldog tenacity, as it were. I hope I didn't insult any bulldog lovers. But uh but uh she is she's uh she does she does not let up, uh continues to pray to God. By doing so, she indicates where her hope lies and where her faith is. And she remains constant even when God does not answer her right away. She does not give up. She's like Anna in the temple waiting for the Lord to return. And she's there every day Afraid that if she's not there, you know, he she might miss the day when the Lord comes. Um She is not going to give up. And and the whole picture is one of a of a person who is very strong in the faith. It's not someone who has no faith at all and is just hanging around the church Or the people of God waiting to get a handout. The Christian church is called to focus on that kind of person Who has done all that they can, who has received all the help they can get from their family Who is yet persistent about asking God for help, continues to be in prayer. She's a believer, she trusts, she's an example Giving to those who are poor is n it that the poor has to be qualified. The church does not have the resources to give to all the world's poor, as if the mission of the church is to feed all the needy in the world. And sometimes you'll hear church people say that. That uh, you know, we live in such a uh a uh an a uh an age and in a country of such blessing and of such wealth that if we were really serious about our faith and we really wanted to benefit others, we would sell all of our earthly possessions put them in one great big giant pool and then go out and minister to the poor. That's not the view that Paul has. That's not what he's communicating. He says church can help, but it has to be conditioned on several important principles. A person is a believer. The person is a widow indeed who is regular in prayer. She has a life that's fixed on God. She has gotten help from her family first, but still not enough to go around. See, all these things, it's like it's like a checklist. You know, all these things have to be satisfied in order for the church to give whatever resources it has. To this. And you don't see God issuing any call to the church from this kind of text where it's specifically talking about Meeting the need of a poor woman, or what we might call diaconal needs. You don't see any broad base call, sell all your earthly possessions and give to the poor. in order to meet that need. So he's just trying here mostly to define what it means to for what a real widow is. And notice that he goes further than that. He then in verse 6 talks about what a real widow is not. What uh now um it says in verse six um She who lives in pleasure is dead while she lives. Well that That verse doesn't just hang right out there all by itself, even though in and above itself it's true, but it's linked to his previous discussion about widows. It's the contrast to what a good widow is, as a what a widow is who can be supported by the church Over against what a widow who cannot be supported by the church. She is one who the the one who cannot be supported by the church's uh funds is one who lives for pleasure, is one who lives uh and Instead of devoting her life in praying and before God, she lives for the high times. She lives to indulge her sinful senses She lives in a wanton way to satisfy her own material wants. James chapter 5 verses 1 through 5 has an insight on this kind of person Um and he's talking about rich people, but I think the point he makes is applicable to our discussion. 5 verse 1 of James Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your min miseries that shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, your garments are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered. The rust of them shall be a witness against you and shall eat your flesh, as it were, of fire. Ye who have reaped treasure today, together, for the last days, behold, for the hire of laborers who have reaped down your fields. which is which is of you kept back by fraud crieth out. And the cries of them which have reaped Which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of the Sabbath. You lived in pleasure on the earth. And have been wanton. You've nourished your hearts as in the day of slaughter Wanton indulgence into the pleasures and treasures of the earth is reckless. Needless, unjustified, immoral, lustful Because in your headlong pursuit of those things, you perceive to have no regard for anybody else but yourself You're indulgent, selfish, self-seeking, unloving, hedonistic. It's that kind of person who Paul says, don't. Whether it's a widow or whether it's someone who claims to have need, it's that kind of person that the church has no business meeting that material need. Widows who live in pleasure and are still seeking the church's help to help pay for all kinds of various different things from rent to electricity, to food, to heating oil, whatever. If they are still indulging in the world's treasures, the church, I think the scripture is saying we should not benefit that. And I can remember Paula coming home with stories of people that she worked in and her job that would come to receive help. And many people did legitimately leave need help. But there was always the few who had learned how to scan the system. And believe me, there are people out there who know how to scan the churches too And there sometimes they're often the people who have two ultra-high definition definition television sets, an iPod and a new car. Happens from time to time. Those kinds of people are dead to spiritual truths, and they're not to be the object of the help from the church And so Paul has pretty much cleared up who is to be the objects of help. And I it's funny I'm talking about this right now because we had just had an incident. of this. And uh and you know you you there are people who come to you and they have they they have needs that look s look serious. Um uh but it seem and I was thinking to myself, I said, you know, we need to have some criteria for who we're gonna help and who we're not gonna help. And no and behold, the the text says it. And um so um that's some criteria now And uh and uh we don't have unlimited resources. We want to help when there is legitimate need and when we can verify that that need is legitimate, uh and that we're dealing with God's people who are living a life faithfully unto the Lord, who happen to have fallen on bad times or difficult times But um going out and trying to make everybody's life happy uh by getting a couple of hundred dollars uh is not, I don't think is what Paul has in mind when he talks about helping widows who are widows in need. So um it's very practical, isn't it? Um okay, well that's uh what I wanted to share from that text this evening. So let's pray. Our Father we um we thank you for again your word which uh uh comes to us in in in in and in needed and necessary times. Lord, we pray that you would give us the grace to be wise about the resources which you have given to the church to help others And Lord that we would uh we would implement that help in accordance with uh the sound uh uh rules which are laid out here before us. Uh we we do pray these things now in Jesus' name Say, be that