If you turn your copies of God's Word now to the Psalms once again, tonight we'll be at Psalm 26. As we continue the theme of Thanksgiving, I believe you'll find that on page 542 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the very word of God, Psalm twenty-six. Of David. Vindicate me, O Lord, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering Prove me, O Lord, and try me. Test my heart and my mind. For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers, and I will not sit with the wicked. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud, and telling all your wondrous deeds. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. Do not sweep my soul away with sinners Nor my life with bloodthirsty men, in whose hands are evil devices, and whose right hands are full of bribes But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity, redeem me, and be gracious to me. My foot stands on level ground In the great assembly, I will bless the Lord. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, now we come to the preaching of your word. We pray, Holy Spirit, that you would open your very word to each of us tonight. You would apply it to our hearts You would help us not only to be edified tonight, but to be convicted. Convicted of the truth of your word. Knowing indeed that we're sinners saved only by grace, and that we're called as followers of Christ Jesus. To proclaim aloud thanksgiving. Guide us, Lord. All for your glory, for the exaltation of Christ, and for the praise of you, the Spirit. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, what do you desire to proclaim? What do you long to talk to others about? If we were to turn tonight to the book of Acts, where Dr. Luke writes about Stephen. Stephen was one of the first what we would refer to as deacons, but yet he had such wisdom and the Spirit was working so powerfully in him that uh Luke records that those who opposed him Who couldn't stand against him. And so he was seized by those who did not like what he was proclaiming and teaching about Christ. And he's brought before the council. And if you know the passage, Luke then jumps into chapter seven, and there were no chapter numbers as he wrote it, but he jumps into chapter seven where Stephen now proclaims a history of redemption. It's one of the longest chapters in the book of Acts. And he goes through step by step recounting the works of God until he gets to the crucifixion and ultimately the ascension of Jesus Christ. Stephen was about to be stoned, and yet he wouldn't stop proclaiming with thanksgiving. Jesus Christ, what do you desire to proclaim It seems to be the focal point of this Psalm 26. We have little information about it. We know that it was written by David. But we don't know exactly when or the circumstances that gave rise to the psalm. That's the only thing we have in the title of David. And so as we go through this psalm tonight, I'm going to be focusing upon verses five, six, seven, and eight. But as we consider the entire psalm, I want us to see tonight that servants The servants of Christ long to proclaim aloud his mighty works with thanksgiving. The servants of Christ long to proclaim aloud his mighty works with thanksgiving. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, the servant serves in Christ. Secondly, the servant goes to the cross. And then finally the servant proclaims thanksgiving. Again, as we go through this passage tonight, I want you to be asking yourself, examining yourself. What do I desire to proclaim aloud? Well, first the servant serves in Christ. The psalm has a very interesting beginning. Look at verse 1 with me. In the English Standard Version, it reads this way, Vindicate me, O Lord. And verse two, prove me, test my heart and my mind. That word vindicate in the Hebrew could be translated judge me. And that's exactly the way the King James Version translates it. Judge me, O Lord. Indeed, that's the way the word is translated in many other places in Scripture. In Exodus 18, the next day Moses sat to judge the people. In Psalm 7, the Lord judges the peoples. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness. It's a common translation for the word, but for some reason those who gave us this English Bible translated this word vindicate. And Webster's 1828 defines vindicate this way to defend, to justify, to support, or maintain as true or correct. Well, what's the basis for this judgment or vindication? Verse 1, for I have walked in my integrity. And the next verse, verse 2, is actually in parallel. Many times the Psalms are in parallel. That means uh a verse next to another verse is basically saying the same thing, or even parts of a verse can be seem to be repetitive or saying the same thing and giving us more explanation as to what it means. And so that's what we have in verses one and two. Vindicate me, O Lord Verse 2, Prove me, O Lord, and try me, test my heart and my mind. It's repeated. Seemingly to confirm that's what the psalmist is asking, truly asking of the Lord. And the question is, who would actually say these things to God? Who would ask this? Judge me, examine me, test my heart, test the depths of my heart, uncover my thoughts Put my attitude under a microscope. Who would say these things? Well, Jesus could. Jesus could safely, securely, and confidently ask for this examination. We see that throughout Scripture. Acts chapter 3. But you denied the Holy and Righteous Referring to Jesus. And ask for a murderer to be granted to you. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Hebrews chapter four. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are yet without Sin. In the same book of chapter 7, for it was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent. Unstained, separated from sinners, and exalted above the heavens. And Peter joins the crowd, but with the precious blood of Christ Like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He committed no sin, neither was deceit found in his mouth. And the Apostle John writes You know that he appeared in order to take away sins and in him there is no sin Scripture is consistent and clear. Jesus could certainly ask for this examination confidently. Indeed, we can search every word spoken by Jesus as recorded in the Scripture and find only obedience and love for his Father. And certainly for his neighbor. Nothing else. One could spiritually attempt to dissect the heart of Christ and find only goodness. Only purity, only the desire to glorify the one who he called Father. That examination could take an hour, it could take a day, it could take weeks, it could take years. Indeed, it probably would to examine the heart of Jesus. And even over years, there would only be found blessing and mercy and love and longing to do the will of his Father. To the beginning of the psalm, these verses, these parallel requests to be vindicated, judged, tested, and examined, can certainly have been spoken by Jesus confidently. Knowingly, not boastfully, but knowing that his love for his father which was eternal, could not be separated from his soul. Nor could it be divided. Jesus' love for his father was not and will never be divided. Even if we were to continue on in the Psalm, I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers, I will not sit with the wicked. These verses describe Jesus. While he ate with tax collectors and sinners, Jesus never took part in their sin. He called them to repent and believe. And Jesus called out hypocrites. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You tithe mint and dill and come and And have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness. He admonished evildoers. As he spoke to Judas, it would have been better for that man, as he referred to Judas, if he had not been born. But was that the psalmist's intent? Was David's intent, was the Spirit's intent, that David write about Jesus? Well, you might say, of course. Of course that's the intent to write about Jesus. I would agree But was he writing the words of Jesus here, actually? Was David writing for Jesus, meaning is this a messianic psalm? These verses certainly point. Point us all to Jesus. But was that to be the intention? That these were Jesus' words exclusively? They seem to be the words of a faithful follower of Jesus, a trusting servant of God. Consider the use of the word vindicate. Maybe not judge me, but justify me. Maybe that was David's intent Justify me, for I have walked in my integrity, and I have trusted in the Lord without wavering. Seems to be a request to be justified based upon his integrity, which is defined as his trust, just like Abram. As the Lord speaks to him and brings him outside and says, Look toward the heaven. Number the stars if you're able to number them. And he said to him, So shall your offspring be And he believed the Lord and he counted it to him as righteousness. I've walked in my integrity. I've trusted in the Lord without wavering Justify me. And what's the basis for the test, the requested test? Prove me, O Lord, and try me, test my heart and mind. Why? For your steadfast love is before my eyes, and I walk in your faithfulness. You see, he's not referring to his steadfast love. He's not referring to his faithfulness. He's referring to God's Steadfast love and faithfulness. That's the basis for his integrity. It's the faithfulness of God. It's the faithfulness of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the fact that the Lord keeps his eternal covenant. That's his integrity. That's what he's trusting in. Not himself. Not his own goodness. Indeed, consider the final request for redemption and grace in verse 11. But as for me, I shall walk in my integrity. Look at how he asks now, redeem me. And be gracious to me. Jesus had no need to be redeemed. Indeed, Jesus is the Redeemer. And Jesus had no need to be saved, not saved by grace. In fact, Jesus worked to earn life. He did what Adam failed to do And so life is not granted to Jesus by grace. It's granted to Jesus because he merited it. So these words appear to be words which can and should be used by true followers of the Lord Jesus Christ. David's words of inspired truth, yes. And they do point to Jesus. Yes, of course they do But they seem to be intended to be used in worship, in prayer, in worshipful praise by the assembly. Look at verse 12 When my foot stands on level ground in the great assembly, I will bless the Lord. David speaks as a member of the church. He writes As one who's praising God in the assembly. And so I'm going out on a limb tonight. But I think these words can and should be used by true followers of Jesus Christ. Yes, the servant serves in Christ. Well, let's go now to our second point. The servant goes to the cross. So, David here in what I'm referring to as the centerpiece of this psalm, and that's verses 6 and 7, I'll wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord. Proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling of all your wondrous deeds. I think there's a a chiasm in this psalm, which means that the the that that it kind of drives us to a center point And that center point appears to be found in verses 6 and 7. And so he makes this statement, I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar. O Lord. The altar then seems to be the centerpiece, the focal point as he pens this song or psalm. And so it calls us, as we think of the altar. If indeed it is the center point, to think upon what the altar would have meant to those who initially received this psalm about 3,500 years ago. What was the altar to them? What did it represent to the Israelites? Again, we're not exactly sure when David wrote this song. or this psalm, whether he was king or fleeing from Saul or even Absalom. But in a sense that's really not critical because the altar was already in place by the time David is born and lives It was in place well before his days as king or otherwise. Well what what is this altar that David refers to? First, it was that particular piece of tabernacle furniture, if I can refer to it that way, which is outside of the tabernacle, on which the animal sacrifices were offered up to God. The description from Exodus reads this way, he made the altar a burnt offering of acacia wood, five cubits That's about seven and a half feet by five cubits. It's breadth. It was square. Three cubits was its height. He made it horns around its fourth four corners. He made all the utensils of the altar, the pots, the shovels, the basins, the forks, the fire pans. He made all its utensils of bronze. That's a description of the altar. A fairly large uh piece of we would call it furniture outside of the temple. And it was for placing animal sacrifices on for offering. Leviticus puts it this way. Uh with regard to a burnt offering. The bull shall be killed, it shall be brought to Aaron and his sons, the priests. Then he, meaning the priest, shall flay the burnt offering and cut it into pieces. The sons of Aaron, the priest, shall put fire on the altar. and arrange wood on the fire. And Aaron's sons, the priests, shall arrange the pieces of the head and the fat on the wood that is on the fire on the altar, and the priest shall burn all of it on the altar as a burnt offering, a food offering with a pleasing aroma to God. That was the purpose of the altar. Now it wasn't just for animal offerings, it was also for grain offerings. Priests shall burn this as its memorial portion on the altar when folks brought fine flour or grain offerings. It was a food offering to the Lord. And we know that altars were not only used with regard to the tabernacle. We know that As Abram moved his tent, came and settled by the oaks of Mamre at Hebron, and there he built an altar to the Lord. We know that Joseph, Jacob built an altar to the Lord. And so, in a sense, the altar is a centerpiece of worship. It was a critical piece of furniture with regard to the tabernacle and tabernacle worship, and it was certainly critical for Abraham. And Isaac and Jacob. Centerpiece of worship While there are other elements of animal sacrifices, such as the priests receiving portions of meat, or the hides of animals being carried off, or the blood of the slain animals being sprinkled on the altar, or possibly at the entrance to the tabernacle. This offering up of fire and smoke of the sacrificed animal was that which gave the picture of appeasing the wrath of God for sin. And so David is headed to the altar. The altar was then certainly that place of worship. The altar was that place of forgiveness for sins committed against the Holy God. The altar was a place of reconciliation with the one who made all things. The altar was a place of restoration for those who had transgressed the pure and perfect law of God. The altar was a place of communion and restored fellowship. The altar was that singular place of spiritual blessing. To the people of God. Well, who could approach the altar? Only the priests were to approach the altar. This was their workplace. This was their office Again, he, meaning the priest, shall lay his hand on the head of the burnt offering, it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him, then Excuse me, that was that was the one making the offering. Now he shall kill the bull before the Lord, and Aaron's sons the priest shall bring the blood and throw the blood against the sides of the altar that is at the entrance of the tent of meeting The altar was the place where the priests did their sacrificial work, and only the priests See, they had to wash before they got there. You shall also make a basin of bronze for washing. You shall put it between the tent of meeting and the altar. Now just See if you can picture that. A tent of meeting and the altar where there was a bronze labor, meaning that place where Aaron and his sons, the priests, should wash their hands and their feet. When they go into the tent of meeting, or when they come near the altar to minister, to burn a food offering to the Lord, they shall wash with water so they may not die. Only the priest could come, only the priest could approach, and they had to be ceremonially clean to serve. Did you notice what David writes in verse 6? I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar. David recognized that he had to be clean before he got to the altar because he's giving us that picture of one serving the Lord, of a priest going and serving the Lord. And so he continues that image of serving the Lord with first washing or being cleansed. I wash my hands in innocence, just as the priests Would have to wash indeed in water so they may not die David was going to the altar and he recognized the need to wash in innocence first. David's going to the house of God, verse 8, O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells. That's ultimately where he's going to proclaim with thanksgiving your house. But what was surrounding him? Verse four I do not sit with men of falsehood, nor do I consort with hypocrites. I hate the assembly of evildoers, I will not sit with the wicked Four times he references those people who oppose God. These are the ones who are around him that he's not associating with, and yet he's surrounded by them. Indeed, he knows that sin dwells within his own heart. And so he recognizes the need to wash his hands. in innocence. I wash my hands in innocence as I go around the altar. If David is referring to himself, how can he say I wash my hands in innocence? It cannot be his own innocence that he's washing his hands in, for we know that David was not innocent. Just like you and me, David was born in iniquity, and David sinned against the Lord in many and various ways, such that he could not claim innocence before a pure God. But Jesus can and did. And so David could wash his hands in the innocence of Christ. With the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot, that's how David could wash. Only in the blood of Christ. Only in the blood of Christ can can anyone cleanse themselves enough to stand in the holy place of God, to ascend the hill of the Lord. Only he who has clean hands and a pure heart. See the connection that David's making. He knows he has to wash his hands in innocence before he gets to the altar, a place of worship. And so now he reaches his goal. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar. This place of service, of serving the Lord. Now did you notice the way that the Well those who translated this Bible translate this passage, go around your altar. They don't write approach your altar. They don't write that come up to your altar. No, they you write about going around. your altar. In a sense, we have this picture of David not just going to the altar, but going around the altar, circling it. Looking at it, looking at the sacrifices it's wafting up to the nostrils of God, considering what's happening. As the sacrifice is being offered from all angles, from all perspectives. I'm hoping that you're now thinking of the cross. I'm hoping at this point we can draw a a line from the altar to the cross. We know that there are differences. Indeed, we read about them tonight as we opened up Hebrews There are significant differences between the animal sacrifices and the once-in-time sacrifice of the Son of God, the atoning sacrifice of Jesus Christ. We can open up the book of Hebrews and read and uncover all of those differences, knowing that Jesus is not only the better sacrifice, but the only, the one and true sacrifice for for sinners That it's only by Jesus' once-in-time sacrifice that the wrath of God was truly propitiated or appeased or satisfied for all those who trust in Christ. The sacrifice of animals always pointed to the cross, but the sacrifice of animals never truly took away or satisfied the wrath of God. And so we know there are differences, but we also know that there is a connection, there's a similarity that we want to uncover tonight. For those that went to the altar to sacrifice bulls and goats, either for themselves or on behalf of the people of God, were always looking to the perfect sacrifice that would truly cleanse their consciences from sin, meaning the Messiah. The Savior of the world. And so there's this connection in the history of redemption, a connection between the altar and the cross. We see it and must appreciate it here in the Psalm. So that we might apply it to ourselves today. The altar seems to be the centerpiece of the psalm where David is going to proclaim thanksgiving. Just as the cross then is the centerpiece of our message Indeed, the cross was the centerpiece of Jesus' service to his Father, and it must be the place that we go to proclaim thanksgiving and to proclaim the works of Christ. Yes. The altar leads us directly to the cross. And that brings us to our third point. The servant proclaims thanksgiving. Well, here then is the true centerpiece of the psalm. It's David's loving service of proclamation. I wash my hands in innocence and go around your altar, O Lord, proclaiming thanksgiving aloud and telling all your wondrous deeds. That's what David wants us to hear tonight. That's what the Spirit wants us to meditate upon tonight. He's made it to the altar. He's gone around the altar. In a sense, he has meditated upon what's going on At the altar, as sins are being washed away, as God is being satisfied in his judgment. That's the picture. And so he proclaims thanksgiving aloud as he's going around the altar. He's telling others. He's proclaiming to others what's going on here. What's happening? And he's proclaiming thanksgiving. Should cause us to think about going to the cross. Going around the cross. And as we do, as we're seeing all the different aspects of what's happening to Jesus Christ, what he's doing on the cross at that very moment. And seeing all the different perspectives, all the different blessings, and then proclaiming it. You see that image? Walking around the cross? Can you see yourself doing that? Have you done it? You may say, well that was two thousand years ago But if you were there, what would you have seen? What would you tell others about? What would you proclaim aloud if you were there And the thing is you don't need to go back. Indeed we can't. But we have it here In the words of Scripture, in the words of God, in the words of Jesus Christ. He's provided us with all the views that we need of Jesus Christ on the cross so that we can proclaim. Think of these things. Think of the suffering of Jesus. At the cross you can certainly see the suffering of Jesus. You could hear the suffering of Jesus Christ, as he cried out to his father in agony, why have you forsaken me? You could see the suffering of Jesus by the appearance of his broken body, of the blood, of the nails, of his weakness. Even as his body succumbed to that last enemy known as death, could see and proclaim the suffering of Christ. But more so you could you could see the steadfast loving kindness of his heart, couldn't you? Even as he suffered. Even as the pain that he was suffering, the physical pain was was more than we could even imagine, the spiritual pain is beyond what we can imagine. Even as he suffered, you could hear him transfer the sonship from himself to John. Mother, here's your son. Son, here's your mother. The steadfast loving kindness of this one, even in his pain, ensuring that his mother had one to care for her, to watch over her, until he returned. You could proclaim the steadfast love of the Savior. And certainly you could proclaim his compassion. You could hear Here is compassion, his love for lost sinners whom he was saving at that very moment As he listened to the plea of the criminal, one of the thieves, who asked to be remembered as he entered into his kingdom, and Jesus gave him the assurance. Even as he was suffering for the thief's sins, he gave him the assurance that certainly he will be with me today in paradise. The thief was dying on the cross. He had only moments left to live, and now he heard this assurance. From the compassion of the Lord Jesus Christ, that he would be with him forever. And then you would have heard that intimate communion, wouldn't you? Calling out, Abba Father, knowing that the living God, his Father, the divine creator of all things heard him, was listening to him, was watching, even as he hung on the cross, doing exactly that which the Father had sent him to do, and he cries out in the intimacy of their fellowship and communing love. Father. And those are just a few of the different facets of the gem, the diamond that is Jesus Christ on the cross. Are you thankful for this Christ? Are you thankful for all these aspects which are Christ on the cross? That you would be able to see and hear as you circled around the cross. Just as David writes of going around the altar. And I bet your answer to that question is, yes, I'm thankful for Jesus. I'm thankful for all those different aspects of Jesus on the cross. But are you thankful enough to proclaim it? Isn't that the question for us this evening? Am I thankful enough to proclaim this Jesus? Are you willing? That seems to be what this psalm is all about. Are you willing to proclaim aloud your thanksgiving? Going to the altar, or in this case, going to the cross and seeing what you've seen, knowing what you know, believing what you believe, and now proclaiming it with thanksgiving that Jesus went to the cross for me. All these different perspectives, his suffering, his steadfast love, his compassion, his intimate fellowship and love for his father, do we proclaim that aloud? With Thanksgiving, the works, the person of Jesus Christ. I think it's a question for each of us to meditate and ponder I think that's what David was writing about. I think that's what the Spirit wants us to focus on tonight. This proclamation. It's being thankful, so thankful for Christ, for the cross That you're willing to proclaim it aloud before a world lost in darkness. Even as some of them come together this week. To celebrate some kind of thanksgiving which has nothing to do with Jesus. Oh, that we would be those who at that very moment We tell others we've walked around the cross. We've seen these various aspects of Jesus Christ. And I want to tell you about him with Thanksgiving Yes, the servants of Christ long to proclaim aloud his mighty works with thanksgiving. Stephen did. Even as as he was on the cusp of being stoned He so longed to tell others about Jesus Christ. He even saw Jesus and thus proclaimed him. Oh, that the Lord would enable us, would cause us to long to do the same, to proclaim Jesus. Crucified, dead, buried, risen, ascended, and coming again for his bride. Praise be the Lord. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray that you'd work on our hearts. We set up so many obstacles to proclaiming aloud the thanksgiving which we harbor in our hearts at times. Oh Lord, we pray, open the floodgates. And especially during this week, this time of the year, we would be those who Who long to proclaim aloud the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us, Lord God, to truly walk around the cross this week. to meditate upon the person and works of Jesus and give us the voices. Give us the hearts and the voices to speak, Lord God, to tell others what Jesus has done in our hearts. Oh Father, help us. Spirit, move us. Lord Jesus, help us to exalt you. We ask all this in his name. Amen.