Turn with me now to the sermon text from First Timothy chapter three and verses eight through thirteen. Uh we come uh we've been going through First Timothy, uh and uh We have been looking at the qualifications for most recently for office in the church, first going through those who are to be elders and Overseers in the church, deacon, uh, and now uh we're in the uh section that deals with deacons. And um We begin reading at verse 8 and read on through verse 13. So let's now hear the word of our God. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued, not given too much wine, nor greedy for money. holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons being found blameless. Likewise their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife Raising their children and their own houses excuse me, ruling their children and their own houses well For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith, which is In Jesus, in Christ Jesus. Thus far ends the reading of this particular section of God's Word. We've been uh taking our time going through these qualifications. Generally speaking, one one verse at a time, and sometimes even one qualification at a time. Today our focus will be on verse nine, holding the mystery of the faith. No, that's not. That's what we focused on last week. And I will be reviewing that. Our verse today will be verse 10. Let these who first and let these also first be proved, then let them use the office of deacon. being found blameless. Well the apot as those of you who have been with us Remember that the uh this letter is to Timothy. It comes from Paul. Paul uh had expended uh significant amount of time at Ephesus. as the leader of the as the pastor, leader of the church there. And when he leaves, he spent more time at Ephesus than any other church. I think maybe up to as much as three years of uninterrupted service. When he left, he had the farewell scene with the elders of Ephesus recorded in Acts chapter 17. But he left Timothy behind as his one he had mentored. in the service of the Lord. And he gave Timothy a charge, which you can see if you go back to chapter 1. Paul was very zealous that Timothy protect the gospel that Paul had taught from any other uh aberrant kinds of teachings, any other kinds of false teachings. That was going to be Timothy's main responsibility. uh not allow the people to to gravitate to old wives tales and fables he mentions. And So Paul has given Timothy instructions, and I'm sure Timothy wondered too, well, what kind of help am I going to have in this chapter? And uh well the Apostle Paul told him about elders and deacons, uh and even went so far as to give what kinds of qualifications men who would hold those positions ought to have. And again, today we look at the qualifications for deacons. I just want to review briefly what I said last week. They are to hold the mystery of the faith in a pure i in a pure with a pure conscience. And uh to summarize what I said that meant, it means that um The mystery of the faith means to understand that God has revealed that mystery only to those who are given to know it You might recall Matthew chapter 13 and the parables, the teaching of the parables. And after Jesus Jesus had taught the parable of the sower. The disciples said to Jesus, why don't you just talk in plain language? And Jesus responded, Unto you it's given to know the mysteries of the kingdom. Unto them it is not. I speak in parables to hide kingdom truth from those to whom it's not given to hear. And so there's a certain sense in which a deacon who's to hold the mystery of the faith needs to know that God does reveal it to whom He will, and He doesn't reveal it to everybody. The mystery, this mystery of the faith cannot be known by the wisdom of this world. It is a product of the wisdom of God, and it has to be revealed by Him to those who are given to understand it. A deacon who's to hold to the mystery of the faith must understand that this mystery was not previously known. To men in the past, it was kept hidden deliberately by God. But now, with the coming of Christ, it has been revealed to the holy apostles and the prophets And by extension, it's been revealed to us through the ministry of the Holy Spirit. At the center of the mystery that has been hidden, that the deacons are to hold to Is the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ includes a gospel that is for all people. It involves the fact that even now the Gentiles will be subject matter to hear the gospel. It is not simply a matter for one group of people, but it's a matter for all people to hear And we shouldn't allow old barriers, old cultural and racial prejudices to interfere with the gospel of Jesus Christ as it goes forward. to bring uh everyone in Christ together in one body of Christ This mystery was, as I said before, was hidden from the ages. But now God has revealed it to his people. And it is Christ in you, as Colossians 1. 26 and 27 say, Christ in you, the hope of glory. So having said that you're to hold it, the mystery of the faith, it also says you're to hold it with a pure conscience. And I believe the focus on pure conscience and the holding of it accents the fact that this is something a deacon or a leader of the church and even a believer in the church. Church, but a deacon especially, and a leader in the church especially, has to continually hold on to these truths The force of the Greek there for hold is present tense, so it means an ongoing holding on of this great gospel truth. And I remembered last week making the point why is that such an important thing? Why is it such an important thing that the gospel of Jesus Christ includes People outside of the Jewish community. Well, it's the deacons who primarily in the way in which the New Testament church is set up are those who are going to be ministering fundamentally to people's, not only their spiritual needs, but also their material needs. And if they had some sort of cultural bias against another group of people, they might be reticent. To share such things as help with others. Now, I'm not sure that that's what happened in Acts chapter 6 But you can't deny the fact that there was a complaint raised in Acts chapter 6 because the disciples and the apostles were ministering food, but the Greek widows were being systematically neglected. You remember that story? And that's where the first deacons come into the life of the church. What was behind that, I don't know But you see, if the mystery of the gospel, holding it with a pure conscience, if it does involve, and we do believe it does involve, the gospel is free to all people, then we can't allow any kind of cultural barriers to interfere with that or how we administer that to people. Now who might be of a different nation or different tongue or a different race than we are. So that brings us to the verse today, tonight, this afternoon. Let those also first be proved, and let them use Then let them use the office of deacon, being found blameless. The word let them first be pu proved is a Greek is a Greek word which I happen to like pronouncement So I'm going to pronounce it. It's called dakimadzo. And that word in Greek means to test, to examine, to discern, to discover, to approve, to prove. It is actually gets its derivation from a term related to refining metal. Now you know how when you refine metal, generally you you heat the metal up to the point where if you can, like in the case of gold or silver, you get it liquid And in the process of getting it gold or lit and getting it to gold liquid, the impurities tend to burn off or tend to be easily separated. So that you get, interestingly enough, you get not a hundred percent pure ingot of gold or silver, but you get 99 and 44 100% pure. If you ever notice that about gold or silver, it's never a hundred percent pure. You can never, for some reason, we can't refine it enough to the point where it's a hundred percent pure. But when you think about that with a with with a with a deacon And it's saying that let those first be refined. You deacons are not going to be 100% pure. But there is no reason why they can't become pure. There's no reason why they can't go through God's refining process. Called listening to the Spirit, walking in the ways of Christ, applying the gospel to their hearts. So I think that what it says here, deacons need to be examined and proved and refined, it is telling us at least this much You don't just pick the first Tom Dick or Harry who comes into the church to be a deacon. He has to go through a process. You have to see him being refined by the word, being refined by the Spirit. You have to observe what's going on in his character. And that's the job that Paul is suggesting that Timothy is a part of making those evaluations along with other leaders. Other elders in the church. What exactly does need to be refined about the deacon? What impurities need to be burned off? Well, where do we start? There's a lot of impurities, but this interesting thing is that this particular word, dakimazo, is used extensively in the New Testament. and talks about a couple of various different areas in which our our our understanding of the gospel needs to be refined. Needs to be purified. Romans chapter 2, verse 18 is one of those such verses. It says Knowing his will and approving the things that are most excellent. Approving the things that are most excellent. There the word is approved, being instructed out of the law. And there Paul is talking about the Jews and their self-righteousness. But the general thought that he has in that text Bears noting and bears appreciation. He is commending the fact that they are seeking to approve the things of God that are excellent. One I I I don't know if I I think I've said this to some of you, but uh it came home to me yesterday in a meeting I was in uh where You know, when we have choices, uh we tend as Christians, we tend to think that our choices are always between good and evil. And they are always between good and evil, and we trust that by God's grace we'll make the choice that's the good choice. However, there are those occasions in your life where you're choosing between good and better And I think it's this process of uh being more and more progressively refined in your understanding of things where you get the idea that you want to make the better choice as opposed to the good. Not that the good, basically because the better choice is going to give more glory to God. And so I I I think that know his will and approve the things that are excellent has that connotation of approving the better things that that that a deacon needs. to be able to demonstrate. Romans 12, verse 2, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind that you may prove. Here it's translated prove, not refine, but that you may re- that you may prove what is good, acceptable, and the perfect will of God. In other words The elder, excuse me, the deacon candidate needs to continually be uh comparing and contrasting the ways of the world with the ways of God. God. And he needs to come down on the right side of that of that comparison. He needs to come down on the things of God, not on the things of the world. He doesn't need to be conformed to the world's view of understanding of things, he needs to be conformed to God's view of things. Strangely enough, in the Lord's Supper, this word dakimazo is used Verse 28 of 1 Corinthians 11. Let a man examine himself. There it's translated examine. And so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. We all understand that that means that if we're going to be a worthy participant in the Lord's Supper, we are to examine ourselves. We are to test, as it were, the purity of our faith, the purity of our heart, the purity of our commitment. And our life, to see if our life measures up to Christ, to see if our faith continues to be f focused on Him as opposed to maybe focused on things of the world. 2 Corinthians 13, verse 5. Examine yourselves whether you be in the faith, prove your own selves. Know ye not your own selves how that Jesus Christ is in you, except ye be reprobates. Again, I think the point there is that there has to be an ongoing self-examination by the individual believer to see if Christ is in your heart. This calls for honesty. This calls for truthfulness. It calls for integrity. Are you honest with yourself? Are you honest with God About who you are, what you believe, and how you're living. Galatians chapter 6, verse 4: Let each one examine his own work, and he will have rejoicing In himself alone and not in another. Ephesians 5, verse 10. Find out what is acceptable to the Lord Finding out is the word dokimazo. Uh uh approving, refining the things, coming to a refined understanding of what is acceptable before God. So, if we are to take all of this information and we're to kind of try to summarize what the Bible says about how do you prove, how do you refine a deacon candidate's faith. The question you need to ask when looking for such a candidate is, does he know God's will And does he approve the most excellent things of God's will? Is he a person who is Not conformed to this world? Is there evidence of transformation that can only come by the working of the Spirit Is his mind focused on the things of God? Is his heart living for the things of God? Thirdly, does he regularly and faithfully examine himself to see whether he's in the faith? Coming during the Lord's Supper, seeing if he is worthy to partake of the Lord's Supper. Is he also testing? Does he also know the will of God? And is he willing to do what pleases God first and foremost? And lastly, is his assessment of his Christian faith an honest one Um I believe that that uh gives uh some meat to the bones of A deacon uh being proved, being tested, being refined, needing to be refined. And I think if we go back to the verse that I read from Philippians, we find that this is an ongoing activity. It's not it's not just that, well, Paul says this about deacons and the rest of us don't have to do this Uh it's it's true for all of us. And and uh I think I can demonstrate that from first Timothy first first. Philippians 1, verses 9 through 11. I read it earlier. Paul's prayer for the entire church at Philippi. This I pray that your love may abound yet more and more. In all knowledge and in all discernment That you may approve, there's Dakimaza, the things that are excellent. You never stop as a Christian, whether you're a deacon candidate or not You never stop growing. Never stop approving the things that are good in God's sight. Never stop. Never have enough love. That's agape, too. Never have enough understanding. Never have enough holiness. This means, in summary, that the potential deacon must be mature. A mature Christian, which dovetails very well with the qualification for elder up in 1 Timothy 3. 6, not a novice. And notice also, it is only after the deacon has been tested, refined, and proved. That the deacon candidate can then do deaconing. Again, verse 10. It makes that point explicit. But let those first be tested, then let them serve as deacons. Being found blameless. I think the test, I know the test, has to be in terms of knowledge, but also in terms of heart. In terms of commitment, in terms of growing, refining his faith. So that's what I I think is uh significant and important about this qualification. Amen. Lord, as always, we would come to you, Father, and we would pray that you who are the one who changes hearts Lord, that you would work in the hearts of your people, that they would desire, Lord, an ever greater refinement of their Christian faith, of their knowledge and their understanding and their practice Lord, of holiness before your eyes. Help us, Father, for we cannot do this on our own. May the Spirit be at work in the lives of your people and helping them to conform to the image of your dear Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, give us deacons. Give us deacons, Lord, who are prepared. Give us deacons, Lord, with the mindset of testing themselves Refining their own understanding so they will not object when the leaders of the church want to refine them even more through your word. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.