If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, We'll be in chapter 17 this morning and evening. It's on page 977, I believe, of your few Bibles. We're returning to Matthew, our study of Matthew after a few months off. But what a joy it is to return to this blessed Word of God, Matthew chapter 17. Beginning at verse one, let's give our attention to the very Word of God And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John, his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. And behold, there appeared to them Moses. And Elijah talking with him. And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. If you wish, I will make three tenths here. One for you and one for Moses and one for Elijah. He was speaking, he was still speaking when, behold, A bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him When the disciples heard this, they fell on their faces and were terrified. But Jesus came and touched them, saying, Rise and have no fear. And when they lifted up their eyes, they saw no one but Jesus only. And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man is raised from the dead. And the disciples asked him, why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. Then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. And when they came to the crowd, a man came up to him, kneeling before him, said, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he has had he has seizures, and he suffers terribly. For often he falls into the fire, and often into the water. And I brought him to your disciples, and they could not heal him And Jesus answered, O faithless and twisted generation, how long am I to be with you? How long am I to bear with you? Bring him here to me. And Jesus rebuked the demon. And it came out of him, and the boy was healed instantly. Then the disciples came to Jesus privately and said, Why could we not cast it out? He said to them, Because of your little faith. For truly I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, Move from here to there, and it will move, and nothing will be impossible for you. As they were gathering in Galilee, Jesus said to them, The Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. And they were greatly distressed. Thus far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, help us. Holy Spirit, help us. We need To be illumined this morning. We need eyes to see and ears to hear. We need you to work powerfully within each of us. That we would not merely understand this passage, but Father, that it would be planted within our hearts, that we would see more of Jesus this morning, that you would peel back, so to speak, the veil. That we might see into Jesus' heart. Guide us now. Help us. We plead with you. We need more of Jesus. And we ask this in his name. Amen. Or who is Jesus? And you ask that question of yourself, who is Jesus to me? Who is he? As Moses was beginning his ministry, as he struck down an Egyptian and then found two Hebrews struggling together If you know the account in Exodus chapter two, uh one of the Hebrews who was struggling Said to him, Who made you a prince and a judge over us? As Moses was asking, Why are you doing this? Why do you strike your companion? It's really the same question. Who are you, Moses? And as Jesus was teaching in the temple and preaching the gospel, The chief priests and the scribes were asking the same thing to him, tell us by what authority you do these things, or who is it that gave you this authority? They were asking the same question, Who are you, Jesus? Indeed, that same question has been asked to us, not expressly But as we have been studying Matthew's gospel, he's asking that question. We come to a passage this morning. Or at least we have a portion of the answer. In chapter 16, Jesus was asking that question, wasn't he? Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And as the disciples interacted with Jesus, they say, well, some say John the Baptist, some say Elijah, others say Jeremiah or one of the prophets. And then he asked, but who do you say that I am? And if you remember that passage, Peter replies, for all of the disciples, you're the Christ, the Son of the living God. But even as we looked at that passage in chapter 16, we saw that they really didn't yet know what that meant. This morning, we'll see there's a bit of a veil that's pulled back in this transfiguration. I want us to see this morning that Jesus is the only God man sent to pour out mercy and grace. Jesus is the only God man sent to pour out mercy and grace. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourself that very question. Who is Jesus to me? Well, that brings us to our first point. Unveiling divinity. As we look at this transfiguration, we have to remember the backdrop. We have to remember Simon Peter's confession, which was really the confession of the entire group of disciples. You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Well, what did Peter mean by that? What did the disciples mean as they listened to us? They joined in with that confession. And as we read through that passage in chapter 16, we came to the realization that Peter probably didn't know, and the disciples probably didn't know. As Peter takes Jesus aside after he says that he's going to suffer many things by the elders and chief priests and scribes, be killed and raised up on the third day, and Peter takes him aside and says, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen. Peter didn't know. The disciples had the right words, they had the right titles, but not the right understanding. They were still in the dark. So that brings us to this transfiguration, doesn't it? Why does this occur? What was the purpose of it? Why was he transfigured? What does it mean? We might conclude that this was for the benefit of Peter and James and John They were the only three that Jesus took up with him to ascend this mountain. Did Jesus need to be told that he was the Son of God? Did he need to look in a mirror and see that he was divine? No, absolutely not. Jesus knew who he was. He knows who he is. But did Peter and James and John know? Now you might be thinking again, well he confessed that he was the Son of God, that he is the Christ, and that is true, but It certainly doesn't appear that Peter or any of the other disciples truly knew what that meant. And as this event takes place, as it's recorded by Matthew and by Mark and by Luke we might come to the conclusion that no, they didn't truly know what they were confessing, even as this event took place to give them an in-depth view into the nature and heart of Jesus Christ. Certainly, this event took place for the benefit of Peter and James and John, and ultimately for all Christianity. They needed to see, physically see and hear who this Jesus really was. The veil of his human nature needed to be pulled back so that they could see. There's much in this passage that describes exactly what these three individual men collectively observed that day. We have that transfiguration, whatever that might mean, it's described to us here in verse 2. Very quickly. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. Now it's important for us to understand that Jesus didn't actually change. But his presentation was altered from the viewpoint of those three. For he's the same yesterday and today and forever, isn't he? Hebrews chapter 13. But for a moment However long that was, from the perspective of these three men, their perspective of Jesus changes. His face shone like the sun sun, think of that. None of us can look directly at the sun, can we? Without doing damage to our eyes. It's too bright. The light of the sun is too brilliant. It's too powerful to be gazed at directly. And yet that's what these three experienced as they looked upon Jesus. His face beamed so brilliantly, the disciples likely couldn't look directly at his face. Isn't that what Moses records? As Moses goes up to engage with God himself, he said, You cannot see my face, for man cannot see me and live. And then his clothes became white. These men had spent the last three years with Jesus. They knew what he looked like, and they knew what his clothes looked like. They were familiar with that, but that time, that day, that hour, however long it was, as Mark records it, his clothes become radiant, intensely white, as no one on earth could bleach them. Luke records that his clothing became dazzling white. It might be that what they were seeing was the glory of God shining forth to the extent that these men could actually receive it and be in the presence of it and not die. That which had been veiled by the human nature of the God man now was unveiled to an extent. Remember, as Paul writes his letter to the church at Philippi, he's writing about the God man, isn't he? He's writing about his humility, but he he gives us that account that though he was in the form of God, he did not account equality. With God a thing to be grasped. And so he empties himself by taking the form of a servant being born in the likeness of men. That's a description of the Son of God, the very second person of the Trinity, coming and taking it to himself a human nature which then veils his glory. So in a sense the purity, the holiness, the goodness, the complete utterness of the divine nature of Jesus Christ was now shining forth, at least in part. For these three men, these mere mortals to gaze upon. Think of that, think of as Moses came down from Mount Sinai But the skin of his face shone because he had been talking with God, so much so that the people were afraid to come near Moses. And here Jesus shines not because he was speaking with God, but because he was and is God. That's what we read in Isaiah chapter 9. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light That's what Peter and James and John were experiencing. They were in darkness, and now this great light, Jesus Christ. was shining forth. That's what John writes in his gospel as he opens it up. The light shines in the darkness. That's what was happening Think of that observation of these three men. This one they thought they knew. This Jesus now was not the one they thought they knew. They saw into his very being, his divine nature, the human nature being pulled back for a moment. These saw the light of Christ, and it was the very light of God I said a few moments ago that this was for Peter and James and John, but it was for you as well. You might be asking that question, where can I see this light of Christ? I want to be like them. Peter and James and John gazing physically Some might be thinking, if I could only have seen the brightness of Jesus like Peter and James and John, then I would believe. But we know that seeing is not believing. We know that faith is not by sight. And we know that even after seeing this transfiguration, All of the disciples abandoned Jesus. And so the question remains, doesn't it? How can you see today the brightness of Jesus? I'd say there's at least a threefold answer. First you can see the brightness of Jesus as he by his spirit illumines your heart. Isn't that the work of the Spirit? Isn't that what the Spirit does when he illumines a person? When he illumines you. You may be thinking, well, he provides understanding of the scriptures. Yes, he does. That's correct. But doesn't he also at the very same time illumine you with the light of Christ? Isn't that what the scriptures are? Isn't that what the Spirit does? Yes, he's a comforter. Yes, he's our helper. But he was sent to illumine your heart. With Christ, the real light, the true light. Paul writes his second letter to the Corinthians For God who said, Let light shine out of darkness has shone in our heart. He's speaking of Christ. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That's what they were seeing that day, and that's what the Spirit does in your heart. Shining the light of Christ. You see, as the Spirit illumines you, you're seeing the beauty of Christ. You're seeing his goodness, you're seeing the kindness of Christ, you're seeing the gentleness of Christ Jesus, you're seeing his innocence and his purity and his holiness, you're gazing upon his mercy and grace and his eternal and everlasting love. That's what the Spirit is doing. As he illumines your heart. That's how you see Christ. Secondly The brightness of Christ is certainly consistently set before the children of God in Scripture, isn't it? Scripture is the brightness of Christ. So well where do I where do I see that? As you think of the history of redemption, which which is this, which is this book It must be about Jesus, because he's the center of our redemption. He's the only redeemer. And so it's the open scripture, and it doesn't matter where you go in it, you're seeing the brightness of Christ If we consider Scripture to be the good news, and it is, if you understand Scripture to be describing to us To believers, the way of salvation, then scripture's all about Jesus Christ. For he is the good news. You can say it another way. There is no good news without the person and the work of Jesus Christ. And so as you open up Scripture, whether it be in the Old Testament or the New Testament, whether it be the first book or the last book, The brightness of Jesus Christ is being seen and heard on every page. Think of what Peter and James and John were able to observe in the transfiguration. But they didn't have the entire special revelation of Jesus Christ. And you do. Third, you can think of your brothers and sisters, can't you? Because the brightness of Jesus Christ is shining forth even now, even in this place. From your brothers and sisters in Christ. That's exactly what Jesus told his disciples as he preached the sermon on the mount, isn't it? Let your light shine before others. What light was he speaking of? His light. The only light that a believer can shine forth, the only light that a believer has is the light of Christ. That which has been placed in you by the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And so as you engage in and fellowship with and commune with your brothers and sisters in Christ, you're seeing the very brightness of Christ. You see, that's another reason why we have fellowship meals. Spend time together. Because you get to see the brightness of Christ as you eat with one another. That does bring forth a question, doesn't it? Are you shining forth the brightness of Christ? You may be thinking, well yes, I'm doing that while I come to church, and we'd all say, that's great. But what about when you go to work? What about when you go to the grocery store or when you're at home with whoever's in the house? Or when you're speaking with somebody and it's a difficult conversation and you're unhappy. Things aren't going your way. How are you at that point in time shining forth the brightness of Christ? Things for us to ponder and meditate upon and take away from this particular passage. How am I shining forth the brightness of Christ? It does bring us to our second point, pouring out mercy. Well, why did the Son of God come? These three just saw the greatest spectacle witnessed by men. Up to that point in time in the history of redemption, you may say, well, what about the birth of Christ? Yes, that was that was supernatural, but did did they actually understand and grasp As the shepherds looked upon the baby Jesus, that they understand and grasp that that was who he was. But now this transfiguration, an event that they would later describe to their fellow disciples and record If they just heard the voice of God, they saw this Jesus, his outward appearance changed and unveiled before their very eyes, and they gazed upon a bit of his divinity even for a moment. They just saw the greatest spectacle. in the history of mankind up to that point in time. So why did he come? Why did this Christ show up? And so as we continue the account, we come now to this account that follows the transfiguration. The boy, who is demon-possessed, the father, comes and kneels before Jesus Christ and asks for mercy and tells him that the disciples could not Remove him from his son, and he pleads with him. And so, why was Jesus sent? Why did this God man come? Why did he show up And I think there's a reason that we have these two accounts together Because the demon-possessed boy shows that sin had entered into the hearts of men, just as this evil demon had entered into this young boy. And Jesus came to defeat it He came to cast it out, to free the prisoners, to bring forth justice, as we read this morning from Isaiah, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon. From the prison, those who sit in darkness. That's why he came. So then why was it that the disciples were ineffective in removing this demon? If that's why Jesus came and they were Jesus' disciples And they've been following Jesus, and if they understood that, why couldn't they remove this demon? What was the problem? And we see Jesus actually answers that question for us, oh faithless and twisted generation, and even the disciples ask And Jesus answers, because of your little faith. Your faith was insufficient. Well, you must ask the question, faith in what? What were they thinking? What was their faith in? And I think the answer to that question is it was in the wrong person. They didn't understand that Jesus had come to bring mercy and peace and grace. The disciples were thinking That he came as a warrior. He did come as a warrior, but not the kind that they were thinking of. The disciples were thinking that he came to bring about a military victory, a worldly victory. The disciples considered that he was going to defeat the Romans and reinstall the throne of David and the nation of Israel, just like the old days. They weren't following or believing the one who is the master of mercy and compassion. See, they weren't trusting in the one who was sent to bind up the brokenhearted. But they weren't following the one who was brought who was sent to bring good news to the poor, to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty, to give them a beautiful headdress instead of ashes, the oil of gladness instead of mourning, the garment of praise instead of a faint spirit. They weren't following that one. Was Jesus sent as a conqueror? Of course he was. Was he sent to wage war? Yes. But not in the way the disciples We're believing. That's not why Jesus was sent. Do you see the picture now? Transfigured the glory of divinity, of God shining forth and yet stooping down to wash feet To cleanse the scourge of sin, demons, to remove sin, sent to wage war and defeat evil. That's why he came. That's why he was transfigured. Who is Jesus to you? See, these disciples needed to see the mercy of Jesus Christ. And you say, well, they'd seen it many times before. Yes, certainly. But they'd never seen the mercy of Jesus after he'd been transfigured. They'd never seen the mercy of Jesus after he had been exalted. They'd never experienced the mercy of Jesus after his father had claimed him as his son. So now they were really seeing into his heart, weren't they? Consider this, Jesus had come all the way from heaven. The second person of the Trinity had condescended from his heavenly throne to restore this little boy. Now I know it's much more than that. But that's what we get, isn't it? We have the transfiguration and immediately following we have this restoration of this little boy. He he came to restore this one. The Son of God, who had just revealed a slight bit of his glory, had lowered himself to take on human flesh so that he could rebuke this demon and show supernatural mercy to this distressed father. Also the disciples could see and witness to this heart of Jesus Christ. Also that these disciples could tell others about this God man with a heart filled with mercy. Who is Jesus to you? Have you seen him? Have you seen his heart? Like the transfiguration which pulled back the veil of his human nature such that the other nature, the divine nature, could be seen. Have you seen the unveiled heart of Jesus Christ? Do you know him as the one whose heart is filled with mercy? See that father did that day. That little boy experienced The merciful heart of Jesus. The disciples witnessed it. Have you? Have you been touched by his mercy? Like this little boy who is indwelt by evil and then restored? And if you're saying yes, praise God. Are you telling anyone about it? Are you sharing with others what you've experienced? That you've seen the heart of Jesus Christ. You've been touched by the mercy of Jesus Christ. That He's poured out mercy on you. Are you telling others? That's why that's why Jesus did this in front of his disciples. So they could tell others. That brings us to our third point. A humbling reminder. And now we have a great contrast as we continue in chapter 17. We begin with this exaltation of the of Jesus, the Son, as he's transfigured, as the God the Father speaks, this is my son, my beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. And then And then we have the humbling of Jesus Christ, as he speaks now to his disciples, that he is going to be delivered into the hands of men and they will kill him, and he will be raised on the third day. And they were greatly distressed. Now think about this. The disciples may have been able to grasp this kind of mercy that was extended to the boy and his father. This casting out of the demon. That merciful restoration of the young boy. They could have understood that. They could have appreciated that to an extent. But now this passage seems to be ending, or at least book-ended, with that similar profession that Jesus makes in chapter 16. And now in a sense it's repeated, the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, they will kill him, he will be raised on the third day What connection does this have with the transfiguration? If any, I would say that it's completely connected. You have to see, I think, in this passage the parallel to Moses' ascending Mount Sinai. And if you carefully set these passages next to each other, Moses going up Mount Sinai to get the tablets of the law. And Jesus going up this mountain to be transfigured and come back down. The parallels are unmistakable. Both ascended a mountain. Both took people with them, who only went so far. Both ascended to be in the presence of and to meet with the living God. Both accompanied by others, both heard the voice of God the Father, both heard God the Father as he spoke, both were changed. outwardly. Both Moses' and Jesus' faces become white. And then both descend to rejoin those whom they left at the foot of the mountain. So, what's the significance? Why the parallel? Because the Israelites needed to see The Jews needed to understand that everything did not end with Moses. They needed to see that the law was not the end of redemption. They needed to see that Moses, the law, the history, was all pointing to something to someone else, something greater. And while this last verse seems out of place, the Son of Man is about to be delivered in the hands of men, they will kill him and be raised up on the third day. It's in the perfect place that we might see the grace You see, Moses' ascent and descent ended with the two stone tablets of the law. Now yes, there was grace. There's always grace. After the garden, there's always grace. Even in the garden there was grace. It was certainly grace. You know, some were spared after they fabricated the golden calf. And God shows His merciful to Moses as he goes up to intercede. And there was a covenant renewal. Yes, there was grace, but At least on the surface, the end of Moses' ascent and descent was the law. He came back a second time with the two tablets of testimony, the law. But Jesus descends and brings grace. And that's exactly what he's referring to. As he makes this statement, the Son of Man is about to be delivered into the hands of men, and they will kill him, and he will be raised up on the third day. The Son of Man, the Son of God, the truly divine one, the God man, it's this one that these have now seen, at least in part, a part of his glory, this one who will by grace Save them by his death and resurrection, such that those he will save will have been saved not by keeping the law. But by being surrounded and lifted up by grace. Do you see the difference? Do you see what Christ brought And that brings us back to that first question. Who is this Jesus? Who's Jesus to you? Have you asked yourself that question? Who is Jesus to me? Now I'm not saying that that Jesus can be relative, that he can be this Jesus to this person and this Jesus to that person, we can all walk away and say that's okay No, that's not okay. There's only one true Jesus. There's only one biblical Jesus. And so the question really is, have you understood who Jesus is as the Bible reveals him? That's a critical point of this particular text today. Because it tells us who Jesus was and is And so once again, who is Jesus to you? Have you, if you claim to be a believer this morning in the Lord Jesus Christ, who are you believing in? If you're professing to follow the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, who is it that you're following? If you believe that you're trusting only in the Lord Jesus Christ for your salvation, who is it that you're trusting in? It's a critical question. For deep down, if you're not trusting in the biblical Jesus If you're not trusting in the God-man Jesus who was transfigured, if you're not trusting in the merciful Jesus, who, as the God man, desired to and did receive If you're not trusting in the grace-filled, grace-sent, grace-working, grace-saving Jesus Christ, who is about to go to the cross and lay down his life for undeserving, wretched sinners Then you're not trusting in the one who was given to you as a covenant, who is given to the people as a covenant, who is given as light for the nations, who was given to bring out prisoners from the dungeon. Then you don't have a savior. See, let that sink in for a moment If you have not examined your heart regarding who it is that you're trusting in, you may be mistaken. You may have misplaced your trust. You may be like those described in Matthew chapter 7, where Jesus says, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Even those who would say, Did we not prophesy in your name? Did we not cast out demons in your name? They were those who never had actually seen the light of Jesus Christ. That describes you this morning, you may still be sitting in the darkness of your sin If so, repent. Cry out to Jesus Christ, the true Jesus. Christ, the one who set forth for us in the Bible, this transfigured one, this merciful one, this grace-filled Jesus, who is able to break you out of the dungeon, cry out to him. Even now. But if you are, if you are trusting in this Jesus this morning. And praise God that He has given you eyes to see the true identity of this Jesus Christ, the compassionate heart of Christ, of Christ Jesus. What a privilege, what a life-saving privilege and joy to be able to see the heart of Jesus Christ. As Jesus is the only God man sent to pour out mercy and grace. Who is Jesus? Brothers and sisters, we have gone through a text this morning that tells us so much about who Jesus is. Believe upon this one, this Jesus Christ, the beloved Son of God the Father The God man, the Savior, the Redeemer, the Merciful, the Grace-filled Jesus. Amen. Father, our God, have mercy on us. Lord, we can deceive ourselves. We can think we're following the right path, and Lord God, we're on completely the wrong path, as Father, we see in these disciples. Not truly knowing who Jesus was. Needing to be shown, Father. The divine nature, needing to see his mercy, needing to be told of his grace. Oh Father, help us. Give us ears to hear. Give us hearts to receive. Holy Spirit, illumine our hearts with the love of Jesus Christ, with the light of Christ. And help us, Lord, to take this out. Help us to shine forth this brilliant light of Christ. To those who are in darkness, work powerfully in us. That we would have a zeal for the lost this year. Help us