If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew, we'll continue our study there this morning in Matthew chapter 22. Should be found on page 983 of your pew Bibles. I'll be reading the first 14 verses Preaching of God's word will be on the first thirteen this morning, and then, Lord willing this evening, we'll finish up with verse fourteen Let's give attention to the Word of God. And again, Jesus spoke to them in parables, saying, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. And sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast, but they would not come. Again he sent other servants, saying Tell those who are invited, see, I have prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fat calves have been slaughtered, and everything is ready. Come to the wedding feast. But they paid no attention and went off, one to his farm, another to his business, while the rest seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them The king was angry, and he sent his troops and destroyed those murderers and burned their city. And he said to his servants, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. Go, therefore, to the main roads and invite to the wedding feast as many as you find. And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good. So the wedding hall was filled with guests. But when the king came in to look at the guests, he saw there was a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? And he was speechless. Then the king said to the attendants, Bind him hand and foot, and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. For many are called, but few are chosen. Must find the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a passage of scripture which may not be crystal clear to all of us. And so we ask Holy Spirit that you would lead and guide us this morning, that you would open our hearts, that you would Allow us, Father, to receive your word, to understand your word, to apply it to our hearts, that we might leave this place being made more like Christ. With a zeal to call others to life in Christ We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What will you wear to meet Jesus? We will all stand before Jesus Christ on Judgment Day, and the question is, what will you wear? In order to serve God, the priest, as we read earlier this morning, had to wear certain clothes, certain garments, holy garments were specifically made for Aaron and his sons for glory, for beauty, garments, were to consecrate Aaron for the priesthood A breast piece, an ephah, a robe, a coat, a turban, a sash, holy garments. Had to be worn if they were to serve the living God. Indeed, as we read this morning, if if Aaron did not wear these things, he would die. If he entered the holy place without them, he couldn't merely walk into the tabernacle He couldn't go to his closet that day and put on whatever was hanging there. He couldn't enter the Holy of Holies without the very particular garments that had been described and proclaimed by the living God. Indeed, failure to put them on again would have meant certain death It seems to be a good introduction to our passage today in Matthew's Gospel. Jesus has been teaching and preaching about the kingdom of heaven. Indeed, he's entered now into Jerusalem. He's on his way to the cross, but before he does so, he has symbolically cleansed the temple. He has symbolically restored the temple to a place of healing and a place of Praise and prayer. He's been asked by the chief priests, by the elders, of his authority. And he has proclaimed a couple of parables, telling them by what authority he does what he has been doing, and in doing so he's told them. That the kingdom of God will be taken away from them and given to a people who were actually producing fruit. That actually sets the stage for today's text. We might sum up the teaching in this particular parable this way. For one to be worthy of eternal life, he must, by grace put on the righteous robes of Jesus Christ. For one to be worthy of eternal life, he must, by grace, Put on the righteous robes of Jesus Christ. We'll see that this morning in Three Truths, three heads. First, God is gracious and patient. Secondly, men are called to life in Christ, and finally, robes of righteousness are required. As we go through this parable this morning, I want you to be asking yourself, what will I wear to meet Jesus? Well, first, God is gracious and patient. I cannot lose sight of the reason or the main idea of this parable. It's set forth for us there in the second verse. The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king who gave a wedding feast for his son. The kingdom of heaven now is being alikened compared to this king It's a picture of celebration. It's a picture of joy. It's a picture of rejoicing. The king is pleased and he desires to share his pleasures with those who are his subjects or his citizens. He anticipates that the kingdom will continue to exist and prosper and grow as his son now is wed. He takes a bride and that will ensure that the next generation will sit upon the throne. All this describes the kingdom of heaven as the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God, takes his bride, the church. And the Father rejoices and calls his people to come and eat and drink at the table of the Most High. What this parable is anything is a picture of the making of a bride, isn't it? Pure and holy for the Son of the Living God. And as she's made ready, the celebration comes when the wedding actually takes place. But the centerpiece of the parable is actually the living God. Who is first? Gracious. Consider. Consider the invitation. Verse 3, he sent his servants to call those who were invited to the wedding feast. The king of the land, the king of the people, invites commoners. certain citizens of his kingdom to come and celebrate with him, to feast with him upon the marriage of his son. Who is worthy of such an honor? Consider this points to the God of heaven and earth, the one who made all things from nothing, who invites, he calls sinners To come and dine with him. In other words, the Lord calls sinners into fellowship and communion with himself. This is quite like David's words to King Saul when the invitation was made to take his daughter and become Saul's son-in-law. He said, Who am I? And who are my relatives, my father's clan in Israel, that I should be the son-in-law to the king? That the God of creation would think upon any sinner for good. rather than for judgment, damnation, and destruction is quite astonishing. That's the definition of grace, isn't it? An undeserved blessing from the Lord of all, who is pure and holy, to those who are disobedient servants that deserve nothing but punishment. That's grace. And it's throughout this parable. But it's not alone. The grace of God combines with his long-suffering patience. Consider how many times the king here issues his invitation, his call to that original group of invitees. There's first the the invitation itself. You can envision this card and gold letters being sent out to specific people invited to come to the feast, which will be in the future. And then Then those who received that invitation were notified at the event. The event was now Ready, the second invitation. That first round of servants now goes out to those who received the written invitation, so to speak, and they tell the people it's time. See, the invitation was not enough in the mind of the king. The wedding is to take place now, and the call to come was Now. And a second invitation was verbal. Everything had been prepared. And so the invitees were welcomed, called, and urged to come. But apparently they had more important things to do. The parable here is short and curt. They would not come. Indeed, no one came. Which is evidenced by the second call to come, the third invitation, so to speak. He sent another other servants. Tell those who are invited. I prepared my dinner, my oxen, my fat calves have been slaughtered. Everything is ready. Come. More detail is given in this second verbal call. Seemingly to encourage, but it also exhibits the patience of the king, the long suffering of the king, to those who didn't respond to the written or the first verbal call. The king woos his subjects to come. He's telling them everything's ready. He's telling them what he's done. There's detail. And he urges them. And the servants go out and proclaim once again, the wedding is taking place. Come and join the celebration. Patience of God. It's throughout the scripture, isn't it? In Exodus thirty-four As the Lord passes before Moses, he cries out, God, merciful and gracious, slow to anger. Abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. As Paul writes to the saints in Rome about the patience of God, he He writes this, or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant? to lead you to repentance. Isn't that exactly what the king was doing in this parable? Seeking to lead his people to repentance, to come and celebrate. But of Israel, he says, all day long I've held out my hands to a disobedient and contrary people. It's the long-suffering, it's the patience of God Notice once again the theme or the idea of this parable, the kingdom of heaven may be compared to a king. Jesus wanted his listeners to hear that this king he was describing, a picture, was an image of the divine king of the kingdom of heaven. In other words, God Himself, the Father, was whom He was describing, the one who is gracious, the One who is patient, the one who is desirous of celebrating. A marriage of his son, to the church, his bride, enjoying this glorious event with his people. Is that how you perceive heaven itself? Is that how you perceive God? Is that how you think of glory? Is that what you're looking forward to when you consider eternal life with the Lord Jesus Christ? Yes. God is gracious and patient. That brings us to our second point that men are called to life in Christ. So from the invitations, we need to fix our minds now on the responses. Again, the king knew that his subjects, that one invitation wasn't enough. But even as the invitation was quite amazing, the paupers called to come and feast at the royal table. The focus now turns to the response. And we've already seen the response to the first verbal call. They would not come. Those who had received the invitation in advance, now called by the king's servants, to come. received not only the paper invite, but now the verbal call from the servants, but they would not come. It's quite astounding. Almost more astounding than the invitation itself, the subjects, the king's citizens, those who were specially invited called out of the general population, refused the written and now the verbal invite. They rejected the call to come. Not a single invitee heeded the invitation or the first call. How could this be? Maybe even the king was thinking the same. But as noted, the king was patient and persistent. There would be a celebration. There would be people to celebrate. And so the second verbal call is given. And while it would seem that the response could not be worse than the first round, it actually was. The hearts of the original invitees are now shown the The invitees, in a sense, dispersed, or at least a portion of them, not to the wedding feast, but but to the farm or to the business or whatever they felt was more important than coming and pleasing the king and celebrating with him. Others spewed hatred for the king. They seized his servants, treated them shamefully, and killed them. A disdain for the kingdom. They clearly wanted no part of the king, his kingdom, or the celebration. What is this but a picture of the history of the Israelite nation? A people who were chosen specifically by God, invited to commune with him. through worship, a unique group of people who were called out of other nations, not because they were righteous, not because they were more numerous, but only because God in his wisdom and his love had chosen them to be his people. He had selected them. Like the parable, the Lord invited or called the Israelites to be his people Such that they could claim him to be their God. Set forth in the covenant, given to and made with Abraham, to be God to you and to your offspring after you. The Israelites, all of them, were invited, in a sense, we can use that word, I think, invited to become his people, such that they would call upon him as the one true living God. But they rejected him time and again, time and again. God then sends his prophets, calling the people to heed his word, to repent, to stop their wicked ways, to worship him alone, to come and commune with him, feast with him, to be his bride. And so as the parable begins, Jesus is telling the history of the Israelite nation, which was called, invited by the covenant, given prophets who called them to come, calling them out of their sin into communion. with the living God to the wedding feast, to the fellowship with the triune God. And for the most part, I think we can safely say But they refused and mistreated his servants. What then was the result of the refusal? We don't have to search very far, do we? Jesus explains the parable very clearly. The king was angry. The long suffering of God has an end. His patience. His patience with our sin will have an end, and the king was angry and sent his troops, and he destroyed those murderers and burned their cities. Those who refused the invitation refused the first round of slaves, mistreated and killed in the second round. For them there would be no wedding feast. For these who refused the invitation and refused the urging of the servants of the king, there would be no celebration. For those who rejected the king himself and his rule over them Only destruction. The only thing that there would be for these was destruction, a complete wiping out, an annihilation of those things that they thought were more pleasant. More pleasing, more enjoyable than being in the king's presence to celebrate with him the wedding of his son See, my friends, that is the end of every single person who will reject the call to life in Jesus Christ. The call to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ and repent of your sins. John records that in his gospel: whoever believes in the Son has eternal life, whoever does not obey the Son shall not obey see life, but the wrath of God remains on him. The only criteria for these was to say yes. Just say yes and go. Just say yes and attend the wedding feast and celebrate and revere the king and submit to his will and enjoy the fellowship and communion with the king's son. And his bride, just say yes in your heart and go. It sounds so simple. And yet because of the corruption of our hearts in Aaron Many find no joy or satisfaction in submitting to the king and celebrating with him. You see, brothers and sisters, there is a teaching here which we must recognize and certainly cannot avoid. Every single one of us has a responsibility to answer the call to come to life in Jesus Christ in the positive All these invitations indicate that truth. Time and again they were invited, they were called to come. A response was required, and the response was to be positive. That was their duty, that was their obligation. If there was no obligation, if there was no duty, the king would not have sent repeated servants. He would not have continued to have the celebration. The table would not have been open. But it was And so there's a obligation, there's a duty to come and believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. To repent of your sins and commune with the living God. That brings us to our third point. Robes of righteousness are required Well the parable is fairly clear as now we're done with the original invitees, the king, as he has now destroyed them. invites everyone else. The call goes out now as a result of those initial invitees refusing to come. The slaves, the servants are are sent out into the main highway. Did you notice that? It was not the back street. He was not they were not told to go to the dirt roads. No, they were told to go to the main highways. The main thoroughfare where most people would be found, where the most people would hear the call to come. The feast is on. Everyone come. Bad and good. The call was to go out to everyone, pointing to Jesus' call and the Great Commission. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. The call was no longer limited to the Israelites. Now the call is universal. And did you see the result? And those servants went out into the roads and gathered all whom they found, both bad and good, so the wedding hall was filled with guests. A universal call worked. The invitation, the first and second rounds of servants sent to the original invitees resulted in no one coming, not a single person, but now as the servants go out to the main roads, the highways, and issue the call to everyone, the results is a full wedding hall. Many respond and actually come. But then the king comes in and notice that he looks at the guests. A place where the feast was going on, the wedding celebration, and now the king looks over the guests. This is a significant detail that we cannot overlook. Why? Why would he look over the guests? He's invited everyone to come. He's sent his slaves out into the main thoroughfares, the highways, to ensure that the most people would hear this invitation and respond to it and fill the wedding hall. And now he enters the hall, the wedding feast is going on, and he looks over the guests. Why? We're not all welcome to stay. We're not all welcome to come and stay and join the feast, and the short answer is no. This is why the parable includes the detail of the king now looking over the guests. He determines if they are worthy to stay. Will he allow them to remain in feast and celebrate with him? It's interesting. Verse 8 gives us that clue. Then he said to his servants, The wedding feast is ready, but those invited were not worthy. He's speaking of the original invitees. Those invited were not worthy So there was a worthiness required if one would not only come to the wedding hall, but then join in the celebration, participate in the feast. To actually get to the table, the king had to approve there was an appropriate attire to wear And now the king examines all the guests to determine if they were dressed in such a way that would befit them of staying and celebrating the wedding of his son. Verse 11. He saw there a man who had no wedding garment. And he said to him, Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? This one guest who had been invited, who had received that invitation in the main thoroughfare, who has at least, from the sense of the parable, responded to the invitation. who now has come, but he's not dressed appropriately for the wedding or the feast. Excuse me. And so we have the question from the King. Friend, how did you get in here without a wedding garment? His response really tells us everything we need to know. He was speechless. He had no answer. He could not find an answer, for there was no suitable answer to be given. He knew that he didn't have a wedding garment. And we see the result. Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness, in that place where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. In other words, cast him into a place of utter torment. What does this tell us? Jesus is providing a picture of the kingdom of God once again, and in this particular instance the question is Who will be able to enter? Who is qualified to enter? Who will be accepted for entry into the kingdom of heaven Who will be allowed to remain with the king, the Lord our God, and feast at his table, celebrating the marriage of the son to the bride, the church? And hear the answer that's given. Only those who are dressed for heaven. And so the question must go something like this: what kind of clothes, what kind of garments do I need to wear that I might be able to enter the kingdom of heaven? What are the appropriate robes? to wear to the gate of heaven that they may be opened for you. How must you be dressed? To live forever in the presence of the Holy One who made you This may seem to be a silly question, even ridiculous, that the manner of my dress, my clothing would dictate or determine if I'm able to live forever in the presence of the triune God of the Bible. But in a sense, friends, that's exactly what Jesus is saying. You must be dressed in Jesus' robes of righteousness. If you will enter into eternal life. Did you hear that? Did you understand? You must be dressed in the robes of Jesus' righteousness in order to have eternal life, in order to enter into life with Christ. You see, we are all dressed in unrighteous robes. Our sin, which is our unrighteousness, is what you were born in. is what you will die in unless you have Christ. In Adam, your entire beings have been corrupted. You no longer have the original righteousness that he Was created with. Because of Adam's sin. You have inherited, just as I, Adam's unrighteousness. That he took to himself as he sinned against the holy God. And so we read in Psalm 51, behold, I was brought forth in iniquity. David is speaking. of Adam's iniquity that he has now inherited through his birth In sin did my mother conceive me. He is recognizing that he was born in iniquity. And he also confesses his own sin. I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me. Thus like David Each of us have been born into iniquity, born into Adam's sin. And like David, each of us have added to that with our own individual sins, our transgressions throughout our lives. And thus we have dressed ourselves. You have dressed yourself in filthy rags. Filthy rags of abominable and offensive sin. That's your condition outside of Jesus Christ. Just like the one who entered the wedding hall without wedding garments. If you're not clothed in Jesus' righteousness, you will be cast out into the outer darkness, into that place where there'll be weeping and gnashing of teeth forever. But for all those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ today for salvation, you've been baptized into Christ And you have put on Christ. You've clothed yourself with Christ. You see, here then is the call. The call is to put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. And so the question this morning boils down to this, friends, are you dressed in Jesus' robes of righteousness this morning? You may be asking, how is that possible? The only way that it's possible for you to be dressed in in Jesus' righteousness is by the grace of God. You don't deserve it. I don't deserve it. You cannot take it for yourself in your own strength. It is a gift of grace and it's good news. You cannot pay for it. Because his righteousness is priceless. Yet by the grace of God, if you ask for them, if you ask for Jesus' robes, his purity, his innocence, his holiness, they'll be given to you as a free gift. The only thing required of you is to believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ and Him alone. Just as Paul and Silas told the Philippian jailer, as he asked, What must I do to be saved? The answer was, believe upon the Lord Jesus, and you'll be saved. There's a warning also. There's a warning in this passage. We may have missed it, but I want us to see it. The one who entered into the wedding hall without a wedding garment assumed that the mere invitation meant that he would automatically be enabled to join the feast. We see many people today sincerely believe that they are qualified to enter into the kingdom of heaven or of God. They sincerely believe that they have dressed themselves appropriately. Their thoughts are that I am worthy in and of myself. I am righteous in my own strength, and therefore I'm putting on my own righteousness, and I will enter glory in that. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out many demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Friends, you must be clothed in the robes of Jesus' righteousness. Do not deceive yourself Your righteousness is like filthy rags before a holy God. Dress in Jesus' robes. For one to be worthy of eternal life, we must by grace put on the righteous robes of Jesus Christ. The priests needed to wear those priestly garments or suffer death if they did not. We must be dressed in Jesus' righteousness. In order to live forever in glory. Amen. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this passage. It is such a clear reminder of our need for Christ. We ask, Lord, that you would continue building up the bride of Christ, the church, that you would continue making us blameless. Such that we can be wed to this one. Father, we look forward to that wedding day. Prepare us all for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.