That was a lot. But that was good. Brothers and sisters, if you would now join your hearts together, let's go before the throne of grace once again. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, we bless you. You are very great. Clothed with splendor and majesty. You cover yourself with light, as with a garment stretching out the heavens like a tent. You set the earth on its foundations. It should never be moved. You covered it with the deep, with the garment, the waters which stood above the mountains. At your rebuke they fled. At the sound of your thunder, they took flight. Father, you set a boundary that they may not pass. Oh God, your creation is awesome because it comes from you Father, we see your power, your majesty, your splendor within the glorious creation, within the earth, within the heavens. But Father, nothing so glorious as the Lord Jesus Christ, we thank you and praise you for your Son. Thank you that, God, you sent him, even when we were your enemies. That your everlasting and eternal love was shown forth so powerfully at the cross of Calvary. Even as we hated you, the Lord Jesus Christ went to die for us. So, Father, our hearts are filled with wonder and praise. You are a God who has regard for your covenant, the one that you established out of your good and perfect and holy will. You entered into covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And Father, this was not merely for them, but it was for us as well. And so we as the beneficiaries of this covenant And come together tonight with much thanksgiving, praise, and adoration for you as you are not only the creator of the covenant, the maker of the covenant, the one who established the covenant, but you are the fulfiller, the keeper. Father, you have kept it, you have promised to continue to keep it, and we look forward to that day when the Lord Jesus Christ will return. We're so encouraged by the fact that he has gone to make a place for each of us as the collective body of Christ. He is preparing a place for us indeed, Father, He is continuing to make us blameless here on this earth as the bride of Himself. And so, Father, we wait. We wait as the virgins waited, those with the oil in their lamps, waited in preparation. We pray even tonight, Father, that you would help us to put on the armor of light. as we consider your most holy and perfect word. Father, we are weak, we are frail. We still have the old man that we deal with, and we pray, Father, tonight, that you'd continue to sanctify your people. We know that you are holy, that your way is holy, that there is no God like you, our great God, who works wonders, who have made known your might throughout and amongst the people who have redeemed a people with your outstretched arm. And so, Father, we know that you will complete that work that you have begun. And so we look to the Spirit. He is the one who continues to sanctify us even tonight. And so we pray by and through this service of worship, Lord God, that you would continue to sanctify your people. For God, as we think about your church, we think about the OPC and the various home mission works that are going on throughout the United States. Tonight we pray for our brother, Chris Hartsorn. who is the regional home missionary in Southern California. We ask Lord God that you would help him as he goes throughout the region seeking to build up churches, to plant churches. And so we pray. Father, for this group that is gathered in Scottsdale, Arizona. Father, we pray that as they begin worship, Our plan to begin worship in May, that you would, Father, bring them together as a new body of Christ, if that be your will. That they would be a great light there in that place. We pray that you'd be with Chris Hart Shore and strengthen him as he goes about his work, Father. We not only pray closer to home, but we also pray further from home, and we pray for Sam and Sue. As uh as they, Father, continue their work in South Korea. Help the Foltas, as they hope to work with refugees there We thank you for their safety in bringing them back to that land. And we pray, Lord God, that you would give them the desires of their heart in accordance with your will. That uh that, Father, they would be able to minister well there. Father, we thank you for bringing them back into the mission field. Strengthen them. Father, we pray closer to home now. We think of Rebecca, whose brother has died. Father, her heart is broken. And so we ask that you'd be with Rebecca, that you would heal her broken heart, that you would comfort her with the comfort of Christ, and that if she does not know Christ, Lord God, that you would work in her heart to bring her to know him, to love him, to serve him. For this is the only way she can be truly comforted as she considers the death and even the death of her brother. We pray for Sonia and Lewis, Alex's sister and brother-in-law. We pray, Lord God, that you would be with them, that you would again have mercy upon their souls. We know that they have medical issues, they have pains, they have discomforts. We ask, Lord God, that you would heal their bodies. But as you do so, Father, we ask Have mercy upon their souls. We pray for Hikari again, Lord. We're so saddened that our dear sister has been afflicted with this cancer, but we know, Father, that this is for her good. And so we ask, Lord God, work out your perfect plan in our dear sister, drawing her and her dear husband Jim ever closer to Christ. We pray for Ruth, Suzanne's husband's mother, who's gone to be in hospice now. Father, we don't know the state of her heart. She has lived a long life, that is very clear. And so we pray for your mercy upon her. If she does not know Christ, we ask, Lord God, that you bring her to know Christ. If she does, Father, we pray that you'd give her comfort in this place. Bless her. Bless Suzanne. Bless Suzanne's husband. And now we pray also for Russell as he seeks rides home and as well as his co-workers. Father, we pray that you be merciful to them. We thank you for the mercy that you've poured out upon them and the way that you have cared for them. We ask that this would continue. And now, Lord God, we ask, be with us. Fill us with your Spirit. Help us not only to understand your word tonight. But work powerfully in us. Help us to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, this brings us to our offering and our doxology. Would you stand, please? Let's sing at number 731 and give praise to our God. Number 731. Praise the problem and blessings all Praise him, all creatures, hear below. Praise him above the heavenly host. Race water, sun, and holy goof Our Old Testament reading tonight comes from Proverbs. I'm sorry I don't have the page number before me of the Pew Bible. Proverbs chapter three, starting at verse nineteen Let's give attention to God's Word. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge The deeps broke open, and the clouds dropped down the dew. My son, do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom and discretion And there will be life for your soul, an adornment for your neck. And you will walk on your way securely, and your foot will not stumble If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. Do not be afraid of sudden terror or of the ruin of the wicked when it comes, for the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. Do not withhold good from those to whom it is due when it is your power to do it. Do not say to your neighbor, Go and come again. Tomorrow I will give it when you have it with you. Do not plan evil against your neighbor who dwells trustingly beside you. Do not be concerned with a man for no reason when he has done when he has done you no harm. Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways. For the devious person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright. are in his confidence. The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor. The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace. Amen. Hymn of preparation is eternity Psalter number 30. I think I've got that one right. O Lord, I will extol you as in your bulletin. Number 30. For you have lived with me. I thought you kept from posting and golding over me Oh Lord my God, I please that you might heal and save. You bought my soul from she or he stole me from your grace. His holy name we member to saints are the hold of our face. Angold birth of my moments is the days. For through the tears of weeping, wait till we fall on night There comes a shroud of deathness and the hold of morning light In prosperous days are both on the shall remain. Oh my ball, your good my mountain you maintained. But when your face was hidden, my heart was terrified. To you, O Lord, I pleaded for mercy for thy Christ. What profits here I perish if I design to this Let us proclaim your praises for the totalness Oh Lord on me have mercy, and my petition is That you may be my help in mercy, God of you. You turn my grief to dancing, comes back of set we clothed me round with gladness I shall not silent be, my soul will sing your praises, your name will I adore Oh my God, I thank you for nine evermore. Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Romans, once again, I think it's on page 1126 of your Pew Bible. We'll be reading there chapter thirteen. Let's give attention now to God's holy, inspired, and infallible word. Romans chapter thirteen Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. But there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval, for he is God's servant for your good. But If you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger, who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore, one must be in subjection, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. For because of this you also pay taxes. For the authorities are ministers of God, attending to this very thing. Pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed. Revenue to whom revenue is owed. Respect. to whom respect is owed, honor, to whom honor is owed. Owe no one anything except to love each other For the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. For the commandments, you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor. Therefore, love is the fulfillment of the law. Besides this, you know the time, that the hour has come for you to wake from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The night is far gone, the day is at hand. So then let us cast off the works of darkness, and put on the armor of light. Let us walk properly in the daytime, not in orgies and drunkenness, not in sexual immorality and sensuality Not in quarrelling and jealousy, but put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen Our Father God, we pray now help us. This passage before us tonight is full. We could spend nights and nights and nights upon this one passage, unfolding it, meditating upon it. Help us, Lord, by your Spirit. Convict us of our sins and lift us up with the promises of Christ. And help us to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray these things in his name. Amen. Well, children, you might remember the account of David as he went to battle Goliath. Remember, none of the other Israelites would go out to meet him. And when he spoke up and said that he would King Saul decided to give him his armor. And not only his armor, his helmet of bronze and his coat of mail. That's this chain-like stuff that was placed around the body so that Arrows and spears couldn't pierce through. So they had to have all these things on And he determined that he could not use them, that that was not the proper clothing for him to have as he went into battle against Goliath. What did he take? How was David clothed? Well, we know that he was a shepherd boy, and we know that he took that sling and those smooth stones. But in reality, David was clothed in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel That was the armor that David put on to enter into battle. Tonight Tonight, as we consider this passage, it is very similar to David's experience. We've been placed in a battle. Many Goliaths all around us. The question is, how are we going to be clothed in that battle? Paul has been writing, he has been presenting his gospel, he has told us so very clearly that justification is by faith alone in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. And he has spent eleven chapters telling us, giving us that doctrine, and not just that doctrine, that good news. Of how we can be saved in Christ Jesus. Now, in chapter 12, he began telling us how to live as we have been saved. He's told us, present your bodies as a living sacrifice. Allow your mind to be transformed by renewal. And so he continues to unfold that idea. How are we supposed to present our bodies a living sacrifice which is holy and acceptable? To God, he's been unfolding that idea, and he continues to do that tonight in this passage in chapter 13 Tonight I want us to see that we are to put on the Lord Jesus Christ by waging war against the old man and loving our neighbors. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ by waging war against the old man and loving your neighbors. Tonight, three points. Submit to authorities Love your neighbor and put on the armor of light. Brothers and sisters, this is an important passage. It has much in it for our Christian life Once again, we are going to be skimming over the top. But I want you to hear this and I want you to meditate upon this and know that you can constantly come back to this passage when you're asking yourselves, how do I live? How do I live before God in this world? Well, first, submit to the authorities. Look at verse 1 of chapter 13. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. This seems a bit strange, a bit out of place, as Paul is teaching us how Christians live, how they become this living sacrifice wholly and acceptable to God. that our minds need to be transformed by their renewal. And then he comes up with, hey, be subject to the governor. Be subject to the one that's filling that civil office. Every person be subject. Well, first we must see how all-inclusive this passage is. Let every person be subject. Every Christian is called to be subject to submit to the civil authorities. You might ask the question why? Why is that? Maybe for others, but why should Christians submit to the civil authorities? Christians are not of this world. Indeed, followers of Christ are citizens of heaven. We belong to a different realm. But there it is. Clearly, let every person be subject to the governing authorities. Well, first, that's because God Himself has instituted all civil authority. He's the one who puts people in office. Look at there. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been instituted by God. He is the one. who has created the civil authority, he is the one who puts people in those positions. Pilate said to Jesus, will you not speak to me? Verse 10 of chapter 19 of John. Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? Jesus answered, you would have no authority over me at all, unless it had been given you from above. Every civil magistrate is put in position, given authority by God By his providential hand, he has selected individuals to fill those seats. And so then we obey the civil authority because as we do so we are obeying God. But there's more here. Peter writes in 1 Peter 2, be subject For the Lord's sake, to every human institution, whether it be the Emperor or Supreme Or to governors are sent by him to punish those who do evil, to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God. It's his will that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. This is God's will that we obey. And by doing so, what we do is silence the ignorance of foolish people. The idea here seems to be that Christians during the days of the apostles were charged with being wrongdoers. Opposing the law of Moses, first and foremost. But later on, apparently, Christians were charged with cannibalism, eating the blood and the body of the Lord Jesus Christ. With atheism, not believing in their gods, and with the lack of patriotism, having one king, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so Peter is suggesting that if you're obeying the civil authorities, first of all, you're doing God's will, but then you're silencing those who would bring these charges, these false charges against Christians. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up, but living as servants of God. Doing the will of God is being a servant of God. God's will is that we obey the civil magistrates. And Paul tells us so very clearly in verse 5: therefore, one must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. If we are to obey God, and God's will is that we obey the civil authorities, then our consciences are going to be stricken if we fail to obey the civil authority. For the sake of your conscience, obey the civil authority. Now we know it's not in this passage, but we know there are limitations on the civil authority. And that's brought out in Acts. As Peter and John were proclaiming the Lord Jesus Christ, and they were told not to by not the civil authority, but the religious leaders of the day. Peter and the apostles explained the answer, we must obey God rather than men, when they were told to stop preaching. So there are limitations. But that's not in this passage tonight. I just want to make sure you understand that I'm not suggesting that we would obey the civil authorities to the extent that we're disobeying God. We obey the civil authorities because we are obeying. Well, this is really not out of place because there's a connection here. There are many connections. I want us to see at least one. Remember in chapter 12? As the Apostle Paul, inspired by the Spirit, was telling Christians, telling us even tonight Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to what is honorable in the sight of all if possible, as far as it pends upon you, live peaceably. Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. Now we might read that and think, well, God's wrath doesn't occur until Judgment Day, and that's just not the case. We learn that here tonight. Because God has put the civil authority in place, in part, to be an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Verse 4. There is a connection. There's some logic because Paul writes this, and these things are connected. You'll see even more connections as we continue on tonight, but certainly that's the first one. Vengeance is the Lord's, and he uses the civil authority in part to carry out his wrath on the wrongdoer. But let me say this. The civil magistrate is a blessing to us. We're called to pray for them, but we also understand and know that God has established civil governments for our good. He's God's servant for your good. Verse 4. Certainly he has established a civil authority to restrain evil. We read that tonight in the Westminster Confession. We read it in 1 Peter 2, verse 14. Governors are sent by him to punish those who do evil, restraining evil. Public good, to this end he has armed them with the power of the sword for the defense and encouragement of them that are good and for the punishment of evildoers. We didn't read that, but that was the first paragraph of Westminster Confession. Chapter 23. God's given us the civil authority to promote peace. How was it that the Word of God went out so quickly during the days of the apostles? The Romans had established peace. They established a great road system. The word went out because of that peace. Because God was overseeing the proclamation of His Word. Yes. Call tonight. Call tonight is clear. Submit to the authorities. God has placed them there for our good. Brings us to our second point: love your neighbor. Look at verse 8. Owe no one anything except to love each other. For the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. This then is in the context of law-keeping, and Paul guides all believers there should be nothing outstanding, no debts, no thing passed due, no wrongs done Which have not been righted. No one paid taxes to the governing authorities. All accounts up to date owe no one to anything Deuteronomy fifteen gives us a sense of that. If there's a poor man with you, one of your brothers in any of your towns and your lands, which the Lord your God is giving you. You shall not harden your heart nor close your hand, but you shall freely open your hand to him and generously lend him sufficient for his need in whatever he lacks. That's the positive. Of the negative here, owe no one anything. Freely open your hand. Give generously. For needs. Whoever is generous to the poor lends to the Lord, and he will repay him for his deed. Proverbs 19 These are glorious truths, telling us of how we can love one another. And this is the sum of the commandments, isn't it? The first four commands, and that's not what Paul's dealing with here tonight. Deal with our relationship to God Himself. The last six, the second table of the law, deal with our relationship to one another. And so those are the six commands that Paul's dealing with here. Verse 9: for the commandments: you shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not cover it. Any other commandment is subbed up in this word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. How is that? How does love sum up the last six commands? Well, again, we'd be here all night if we went through each of them, but very quickly. When we give respect and honor to our superiors, the fifth command, we're loving our neighbors When we don't lust, when we don't commit adultery, when we don't take our neighbor's wife or husband, we're loving our neighbors. Seventh commandment. When we don't steal, when we leave our neighbors' things alone, and be content with that which God has given us. We love our neighbors. The eighth commandment. When we don't lie, when we don't bear false witness, when we seek to build up the good names of our neighbors. We're loving our neighbors. The ninth commandment. When we don't covet, when we rejoice in the blessings that God has bestowed upon our neighbors. When we are blessed as we see how God has blessed us, we love our neighbors. The tenth commandment. You see, as we love, we're fulfilling all of those commands. It is the fulfillment of the law. Paul has already taught us much about the subject of love. Romans 12, verse 9: Let love be genuine or without hypocrisy. Love one another with brotherly affection. contribute to the needs of the saints and seek to show hospitality. But this this verse, this this group of verses seems to go further than that. True love seeks to put away self-gratification to the injury of others. True love seeks to add to the joy of our neighbors Building up and encouraging our neighbors in the Lord, not to tear them down or apart. He said in another way. If the law is a description in part of the nature of God, and as God is love, then keeping the law must necessarily be a demonstration of love if you love me. You will keep my commandments. John 14, verse 15. And so as we love Jesus Christ, we are fulfilling the law. That then brings us to our third point, and this is the point that I really want to focus on tonight. Put on the armor of light. See, as as Paul moves through this passage, he gets down to verse 11. He tells us, besides this, you know the time that the hour has come for you to wake up from sleep. For salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The idea seems to be that Christ has come. Remember his first sermon that he preached, that Mark recorded. The time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. I am here. I have arrived. The Messiah is present among you. Christ has come. And John he told the disciples so very clearly that he had overcome the world. I have said these things to you that in me you may have peace. In the world you will have tribulation. But take heart, I have overcome the world. Seems that that's what Paul speaks of. Salvation is nearer to us now than when we first believed. The return of Christ is getting closer and closer and closer in time to us all the time, even though we don't know when. But we're closer now than when we first believed. Salvation has come near to us by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. He has gone to the cross, he has risen from the dead, he's now ascended. He's waiting for that day when he will return for his beautiful bride. Salvation is nearer to us. The day is at hand. Christ has removed the night, the darkness. The night is far gone. The day is at hand. Isn't that what Jesus ushered in? As he told the disciples, as he preached, the kingdom is at hand, darkness was being wiped away, the day was being brought in. That's what Jesus Christ has done. And so what does he tell us to do? Verse 12, let us cast off the works of darkness. Jesus Christ came and broke our bondage to sin. He's given us eyes to see, ears to hear. He has caused us then to have the ability to cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. This passage is powerful. This passage suggests that we might be sleepy. This passage suggests that there's a possibility that Christians could could somehow like the five virgins who were foolish and didn't bring the the oil with their lamps in preparation for Christ to come. We may fall into that trap in a sense, and salvation is nearer to us than when we first believed. The night is gone, day is at hand, so let us cast off the works of darkness and put on The armor of light. This is a in a sense a warning from Paul. It's a it's a call. If we're sleepy. I'm not talking about tonight. I'm talking about being Christians, being asleep in our faith, not being prepared for Christ to return. That's what he's getting at. And so it's a warning. Be prepared and be active, like those five virgins who had the oil with them. Expect Christ to return. He's coming quickly. I don't know when. But the call is to then live in that way, live with that attitude, that being that living sacrifice. Holy and acceptable to God is caught up in casting off the works of darkness and putting on the armor of light. What does that mean? In a sense it means to walk properly, doesn't it? That's what he tells us here. The night's far gone, the day's at hand, cast off the works of darkness, put on the armor of light, let us walk properly as in the daytime. Let us walk properly as we walk before people, in a sense, where people see you, where they watch you and they see what you're doing, and you act in a certain way. The call is to act in a way that you know God is watching. Jesus is watching. You're an ambassador for Christ, and the question is, how are you living before others? Cast off the works of darkness. Walking properly means not walking in orgies, not walking in drunkenness. Not walking in sexual immorality and sensuality and quarreling and jealousy. You know, we might think to ourselves, well, I'm not drunk, I'm not engaging in orgies or sexual immorality. But are you quarreling? Are you jealous? As part of that darkness. It's part of the work of darkness. Paul is admonishing us to cast off. And to walk properly. The focus here is a bit beyond the civil authorities. Yes, we are to obey the civil authorities, the traffic laws, the fixing your fence laws. But now Paul is talking about those spiritual laws that we are subject to, and that God is the one Himself who is watching. Well, as opposed to walking in the darkness, Paul admonishes us to put on the armor of light. What is this? I'm going to suggest to us tonight that Paul opens this up in Corinthians in his letter to the Ephesians. These are the weapons of war that we need to don. These are the weapons of war that that indeed David put on as he fought Goliath as he approached him in the name of the God of the Lord of hosts That's the idea. Put on the armor of light, casting off the darkness. The weapons of our warfare are not of the flesh, but of divinely powerful for the destruction of fortresses. Can we do that? Yes. Yes, if we're putting on the weapons of the warfare that Christ gives us, if we are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ, isn't that where it begins? We are taking every thought captive to the obedience of Christ. And now in Ephesians, Paul gets very specific, fasten on the belt of truth. the breastplate of righteousness having shod your feet with the gospel of peace, taking up the shield of faith so that you can distinguish the flaming darts of the evil one, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit. Which is the word of God praying at all times with all prayer and supplication to that and keep alert. Sounds similar. Wake up. Put on the armor of light. All those things were what Paul was describing are weapons of war. The warfare that we are engaged in, brothers and sisters. The armor of light. But the thing is, Paul doesn't stop there. Put on the Lord Jesus Christ. And make no provisions for the flesh to gratify its desires. There's a sense in which I think There's a culmination here in verse 14 of everything that's gone before it since we began in chapter 12. What is it to be a living sacrifice? What is it to have your mind transformed by renewal? What is it to love your brothers and have hospitality? What is it to obey the civil authorities? Is it not to put on Christ? Is it not all summed up in putting on Christ? I think it is. I think that's Paul's intent. I think that's what the Spirit is teaching us tonight And I think it's a bit different than the armor of light, because the armor of light are the weapons of warfare that Jesus gives to us, but it's not Jesus. And so now we need to try to unfold and unpack a little bit about what it means to put on Jesus. There's a certain sense, as we think about putting on Jesus, that it's caught up in Jesus' abiding within us. That He is life and the light of men. And that we can do nothing unless we are abiding in Jesus. For apart from me, you can do nothing. And so part of putting on Jesus is recognizing that he's abiding in us by his Spirit. And then there's a certain sense of equivalence with Jesus. Not that we can somehow become divine, because that's not what Paul is saying. But Jesus is the light of the world, and whoever follows will have the light of life. It's the sense of becoming more like Jesus. There's a sense of becoming more and more conformed to Jesus as we continue to put him on. And there's some form of equivalence here that we are called to be conformed to the image of his Son. And less to put on the Lord Jesus must mean in part that we're to become like him, to shine forth in this dark world, like he showed shown forth as he walked on this earth To show others how we've been changed. Because to put on Jesus is to put off Adam, isn't it? As a woman, I don't know this for sure, I think this is the case, but as a woman goes dressed shopping, she must first take off the old in order to try on the new. In order for a man to be fitted for a new suit, he must take off the old in order to be fitted for the new. As one puts new wine into old wineskins, if he does, the wine will burst the skins and the wine is destroyed, and so are the skins. But new wine is for fresh wineskins. We have to first take off Adam. The old man needs to be put off. The natural man must be put to death. put to death. And so we see the logic of this passage, don't we? The call to be subject to the governing authorities is a call to to put off the old man, to to put off that wrongdoing. Adam must be rejected, he must be thrown out, he must be peeled back layer by layer, and there must be then this striving toward not living according to the flesh, but living according to the Spirit. And so to put on Jesus is to be baptized into his death and then walk in the newness of life. So let's just open this up a little bit more. To put on Jesus as first to know Jesus. This is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Nicodemus could not put on Jesus. He couldn't even truly see Jesus. There was no way for him to follow Jesus because he didn't know Jesus. See, the disciples were not able to put on Jesus as as they walked with him on this earth until the Holy Spirit was poured out. They didn't know Jesus. They all ran from Jesus when he was headed to the cross. The Samaritan woman She finally came to know Jesus. I know the Messiah is coming, and when he comes, he'll tell us all these things. And Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. And then she followed him. Philippian jailer had to be taught. He had to know Jesus. What must they do to be saved? Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your family. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him. To put on Jesus as the know him. To put on Jesus is to deny yourself Think of Jesus Christ as the one came to him and said to him, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, birds of the earth have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. He denied himself. Another had said, Lord, let me first go and bury my father, and Jesus said to him, Follow me and leave the dead to bury their own dead. You see, to put on Jesus is to deny yourself. To put on Jesus is to submit to the will of the Father, holy and completely. Remembers he had been talking with a Samaritan woman, and the disciples returned and they offered him something to eat, and he said, I have food to eat that you do not know about. They didn't know the Father yet. They didn't know the Father's will, but Jesus Christ was feasting upon his Father's will. My food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to accomplish His work. He loved, He longed, He lived to do the will of His Father. That's the change that must take place within our hearts. The old man loves to do his will. To put on Jesus means a 180-degree shift. To put on Jesus is to love others, even our enemies. For while we And that's speaking of you and me. While we were still weak, at the right time, Jesus Christ died for the ungodly. The ungodly. Sometimes we have a difficult time loving our good neighbors But Jesus loved us when we were unlovable. And that is the call to put on Jesus: to love the unlovable, the unloved. To put on Jesus is to look like Jesus from the inside out. Putting on Jesus starts on the inside, doesn't it? It starts with the heart. It starts with the new heart. It starts with a new birth given by the Spirit. I will give you a new heart, a new spirit I will put within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. It begins in the heart, it begins with supernatural surgery. Our old man, our old Adam, nature is all about the outside. Her old nature is about the external. Certainly begins in the heart. And this is part of the reason why it's so difficult to describe what it means to be made in the image of God because it is inside, to be conformed to the image of Christ. is to be conformed to his heart. And to put on the Lord Jesus Christ means to act like Jesus. James describes that for us so very clearly, for as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works. is dead. Jesus was constantly working to accomplish his Father's will. Oh, brothers and sisters, how we need to put on the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, put on the Lord Jesus Christ by waging war against the old man within, and by loving your neighbors. David was able to defeat Goliath that day, not because he took the armor of Saul. But because the Lord Jesus Christ had been put on. Blessed be our God. Amen Our Father in heaven, we thank you and praise you for this passage. Help us, Lord God, not to think that we're done with it. Help us to come back to this time and again to meditate upon it, to be filled by it. And help us, Lord God, to put on the armor of light, those weapons of war that Jesus has given to us. And help us to put on the Lord Jesus Christ.