Well as we have been studying through the book of uh First Timothy, um we have come to uh the familiar section. Where the Apostle Paul gives Timothy what are called the qualifications for leaders of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so let's turn there, 1 Timothy chapter 3. We began this last time. It will pick up But let's hear God's word. 1 Timothy 3 1 through verse through verse 7. This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent, not greedy for money but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetousness, not one who excuse me, not covetousness, one who rules his own house well Having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest, being puffed up with pride, he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. May God add his blessing to the reading of his word this afternoon. Last time we were together, we started with verse one, and uh we saw that the apostle Paul told us that The person who desires the position of a bishop in the house of the Lord is a good thing. It's a good desire. It's one of the It's an interesting word because most of the time that word desire is used, it's used negatively, as if um It it is translated sometimes lust. But here it is used in a more positive direction, but it it certainly does uh uh give the sense of a kind of intensity. of the desire. It's a good thing to have an intense or good desire to be a bishop in the house of the Lord. And as I went through that discussion, I wanted to make it clear that the New Testament does not use this term. Merely or even primarily as a noun identifying a person who has a title It uses it as a verb describing that person's activity. He bishops, as it were. The actual translation in Greek, if you were to see it in Greek, you would pronounce it episcopas. Or episcope, from which in English it's translated episcopal. You know where the episcopal church got its nomenclature From this title of a bishop. Now, however, when you look at this, the use of this word, it is regularly used to speak of such things as having a ministry of care, a ministry of involvement with the life of the people. of God. It often is translated as also one who visits As if Christ, it's talked about Christ visiting his people, in that when Christ visits his people, it's an indication of his care of his people. A number were uh passages we looked at. Luke chapter 1, verse 68, where After the announcement of the birth of uh uh of um John the Baptist, it's recorded that One said, Blessed is the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. And again, in the same context, verse 78, the tender mercy of our God with which the dayspring from on high hath visited us. Those two passages were Old Testament quotations, but you see in both places they refer, John the Baptist's father refers to two events where God was going to come and visit his people. He was going to come and be a bishop to his people. He was going to come and fellowship with them. This idea that God comes to fellowship and visit with his people includes the fact that because of that fellowship, God brings redemption and mercy. Hebrews chapter two verse six Picks up this language of visiting and redemption, connects it to redemption and mercy of God It says, one testified in a certain place, saying, what is man that you are mindful of him, or the son of man that you visited him. And I know it doesn't sound right to translate it this way But you could translate it legitimately, what is man that you bishoped him? That's the sense of the word. You see, it's not it's not pointing to a title. It's pointing to an activity on the part of the one who is interacting with another individual. When Jesus uh came in contact at the city of Maine, N-A-I-N He raised a dead woman's son from the gr from being dead. And the people who saw it in Luke chapter 7, verse 16, said The fear came upon them. They glorified God, saying, A great prophet has risen up upon us. God has visited. There it is again. God has visited his people. Well, you see, it was not simply that Jesus came to help this this dead kid. He literally gave him life. He literally brought this man back from the dead. A supreme example of God visiting his people, caring for them, ministering to them, and bringing life and/or salvation. Peter, the Apostle Peter, refers to Jesus as someone less, no less, than the shepherd and the chief overseer of our souls. There it's word overseer. It's translated bishop, the one who cares for, the one who visits us, 1 Peter 2, verse 25. Not only does this idea of one who oversees our souls, but in Peter, it's furthermore connected to the God who shepherds. his people or shepherds his flock. Christ has said that he has returned us to the shepherd and overseer of our souls. And that whole language of God being our shepherd, God coming to visit us, God coming to bishop us, God coming to oversee us. You see, is underlies those great promises of the Old Testament where God's shepherds had been false. Ezekiel 23, excuse me, Jeremiah 23, Ezekiel 34, both places. Speak of the fact that God one day is going to come and He's going to be the shepherd of his people He will seek his flock where the sheep are scattered. I will visit out my sheep. I will deliver them from all places that they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day We see this word episcopas used also of Christians caring for one another. The fact that Christians are to care for one another is under the umbrella of this word, being a bishop, being an overseer, visiting Remember how Jesus said in Matthew 25 to the sheep and the goats, yea, I was sick, and ye visited me. I was in prison and ye visited me. We are called to visit and help and comfort those who are sick. James chapter 1 in his epistle, verse 27, even describes pure religion this way. It is to visit Episcopas, the fatherless, and the widows in their affliction, to keep himself unspotted from the world. Those who are to be rulers in the church, those who are to be rulers in the church that Timothy is ministering to, is to look for men who work as bishops Who remind, another way of saying it, they those men, in the way in which they conduct themselves among others, remind them of Jesus The bishop of his people, taking care of them, visiting them, lifting them up, being their shepherd Being the she the shepherd of the flock. Peter adds his two cents to this whole study of what does a bishop look like? What does a leader of the church look like? What does it mean to have that this is a good thing to desire? And he says in 1 Peter 5, verse 2, Shepherd the flock of the Lord Jesus which is among you, serving as Overseers, slash bishops, slash episcopas, not by compulsion, but willingly, not for dishonest gain. And the text we read this morning in Acts chapter 20, 28, there we see it again, where Paul instructs the elders at Ephesus to take heed to the flock. among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased from his own blood. With regard to this word, episcopas Bishops, I know we went over this before, but I'm going back over and plowing the ground before. Again With regard to this word, the way it's used, you cannot draw any other conclusion from the Bible than an episcopas Usually refers to someone who cares for God's flock, just like God in Christ cares for you. That's the kind of person, that's one of the characteristics of the kind of person Timothy is to look for. And remember, when Timothy was left behind at Ephesus. by Paul, so Paul could go elsewhere on his mission journey. Timothy was to stay behind at Ephesus. And in verse 3 of chapter 1, it tells us what he was to do. He says, when I go to Macedonia, you might charge some that teach some that they teach no other doctrine. Neither give heed to fables and endless marriages, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is faith Now, the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, out of a good conscience, out of faith, from which some have swerved. turning aside unto idle talk, teaching to be teachers, excuse me, desiring to be teachers of the law, understanding neither what they say nor uh whereof they affirm They were to be bishops. They were to be overseers. They were to be shepherds. They were to be elders. I don't care what word you use. As long as you get the point that when you use those words, you understand them not to be so much titles. or the identification of an office, but you use them descriptive of what they do. Now, again, having said all that, we move now into some of the qualifications That Paul lays out for Timothy. It's not just that they should be bishops, but now, Timothy, I want to talk to you about What kind of people they are? What kind of Christian professions do they do they manifest? How would you recognize them? What would you need for these men whom you're going to put in charge along with you to make sure that there aren't any other false teachers out there uh and that the people of the sheep that the sheep are getting taken care of. What kind of men does that need to be? Do they need to be Well, the first thing he mentions comes in verse 2. It is necessary that a bishop be blameless. It is necessary that the bishop be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behavior, given to hospitality, apt to teach. We do need to take note of the fact that the Apostle Paul gave these considerations, or considered these considerations, these qualities, to be so important that he gave them twice. To two different men. He gave them once to Timothy, and he gave them once to Titus, over in Titus chapter 1. In addition, not just did Paul give these qualifications, but Peter gave these qualifications in 1 Timothy. 1 Peter 5. You ought to get the understanding, you see, the very important understanding, that these kinds of church leaders Do not become church leaders at random. The way in which God wants his church led is not up for grabs. God has laid the pattern down. Yes, they came from Paul. They came from Paul to Timothy and Titus. They came from Peter to the people of the churches that he was writing to. But those guys are writing under the inspiration of God. The idea of how who is in charge of the church is not something that God has left up to man's imagination. It is something he has declared. And the church needs to take note of this and not try to go their own way. And do things contrary to how the scripture has established matters When it says that he is to be blameless, generally speaking, it is translated beyond reproach. A person who is beyond reproach. This particular word has one of those peculiarities associated with them in the New Testament. With New Testament Greek, it is only found here, and then again found in 1 Timothy 5, verse 7. It doesn't mean that therefore they are to be blameless. It just means that we don't have an extremely precise definition of it. The two places it is used, it's translated, it's translated blameless, consistent. But a blameless person is one who It cannot mean perfect. It can't mean perfect. It can't mean absolutely without sin. I suggest to you that the best way to understand the text is because it because obviously if it was if it was meant to be without sin, then no person on this earth would qualify. And God and God has already said, I got I want some elders here. But if we're going to go forward in the life of the church, we're going to have to find some blameless men So you see, it can't mean perfect. It can't mean sinless. I think the best explanation I've heard of it means that if a man does indeed sin, Against someone else, even before it is identified, his conscience is so seared that he goes and makes amends as quickly as possible. That so that you know things just don't keep lingering on and on. And he has an offense in the mind with someone else Do you see that? That would be the right way which all of us are to proceed with regard to our sin. It's akin to us when we sin. What do we do? You shouldn't run and hide. You shouldn't make excuses. You shouldn't blame somebody else. But when you sin, you need to come to God and repent. And to ask him for help, not to do it again. I think that blameless fits in that category. The second proviso that is made here, the second qualification is the husband of one wife. The husband of one wife. I prefer the literal translation here, which is a one-woman man. A one-woman man. A man who has only one wife, especially one wife at a time. One wife at a time. In order to come to that understanding of that text, you have to number one recognize the time in which Timothy is writing, or Paul is writing. to who he is writing. What is going on at Ephesus? What is Ephesus? That's where Timothy is. That's where Paul is writing. What's there? Idolatry is there. A temple to one of the Roman gods is there. Goddesses is there. What kind of pagan practices are there? All kinds of pagan practices. All kinds of pagan practices, including, including the marriage of many wives. Does it not seem that when Paul is saying the husband of one wife, that he is writing most likely against polygamy? Which was rampant in that community and rampant throughout the ancient Middle Eastern world because they were pagans, and that's one of the things pagans do. The husband of one wife, one wife at a time, one wife whom God has sovereignly given to you. We do have a lot of dispute and debate about this particular qualification. Things are brought into it. Applications are said to be a part of this passage, such as the person must be married. Or that is an automatic disqualification. Unless a person is married to a woman, that person is disqualified. Now I do understand that argument. I can hear where that is an argument that can could be made from this text. But if you make that argument, and I know you've heard this before, if you make that argument, then neither Jesus nor Christ could fit this qualification. Excuse me, neither Jesus nor Paul could fit this qualification. And I have actually heard people try to explain that away by saying, well, it doesn't matter, because Paul and Christ are special. And they are therefore exempt. But wait a minute. Wait a minute with that Paul never claimed exemption from any of the requirements of God's Word. And I don't believe he would begin now simply because he was an apostle. For he said in 1 Corinthians 9, verse 26. I therefore so run not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beats the air But I keep under my body and bring it unto subjection And what he's talking about is subjection to the word. You go back and you look at the text. I keep it in subjection lest by any means After I have preached to others, I myself might be disqualified. Do you see what he's saying? I'm not claiming any objection or any exemption. The word of God applies to me too. How in the world can the Apostle Paul say that uh that a person who is singular is disqualified if that's what this means. It can't mean that Because if it was, he would be a hypocrite and not applying it to himself. Now, I give it to you. I'm not sure that we would want a whole session of single men. Unmarried men I'm not sure that we should all become units for the sake of the kingdom, although there are some who do But I don't see that because a man is not married that he's automatically disqualified. And furthermore, I submit to you, shock of shocks, that the Apostle Paul and Jesus Were married. That they were married. In the sense that Paul means it here. I believe they both had a wife You hear me? I'm on record. I believe they both had a wife. Who was their wife? Well, Christ, Paul said it about Jesus. He said it this way. Husbands love your wives even as Christ loved the church, and gave himself for it that he might Sanctify it and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot or wrinkle, or any such thing But it should be holy and without blemish. For this cause shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall be joined to his wife, and they shall be one flesh. This is a great mystery But I speak concerning Christ and the church. What's going on there? You've got Paul talking about Relationship between an actual husband and wife, but at the same time he's talking about the relationship between Christ and the church The same time you're seeing how Isaiah 62, which we read earlier, where God is married to his church, he calls her married and he calls her Beulah, you see that Jesus is the bridegroom. The church is the bride. He's ultimately again the example, the epitome of a married man. He is married to his church. And that theme of Christ being married over and over to his church comes through throughout the scriptures. Not just Isaiah 62, Isaiah 54, verses 5 through 8. The Maker, thy Maker, is thy husband. The Lord of hosts is his name, the Redeemer of Israel, going hand in hand with redemption, with your redemption, is your marriage to God as his bride. Revelation 19, 7. Let us be glad and rejoice and give honor to him, for the marriage of the Lamb is come. And his wife has made herself ready. I'm not just picking this out of the air. It's there. It's in the scriptures. Matthew 9 15, Revelation 21, 2. And so to you I submit that as Christ loved the church and is her husband. Forever, so the Apostle Paul is a man who loved the church and gave himself for her and sanctified her, and in that way, in his love for the church. He meets the qualification of a single man loving God's people So if you ask me, can a single man be married? I'm gonna make a determination as to how high a priority on that single man's life is his church Before I would say that he's automatically disqualified Because you can very easily see how if a single man does love the people of God by the way in which he interacts with them. And episc back to the episcopats again. How he visits them, how he cares for them, how he ministers to them It's a matter of, it becomes a matter of what is his love, Christ and His people or Himself. Granted, to have a wife is the easier way to assess this qualification. All I'm asking you is to see that it's not the only way. Amen. Let us um let us bow our heads for a word of prayer. Most merciful and gracious God, our Heavenly Father, apply to the hearts of your people that which is in accordance with your word and your and your uh revealed word to us, sisters oh heavenly father to um uh to seek those men uh for leadership even as Paul asked Timothy to seek those men who demonstrate uh the qualifications which you have laid out. First and foremost in our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, and then secondly, as you have laid them out in the way in which Jesus um depicts and shows his love to his church. We pray it vow in Jesus' name