That is uh evening services. We've been going through the book of uh First Timothy and uh In the past couple of weeks, we've been focusing on uh leaders uh of the church And the qualification for those leaders, and as they're given to us in 1 Timothy chapter 3. Now we recall that Paul has left Ephesus, where he primarily was ministering, and Timothy, his young assistant, And was given the responsibility of continuing the work that Paul had been doing at Ephesus. And Paul was especially concerned that Timothy would make sure that there would be no bad teaching going on, no false teachers. He was charged with allowing only that which was consistent with what Paul had been teaching about the gospel to be heard in the community of believers at Ephesus. Now um w we've been and and and um it wasn't the something though that Timothy was to do this job all alone. We recall from Acts chapter 20 that there were already elders at Ephesus That was where Paul gave his famous farewell speech to the elders at Ephesus. But at the same time, there would have to be new elders. who would always be coming on the scene and helping Timothy in his work, even as we see in that passage from the Old Testament that we read with Moses. how the elders were to have a portion of the Spirit placed upon them so that they might help Moses. Bear the responsibility of ministering to the complaining people of Israel. Now So we've looked at a number of these qualifications for the kind of men that Timothy is to be looking for. And tonight our studies take us to verse 4. And uh and uh that's where we will uh look at that's the verse we will look at primarily tonight But before we get there, let us read this section, beginning at 1 Timothy 3, verses 1 through 7. This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife. temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach, not given to wine, not violent Not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous. One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Now, actually we're going to look at verses 4 and 5 tonight. And in both verses, this idea that is put forth that an elder must be one who rules Here he is on the one sense he's to be one who rules his house well. But at the same time, that serves as a foundation or as a qualification for also knowing how to rule the Lord's house, the Lord's church. And in both verses, the word for rule is the same word. The same word. Now, when you think of the word rule That conjures up a certain profile, a certain image of one who rules. He's an authority figure He commands. He is given, because of his position, he's given respect. Uh it uh you think automatically that uh those who are under a ruler uh will be obedient. You think that a ruler uh and and then of course then there are a whole bunch of other ideas about rulers. despotic rulers, emperors, those who say uh merely say a word in a person's life could be forfeit. There are all kinds of different words that we think about when we think about ruling. And I've gone through this passage many, many times in my ministry. And uh I found something in this point about ruling that I had never understood, not never seen, and consequently never preached or appreciated. And uh I want to share that with you. And perhaps it's a testimony to the foolishness of my own thinking that I never saw it before But I think it's also a testimony to the fact that the Lord's word is a treasure. And if you mine the treasure, if you make some effort, you'll be rewarded with even greater understanding and greater treasures. I'd like to think that was that was true in this particular case, in my case, as well as in yours. Well, what is it, Pastor, that you discovered that you hadn't figured out before? Well, it has it has much to do with the idea that I accepted kind of at face value The normal profile that we think of for a leader. A person who has a lot of authority. A person who commands A person who speaks and his word is carried out A person who, in many ways, uh uh demands uh obedience or expects obedience. And uh when I when I looked at the fact that now we've got in verses four and five the word rule twice. And in both cases we have the same word, the same Greek word. I began to try to see what that word means and how it's used. And it does speak of being a leader or one who has authority. That's part of it. That's part of the picture, but it isn't the only part of the picture. There are two other aspects of this rule that this word rule encompasses. Two other thoughts. One of them is he is a manager. He is a manager. And that word manager Is very close to the idea of being a good steward, which we've seen before, how important that is. Whatever the Lord gives us We're to use that well for his glory. And we're accountable. In fact, that's what the word, that's one of the uh that's what one that's one of the ideas of the bishop He is a steward, he is a manager. But the other word that goes along with ruling well is one, I mean you might you might get the word about managing You know, a good uh a good leader, a good king will manage his affairs well. But this one you won't normally get. Because this word also carries with it the thought of one who cares for another, or one who gives help to another. You don't think that a ruler cares for others. You don't think that a ruler is one who will give help to others. He has servants to take care of that. Right? But that is when when you begin to start examining the flavor, how this word is used. And you begin to start thinking about it that the one who rules well is also one who helps others. And I want you to keep that thought in your mind, because I'm going to come back to that thought in just a few minutes. This word rue well. is also cited in verse 12 as the qualifications for deacons. Same word. It comes up again in 1 Timothy 5. 17. Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Comes up in Titus 3. 8. This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be might rule or in this case it's manage good works. Okay? Romans chapter 12, verse 8. He that exhorts on exhortation. He that gives, let him do it with simplicity. He that rules with diligence. He that rules with diligence. All these verses are the use of this word. The same word we have for rule translated in verses 3 and 4 of 1 Timothy. First Thessalonians five, verse twelve. We beseech you, brethren To know them which labor among you and are over you or ruling you, same word in the Lord, and admonish you to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake, and be at peace among yourself One who rules his own house well. If a man does not know how to rule his own house, he cannot take care of the church of God. It says that the man who rules his own house well is also to have his children in submission with all reverence. That word submission. That's the same word that's the same word you read in Ephesians 5, verse 19, and then verse 20. In verse, no, is it 19 and then verse 20? Let me just check that out a second. I I know it's there, but I want to be sure I give you the right reference. No, it's twenty one and twenty two In 21, the Apostle Paul is talking to the church, and he says we're to submit to one another in the fear of the Lord. And then in 22, he says, wives submit to your own husbands as unto the Lord. Remember yesterday? Remember yesterday I talked about that? And I talked about why do you submit To the Lord? Wives are called to submit to the Lord, but in reality, and I failed to make this point yesterday, in reality, all of us are called to submit to the Lord. And what makes the Lord so special that we should submit to him? What is it? It's is it not is it is it not that he is one who rules And cares for us. Is it not that he loves us? Is it not that he shows his love By performing the ultimate act of giving and caring, and that is his death on the cross. When you understand the love of God shed for your sins as an act of supreme care and compassion and love. You don't have any trouble at all submitting to the Lord. You see Who is it? When Paul tells Timothy here, ruling your household well. And when he says, he who, and having your children in submission to you, to your rule, and he says, he who rules uh doesn't know how to rule his house, how can he rule the church? Well, the paradigm for the kind of rule that should go on in A home, a Christian home, and also in the Christian church. The paradigm, the ultimate example for that is Christ. And the whole idea of ruling and being submissive to him flows out of his compassion to you and his care. That's why I'm saying that this word is really interesting because it brings Christ right into the picture. And the kind of person who's going to be an effective leader in the church is going to be one who rules his family well. Not Forcing his children into blind obedience, not making dictatorial demands upon his children or his wife. But demonstrating unto his children that he is an authority specifically because he loves them, And cares for them. Do you understand that? He demonstrates that care And that's what encourages them to submit to him. See how this works? This is no different. This is at the very heart of another lesson that Jesus Himself taught his disciples, and you've heard me teach this lesson many times. The lesson of true leadership. What is the ultimate qualification for the true leader in Christ's kingdom? Who is it who is first? Who is it who is greatest in Christ's kingdom? It's the servant of all. You cannot be a servant of others if you're always worried about being first. Or you're always worried about being the greatest. You cannot do that to your wife. You cannot do that to your children. You cannot do that in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. You can't even think about yourself first. You must think about others first. That's your Savior. That's Jesus. And that's the kind of men Jesus wants to be rulers over their homes. And rulers in the church. That's the new insight I saw here that I have never seen before. And it uh strangely enough, it happened as I'm thinking about how to preach a sermon about love at a wedding. But this is of love, you see. Then there's an interesting um confirmation of this direction of thinking in verse five. If a man know not how to rule Rule with compassion, with love, care, however you want to say it. How shall he take care of That those words take care of. How shall he take care? How shall he care for the church How will that word that's used there for taking care means to look out for? To look out for. How shall he look out for the people of God if he cannot rule properly? Not only how can he look out for it, but why would he bother If he doesn't have Christ's heart for true biblical leadership, serving others, caring for their needs. You think about Jesus. You think about his gospel encounters. You think about those encounters not often with the Pharisees because there's antagonism. Oftentimes. But you think about the encounters with the ordinary common folk. How often? Does the King of Kings demonstrate his care and his compassion in those encounters? Remember. Remember the leper? The healing of the leper? In Mark, Jesus puts his arms around it. And says, be clean. May not seem like an important thing, but by putting his arms around him, he very much identifies with that man's suffering. He actually takes it on himself. He demonstrates that he has compassion for the man. And this is God Almighty doing this. And that scene is repeated over and over again. The woman with the hemorrhage that cannot stop. The blind. Blind Bartimaeus, the cripple, the man with the withered hand. Remember in the Sabbath. There are all the Pharisees in the synagogue standing around looking at Jesus What's she gonna do with this man with a withered hand? And they're all thinking to themselves, he better dare not heal this man on the Sabbath Because you see, that to them would be work. But Jesus had compassion on him. And he actually got angry with the Pharisees. And he healed it. And he takes our your Savior takes his place among As the unique King of Kings, the King of Gory and the King of Compassion. And that's the model for one It is not our normal understanding of the word rule. It is a grave misunderstanding to assume that rule means for our families, for our children, or for our wives. as a man to think you better toe the line because I'm king here. And I you maybe have heard it, and I've heard it in the church But that's what too many people have their understanding of what this word means. I don't think they have a clue to what it means to be a real leader in the church. Because that isn't how Jesus does it. That's not what endears us to Jesus. What endears us to him is his compassion For us sinners. May God bless this word to our hearts. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord our God, we we thank you, Lord, for Providing for us in the person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ exactly the kind of image that you have in mind for one who rules his house well. And Father, how we pray that we as human beings will give up our misconceptions. And we'll hear the word of God and compare scripture with scripture. And appreciate what the whole concept of leadership is in the church as it's embodied in Jesus Christ. And make our evaluations of what it means to rule our families and the church well as we see the example of our Savior. We pray, O Lord, that you will give to the church more of this kind of leadership. We pray, O Lord, that you will help the church to recognize how Wonderful this kind of leadership is. And it's wonderful because it is not natural. It is fully not how we see rule and governing in the world But it is our Savior. It is his kingdom. And it's only his kingdom that is everlasting. In his name we pray. Give us more Christ-like rulers of the church and of the home. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen.