This afternoon I wanted to look at Mark's account of certain questions that were aimed at Jesus I don't remember how long ago it was, but I know I've uh looked at the same basic passage in Matthew 22, both here and at other churches, but I was interested in looking at this passage again from Mark's perspective, or at least some things that stand out to me Looking at Mark. As such, there's actually several verses I want to be thinking about. Uh perhaps if you want uh one verse uh to to encapsulate some of the thoughts. You could use verse 34. Now when Jesus saw that he answered wisely, he said to them, You are not far from the kingdom of God. But after that No one dared question him. Um, but that's just one of several uh uh verses in our scripture reading that give us a kind of thermometer A kind of gauge of how people reacted to the way in which Jesus dealt with his adversaries. And so let's look at several of those again. First of all, back in verse 12, and here the context. Uh if you backed up you would find that Jesus had told a parable. I sometimes call parables God's little booby traps because they uh sometimes blow up in somebody's face and they the uh the the parable here is something that Jesus enemies sense is a booby trap They sense that. They sense that it's against them. So, verse 12, and they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude, for they knew he had spoken the parable against them. So they left him and went away. Now that's uh important because we see something about uh the multitude. We see that there is a reaction to Jesus, his ministry, his teaching, that he could not simply be arrested openly in public. Because Jesus enjoyed some kind of support from the multitude of the people, at least at this point in time. We know later. that the crowds will cry out, crucify him, crucify him. Then in verse 17, this is at the end of one of the first little question traps. that we find sprung on Jesus. And Jesus answered and said to them, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are gods says and they marveled at him. So again, we see a temperature being reported. We see feedback in terms of how people are reacting to Jesus' uh ability to deal with uh his enemies in this question and answer game, which is not just an ordinary game, it's a deadly game Because when they ask him, should we pay taxes to Caesar or not, it's a no-win question. If he says, yeah, pay taxes, then he'll be accused of uh r uh religious infidelity. You want to pay taxes to that those pagans that are using our money To build idols and things like that. If he says, no, don't pay taxes, then he's guilty of treason. And he's got Caesar to deal with. So either way, it could lead to death Either way, it can lead to problems. So it's not just an ordinary game, it's a deadly game that it is going on here. We find the verse I just mentioned in verse 34 at the very end, no one dared ask him a question or no one dared question him. And then at verse 37 says, therefore David himself calls him Lord. How Is he then his son and the common people heard him gladly. So this is interesting to me that Mark uh is intent, and I think to some degree you see it in other gospel accounts too, but Mark uh at least as I read Mark's account, I begin to see him gauging or reporting back like a thermometer what the temperature is, what the reaction is. to Jesus as he interacts with his enemies, as they try to trap him with questions, as they try to put him into various binds. Now we might say, well, what does it matter what exactly the reaction of the public is to Jesus? Do we shape or tailor our message just so people will like what we're hearing? No. And you sense that uh even Jesus' enemies are aware that that might fit uh how Jesus approaches truth. Truth is the truth, whether people like it or not. The only thing of it is you can sometimes speak the truth and not speak it in love, or sometimes you can speak the truth and speak it in stupidity. And uh Jesus is not going to speak the truth in stupidity And there are times when you don't lie, but you just keep quiet And there are times when you tell the truth, but openly, but you do it in a very careful, wise way. And so we see Jesus, who's one who able to master his tongue, and we see Jesus who, by mastering his tongue, masters the response of the crowd. He's actually mastering the c the crowd. He's controlling public opinion, which is every politician's great dream, to control public opinion. You constantly hear about th the polls say this about the race in Arizona or the or the the the question of the minute, you know And whether you believe those polls or not, who knows? Uh but public opinion is uh something that a lot of politicians are greatly interested in controlling. Well Why does this matter? Um when I've looked at this passage before, I've looked at the interesting way in which Jesus responds to his questioners on what I would call a tactical level Jesus, perhaps the way he answers his questionnaires would give us some ideas or thoughts about how we might interact with others. That would be a purely tactical thing. But I think uh as I revisited this passage from Mark's vantage point I wanted to look at what Jesus was doing from a strategic level, a really big picture level. And you notice again back at verse 12, and they sought to lay hands on him, but feared the multitude. Jesus knows that people want to lay hands on him. Jesus knows that people want to arrest him and put him to death. Now Jesus came to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus came to give his life. So you might say, well, why doesn't he just go ahead and answer the question so that the the crowd will uh uh turn against him and now he can be arrested without any problems And I think there's uh a couple of answers to that. One is that there is an appointed time For Jesus to give his life as a ransom for many. And Jesus will not give his life as a ransom for many. One hour too soon or one hour too late. He will be there right on time. He will control that. His arrest and his being put to death is not going to be under the power of his enemies And this is the second point. It's under his control. It's under his timing. It's when he sees fit. And that's part of what we might look at in terms of the active and passive obedience of Christ. That Jesus Christ, first of all, when he gave his life for our sins, didn't just happen to die like a victim who got mugged on the street and had no clue that it was happening or would happen. Jesus knew exactly what was going to happen, but Jesus did more than know exactly that it was going to happen. Jesus controlled circumstances so that it would happen, and it would happen at the right time. That's the obedience of Jesus Christ. And his obedience is part of the atonement, his payment for our sin. We are saved because he obeyed the Father as He gave His life for our sins. And I think you see other evidences of that. You see that beyond controlling public opinion, to the way in which he controls access to his person. He enters into Jerusalem. This is the last week we're looking at here His last week of earthly ministry. And in this last week of earthly ministry, it starts with a public entry With the crowd pretty excited and pretty happy. They're pretty excited and pretty happy, partially because they don't fully understand the nature of the Messiah that they're welcoming. They won't be quite as happy and excited when they find out what the the real Messiah of the Bible came to do. But uh that's part of Jesus controlling the atmosphere People wanted to kill him even before his last week on Earth. But now the temperature will go up His enemies will see that they need to act. All the world may go after him, they're afraid, if they don't do something. It's in this rough time period that John tells us he raises Lazarus from the grave and the enemies see the the need and the importance of, oh no, if people hear about this, they will really follow him. And so the the the sense of we must act and act quickly is uh being pushed forward. with Jesus' enemies, and that's being pushed forward by actions that Jesus is taking. Jesus has some final business to do So that he will not be an hour too late or an hour too early with giving his life. He has a sacrament that he is going to ordain for his church He has a final Passover meal that he will celebrate with His disciples in order to uh accomplish one of that last remaining pieces of business before he dies and rises again. And he is going to control the situation so that there's no interruption He knows Judas wants to betray him. So what does he do? He chooses two disciples. We don't know for sure what their names were, but I'm pretty sure one of them was not named Judas. Judas. And the two disciples go and they're told, you'll see a man in the city, and he'll be carrying a water jar. Sort of makes the man stand out a little bit. Normally it would be the women that would be carrying the water jars. It's like a spy craft or trade craft thing, a man with one red shoe or something like that. Y you'll you'll you'll recognize this man. You follow him and he'll show you an upper room that is furnished, and that's where we're going to celebrate. The last kneel together. Judas will not be in a position to betray him before Jesus allows him to betray him. To interrupt that final act of establishing the Passover, Last Supper meal with his disciples. And when Jesus has accomplished that, then Judas will be allowed to go forth from the room and to betray him. Jesus is controlling all of these things. And he's controlling his enemies and the public opinion by the way in which he responds to their questions. Jesus always had the upper hand anytime he was questioned, but here there is a purpose to it. And then we see Jesus, I think, also preparing the church for really understanding in a deeper way than they could have ever imagined. who their Messiah really is. And he does that with this last question that he asks. And And you can see that question that Jesus asks taken from Psalm one ten. Jesus in verse 35 says, how is it that the scribes say that the Christ is the Son of David? For David himself said by the Holy Spirit, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool. Therefore, David himself calls him Lord. How is it he is his son? This is the kind of question That is totally mysterious and without answer unless you begin with the understanding that Jesus is the root and offspring. of David, that the Messiah is the root and the offspring of David. That the Messiah As the eternal Logos pre-existed and spoke to David David speaks in the Holy Spirit, we're told in verse thirty-six, Jesus is Playing upon the fact that his enemies at least have some kind of formal commitment to the Bible as infallible and inspired. Modern enemies of Jesus don't pretend that anymore. But at least the enemies in Jesus' day at least gave some kind of token acknowledgement of okay if it's in the Bible, if it's in Psalm 110 Uh and Jesus says it's by the Holy Spirit, we're not going to argue that point. And we're not going to say David was wrong or the Holy Spirit was wrong. They don't have an answer. Well, again, the answer is something that I suspect that even Jesus' own disciples were not fully equipped to understand at this point. They could understand it later when Jesus was raised from the dead and after they received the Holy Spirit. that when they confess Jesus is the Son of God or Jesus is the Messiah, that that means a whole lot more than just a special human Son of God Messiah Messiah, that we're talking also about the eternal Son of God. So Jesus has this way of controlling The situation by the way in which he answers questions and sometimes by the way in which he answers a question with a question. There's a lot to be learned here. I've talked about this passage before when I spoke on it from the standpoint of Matthew 22. But the wisdom of God, Jesus didn't allow winning a debate. To stand in the way of his strategic objective. And the strategic objective, the objective of all objectives for Jesus Christ was not to come into history to win an argument, but to give his life. Not a minute too early, not a minute too Too late and as a ransom for his people. And that's what he accomplished by the way in which he controlled public opinion He didn't need public opinion to prop up his ego. And we don't need the approval of this world to prop up our confidence in God or his word. If a public opinion shows that we're in a major minority about our views, well, that doesn't matter a whole lot if God's opinion is what's uh controlling our opinion, does it? They have their opinion and God has his opinion. I guess I know which one I'll go with. You have any doubts or questions about the truth of Jesus Christ or His Word? Look, turn your eyes upon Jesus as we sung. Look full in his wonderful face. Look in his word. Faith comes by Hearing, hearing by the Word of God. And when we see this wisdom and we see this determined obedience, obedience the point of dying on a cross and controlling everything around him to that end. We see the power and the love of God come together in our Savior. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that you'll take away all of our doubts and fears and concerns. And not be troubled if we don't stand with the opinion of many, but to be confident and joyful in your truth Knowing that we have a Savior who is the way, the truth, and the life. And in whose name we pray. Amen.