Give attention to the very Word of God, Matthew twenty-two at verse fifteen. Then the Pharisees went and plotted how to entangle him in his words. And they sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians, saying, Teacher, we know that you are true and teach the way of God truthfully, and that you do not care about anyone's opinion, for you are not swayed by appearances. Tell us then What do you think? Is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not? But Jesus, aware of their malice, said, Why do you put me to the test, you hypocrites? Show me the coin for the tax. And they brought him a denarius, and Jesus said to them, Whose likeness and inscription is this? They said, Caesar's. Then he said to them, Therefore, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. When they heard it, they marveled. And they left him and went away. The same day the Sadducees came to him, who say that there is no resurrection, and they asked him a question, saying, Teacher, Moses said, if a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. Now there were seven brothers among us, the first married and died. having no offspring left his wife to his brother. So too the second and third down to the seventh, after them all the woman died. In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her. But Jesus answered them, You are wrong, because you know neither the Scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven. As for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He's not the God of the dead, but of the living. And when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. But when the disciples, excuse me, when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together and one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law. And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And the second is like it: you shall love your neighbor as yourself. These two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. Now, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. He said to them, How is it then that David in the Spirit calls him the Lord? saying, The Lord said to my Lord, Sit in my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word. Nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. Let's find the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Lord and our God, now we ask that you would help us, give us ears to hear, eyes to see. Help us to gaze upon Jesus Christ. Help us to see him in all his brilliance and glory. Teach us Holy Spirit. All that you would have us to know this day. Cut into our hearts. Quicken us. Guide us. Make us more like our Savior. We ask this in His name. Amen. How do you question Jesus? It's an appropriate question given our text this morning, and I think it fair to say that we all do. So how do you question him? In the text we read earlier this morning from Exodus, Moses questioned Jesus. Moses questioned God. Even in that portion that we read. Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Ez i Israel out of Egypt? Moses questioned God's judgment. And he continued. They will not believe me or listen to my voice. I'm not eloquent. Either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, oh my Lord, please send someone else. Moses questioned Jesus You see, it's not whether you question Jesus, it's how you question Jesus This morning, as we come to this text, we've seen that Jesus continues to teach on the kingdom of heaven. He's entered Jerusalem, he's headed to the cross, he's cleanse the temple, and yet there's still more teaching to be done before he leaves. That's where we find him this morning as he engages in these three different groups of questioners who are coming to him not sincerely Not with the thought that we need to learn from the master, but with the idea of testing him. This morning, this morning as we come to this passage, I want us to think very clearly that Jesus shines brilliantly. As he proclaims the truth of his very word. Jesus shines brilliantly as he proclaims the truth of his very word. And we'll see that in three truths this morning. First, some question Jesus as a hypocrite, some question Jesus as a denier of his truth, and thirdly, some question Jesus as a As a lover of the truth. As we go through this passage this morning, I just want you to keep that question before you and ask yourself, how do I Question Jesus. Well, first, some question Jesus as a hypocrite The first exchange between Jesus and these various groups is between the disciples of the Pharisees And the Herodians as they join together and come to question Jesus. Note that the Pharisees don't go themselves. But they send their students. They send their disciples. It would appear that the Pharisees might have considered that Jesus at this point was not worthy of their time. They may have considered Jesus to be an unworthy opponent, meaning that Jesus was so weak mentally that even our students, our disciples, can handle this Jesus and catch him in his own words to his demise. And then did you notice the Herodians joining? Verse 16, they sent their disciples to him along with the Herodians. This is a strange combination is what Hendrickson writes in his commentary on Matthew. He notes that the Pharisees believed That they were concerned about keeping God's law. That's the impression they give. But the Herodians, they were Part of Herod's family. They cared little, according to Hendrickson, about the divine commandments. And so these two groups come together. As Hendrickson puts it, and unite against Jesus. Seemingly a conspiracy As Webster's puts it, a combination of men for an evil purpose. And so what was their motive? What was their intent? It's fairly clear, isn't it? We learn of their motive or intent even before they ask the question about taxes. Verse 15: then the Pharisees went and plotted How to entangle him in his words. Their motive or intent is significant as we read of and hear of their approach to Jesus There was a plot, a plan. The Pharisees come together and constitute a plan to entangle Jesus Christ, meaning, again, according to Webster's, to twist or interweave in such a manner as not to be easily separated. They wanted to join Jesus Christ to his words And words that would not be received well, in such a way that he would be condemned. Either by the people or by the government. And so the question, is it lawful to pay taxes to Caesar or not If Jesus answered yes, pay taxes to the Romans, the argument then would be, you see, Jesus is for the Romans. He's not for the Jews. But if Jesus were to have said, no, it is not lawful, then he would have brought the ire of the Roman government, the governor, upon him who would call then for treason. Seemingly a no-win question. Regardless of how Jesus answered, the questioners considered that he was trapped and tangled, so to speak. No answer from their perspective would allow Jesus to remain popular with the people and with the government at the same time. He would be announced and rejected by one or the other. This is their plan, this is their plot, this is their malice. And so Jesus provides a very surprising response. Show me the coin for the tax. And they brought him a denarius whose likeness as an inscription is this Now, according to Hendrickson, we need to understand that Caesar thought of himself as a god And so he would have thought that everything should come to him. Not only the material, but also the spiritual. And so, as Jesus understands these things, and as Jesus understands his Father, and also the need to provide for the government Jesus rightly says, render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. The answer was biblical and wise. Jesus was shining brilliantly before all those who heard it that day So much so that when they heard it, and this refers back to the disciples of the Pharisees and the Herodians themselves, they marveled. In other words, they had no response. They were left in wonder at the words of Christ. The answer is instructive for us today. And in a sense, it is the primary teaching, the wisdom of Christ. But there's another sub-theme throughout these three engagements And so we want to think about the attitude or the mindset or the heart of those bringing the question. What was their heart? How could they question Jesus? Remember, these were sent pursuant to a plot, and now how Jesus refers to these questioners, why do you put me to the test? You hypocrites. The Greek dictionary opens this word up in the sense of play actors or role players. They're pretenders. It's exactly what Webster's defines a hypocrite as one who feigns to be what he is not. And so why did Jesus use this title for the disciples of the Pharisees and the Herodians? Because they spoke out of one side of their mouth, teacher, we know that you're true. and teach the way of God truthfully, and yet that was not in their hearts That was not what they believed. Their motive or their object or their goal was to question Jesus in order to entangle him, to embroil him, not in truth, but in an answer which would bring trouble upon him. And reveals their true beliefs. They didn't come to Jesus truly seeking truth Even as they referred to Jesus as the teacher of God's truth. Indeed, they did not believe that Jesus actually spoke the truth, but just the opposite, and that was the reason for them seeking to bring trouble to him personally. They did not believe, truly believe that he was God's spokesman, God's son, who spoke the truth. And so they were against him and sought to do whatever they could to discredit Jesus before the people, and thus Jesus refers to this first group as hypocrites. Ultimately, the hypocrite seeks to bring shame upon the name of Jesus Christ. We see that here. The hypocrite is a pretender, with one breath proclaiming belief or trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, and the very next moment the hypocrite acts not according to his state of belief. or profession, but in the opposite direction. In other words, the hypocrite upholds Jesus Christ or names Jesus As being the way, but with his actions, he speaks more loudly and clearly against the way of Jesus Christ. This has the effect of bringing shame upon the name that was professed or spoken of positively and then subsequently acted against. It is as if one were saying, see here the bright and brilliant light of Jesus Christ, my Savior and Lord, and then in the very next instance the light switch is turned off. And he's shining forth darkness or actions of wickedness, even against the backdrop of Jesus' name as being proclaimed. I've been told this is what happens quite frequently at the pregnancy clinic where women come who are pregnant And come and profess Jesus Christ and their salvation in one breath and in the very next breath will explain that they are seeking an abortion Some proclaim the name of Christ while simultaneously pursuing their intent to kill their unborn child. Some profess that Jesus will forgive them for their planned act of evil and wickedness You see, these are trying to tell us there's that they fall into the category of those who believe upon Jesus and been saved from their sins, and at the very same time they're seeking to pursue further sin and wretchedness in the name of Christ. calling out or professing Christ, even as they enter into and intend and plan and purpose to continue what they know to be sin That is hypocritical. And I believe we would all agree. Here's the question for us today. Do we do the same? Do you profess Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior? And while you do, are you acting in such a way before the world? that actually denies that belief. Let me give an example As good Reformed Presbyterians, we know that God is sovereign over all. We know that Paul, in his letter to the church at Rome, wrote this, and we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who are called according to his purpose. You profess that he is all things for the good of those who love him and keep his commandments, but when afflictions come, when trials are brought to your doorstep, when tribulations arrive as flood waters, what is your response? What do others see you do in the midst of trouble? Do your actions comport and correspond with your profession? As James writes, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Is that your response? Are those seeing it? Friends, this question is worthy of our consideration this morning. We're able to point out hypocrisy in others fairly easily But can we point it out in ourselves? Brings us to our second point. Some question Jesus as a denier of his truth. Brings us to our the second exchange of seemingly the same day. It's exactly what the verse tells us. The same day the Sadducees came to him. Who say there is no resurrection. The Sadducees, a difficult name to pronounce according to uh a Bible dictionary were a religious party or school among the Jews at the time of Christ. They belonged they were the higher priests who belonged to this sect according to this dictionary, a small sect, but a very wealthy sect of great influence among the Jews. They denied the oral law that the Pharisees clung to And there were several distinctions of the Sadducees. They denied the resurrection, they denied the existence of angels and spirits, and they upheld the freedom of the will. To such an extent that they denied the providence of God. This is a group that comes with the second question Matthew again gives us an insight into their intent. The same day the Sadducees came to him who say that there is no resurrection. Matthew wants us to know they come with their own theology, they come with their denial of the Word of God upon their hearts and mind. These come with the purpose or intent of demonstrating the falsity or denying the very truth of God's Word. And so they come, like the others, to discredit Jesus, the proclaimer of the Word, and he, the Word himself, before the people who revered him. And so their question, now being pre-prefaced by their denial of the resurrection, calls the resurrection into question, and they give Jesus this Scenario, which they believe has trapped him now. If a man dies having no children, his brother must marry the widow and raise up offspring for his brother. They're referring back to the Old Testament law. And they were right. This is actually the law of God. And now they go through the scenario of the seven brothers who now come and marry the same woman, no one producing children out of the marriage. They all die now in the resurrection, they're all alive Who's gonna get married to this woman in the resurrection? Their thought was if Jesus would cling or continue to preach the resurrection, this seemingly clever scenario placed the Jesus in unsolvable predicament. This woman would be stuck with seven husbands fighting forever in eternity. Fighting over who she would be. And thus the resurrection must be a ruse, a story, a wish, not a reality, and asking Jesus just to admit that The conniving, the denying Sadducees likely consider they one, even before presenting their question to Jesus. Once again, the truth and the wisdom of Jesus shines forth He states the foundational problem with the theology of the Sadducees, you are wrong. Three words, one breath. You're wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God They deny the resurrection because they deny the power of God. And so Jesus sets that immediately before them. You deny the power of God. You don't know the power of God. And you don't know what the scriptures teach. And so Jesus sets forth the truth. There will be no marriage in the resurrection. And as for the resurrection of the dead, Jesus goes back to the burning bush, that which we read this morning. I'm the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Meaning that these three are alive with God. I'm the God of these men who are living. He's not the God of the dead, but of the living. Like the first exchange, when the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. The desire of the Sadducees to deny the resurrection of the Word of God and to defame Jesus are crushed. Jesus is exalted. Once again, his wisdom, his love for his father, for the word shines forth, the people bathe in his glory, if only briefly, until the cross. Are you denying the truth of God's word today? Are your questions for Jesus not really questions, but in reality statements of denial? Are you denying who he is and and the truth of his words? The Sadducees were. Ultimately the Sadducees were denying that Jesus was from God and that God was truth even as they formed their denial as a question. The saddest portion of this particular exchange with the Sadducees is what we don't read. We read nothing of the Sadducees' response to Jesus. It would appear that they leave, not turning to Jesus, not casting off their denials of the truth of God's word, but clinging to their wicked and evil notions and beliefs. It would appear that they leave, not to repent, but to communicate their perceived failure with the Pharisees. They do not, as Matthew records the scene, repent and believe upon Jesus Christ. You see, that is the end of all who deny the truth of God's word, and the end of all Who refused to trust in Christ as Savior? These Sadducees came to Jesus in their sin and seemingly left in it as well. Does that describe you this morning? Have you come here in your sin? Are you a denier of the truth of God's word? Are you loving your sin so much that you refuse to look to Jesus to wash away Your sins. Friend, you know that your guilt bears upon you. You can feel it Your guilty conscience speaks to you. You know how heavy it is. And there's only one relief. And that's Jesus Christ. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Those are the words of Christ. If you're denying his truth this morning, if you're clinging to your sin, go to Christ. He and only He can give you rest. Brings us to our third point Some question Jesus as a lover of the truth. That brings us to our third engagement. When the Pharisees heard that he had silenced, meaning Jesus had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together. One of them, a lawyer, asked him a question. Now consider these interactions are somehow known by what appears to be a larger circle of opponents of Jesus. Including the disciples of the Pharisees, the Herodians, the Sadducees, the Pharisees themselves, this lawyer within the group of the Pharisees, everyone seems to know When the Pharisees heard. A coordinated, a sharing of information to continue to throw darts and arrows at Jesus Christ. They gathered together. Now the Pharisees, seemingly as a group, call everyone together because the situation was now urgent. The past two questions have failed from their perspective, from Jesus' perspective, that's been a great success The prior two engagements did not accomplish that which these opposers were seeking, so these Pharisees come together for one purpose, one motive, one intent to test him. To defeat Jesus, to defeat the Word, to retain their positions of authority, to deny Jesus' authority Thus, even though their prior questions have failed from their perspective, they continue their plan another question. This time posed by a lawyer, an expert in the law. Those who think and believe that they know more And better than God Himself. These come to test Jesus, not sincerely seeking his wisdom. They didn't ask the question to learn. Remember, these Pharisees came to challenge, to find error The same ones that already claimed that Jesus' disciples were lawbreakers. Look, your disciples are not doing what's lawful on the Sabbath. Why do your disciples break the traditions of the elders, for they do not wash their hands? When they eat. And so now the third question. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? Hendrickson writes that the rabbis, the teachers of the day, they devoted themselves to hair-splitting legalism Debating about the commandments, arguing whether one was great, whether one was small, heavy or light. Of the six hundred and thirteen commandments, I'm not sure I can count those Two hundred and forty-eight of them positive, three hundred and sixty-five negative. Which one was the greatest? Now, hoping to find error, the wrong selection, hoping to trap Jesus in picking the wrong one of those six hundred and thirteen that the rabbis had come up with They ask the question. And Jesus in his response Doesn't reference the 613, but references the 10, doesn't he? He references the ten commandments given to Moses on Mount Sinai But he sums them up. He sums up the first four this way, calling it the greatest commandment, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And the second is like it. In case they want to know, he gives them even more. Love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. Now tonight we hope to get into this answer of Jesus Christ, the greatest commandment, but for now I want to consider the one who asked the question. Mark records uh a continuing interaction between Jesus and the one who asked the question Mark identifies him as the scribe. He says, You are right, teacher. You have truly said that he is one, and there is no other besides him. He then repeats what Jesus said, and Jesus said to him, he saw that he answered wisely, he said to him, You are not far from the kingdom of God. While the intent was to test Jesus, the result was to hear him speak powerfully and truly. And even maybe especially lovingly, compassionately, even calling his enemies, those who continued to attack him, who hated him, to love God. With everything they had. You see, they were spending time attacking Jesus. This had captured their minds This had captured their hearts. This is their motive, their intent, their lives were about this. And Jesus said, No, no, no, turn from that. Turn away from that. Spend your time, your energy, your strength, everything you have. I'm loving God. The brilliance of Jesus Christ shining forth so powerfully. As he points to his father and calls all those who would hear to love him. How do you question Jesus? These three interactions, these three questions Doesn't amount to do not question Jesus. That's not the teaching and the theme of this account. The theme is certainly the wisdom of Jesus, the brilliance of Jesus. But there's a sub-theme which runs throughout each of them. What is your attitude as you do question Jesus? What's your motive? What's your intent? How do you approach Jesus? Are you a sincere seeker of truth? Or as an adversary seeking to disprove or to discount the truth? Do you approach with a tender and teachable heart, or as a sinner seeking to justify your sin? You see, that is what the disciples of the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians, certainly the Pharisees themselves, and maybe even the lawyer were all doing. Are you approaching with a tender heart? As you approach, do you acknowledge and confess that you're a sinner, and that but for the grace of God you would question Jesus not for the truth, but to justify your sins. Are you approaching Jesus with a desire to learn? That in your own knowledge you don't have truth. That you've strayed from the truth. That your knowledge has been corrupted by inheriting Adam's fall from grace and your sin nature. That everything you know about God in Adam has been corrupted. For the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. Are you approaching with a desire to learn, to gain God's knowledge, God's wisdom through Christ? Are you approaching Jesus that way, knowing him as the one who is the power of God, knowing him as the one who is wisdom from God, righteousness and sanctification and redemption? Knowing Jesus as the heir of all things, the one who created the world, the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature. Is that the way you're approaching Jesus with your questions? Are you approaching Jesus with joy and rejoicing? Brothers and sisters, what a privilege we have. You have to ask Jesus questions. He longs for your questions. He desires to give you truth through his spirit. You consider that. What a joy that we have, the God man who intercedes for us, who mediates for us, who has sent his spirit to indwell you. To answer your questions as you seek truth. You see, he allowed the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians to come, but that was for your benefit. That you could truly hear and learn and turn away from their wicked and evil questioning And approach Jesus with joy and rejoicing in your question. Yes, Jesus shines brilliantly as he proclaims the truth of his very word. Moses. Moses questioned Jesus at the burning bush. Wasn't trusting at that moment in the wisdom of God through Christ, but through the work of the Spirit. Moses came to trust in this one. Brothers and sisters, go to Jesus. Ask him your questions. He longs to give you the truth. Seek it. With a tender, open heart, longing to know more of him. And more of the Father. Amen. You pray with me. Father and our God, help us. We're weak, we're frail, Lord. We need the Spirit's work that we might approach Jesus in a way that's pleasing to you, with tender hearts, open hearts. Acknowledging our sins and yet also knowing that we need your wisdom and the only way we can have it is through Christ. And so we thank you for his brilliance. We thank you for his light. And we ask for more of it, Father. Shed Jesus' light upon us, that we may grow in our knowledge and our love for Christ. Help us, Lord. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen.