If you turn your Bibles now to the Gospel of Matthew, continue our study there this morning. In the twenty-second chapter, I believe you'll find that on page nine hundred and eighty-four of your pew Bibles. And we will be at the end of that chapter, beginning at verse forty one. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Matthew twenty-two at verse forty-one. Now, while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, the son of David. He said to them, How is it then that David in the Spirit calls him Lord? Saying, the Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, How is he his son? And no one was able to answer him a word. Nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? As we come to your word, we pray that you'd give us tender, soft hearts. To receive your word, the teachings of the Spirit, just as you have planned. That your word would not return to you void, but accomplish all that you have intended for it, even in our hearts. Now Help us, Father. Guide us. Guide your servant. All for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you submitting to Jesus in joy? It can be hard to submit, willingly submit to valid authority. It can be even more difficult when authority is used or exercised in an unrighteous way. If you remember that portion of scripture where the Israelites called for a king to be appointed and anointed over them. Samuel was their prophet. He was their judge of the day. And in his dismay, the Lord told him, Go ahead. They haven't rejected you, they've rejected me. But tell them. Tell them the ways of human kings. And so Samuel then preaches to the Israelites that these will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. And then he proceeded to tell them In no less than six times that the king will take from you your sons. He will take from you your daughters. He will take from you the best of your fields. He will take the tenth of your grain. He will take your male servants. He will take the tenth of your flocks. He will take That was Samuel's description of the hearts of the human kings that would rule over the Israelites. In a sense, that brings us to our passage today Where Jesus has been exercising the authority given to him by his Heavenly Father. He's entered the city of Jerusalem. He has gone in and overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who have sold pigeons. He was teaching. He had, in a sense, converted the temple back to that which his father had purposed it for. He was exercising authority. And the chief priests come to him and ask him, What is this authority and where did you get it? And so since that passage, since that question was recorded by Matthew, Jesus has been answering that question. Indeed, the as these last three questions have been asked by the disciples of the Pharisees, the Herodians, the Sadducees, and now the Pharisees themselves, it's clear that the Pharisees wanted nothing to do with the authority of Jesus Christ. So that's why they come with testing or entangling questions. And yet that question of Jesus' authority looms large As Matthew continues to open up his gospel, the issue remains where Does Jesus get his authority from? It's a question that we probably ask, if not out loud, within our hearts. And so now we have the text before us this morning. The questioning by the disciples of the Pharisees, the Sadducees, the Herodians, the lawyer is done. I've asked their last question. And now in Jesus' typical way, he reverses the scenario and asks a question of his own. He selects the topic. And ask these teachers of Israel, the Pharisees, these experts in the law, to interpret the meaning of Psalm 110. Who is the Messiah? And how is it that if the Messiah, the Christ, is David's son How is it that David in the Spirit, meaning the inspired David, the psalmist David, how is it that he refers to the Messiah or the Christ as Lord? As we know the Pharisees were unable to answer. They were dumbfounded, so to speak. So now as we try to open up this passage, don't lose sight. The underlying theme here is one of authority So we might sum up the teaching here and seek to open up three doctrines this way. Jesus, the God man, selflessly uses his authority to glorify the Father and bless the children of God. Jesus, the Godman, selflessly uses his authority to glorify the Father and bless the children of God. We'll see that in three doctrines or three points. First, God grants authority to his son. Secondly, the God man uses authority to glorify the Father, and finally, Jesus exercises authority to bless. The people. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to continue asking yourself this question: Am I submitting to Jesus' authority? Enjoy. Well, first, God grants authority to his son Well what do you think of when you think of authority? Most likely you think of someone that's been placed in charge of something. You may have someone in mind actually. Maybe an employer, maybe your parents But as a result of being given authority, this one now has the ability to make decisions or direct people to do certain things within the scope of his or her authority. So the concept of authority then includes the ability to make binding decisions, meaning decisions that actually have meaning and purpose That are to be heeded or obeyed by those who are subject to the one who has authority. Authority then includes the ability to direct those within the scope of that authority to do or to act. To accomplish certain tasks or to refrain from particular behavior. Webster defines it as legal power. So children, you should be familiar with the concept of authority as it relates to your parents. Your parents have been given, they've been granted, authority to guide and direct your lives. Your parents have authority to make decisions for the family that will affect you. Your parents have authority to give you directions as to how You should act, what you should do, and how you should refrain or not act. For example, your parents have the authority to tell you to take out the garbage or to do your homework, to prepare dinner, or at least help Your parents have the authority to send you to bed and tell you to stop teasing your sister And so as a result of your parents being given this authority, you as their child have a duty, an obligation, because they have authority over you Well, where does that authority come from? That may seem to be a strange question, certainly for parents and children. But while we might understand the concept of authority, if we don't understand where that authority comes from, it will be difficult for us to submit ourselves to that authority. Is it valid? Where does that authority come from? Who gave it? Now that we understand the concept of authority, the question becomes, where does it come from? That was the second question that the chief priests and the elders asked, Jesus. By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? Is Jesus It was overturning tables and seats and teaching. Remember that they saw these things. They saw what Jesus was doing, and so they recognized that he was acting in such a way that he had authority. Teaching is certainly an act of authority. Well, the question Didn't really need to be brought to the chief priest. They didn't they didn't miss that Jesus was exercising authority. They recognized it. The only question for the chief priests was, where did you get it? What's the source? Is it valid? And they believed that they knew the answer. The answer was that Jesus had no valid grant of authority because they believed that they themselves were the only authority over the temple. Over the temple worship, over the people. So that's why Jesus asked them the question about John the Baptist. The baptism of John, where did it come from? It was a question of authority. Jesus knew that there was only one who had real, true, authentic authority. There was only one who could grant authority to whomever he chooses. Nebuchadnezzar recognized it. The Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. Jeremiah knew it. As he records the very words of God, it is I who by my great power, my outstretched arm, have made the earth. With the men and animals that are on the earth, and I give it to whomever it seems right to me. God. God himself is the only one with authority. Are you acknowledging that this morning? That the living God is the only one who has original authority, if we can put it that way. The Lord, the maker of heaven and earth and all things within it, is the only one who has original authority. He is the only original authoritarian. Again, if we can use those words. In other words, God, the living God, the maker of you and me and all that we see, because of his being creator, because of him owning the cattle on a thousand hills, which means everything. He possesses authority or rule over everything and everyone. He's the original authoritarian, the only sovereign. Meaning that because he's creator and rightly rules and governs and disposes and directs all as the original authoritarian And he possesses authority over everything and every one. And so as the scriptures teach, he's able in his most wise and holy counsel And eternal wisdom and knowledge to grant that authority to whomever he chooses And so we read here in Matthew 22. The Lord said to my Lord, sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. So how is it, and this is the question posed to the Pharisees, how is it that David's son, the Messiah, the Christ, Could be raised up to sit at the right hand of God Almighty. The fact that He is, indeed, at the right hand, is that grant of authority. It's right there. Jesus is saying, this is where we find it. Sit at my right hand. That's a grant of authority. In the form of an image. But how could a mere man be raised up and seated in a divine chair? In a divine place, in a holy place? Remember what God said to Moses as he stood close to the burning bush that wasn't consumed, take off your standals, you're standing on a holy ground. Made holy because of the presence of God Himself. This is the throne, the chair at the right hand of God Himself. It must be holy. It must be made holy by the presence of God. How could a mere man sit there It's only if this one, this Messiah, this Christ, this son of David, were also the only son of God. Divine Himself. That's the only way that He can sit in that seat. As if He were divine Himself. The Son of God, the God man. So that's what Jesus is saying. The Messiah, the Christ, the one whom David calls Lord, is the God-man. The one with two natures, fully God and fully man. That's how David can call his son Lord. And that's How this one, this Christ, this Messiah, the Son of David, the Son of God, can sit and receive that authority. which only He could be given. Brings us to our second point, our second head. The God man uses authority to glorify the Father. Psalm one ten is a bit more than the revelation that God the Father has raised up and given authority to his Son. And let me just say this We're looking at Psalm 110 in conjunction with Matthew twenty-two because of Jesus' reference to it And because as he references it to the Pharisees, they would have known immediately what he was referring to. And so that whole entire psalm, in a sense, is imported into our text this morning. And so we see Psalm 110 is is a bit more than the revelation that God the Father has raised up and given authority to his son. It's a picture of the Son using that authority given for the glory of his father. Yes, there's that initial glorifying of the Son by the Father. As he seats him, as he grants him that authority, as he says, sit here and wait until I've placed your enemies under your foot. And so there's that picture, that initial picture of the Father glorifying the Son. But then as we continue reading through that Psalm, we also see that picture of the Son. glorifying the Father as he is victorious over each and every one of his enemies This description of that relationship between the Father and the Son, wherein the Father glorifies the Son, and the Son glorifies the Father as the Son carries out the very will of his father. These victories, this complete overcoming of the enemies of the Son, certainly the enemies of the Father, does just that. It brings glory to the name of God. This is exactly what the sun has been sent to do, to defeat their collective enemies. And in such a way that exalts righteousness and goodness and the holiness of God. By and through the evisceration, the wiping out of unrighteousness which was embodied in those who hate God and his son and oppose his ways And so the glory of God shines forth, as the darkness is crushed under the foot of the sun. And so he uses his authority first and foremost to glorify the Father. Now consider the work of Jesus Christ. The Son, the same one. Consider the work of Jesus Christ on the cross at Calvary, even as Satan moved and guides his minions. His children, his followers, to nail Jesus Christ to the cross and wag their heads and mock the Savior of the world. Jesus was at the same time all about defeating his enemy. His great archenemy, even Satan, the first fallen angel Through his blood, through his death, Jesus used his authority, meaning his authority to lay down his own life. I have authority to lay it down. I have authority to lay it to take it up again. This charge I received from my father. Did you hear that? This charge or this commandment as the New American Standard puts it, I've received from my father. That's so foreign to the way we think. That Jesus would use the authority given to him To give up his own life. Let that sink in for a moment. He used the authority given to him to lay down his life. In his battle over Satan, Jesus uses this grant of authority, this power in his weakness In the weakness of his own flesh, to rule over his own life, to bring glory to God, his Father, by laying it down. No one took it from him Well, Jesus used the authority granted, the power, the rule given, not to destroy Satan at that moment or other enemies. Not to call others to experience the wrath of God. No. He uses authority to submit himself to the painful death sentence of the wrath of his Heavenly Father. Such that his act of authority would glorify the Father Jesus' high priestly prayer puts it together for us, doesn't it? Father, the hours come. Glorify your son, that the son may glorify you. since you've given him authority over all flesh, including his own We don't think of authority that way, do we? Remember as Solomon explained the earthly kings and their attitude to the Israelites six times. He said, he will take, he will take, he will take. And Jesus in his authority just gives himself We don't think of authority rule used in that way. We think of it in terms of glorifying self, don't we? That's not how Jesus used it. Jesus used his authority, and the God man continues to use his authority in that way. To glorify his father. Do you Isn't that a question for us this morning? Husbands, you've been given authority over your wives. How do you use it? Do you lord it over her? Or is an opportunity to glorify God? Parents, you've been given authority over your children. How is it used? Do you discipline in anger? In pride? Or for the glory of your Heavenly Father. Everyone, you've been given authority over yourself, sort of. Over your body, over your time. How are you using that authority? Is it for the glory of God? These are questions that we must be asking ourselves. This text Brings us to those questions. It's only by the work of the Spirit. That we can use any of these things for the glory of God. Brings us to our third point that Jesus exercises authority to bless A people of God. And so now this text is so very clear that Jesus sits and rules and reigns. Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. Despite their questioning, the chief priest knew that the son of David, David's Lord, the Son of Man, was coming to take the eternal throne. That's what David was told. I will raise up for your your offspring after you who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom forever. Indeed, that this one was called to rule even as he would be surrounded by his enemies. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter, rule in the midst. Of your enemies, and that this rule, granted by the ancient of days, would be over all. And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. The chief priests knew that. They knew these texts. They knew he was coming. But they refused to recognize that he was standing before them. They refused to recognize that he was even at that point enthroned. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hand. John wrote that. As Jesus is about to go to the cross, and before he washes the feet of his disciples, he knew that the Father had given all things into his hands and that he was going back to God. He was enthroned already. And now he rules, having been seated at the right hand of the Almighty. What does that mean for you today as the people of God? If you're serving this one, the King, the Lord Jesus, what does it mean for you? First, look at verse three. Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power in holy garments. As one who trusts and loves the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, you also acknowledge him as Lord. And so there is a willing and desirous service encapsulated in that as you call him Lord. And certainly in this passage, in Psalm 110, verse 3, your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. What does that mean? Offer freely. Offer must mean that these go to Jesus and ask for the privilege of serving him. That's what offer means. It means putting yourself forward. It means getting in line and stating that you're ready to be used, ready to serve in the kingdom. It's a desire to be part of the army of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what it is to offer in this context. But did you notice that word freely? Freely. In Hosea chapter 14, God said, I will heal their apostasy, I will love them freely, for my anger has turned from them. God loves his people not because of something they've given to him or something he's obligated to do. It's something he's chosen to do. He loves freely. That's the idea. Committing to do something, in this case, to serve the King, the Lord Jesus Christ, without compulsion. Meaning your arm isn't being twisted. Ow, that hurts. No Freely. As Webster puts it, a volunteer, no solicitation. And did you notice on the day of your power, it's on the day that the Lord Jesus Christ takes the throne as he begins his rule in power, that's when you go to him and offer yourself freely. Why? Why would David write this? Your people will offer themselves freely on the day of your power. Why would you do it? Why would the people of God, people of the Lord Jesus Christ, offer themselves freely? Why would you offer yourself that way? Why don't you why would you offer to volunteer to serve Jesus? Well, I think this passage, as it refers back to Psalm 110, tells us first that Jesus is a gracious and merciful and humble king. That's why the people of God will offer themselves freely, because he's gracious, he's merciful, he's humble, unlike Rehoboam. Remember Solomon's son who rose to the kingship. You know, as the people come to him and ask him to be merciful to them, he says, No, no, I won't be merciful. That's not Jesus, is it? He's gentle and lowly in heart. He's humble. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross Remember Esther? Esther as the plan to wipe out the Jews becomes known in Mordecai knows of it and he sends message to Esther saying you need to go to the king and tell him tell him who you are and what's about to happen and she says no Because there's a law, there's a rule that if any man or woman goes to the king inside the inner court without being called, there's what one law be to be put to death. There's no way for Esther to know whether she would be received by the king or put to death by the king. But it's not so with Jesus. He calls all to come Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, he who has money, no money. Come buy and eat, come buy wine without money or price. Jesus cried out on the last day, the great day of the feast. If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. It was a free open offer. Jesus is merciful and gracious, and he calls you to come to him. And if you haven't yet Hear those words of Christ. He's merciful and gracious and humble, and he calls you to come. And not only that, Jesus is a victorious king. He has certain victory over his enemies. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. Jesus is a victorious king. No one would want to serve a king who's headed to defeat and destruction. No one would offer themselves freely to serve in a kingdom that was about to be overthrown and decimated. And so we hear that the kingdom of Jesus, the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven is an eternal kingdom. It's a kingdom which will never not be, it's a kingdom which will never be overthrown, it's a kingdom that which will always be there, it will last One which will never be destroyed. It's a kingdom which will overpower and defeat those unrighteous, unrepentant, and rebellious and unbelieving kingdoms. All those who oppose the true King, the Lord Jesus, will be defeated. They will be cast into outer darkness in that place without the living God will be weeping and gnashing of teeth and eternal death and eternal torment. And in so doing, the king will ensure that the servants of his kingdom will be free from sin and be blameless and pure. So while the picture in Psalm 110 appears to be a physical or military victory over the enemies of the king, it points to a greater victory. Over sin and death. Can't forget that this victorious kingship of Jesus Also brings into simultaneous view his eternal high priesthood David the psalmist moves from the indicia of kingship. The Lord sends forth from Zion your mighty scepter to the indicia or the indication of an eternal priesthood. The Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever, after the order of Melchizedek. The priesthood is actually sandwiched in between the kingship. And it seems to be that David is saying you really can't separate the two. They're joined together. They're sandwiched. These two roles, the kingship and the priesthood, go together because both indicate victory. The king is victorious, and the priest. Is victorious. As the eternal King, Jesus has victory and will destroy all his enemies in heaven and on earth. And through this triumph, he will bless the people of God. And as the eternal high priest, he has victory over sin and death. Jesus has to be king to rule over, exercise authority over all, including himself. And then as priest, he's able to lay down his own life. As a sacrifice. Yes, to glorify the Father, as we've already seen, but also in such a way, authoritatively, effectively, sufficiently, and truly, as high priest. Cleanses you if you're trusting in him this morning. He purges you with hyssop. He washes you clean. He makes you whiter than snow. So that your born bones which have been broken can rejoice. Such that his Father hides his face from your sins and blots out all your iniquities. Are you blessed? Are you rejoicing? Are you joyful? And the exercise of Jesus' authority That once you were slaves of sin, but now According to Jesus' authority, he's made you a slave of righteousness. He's broken your chains. In his rule over all things, he's broken your chain to sin. And he's made you love righteousness. He's worked that. As he rules and reigns in your heart, he's worked that in you And also that it wouldn't be kept to yourself. Remember what he said to his disciples who became the apostles. As he's about to be ascended up into glory, he says, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go therefore And make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded, and behold, I am with you always See, even the Great Commission is based upon, is founded in the authority of Jesus Christ. By his authority, he's cleansed you. By his authority, he's washed you. By his authority, he's broken your chains to sins. By his authority, he's made you a slave to righteousness as you trust in him this morning. And by his authority, he's called you to go out He's called the church to go out by his authority and bring more in. You see the blessing? Did you see the blessing of the authority as Jesus exercises it? What a joy! What a blessing. Yes, Jesus, the God man, selflessly uses his authority. To glorify the Father and bless the children of God. Throughout Israel's Time as a nation they were served by at times wicked kings who took and took and took and took All paving the way. For us to see the way today, Jesus Christ in his authority continues to give and give. And give of himself to you. Praise be to God. Amen Our Father and our God, we don't know the extent, the depth of our blessings in Christ. We ask even this morning, Father, that you'd help us to see a bit more of that. As we've studied this passage or tried to open this passage and know we've done it in such a fallible way, an insufficient way. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, correct what has been said incorrectly and fill us even more so with the truth of your word. Help us Father, Holy Spirit, to lean upon Christ, to enjoy And to be joyful in his authoritarian rule over us and over the bride, his church, and to pray, Father, that we would be those who submit joyfully. To his blessings as he exercises his almighty rule and reign. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.