Our text is Matthew two at verse eighteen. A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, weeping, and great mourning Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted, because they are no more. May be seated Lord, we pray that your hand would go now with the speaking of your word and our hearing of it Let us learn of you. Be our teacher through your Holy Spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we're looking at a verse that is connected with an event in the Bible that has been called the Slaughter of the Innocents. Uh that may not be a perfect description of what took place because as much as we love our little babies and uh My wife and I now have three grandchildren and we love them very dearly and maybe compared to a lot of other individuals they seem innocent, but none of us is innocent, not even the little babies. Uh they can be characters And we tend to laugh at that because probably we see something of ourself there. And we see the process of human development repeating itself and there's something there that that triggers uh humor and uh Even though we're Presbyterians, it's okay to have some humor about some of these things, but we should also remember there's only one innocent one. And so when we think about this passage about the children of Bethlehem from age two and younger being slaughtered. Instead of calling it the slaughter of the innocents, perhaps we need to redirect our focus and say, the preservation of the innocent one. The preservation of the innocent one. The one who came And was preserved at this particular moment in history while a number died So that he might later die and be the savior of those who are not innocent. So that he might later die at the appropriate time, at God's appointed time, and save those who are not innocent. And so, if you want to call this for the sake of brevity the slaughter of the innocents, just put a footnote there. That there are no ultimately innocent people. Uh there are justified people And in Christ, if you have trusted in him, you are justified and in that regard made innocent and more than innocent Well, to grasp something of this story, we have to look at it as something other than just one other persecution story in the history of the human race And we certainly need to look at it as something more than an interesting myth There are fairy tales and myths that sometimes have a dark side to them. We sometimes get in a discussion. when it comes to what age should we read some of those grim fairy tales to the kids Will they be traumatized? Should we clean them up a little bit? They've probably been cleaned up a little bit already And so uh there is that human drama, and too often we can read a story like this from the Bible, and it's Picturesque part of mangers and wise men and Christmas pageants and a story, but it's history. And it's real tragedy. Now, in terms of the numbers of children slaughtered, I don't know what the scope of that tragedy is. I seem to recollect, it's been a while since I've studied it, but I seem to recollect that this event is only told of in the Gospel of Matthew, and that secular history doesn't have any particular record of it. And of course, those who want to criticize the Bible would say, well, wouldn't secular history record something like this? Well, if you know anything about Herod, you know that this was probably in some ways just another day at the office for him. He was uh a ruthless person. I think it was Caesar Augustus who said It's better to be Herod's sow than to be his son. Because he killed some of his own family He was paranoid. He didn't want any rivals. He wanted to be number one and to stay number one. And why he should have felt threatened by the birth of one who was called king of the Jews, who knows what's going on in his mind mind, perhaps a mind that is already afflicted by disease at this time. I don't know. But in any event There may have been his own dynastic ambitions, but again, his regard for his sons wasn't as high as his regard for himself. So how do you understand these things? Well, it's pretty hard to understand the logic of evil and sin because at bottom It is crazy, and that's not meant to minimize it. That's meant to send the message that it is not rational. It is not rational To set yourself up in opposition to God or to resist God. It doesn't make sense. And so how we understand these things that may have been going on in Herod's head We know that it has happened before with other people. It happened in Egypt with Pharaoh. And we see kind of intimations of that theme Here in Matthew, I don't think Matthew thought, oh, here's an interesting theme in Exodus, I'll punch it up and write something up. Like it. That's more of a modern theologian's approach to this. No, it's a theme because it is a theme that started way before Moses. When God said there would be enmity between the seed of the woman and the seed of the serpent. And it's only by understanding that theme That historic theme, not just a literary theme, but that theme of history That we can appreciate what is going on here in Matthew chapter 2. Satan does not want to be defeated. He is defeated. Herod didn't wake up one day and decide, I think I'll be the seed of the serpent today. I don't think he was that self-aware of how he was being used by the devil. But he was representing. The seed of the serpent. He was part of that seed plural of the serpent that's engaged against God An eternal struggle. It just looks like a local historical struggle, but it's an eternal struggle. A struggle about whether the final seed of the woman, the ultimate seed of the woman, will come And finally defeat the seed of the serpent. And that's what this is about. Satan doesn't want that seed to emerge, so he tries to exterminate it in Egypt. And Satan doesn't want that seed to be born as Messiah. Well, the Messiah has already been born, so what can be done about it? Kill him before he makes the perfect sacrifice of his own will after the life of perfect obedience. That will be rendered up in our place. And so this is the unfolding of history and God's plan that is taking place here. It's God's unique way of working, God using vulnerable mothers Vulnerable babies to win a battle. When you think about going to war Probably the thing you don't think about is, oh, I think I'll start a family, I'll have children, and I'll take them to the battlefield with me Because that kind of vulnerability could drive you crazy and cause you to make poor decisions But God wins the war through a vulnerable mother and a vulnerable seed of that woman Who comes and instead of instituting a great military victory brings the victory of a perfect death on a cross. Well, this is so different an approach to Christian values. What are Christian values? We sometimes hear the expression family values. I like family values. We need more family values. But there are Mormons who have family values And I believe in some ways this passage presupposes the fact that there were mothers In Bethlehem, in Israel, who had family values. What can be wrong with bringing children into the world and raising them and nurturing them? Especially if you're nurturing them in the fear and admonition of the Lord. Absolutely nothing That is a very normal way for a Christian to serve the Lord. But in this case, that service takes a turn It is unexpected, and some children are sacrificed. And I had Genesis 35 in the background of our reading. You find Rachel. Who has very legitimate ambitions from an everyday point of view. She wants a husband to love that will love her. She's a little bit upset that Her sister bumped in line ahead of her and got snuck in the tent on wedding night. But she still gets her husband But her sister starts having the children. And then finally, she has a child. And there's kind of a baby breeding derby that goes on, involving a couple of the concubines, handmaidens, one for Leah, one for for Rachel. Who can have the most children? Husband will love me best if I have the most children, I guess. I don't know Something got out of hand there, out of perspective, but it was a perspective that probably reflected the values of the time and were f reflect other people's values. Isn't it good to have children? Yes. For some reason, some of the women in the Old Testament who were called in a special way had a hard time having children. And that was the case with Rachel. And finally, she's going to have child number two. And she's reassured that this child will live. Well, that's the good news. And then there's the bad news, you're not Won't get to live. To see that child grow up, to see that child develop To see his older brother grow and develop, to experience the joy of family life And so she names this child Benoni, son of my sorrows. What kind of a name is that? Son of my sorrows. That isn't the name that sticks. Dad gets the last word. Benyamine, son of my right hand, Benjamin But there could be the trace of a little bitterness in And you see a quotation here in Matthew 2. 18 from Jeremiah. About Rachel weeping for her children, refusing to be comforted because they are no more. And this is picturing the exile of Israel, of God's people, at a later point in history, but these are now the children. That have come from Jacob, some of whom would be Rachel's children. And they're going into exile. They're going into a kind of death, as it were. Going into bondage, slavery, misery. And Rachel is pictured as beholding the spectacle And refusing to be comforted, weeping for her children And so that particular experience is seen to be replicated here In Matthew chapter 2, where some of the mothers of Israel are now seeing their children slaughtered at the hand of Aaron. And it reflects a very human, I won't say sanctified, but a very human reaction to the loss of a child. How do you comfort somebody who has lost a child There are different kinds of comforts we can bring to people who are in different kinds of sorrows I sometimes get a kick out of cajoling one of my grandchildren, you know. They're a little upset because their sibling did something that got 'em angry or something and I make a funny face and try to get 'em laughing. And sometimes it works. And you can Put things in kind of perspective that this is no big deal, you can laugh at it, let's change the subject, let's move on, let's let it go. All good things in the way that we can handle a number of things, a number of life's disappointments There's hardly a day that goes by you won't have some kind of grief or disappointment, but it's presumably not going to be earth-shattering most of the time. the time so you say, uh I guess I have to get over it. And you you you do what you can. Sometimes, you know, it involves comfort food or something like that but uh apart from that there is uh that everyday thing but there are the not so everyday comforts where A woman has a miscarriage. There's a fatal accident, car accident involving family. And you can't just joke or cajole somebody out of that kind of grief. As a matter of fact, you just make it worse if you try to do that There has to sometimes be a period of mourning. The Bible says, blessed are they who mourn. For they shall be comforted. And so it is not wrong to feel the pain. It is not wrong to acknowledge the pain, to recognize the pain. And although I don't want to say it is not wrong to be angry with God, it is wrong to be angry with God, it is not unusual For someone who's in a deep grief to at least struggle with the question of anger with God. Because that's one of the sort of Challenging things about being one of those old time Presbyterians. You believe God's sovereign and in control. Well then couldn't we have done this a different way, God Ultimately, I think there's no answer to that question. Couldn't we have done this a different way? Because God's ways are perfect, and He doesn't afflict us willingly. He doesn't get joy out of inflicting pain. upon his children. And we need to get over that idea But he is in control, and in theory, maybe there's some other way, and yet I don't think there's an answer. When Jesus was in the garden of Gethsemane, he said, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Clearly, in the case of Jesus, there was no other way. And so at the end of the day, I think all we can say is whatever we face It is the best way, and God knows what he's doing, and he does not afflict willingly, he does not take joy in the the pain of his children. But the pain is there, and by faith we can get through it. But do we want to be comforted? That's the interesting phrase here. Refusing to be comforted. Now, I don't know. Whether this characterizes every single one of the mothers of Bethlehem. I don't even know how many children died. It could have been a dozen, it could have been a thousand. I don't know how big Bethlehem was at the time. Not a really big place. So my guess is that it's somewhere between a dozen. than a thousand, but I don't know what the number is. But refusing to be comforted There is a sad characteristic that we can become attached to our pain And nurse our grudge. That's my grudge, and I'm gonna hang on to it That's my story, a story of misery, and I'm sticking to it You don't want to give it up for the joy of Christ. It doesn't mean That it wasn't serious? Yes, those losses hurt. Yes, it was serious But be comforted. Be open to being comforted. Even if the comfort doesn't come all at once What is the alternative? To live in a spirit of bitterness and self-pity and anger against God? Exactly what is the future in that? No If you know that God loved you so much that He gave His Son, then you can believe that His love is real and a comforting I was struck a couple of weeks or so ago listening to sort of a a news type of program. Franklin Graham and Megan Kelly interview And Megan Kelly asked Franklin Graham about some children under age 15. Who were confronted by ISIS or ISIL or whatever the group's name is. Renounce Christ, or you will die. And these children under the age of fifteen said no. And they were beheaded. And Megan Kelly asked Franklin Graham, couldn't they have just secretly kept their faith and lied and renounced Christ? And he said no. I was very happy with Franklin Graham. Not because what he said was an easy thing I'm no super saint. I think any one of us here confronted with the prospect of children or grandchildren to be taken away would struggle But you know what? Those children now have the The highest glory, the highest prize, they have the mountain the martyr's crown Bigger than the Congressional Medal of Honor, certainly better than the Nobel Prize, they have a glory and they have no sorrow. The parents, yeah, they have the sorrow. Because those children are no longer here. And there's there's that disturbing, horrible sense of That momentary act of violence. But they don't feel it now. They're before their savior and they wouldn't want to come back. No. There's something even bigger than family values that we family values considered from a purely earthly perspective. And those are sacrificial love values. The value of the cross, the value of salvation, which leads to a day when every tear is wiped away Because out of the messiness And yes, some of the failures where we say, why isn't my faith more? There is a perfect one at the right hand of God, who stands before the throne, and his death. And perfect obedience are your perfect obedience and your death for sin when you trusted in him And that's where comfort comes. Whether in life or death, that you belong to your faithful Lord Jesus Christ Christ. Do you know that comfort? If you don't, you come to him today, and he will receive you when you You surrender to him. Say, Lord, take away my sin, take away my anger, take away my lack of forgiving others. Take away that thing that I want to nurse and hang on to. And make me know that Joy of your salvation. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God It is easier to talk about these things than to live them and embrace them in our hearts, and yet you enable us to do that as well. We pray that by your Holy Spirit we may look past the sorrow To the joy that is before us, and even now present within us through the Holy Spirit, to find comfort. To find the ability to mourn and come out on the other side and know your goodness and its sweetness. And your forgiveness, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.