If you turn your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew. We'll be back in chapter 18 this morning. You should find that on page 978 of your pew Bibles. Matthew eighteen, beginning at verse seven. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Woe to the world for temptations to sin. For it is necessary that temptations come. But woe to the one by whom the temptation comes. And if your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life crippled or lame than with two hands or two feet to be thrown into the eternal fire. And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes, to be thrown into the hell of fire. That's fine the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we Come now to what may be a very difficult verse, very difficult passage for us to understand, to apply, and to fully grasp. We ask, Holy Spirit, that you'd work, that you'd illumine our hearts That you'd make them soft and tender, ready and willing and able to receive all that you have for us this morning. Grant us this, Father. Lead and guide us for all of your most holy and perfect purposes. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How are you fighting? How is the war going? Paul refers to a war in his letter to the saints in Rome. He refers to that war, that waging or that raging war that's going on in his inner being. In Psalm eighteen, the psalmist refers to being trained for war. Make no mistake, we are in a spiritual battle And in this war, one of the greatest and most powerful, most effective weapons used by your enemy is the weapon of temptation. Satan is a master of this weapon of spiritual war. He sought to use it even against Jesus. You think, well, yes, in the wilderness, as Jesus was hungry, and the devil tempted him. But he even used Jesus' close friend Peter. If you remember in Matthew's gospel in chapter 16, Peter with the disciples makes that good confession. That Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And following that, Jesus also makes a profession that He is the one that must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things and the hands of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes be killed and on the third day be raised up, and Peter takes him aside and says, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never Happen. And Jesus responded by saying, get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me. It's possible that that could be translated. You are tempting me to sin. So how are you fighting temptation this morning? As we come to this passage in chapter 18, it is sandwiched amongst other things, but it's connected to them. If you remember, this passage in chapter 18 begins with the disciples asking, who's the greatest in the kingdom of heaven? And so the passage itself seems to be all about salvation, about the kingdom of heaven, who might enter it. And if you remember, Jesus continued to speak about the child being the greatest in the kingdom of heaven and that whoever Would cause one of these little ones who believes in him to sin. It would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck. That leads us to this passage this morning, which continues to be all about salvation, all about entering into the kingdom of heaven. Jesus has been identified as the Messiah, although no one really knew exactly what that meant at this time. And now he speaks about entering into the kingdom. You must cut off or turn from that which leads you into sin in order for you to enter into the kingdom. He reminds them if they remain in their sins. That they'll be cast in the fires of hell. And he encourages them then to cut off that which leads them into that sin which leads to The eternal fire. In this passage this morning, I want us to see that the Savior calls all of the people of God to radical action in their fight against sin. The Savior calls all the people of God to radical action in their fight against sin. And we'll see three doctrines this morning contained in these four verses. First, the temptations are necessary. Secondly, the temptations lead to hellfire. And finally, temptations can be cut off. And then we'll seek to apply that which Jesus has given us. All along I'd like you to be asking yourself How am I fighting this morning against temptation? Well, first Temptations are necessary. We must deal with a difficult truth to begin this passage. And Jesus sets it forth for us right away. Woot woe to the world, for temptations to sin, for it is necessary that temptations come. The new American standard puts it this way. It's inevitable that stumbling blocks come. Jesus speaks of a real problem. Obviously it would be unnecessary for him to preach on this topic if temptations weren't real and that they weren't a real problem for even those who were following him because that's who he was talking to at that very moment. The disciples had come to him and asked, who's the greatest And he says, look, you've got a problem with temptations, my friends. We've all experienced temptations. But examples are always good. They always help us. Evil is tempted. A serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. God knows that when you eat of it, meaning the fruit, your eyes will be opened and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Satan tempted Eve to disbelieve God. He tempted her to trust in her singular reason and wisdom as opposed to the wisdom of God. He tempted her to become something she was not divine. Moses was tempted. In his book that he writes, we call Numbers, if you remember the congregation continued to murmur and grumble against Moses, even asking, why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? They were grumbling when the spies went into the land to spy it out and came back with a bad report Moses and Aaron gather the assembly together and God tells them. To speak to the rock. And instead of speaking to the rock, Moses strikes the rock. He was tempted by the continual grumbling and complaining of the people. Moses was tempted to exalt himself in the eyes of the people. Who were constantly bringing him down or seeking to do so. Moses was tempted to take to himself that which the Lord had determined not to give to him. Peter was tempted. As we open up Galatians, as we Lord willing will do tonight. See that Cephas or Peter knew that he was able to eat anything that the Lord had put before him, and he was able to eat with the Gentiles, and yet when the Judaizers come Peter was unwilling to suffer at their hands. And so he separated himself from the Gentiles He was tempted to raise himself up in the eyes of his friends, the Judaizers. And so we know temptations come. Temptations are real. We'd acknowledge that from our own experience, but the question here for us this morning is why must they come? We know that God does not tempt. But here's a sense that it's not by mere permission that God allows temptations to come. No, Jesus says it is necessary. For temptations to come. These offensive behaviors, these temptations, these testings are necessary Just think think about that for a moment. Why could that be? I think it's necessarily true Because the Lord is concerned to purify and strengthen his people, the children of faith. And so temptations or trials and testings are one means by which the living God uses or means that he uses, not that he brings them, but he uses them Remember, the Lord told Abraham, as he gives him his covenant, walk before me and be blameless. As our elder prayed this morning. Who can ascend the holy hill of the Lord? Only he who has clean hands and a pure heart. And as Jesus returns for his bride, he will return for a bride who is unblemished and spotless. And so we know that we are sinners, and yet we know that we also must have clean hands in order to enter into glory. And so there must be this purification process taking place throughout the lives of the children of God and temptations or stumbling blocks or offensive are one means used by the Lord. to purify his children as he strengthens their faith. You see, Christians are sanctified in part through temptations. As you develop or mature spiritual muscles through these temptations The idea is that you will not yield to them in the future as you did in the past. For these trials, these temptations, these stumbling blocks have prepared you. Think of the disciples. How often do we read of the disciples succumbing to temptations throughout the ministry of Jesus, throughout the gospel accounts? Even as they fled at the threat of punishment being with Jesus, God was using those temptations. To make them into the men he called them to be, his apostles. Yes, the Lord uses past temptations to harden the hearts of his people against them. That's a good hardening of the heart. Past temptations are used by the Lord to call his servants to fight against him to the point that he has developed spiritual muscles to resist future temptations. Yes, temptations are necessary. That brings us to our second point. Temptations lead to hellfire. So this next doctrine is really not new. But it needs to be rehearsed, it needs to be emphasized, it needs to be remembered. That's why Jesus places it before us this morning. Woe to the world for temptations to sin. Temptations are equivalent to being caused or led to sin. It's the same word here, temptations, that's translated temptations that Jesus uses in verse 6, whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin. Causes to sin, temptations, stumbling blocks, offenses. All different English translations really for the same root Greek word. Jesus uses the same word. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin. That's the idea. Your hand or foot is not sin. It's not sinful to have a hand or a foot. We know that. These body parts are not evil or malicious in and of themselves. No, Jesus is pointing to temptations. If your hand causes you, if your hand tempts you to sin. For example, if you were inclined to thievery and you see a wallet sitting on an unattended table. It's your hand that picks up the wallet and your feet which run off with it with the stolen item. These body parts are not sin, but they enable you to sin. Or very generally, they tempt you to sin. For without your hand and without your feet, the temptation to steal would certainly be lessened. As the means to accomplish the sin would no longer be at your disposal. So we have a chain, a chain linked to death. It certainly begins in the heart. Isn't that what James tells us? Each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it's conceived, gives birth to sin, and sin when it's fully grown brings forth death. Temptation is that which resides in the heart. That's exactly what James is saying. Each person is tempted when he's lured and enticed by his own desire. James isn't saying temptation is something outside of you. James is saying temptation is that which resides in your heart. And so that's the problem that Jesus was seeking to address in this truth. Brothers and sisters, we think little of temptation. We speak of it lightly. None of us, none of us truly understand the danger that temptations represent. We know of its existence, and yet we think little of its danger. We place ourselves next to it. We gloss over it. We liken it to a minor cold. Something that might bring discomfort for a time, but nothing too serious. And we always think that it's something external to us This passage calls us to reform our thinking. Temptation is deadly serious. As it resides within. And that's why Jesus speaks using body parts, isn't it? And that's why Jesus tells us. The great danger that it represents, it will lead to the fires of hell if it's not checked and ultimately destroyed. That brings us to our third truth or doctrine. Temptations can be cut off. We've heard the bad news, and now Jesus doesn't let his disciples go without giving them encouragement. These temptations can be removed. That's his point. He wants them to know how dangerous they are, but he he also wants them to know that they can be removed. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off, throw it away. They are necessary And they necessarily will come, but they can be resisted. He will give us an exit route They can be thwarted and frustrated and defeated. Isn't that what circumcision in part was showing Abraham? Cut off. Remove Remove from you. Circumcise. Circumcise your heart. That which is tempting you. Even a body part can and must be removed. And here is quite the understatement. It is better for you to enter life crippled. It is better for you to enter life with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into the hell of fire. Simply put, if you resist temptation and as a result you seek righteousness and strive against disobedience, then Then it is a display of the fruit of conversion that has happened within your heart by the work of the Holy Spirit, and you will enter eternal life. Some might have a hard time agreeing. It is better. Satan denies that truth, doesn't he? It's exactly what he told Eve, you will not surely die. In other words, Eve, it's not better for you to obey. But these are the words of a liar. Jesus Christ has given you truth this morning. It is better. Brings us to our attempt to apply this passage. This very practical teaching of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was very practical in his preaching in this passage. He always is practical. This text is no different. And as he preaches this, the disciples may have been asking themselves this question, how? How do we do this? How do we keep ourselves from being tempted? How do we keep ourselves from continuing in sin? How do we enter life? And so Jesus provides a practical way to live before a holy God. Jesus provides the means, the way to submit to your Creator, to cut off and cast off that which tempts you. If your hand is that which tempts you, if your hand is that portion of your body which leads you to break the law, if your foot is that which guides you away or guides you into the way of sinners or the seat of scoffers, then cut it off. There are four points here, I think, that Jesus uses as he preaches. First, his first point is that you're involved. Jesus is clearly and unequivocally and unambiguously calling all those who will listen to be actively pursuing and engaged in killing off the old man. For he is the root of evil evil desire, and thus the true tempter. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. And throw it away. Jesus is and was stating that you must be involved in removing that from your person, from your environment, which tempts you to sin against the holy God. You may think, well, this is all the work of the Spirit. And certainly the Holy Spirit is always involved in sanctification, and really that's what Jesus is speaking of at this point. Sanctification. Sanctification is a work of God's free grace. We've been learning that in our shorter catechism study. Indeed, as Paul writes to the church at Rome, he speaks of the work of the Spirit. If we've been united with him in a death like his, meaning if we've been united by the Spirit with Jesus Christ, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his will live in accordance with the way Christ lives by the work of the Spirit Yet, even as the Spirit is the leader, the guider, the counselor, the mover, you are called to be actively cutting off. How else could we understand this passage? You're called to be actively engaged in killing off the old man. You're called to be actively engaged in your sanctification. Paul recognized there was a war going on. A battle. And there takes two sides for the battle. In the Westminster Confession of Faith, we read of that war in which war Although the remaining corruption for a time may much prevail, yet through the continual supply of strength from the sanctifying Spirit of Christ, the regenerate part does overcome. Do you hear that? Through the continual supply of strength. You're supposed to use that strength which is being supplied to you by the Spirit. Yes, the Spirit's involved, but you're to be involved as well The saints grow in grace, perfecting holiness in the fear of God. Paul recognizes the work of individual sinners in their sanctification. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it's God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure. Paul speaks of growing up in every way. Into him who is the head. There's action. In his letter to the Church at Colossae, walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. There's action. There's involvement. There's engagement, bearing fruit. Peter as well. Make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue. Work. Be actively involved. Grow in grace and the knowledge of our Lord. There can be no dispute. True believers Followers of Christ are to be fully engaged in cutting off and casting off that which tempts you Number two. There are two separate actions here. Don't miss that. Jesus speaks Of cutting off and casting. He speaks of tearing out and throwing away. Two separate verbs, two separate actions. Both critical. Once the thing which tempts you is severed. Now you must separate it from yourself such that it can't be rejoined or re-enter your life. It must be thrown out, cast off, deposited in a place where it cannot be retrieved. That's the idea. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. That's certainly the idea that Jesus is presenting. It will not merely, it will not do merely to cut off and leave it for reattachment. It will not do to unplug the computer which enables you to search for pornography and leave it on your desk for another day. No. In addition to unplugging it, it must be removed. If this is a thing that tempts you, provides a gateway into sinful, wretched disobedience, rebellion, or insubmission. Number three, there's radical action, violent action called for. It's quite difficult to imagine more graphic images than those used by Jesus. Hands cut off, feet, cut off, eyes torn out. Consider the value of these body parts. This was an agricultural community. This was a shepherding culture. This is a community without Uber, without taxis, without public transportation. People walked or rode animals. They needed hands And feet for work and for daily living. Without an eye, they would be severely handicapped in their ability to work and make food and physically survive. And those are exactly the things that Jesus tells them to cut off. It was radical. He called into radical action Without a hand, without a foot, without an eye, these Jews would likely be reduced to being a beggar, completely dependent on others. That was likely Jesus' thought, his point. As one would remove that which tempts him or her, he would then be completely dependent upon the Spirit. To keep him from going back. Truly life-altering, life-changing. Never the same You see, Jesus was calling for radical action and radical dependence upon the Holy Spirit. Number four, Jesus called for immediate action. Notice it. If your hand or your foot causes you to sin, cut it off, throw it away. If your eye causes you to sin, tear it out, throw it away. This call did not involve an easing into removing the temptation. It didn't call for a lot of thought. It didn't call for pondering or meditation. Jesus' instructions didn't include time. Time to ponder, time to think through whether this should be done. Time to consider what you'd be missing. No. Christ did not call you to wait. The Savior of the world calls his followers to immediate action, no delay. Hurry! This is a matter of eternal life. Cut it off, cast it away now. Well, I think all of these are included in what Christ has taught us. The question remained is how How do you cut off? And I think once again, Jesus' teaching is practical. First, you have to identify the sin that you're struggling with. It seems that Jesus' thought here was to involve temptations that would involve besetting sins. We could all say we break every single command there is. But Jesus seems to be speaking of particular sins, particular temptations. If it's the hand, cut it off. So consider what sin or sins you struggle with the most, what besetting sin troubles you the most Submitting to authority, loving your neighbor, seasoning your language with grace And then, once you've identified that particular sin or sins, then you have to ask yourself, what is it that opens the door to that sin? What is the trigger that leads me to it? What is it that tempts me to breaking the same command again and again and again? What is it in my heart that continues to lead me to this wretched path? What's the key that I keep at hand close by that is so luring that leads me directly to my downfall? It would be easy for us, I think, in a certain way, to speak of certain sins, drunkardness Consider the sin of adultery. Be easy for us to consider cutting off external temptations. All contact with the one that you've been in an adulterous relationship with must be cast off, thrown out, destroyed. The key to that place where you'd meet must be thrown away, never to be retrieved again. Certainly there are other aspects of cutting off that temptation. But they're all external. The more difficult application is what do you need to cut off? With regard to your heart. Children, when you're told to clean your room and Your parents ask whether you have accomplished the task, and you know it's really not clean the way they would expect it. How do you respond? How do you tell the truth and not lie? See our pride, hates, rebuke, and scorn. We don't want to hear our parents say, well, go back How do you cut off the desire to avoid punishment or keep your parents from scorning or rebuking you? See, it all begins with a desire to lift up Christ. It begins with a desire to exalt and honor your Savior. As you long to see Jesus exalted, even in your words, even as you recount what you have done. Are you not at that very moment cutting off pride? You see, you're replacing your desire to see yourself exalted in the minds and hearts of others, whether it's your parents or your teachers or your employer or your neighbor. And you're replacing it with a desire to see Christ exalted. See, that's cutting off. Cutting off the pride. And it's casting it off because you've replaced it with a desire to exalt Christ. To see the heir of all things, the Son of God, the Judge of the World, honored in your words as you recount to someone what you've been up to. That's cutting off. That's actually listening to Jesus Christ. Remember what he, Jesus told Peter, as Peter suggested to him that he would never go to the cross, that he would never die such a death. That he would never be humbled, that he would never spill his blood, that his body would never be broken. Get behind me, Satan. You're a hindrance to me. You're tempting me to sin. For you are not setting your mind on the things of God. You see, it's exactly what Jesus told Peter. Peter, you're thinking of yourself. Peter, you're thinking of your own well-being. Peter, you've been tempted by Satan to consider yourself above your heavenly Father. And so you need to cut off yourself And you need to cast it off so far that you replace it only with the thoughts of God. You see, it's always a putting off and a putting on, isn't it? You must set your mind on the things of God It's a call to fight, isn't it? It's a call to fight against that which is your natural inclination in Adam. It's called to cut it off. Violently. Radically. An alteration of your life. That you might be constantly setting your mind upon the things of God. That's the fight. That's the battle. Yes? Savior calls all the people of God to radical action in their fight against sin. Jesus was surrounded by weakness and a constant temptation to exalt himself. And yet he was constantly setting his mind on the things of God. Brothers and sisters, that's the how. Jesus tells us how. We can cut off temptation and sin and be led by the Spirit into eternal life. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, this is so hard. We are sinners saved only by grace. And we live this life of a raging battle. Help us. Help us to cut off that which tempts us. Continue to reform our hearts, Lord God. Cast off our pride, our selfishness, our self-centeredness. And Father help us to replace it with a desire to exalt Jesus Christ. We ask all these things in his