Turn to the scripture reading this morning in the um Hebrews chapter eleven. We begin reading at verse thirty-two and read on through through verse forty. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. What more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah, also of David and Samuel and the prophets. Who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, became valiant in battle Turn to flight the enemies of the aliens. Women received their dead, raised to life again. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance, that they might obtain a better resurrection Still others had trial of mockings and scourgings, yes, and of chains and imprisonment. They were stoned, they were sawn into, were tempted Were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. Of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and mountains, in dens and caves of the earth And all these, having obtained a good testimony through faith, did not receive the promise, God provided did not receive the promise, God having provided something better for us. That they should not be made perfect depart from us. Thus far ends the reading of God's holy word. Please be seated As we look at this passage it it's a it's uh a a a very uh favorite passage in of mine in uh In this section, we have two groups of people identified, both of which are said to have done their labors by faith We have individuals in one group who are named, and then we have a whole bunch of other people that don't have any names. uh anonymous people. Uh I particularly uh like the idea of this anonymity of the faithful uh because uh because it uh might show us that though the world quickly forgets who's doing what, God does not forget. And God sees the things that his people do in obedience to him. And it just is a powerful encouragement to all of us to realize, yes, we do uh are weak, we're not always strong, we don't always do the right thing, but the But God sees the good things too. And we shouldn't always despair. We shouldn't always be frustrated. Um So let's uh let's let's look at this section and see uh how living by faith impacted the thoughts and actions of the the people who are herein mentioned and not mentioned, or mentioned anonymously Verses 32 through 34 is the first section I want to look at. What shall more shall I say? For the time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jeptah, of David also, and Samuel and of the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms Wrought righteousness, attained promises, stopped the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness, were made strong, waxed valiant in flight turn to flight the armies of the aliens. Well some of these names are familiar to us, some more familiar than others. The first four, Gideon, Barak, Samson, and Jephtha, are all what's known as judges. of Israel. Their names appear in the book of Judges, which is that section of God's word that details how Israel Took over the territory of the Promised Land inhabited by the Canaanites and then began to live there. And uh these four men uh uh were called judges uh because uh uh they were it it isn't that they were so much initially judging law or you know, making d decisions that were just, it's that they were deliverers. And that that Hebrew word talks about them delivering, but it also talks about justice as well. So The time of the judges was a very turbulent time in Israel's history, a 400-year period. And during that 400-year period, 14 different judges came on the scene. And 14 that meant 14 different deliverances were experienced. And we are taught that they taught there that the scripture here points out four of these men who were judges. They were they came to deliver God's people because there were frequent episodes of apostasy. rampant apostasy away from God and for excessive idolatry which was caused by the people's unfaithfulness They were bowing down to all the pagan gods of the people they had just driven out of the land. In spite of what all that God had told them and all that He had warned them against, they Exercise their sinful nature, and they refuse to honor God and worship Him and Him alone and worship the idols. Every judge, no matter how valently they fought, no matter how faithful they were to God, nevertheless were flawless people. Because they were people. They succumbed to one sin or the other. After they would come into Israel or they'd be grazed up, they would fight against the pagans who had taken over the land by God's blessing to punish Israel. And they would have a mark a remarkable um um deliverance. In one case we know of Gideon with 100 men, routed the army of the Midianites and the Amalekites. And you go back and you read that story and the text says they were as numerous as locusts. We remember Samson And we remember the fact that though he cavorted with pagan females that incurred the displeasure of his father and his mother. The Lord used him to bring about a mighty deliverance, pulling down the very temple of the pagan god of his adversary. killing the leadership of the Philistines who had oppressed the people of Israel They were flawed though. They succumbed to one sin or the other Though they were all types of Christ in the sense that they provided a deliverance, they were also antitypes. And that they argued for something better being needed for Israel Nevertheless, God attributes to their labors faith And if you were to ask me or probably anybody else who should be here, you would not pick Samson. And probably not Jephthah, maybe Gideon. But but you know, there's a big disconnect in our life when we think about these people Because, you know, there were periods of time when they were living without being obedient to God. But you see, brothers and sisters, the thing to take from that is the very real truth. But this is just a testimony to God's grace to sinners Don't take the don't take from this that well, you know, I could be like these guys and God will be God will forget it and sleep it under the rug. They all were judged. But nevertheless, they find their way here. And I think it's has a lot to do with reminding us of how wonderful God's grace is to us sinners. Next we come to the name of David and the prophet Samuel. I don't have time to go into each one of what these people people did. It's listed here in very summary fashion from verses 33 through 34. But David, you of course know was the greatest of all of Israel's kings. There's no dispute about that. God's word says it. All the kings of Israel were compared to David. He is the one who is said to have found favor in the eyes of the Lord. And you see evidences of that favor as God protects him from the murderous rages of Saul. You see him conquering other nations, all the nations around Israel And making them vassals, servants of his kingdom. He's the only king of whom it is said he is a man after God's own heart Acts chapter 13, 22. And yet we also remember the story about David, and we might have difficulty putting him here in this passage. Because after all that God had done for David, David committed adultery and then murder. But by faith, David is noted here. And he is even granted the honor of being an ancestor of Jesus. Samuel, the great prophet, is mentioned. And try as I might, as I read about Samuel, maybe someone will be diligent to correct me One stunning fact about him emerges as you read through the Bible references regarding him. It's very hard to find God ever mentioning one negative thing about Samuel One sinful thing about him. We know he was sinful, but there's nothing ever mentioned At least as far as I can find, I welcome someone correcting me. He is a great prophet of God. His labors are by faith, just as those, all of those who are mentioned here, he's maybe the greatest of all the prophets, but he isn't the prophet. He isn't the prophet. Again, all these flawed men Whose sins are clearly revealed in Scripture are nevertheless here by faith, once again a testimony to God's grace and goodness. Then we transition from these who are named to those who are unnamed. It says in the beginning of verse 35, Women by faith receive their dead back to life. Well, take that there there are many, there are several who who had this happen to them, and there is an incident in the life of Elijah where he raises a dead woman's son back to life. in 1 Kings chapter 17. Perhaps it's referring to that, but it has to be referring to others because it's plural. Women by faith. By the faith that God grants. Again, even in the case of that woman, we don't know her name She's still relatively anonymous to us. And then they go on and they add more. Others were tortured, not accepting deliverance. That they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trials of cruel mockeries and scourgings. Some were in bonds and imprisonment Now we do know that both of those things happened to Micaiah and Jeremiah. Maybe many more. They were stoned. They were sawn under. That particular graphic statement always kind of gets to me, I think, about someone who, because of their faith, is sawn into. Tradition has it, and I you can take this for what it's worth, that that was what happened to Isaiah the prophet. They were tempted, they were slain by the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, destitute, afflicted, and tormented, of whom the world is not worthy They wandered in deserts, mountains, dens, and caves. That's a description in some ways of some of the prophets, particularly Elijah. And later, of course, John the Baptist would fit that. Quality too. They were tortured for believing. Tortured for believing. And they endured. You know what it means that they endured I think it means this: that they refuse to be released from torture if only they would deny God. Why? Answer is given. They hope for a better resurrection. See, that's where your faith takes you. It's where it must take you. It must take you to the cross. It must take you to the resurrection of Christ. There's our hope. There's our only hope. It's not if somebody stops torturing me because I've denied the Savior That's not my hope. Whether I deny him or not, if he stops, it's still not my hope Others were stoned, mocked, and scourged, jailed, sawn into. They endured such evil treatment by faith. And the judgment of God is that the world in which we live is not worthy of such people. The world in which we live is not worthy of such people They are very much like the Apostle Paul wrote about himself in 1 Corinthians 4. 11 that we just read. We hunger, we thirst, we're naked, we're buffeted, we have no certain home, we labor, working with our own hands, being reviled. We bless being persecuted, we suffer it, being defamed, we entreat, we are made as the filth of the world. Even when we suffer, For the sake of knowing Christ, that doesn't shut us up. The focus is on Christ. We entreat others to know We, if we revile, we bless and we direct people to Christ. We are made the filth of the world and the all-scouring of all things to this day You know, you you cannot read this without coming to various important conclusions as to why people endure this? Why those who are named here? Why those who are pointed out by God endure this? And and even though this probably has its Area of uh time of uh reference to this, it probably refers to the mostly the Old Testament. In this situation. Yet we know that some of the things it talks about applied to the New Testament early Christians. We see it in Paul, who was stoned to death. Stephen. We see other stories of persecutions of Christians. We see persecutions now. The situation is not changed In terms of God's people, and in terms of the faith we need, we must have in Christ in order to keep living. And thank God that He graces us with that faith. And it's not, you know, please understand it's not a static faith. It's a faith that has content, but at the same time, it's a faith that's ever growing and ever maturing. Women, it says in verse uh uh excuse me, the question was, why did God give this why do people endure? And first and foremost, we have to say it is because of the God-given gift. Gift of faith. That and that alone. The God given gift of faith had so gripped these individuals that nothing else in their lives had value to them. Wouldn't it be Wouldn't it be something if we could all say that? Nothing else in life Has more value to me or to you than knowing Christ And there's a sense in which, as Christians grow, their faith grows. And it matures. They commit more and more to the God of grace, less and less to themselves, and less and less to the gods of this world For those who are mentioned here and others by saving faith, there is nothing greater in life. Than salvation in Jesus. There's nothing worth having more All faith is God given, and always we live for the simple reason That we want to heap praise upon the giver of our faith. We want to live for Him and for His glory. Romans chapter 14, verse 7 reminds us none of us lives to himself, and no man dies to himself For whether we live, we live to the Lord, and whether we die, we die to the Lord. Whether we live or therefore or die, we are the Lord's. 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Whatever you eat or drink, or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. If you chafe at God getting all the glory regarding your salvation You don't know grace. You don't know grace Why do people endure? Because of the God-given gift of faith in Christ. Why do people endure As we become more and more grateful to God for his faithfulness to us in Christ, we want to be his servants. And we want to be to give him more glory. Even if we die, our faith in Christ reminds us that we live with him forever. All of the saving plan of God and all of God's redemptive work and the faith of his people is counted. Calculated to make everybody sit up and notice. As Paul said in 2 Corinthians 4, verse 1, We have this ministry. As we have received mercy, we faint not. If our gospel is hid, it is hid to those who are lost in whom the God of this world has blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them, for we do preach not ourselves But Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves as your servants for his sake For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. We have this treasure. In earthen vessels, that the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us. We may be sorrowful at times, but we always do rejoice. We may be poor, but we make others rich. We may have nothing, yet we possess everything. We are not sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves. Our sufficiency is of God And that's why we endure. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, may you be pleased in our own lives to Note those things, Lord, which your grace leads us to do for your glory. May you give us, Lord. Desire that nothing we do is to return praises to ourselves But it is to return praises to the God and the Savior Jesus that we worship and adore. Grant, O Lord, that your Spirit would apply this message to the hearts of God's people. We thank you, Lord, that There is a record throughout history of your people standing for truth, regardless of personal consequences. Standing for the good news of Jesus Christ because they have been so gripped by grace. That they live only in that grace. Amen