Continue to stand. Turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 1, beginning at verse 26. And we will be reading verses 26 through 31. Verses 30 and 31 will be our text for the message today. First Corinthians one, verses twenty-six through thirty-one For you see your calling, brethren, that not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble are called But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to put to shame the wise. And God has chosen the weak things of the world to put to shame the things that are mighty. And the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen, and the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are That no flesh should glory in his presence. But of him, you are in Christ Jesus Who became for us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption That, as it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Thus, for instance, the reading of God's Word, please be seated now. The section of God's Word uh penned by the Apostle Paul to the church at Corinth was a uh was uh an effort by Paul to uh have the church more fully appreciate the salvation which they have received in Christ Jesus And to do that, he begins to uh in verse 18 and on through verse 31, he begins to contrast the prevalent Most important things that this world thinks are relevant, he contrasts that with how God does things. And uh he s he he has said that the the wisdom of the world is not the same as the wisdom of God. That God is far superior in his wisdom. And he has said that the things that men value are not the things that God values Um he has um he and so it it it it it comes to our text where right before our text he tells the Corinthian church to look around, look at themselves And take note of the fact that among their midst, God has not called many to eternal life who are rich. or powerful, or of high social standing. Uh as a matter of fact, uh in many situations it might be the case that God has calls called to salvation those which the world despises, the poor, the oppressed, those who are considered base in the eyes of many people. And so having uh said that, and having said that God is the one who has uh has um uh saved uh many in Christ Jesus for his own purposes, for his own reasons, uh and uh and that that uh should leave the idea that that this is done so that no flesh can glory in his presence Verse 29. No human being can boast in God's presence that he has an innate right to be there. It's all of God's choice. Now, when we come to our verse in verse 30, It says, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus. That him, of him, That's referring back to God. It's referring back to the sentence, verse 29, that no flesh should be able to boast in his presence. But of him, that refers to God, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus. No flesh can boast. God has not chosen many. God has not chosen many wise. God has not chosen many rich. God has not chosen many of the upper crust of society. But of him and of his wisdom you have are in Christ Jesus. Sets the picture, doesn't it? It gives all of God's people a real uh encouragement to realize uh that God has chosen And that, you know what? That we're part of that. We're part of that choice of the great God of heaven. To be beneficiaries of the ministry of Jesus Christ. Of him you are in Christ Jesus. The very God who is surrounded, as we read in uh in Isaiah chapter 6 earlier, that very God who is surrounded in heaven by angels. by glory, by wonder, by um things that uh there there there ain't no earth there You know, everything that is uh uh is the the best of earth is not there. It's superseded the the everything that's the worst of earth, it's not there either. It doesn't belong there. It's beyond what it's really beyond what any of us can imagine or even describe what heaven is like And the glory of God in heaven, in God's dwelling place, myriads of angels incomparable beauty, undescribable holiness. And just like Isaiah before this God, you know, we will all tremble in fear. And be struck in all by his greatness. But, but, you notice there's a but at verse 30 as it starts. But of him are you in Christ Jesus. This God of ultimate majesty. He who can do all of his holy will, he who confounds the wisdom of the wise, and overrules the might of the powerful, and overwhelms and supersedes the status of the of the nobles of this God we are in Of him we are in Christ Jesus. Of him you are in Christ Jesus. In Christ. We shouldn't overlook that thought. Because in Christ describes relationship. In Christ means That you have a relationship with God. And it's not a relationship that, oh, let's pick up our cell phone and send them a text. Or let's call him whenever we want to. It's a living relationship. And it's a relationship that um that uh that uh is one that's ongoing And it's such that at any time of the day that you can call on God, this God, because He has He said you can. He's made it so. He has determined that you can have this relationship with him. But but this is this is what we uh refer to uh uh uh in in in in in the in the thought of that God is with us God is with us. And you remember, of course, don't you, that in the familiar stories of the birth of Jesus, how the angels came to Mary and to Joseph. And they said in Matthew chapter one, and I can't remember who said which to which, but of one the angel said, You shall call his name Jesus, for he shall take away the sins of his people. And to the other, the father or the mother, he said, you shall call his name Emmanuel, which means God with us. That glorious God that drove Isaiah to his knees in fear and trembling that drove him to confess, woe is me, a man of uncleanness, that glorious God is with you. is with you. And you could say, like the Russian, the first Russian cosmop cosmonaut reportedly said, Where is God? I don't see him. Well One day you will, brother. God is spirit. And normally you cannot see him, but he does manifest himself, humanly speaking, in Christ. And he is with us now, spiritually present. But one day he will be physically present with you. But he's with you now all the time. How can that be? How can I just said earlier that Jesus ascended into heaven? There he intercedes on our behalf. How can he be with us now? He has sent to you what Jesus promised. I will give them another comforter. The Holy Spirit. And He will come. And He will live with them. He will dwell with them. He will dwell in their hearts. And he will teach them all things that I have said. He will bring to remembrance the things that I have said. And he will live within their hearts. And he will help them. He will help them as long as they live. He will help them to grow in categories and qualities of life that are like. Our s like what our Savior displayed. Love. Love Kindness, patience, gentleness, self-control. Probably forgot some But the idea is that if you're in Christ, you possess, you possess God's presence with you. And when you possess God's presence with you, By God's design, you are you possess many countless blessings. And if you want to start enumerating some of those blessings, you can turn to two places in Scripture where they're virtually listed verse after verse. One is Ephesians 1. The other is Romans 6. Let's go there for just a second. In Ephesians 1, it says That by faith, you are the possessor of all blessings in Christ. Blessed be the Father, God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us all, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings. In heavenly places in Christ, verse 3. Verse 4, according as he has chosen us in him. Before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him in love, having predestined us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ himself. We're children of God. It's not that God is living with us, but we become his family. We become his beloved children. To the praise of his glorious grace, wherein he has made us accepted. In the beloved. No longer are you an outsider to God, but you are accepted in Christ, his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption. In Jesus, you have redemption through his blood and the forgiveness of sins according to the riches of his grace. Uh I think it just goes on and on. Um in whom we've obtained an inheritance You have an inheritance, an inheritance that's imperishable, that isn't going to fade away, that's reserved in heaven for you. You see that little phrase of him, you are in Christ Jesus, means an awful lot. You're in union with Christ, and that union is inseparable if you can't be taken away. It isn't going to be here today and gone tomorrow. It will always be there. It will be there from the day you believe until the day you die. And then it will continue. In another form, in glory. In in resurrec in resurrected, glorified glory. I could go on and read more. And I somehow Romans 6, for the sake of time, is getting kind of short shrift today. I meant to read it earlier, but I didn't And I thought I'd pick it up here. But but well, let's read a couple of verses, beginning at verse 1 in Romans 6, talking about what it means to be in Christ. Know ye not that as many as were baptized into Christ were baptized into his death? We are buried by him, by baptism unto death, that just as Christ was raised up from the dead By the glory of the Father, even so we should walk in the newness of life. Think about that. The believer walks in the newness of life. That means you ain't dead in your sins. And trespasses. You're walking in the newness of life. You're a new preacher And the Holy Spirit is at work conforming you more and more to the image of God. This is, I mean, this is what it means to be in Christ. And the subject of union of Christ, we can go on and talk about it all day and what it means. But it it clearly does mean that we have new life, a new life, and a new relationship. With God through Christ. So much so that we have an inheritance. We are the children of God. We're the adopted children of God. We know him. We have a relationship with him. We can actually call him, according to Romans 8, we can call him Abba Father. Or someone used to say, Brother Cliff used to say, Daddy. We can call God daddy. Um So on and on it goes. And because we're in union with Christ in verse 30, because we are in Christ. Look at the latter part of that verse. It says, Whom, who of God, and that would refer back to Christ, is made unto us. Who of God is made unto us, and then it means four things: wisdom, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. We are in Christ because of God, and when we're in Christ because of God, Christ is made unto us wisdom, righteousness, sanctification and redemption. What I mean he is just there in one verse, he has just there summarized the whole plan of salvation. It's there It is there. It can be unpacked. And you can see it. God, we are made. God has made for us or unto us. The tense of the Greek there is passive. We didn't make this ourselves. We are the ones that it's being made Unto. It's also a tense that means it's a fact. It's not something that will happen. It's not something that's going to happen. It's something that has happened. We have been, Christ has been made by God for us wisdom Men everywhere want wisdom. They seek wisdom. Remember in the New Testament, the Queen of Sheba heard that in Israel there was a great king. His name was Solomon. And that Solomon had such profound wisdom that she traveled from her region to Israel to see his wisdom. And she said, I can see that You know, there's more wisdom here than I ever could imagine was here. But Jesus refers to this. He says in Matthew 12, verse 42 The Queen of the South shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it. She came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold A greater one than Solomon is here. Christ, you see, is wisdom of God in the flesh. It astonished all who heard him to hear him teach. Even as a boy, lecturing the elders in the temple, they couldn't understand where he got such wisdom or such knowledge. Or when Jesus spoke to the crowds in Galilee, they were astonished because he taught them as one who had authority and not like those who were Their teachers. Christ is the wisdom of God incarnate. The utmost fulfillment of God's wisdom that leads. to our redemption. You want to understand life? You can't understand life without Christ. You can go through all the motions of life, but you won't understand why in the world you're here You won't understand why there's purpose. You won't understand what the meaning of everything is. But once you start coming to Christ and knowing him and checking him out and checking what the Word of God says. Eventually, by God's grace, it becomes clear. The light bulb goes on in your mind, and you say, oh, that's what that means, you know? It's not that you're that's not necessarily that you become the brightest person in the world, but you become you begin to understand things You begin to see things that you couldn't see before. You can't, the world in this wisdom does not know Christ. And I've only talked about one thing. I mean it could go on and on and on, talking about the wisdom of God in Christ. God for us in Christ has given us this wisdom. And he has given us furthermore, as the next statement is, righteousness. If you're going to stand before a holy God like Isaiah, you better have somebody Who's going to come like the angels with those tongues of coal and touch your uh those slames of coal and touch your tongue and take your sin away In order to stand in God's presence, what do you need? You need to be holy as He is holy. There's no way for us to be holy on ourselves. We try. We try to do all of our good works. We try to make ourselves look good in God's presence. But we have a bad heart as part of the problem. And all, as Isaiah 64 says, all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. But Christ has become for us the righteousness of God. And by faith in Christ, his righteousness is imputed to us. His righteousness becomes our righteousness. And what how much righteousness did Jesus have? Perfect righteousness. Lo, he said, I come in the volume of the book to do thy will. It is written of me. Jesus did the Father's will. He did it perfectly. And the Father was pleased. And as Romans chapter 5 verse I am really abbreviating this. As Romans chapter 5, verse 17 put it By one man's offense, death reigned by sin. That one man is Adam in the Romans 5. Much more shall they receive abundance of grace and the gift of righteousness Much more shall it reign in life by one man, Jesus Christ. Therefore, as the offense of one judgment came upon all men unto condemnation, so by the righteousness of the one free gift came upon all men unto justification of life, justification being declared righteous in the sight of God. For as one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of the one shall many be made righteous. Romans 5, 17 through 19. Then it goes on to say, this Jesus is made of God our sanctification. We're declared righteous and we still live. But Jesus said, I'll give you another counsel I'll give you another comforter. I'll give you the Holy Spirit. He will come and He will dwell with you and He will help you to remember my words. In addition, He will help you Be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. As 1 Corinthians chapter 15, verse 49 puts it. As we have born the image of the earthly, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly one 2 Corinthians 3. 18. But we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even by the Spirit of the Lord. Colossians 3 verse 10 says, We have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him who created us. The Holy Spirit produces that godly character in us. by helping us to demonstrate the fruits of the Spirit recorded in Galatians chapter 5, 22 and 23. So that it can be said of you. 2 Corinthians 5. 17, if any man is in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. You are in Christ a new creature He has been made of God finally our redemption. Redemption. Having your sins paid for. Hebrews 9, verse 22. Therefore, excuse me, almost all things are by law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. Jesus shed his blood for his people. Redemption. Remission sins. Redemption also implies the buying back of those who are captive. A price is paid so that those who are captive may be free. You without Christ are captive. Jesus looked to the Pharisees of his day. He said that you are in bondage. And they looked at him and said, We've never been enslaved to anybody. We've always been free, and Jesus said, truly, I say to you, anyone who sins is a slave to sin. Jesus frees the captives. He breaks the hold that death and sin and Satan have over sinners. And he frees them to serve God by his redeeming work He turns away God's wrath from us by taking it on himself and exhausting that wrath as he dies on the cross He is your substitute that takes away the sin of the world and empties the wrath of God from you and on to himself My little children, these things I write to you, that you sin not. If any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins. Not for ours only, but for the sins of the world. And if there is going to be red if God yet since God brings redemption to us in Christ Since God uh pays, since Christ pays the shedding of the blood for our sin and revits our sin, Since Christ frees us from the bondage of sin, and since Christ turns away God's wrath on us for sin So also God forgives us by faith in Christ. Ephesians 1, verse 7. In him in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. What this passage is designed to make you feel. And I hope it is making you feel this way. That you can say to yourself, Who else is there for me but Jesus Christ? What more could Christ possibly do for you that he hasn't done? What is left for Jesus to do in his saving work? The fact of the matter is nothing. Your salvation in Christ. Given to you by the Holy Spirit, by the Holy God, is complete. As Jesus said, as he breathed his last breath, it is finished. As my good professor used to entitled the book, Redemption Accomplished and Applied Your redemption is accomplished at the cross. And you have been chosen by the Father in Christ to make you holy and blameless in God's sight. The redemption is being applied. And so all praise goes to our God, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And isn't that what verse thirty-one one is saying that according it is written, he who glories, let him glory in the Lord. Brothers and sisters, glory in the Lord. It is in Christ your salvation. Amen. Let's pray. Most merciful God, our heavenly Father, thank you for this time together. Speak to the hearts of your people, Lord. Bring encouragement and comfort, bring conviction where that is needed. And Lord, help us to be those who glory in you for the redemptive work of your Son. Jesus Christ, a sweet name, Amen