What's remain standing turn to the book of Ruth in the Old Testament? Ruth, chapter 4. And beginning at verse one. Hear the the word of the Lord. Now Boaz went up to the gate and sat down there, and behold, The close relative of whom Boaz had spoken came by. And Boaz said, Come aside, friend. Sit down here. So he came aside and sat down. And he took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. And they sat down. Then he said to the close relative, Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, sold the land which belonged to our brother Elimelech. Thy thought to inform you saying, buy it back in the presence of the inhabitants and the elders of my people. If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not redeem it, then tell me that I may know For there is no one but you to redeem it, and I am next after you. And he said, I will redeem it. Then Boaz said, On the day you buy the field from the hand of Naomi, you must also buy it from Ruth, the Moabitus, the wife of the dead to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance. And the close relative said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I ruin my own inheritance. You redeem my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now this was the custom in former times in Israel concerning redeeming and exchanging to confirm anything. One man took off his sandal and gave it to the other. And this was a confirmation. Therefore the close relative said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself. He took off his sandal And Boaz said to the elders and all the people, you are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelex. and all that was Killian's and Melan's from the hand of Naomi. Moreover Ruth the Moabites, the widow of Malan, I have acquired as my wife to perpetuate the name of the dead through his inheritance. that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brethren and from his physician at the gate. You are witnesses This day. And the people who were at the gate, and the elder said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman who is coming to your house like Rachel and Leah. the two who built the house of Israel, and you may prosper in Aphratha and be famous in Bethlehem. May your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offspring which the Lord will give you from this young woman The grass withers and the flower fades, but the word of the Lord endures forever. Please be seated. There is a part of me today that wants to stick to my notes. There's another part of me that wants to just talk with you about this passage. I'm not sure what I'm actually gonna do. Uh up until just an hour or so ago I thought I was gonna stick to my notes. Uh now I'm not So certain. May the Spirit move effectively. This book of Ruth is a fascinating book. I've I I taught a Bible study here on Ruth. And I know we looked at this a little bit then. But been thinking more and more about what's going on in this book. And again, you you have to understand mu the perspective that I'm coming from looking at this book. That perspective is this. That the Bible is one book composed of two testaments with one message. And that message is fundamentally boiled down to the point that God has promised to save sinners. And he will bring a redeemer to his people. And so when I look at an Old Testament book in particular, Where there are people who are they they are people like us and they have similar kinds of issues and problems that they're facing. When I look at an Old Testament book I am, I think I'm forced into trying to understand how does this passage and how does this book Inform me more about my salvation in Jesus Christ. What is it trying to tell me about the work of Jesus? And I realize that as you look at the book, and yet as you read it somewhat superficially You do not see Jesus' name anywhere in the book But that doesn't mean that God isn't dropping into the book powerful Foreshadows of what Jesus will do to save his people. That's the perspective I'm coming from. A while back, when I was still here with you, preached the sermon of 1 Corinthians 15 And in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul is telling the Corinthian church about what his message was to them. And I'll refer you to verse uh to verse verses one through four of 1 Corinthians. But I'm just gonna Read verses 3 and 4 of that text. Paul says to the Corinthian church, For what I received, I passed on to you. As of first importance. In other words, the most important thing I got to say to you, as a body of believers, is simply this. That Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. That he was buried And that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. Now, if you you you hear the gospel there, right? You hear it in all of its glory. You hear the concept of the Redeemer. A substitutionary atonement for our sins. You also hear the story in that little verse of Paul about the resurrection of Jesus Christ, don't you? Third day. He was buried, and on the third day he rose again. Right? And then Paul says, this is all according to the scriptures. And I asked myself, what scriptures? For the most part, Paul only had the Old Testament. Maybe a few early parts of the gospel, maybe of Mark, when he was writing. So Everything Paul had to say about the gospel to the Corinthians was rooted and grounded in the Old Testament. And I know you can look at Isaiah 53, for example, and you can see the substitutionary death of Jesus Christ. It's there in plain sight. He died for our sins. He was wounded for our transgressions. But then the question of, well, where does it talk about in the Old Testament? Where do I go in the Old Testament? To find the resurrection. Someone dying and being raised back to life. In the Old Testament, where is that? Well, part of that question Jesus answered in what I read in Matthew 12 in the call to worship How uh Jonah was in the belly of the whale three days and three nights. But one greater than he is here. That three days in the three nights that Jonah was in the belly of whale was a picture of how Christ would be three days in the grave. And then rise again. There is a passage in uh in uh Psalm chapter sixteen That's quoted in Acts by Peter that reads this way, I will not leave my soul In hell, for excuse me, for thou, and it's speaking of God, thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither will thy neither uh wilt thou suffer thine holy one To see corruption. Peter quotes that in Acts chapter 2, referring to the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Thou wilt not allow the Holy One to see corruption in the brave. Thou wilt not allow my soul to stay in hell Another verse I came across just recently. Psalm chapter 30 and verse 3. David is As writing this, he says, O Lord, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave. Thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit. And the Old English, the King James, where it says, Thou hast not kept me alive, uses that term, quickened me. Quick at me. And what's Paul what is what is David thinking when he says this? He's thinking, my soul is not going to stay in the grave. He's thinking, you will keep me alive. What New Testament thought does that portray? It portrays, you see, the resurrection of Jesus Christ It portrays your hope of resurrection because he has been resurrected. Because the grave didn't hold him, and because he rose from the dead, you Me, we're united to Christ in his death and in his resurrection. Because he lives, you live. And that's now. And it will be forever. Even when you die, it will be forever. Because he will not allow your soul to see corruption in the grave, because he didn't allow your Savior to see that point. And now we come to the book of Ruth. And Ruth is only a small book. I think you know it's got only four chapters. My perspective is that this book contains the very heart of the gospel. Again, this is a culture that's foreign to us It's the Hebrews, the Jews, living in the promised land after God took them out of Israel. And brought them faithfully into the promised land. These are the people, the Hebrews, God's people. Who made that journey for 40 years through the wilderness and now are starting to live in the Promised Land. And I must say As well, that they are living there in accordance with the moral, civil, and ceremonial laws that God gave to Moses. In other words, Leviticus, Exodus, and Deuteronomy have formed the basis of how they're to live in a way which honors and glorifies God in The Promised Land. Now, we are then introduced in the book of Ruth to a family. A family consisting of four people And I'm I'm I'm you're gonna have you're gonna have to go back and check all check me out on all this. But it contains four people. Of husband and wife named Elimelech and Naomi, with two sons, Malin and Kileah. There is a horrible famine that happens in the town of Bethlehem where they're living. And after a period of time, alimelech decides the famine is so bad that he needs to take his family. down to Moab, which is a country that borders Israel on the southeast. Now, it it might names don't always mean everything in the Bible But Bethlehem, you remember, in Hebrew means house of bread. It's somewhat ironic that in the house of bread there is a famine. And there there isn't any bread. But that's the circumstance. Elimelech, his name means my God is king. My God is king. Which um if he if he lived up to that Would cause you to believe that Elimelech is uh probably uh a believer, uh like all of us, with his with all of his uh Warps and sins and good things about him. But he goes to Moab And Moab is a rather strange place for him to go. Perhaps he heard that there was food down there. But it, if you recall, Moab is the country that was founded by one of Lot's sons. And Moab throughout history didn't have the same God as their father Lot, nor Abraham. And throughout the Old Testament history, Moab was an enemy of Israel, consistently. They consistently an enemy of the Jews, the Hebrews. living in the land. It takes a little bit of time to set all of this up, so I hope you could still bear with me. Are you all with me so far? All right. And I think I think you might legitimately ask yourself the question Was it a lack of faith in God's promises that led Elimelech To leave Bethlehem, the house of bread, and live in a pagan land. I think you can ask that question. I think it's a hard answer. I think you could say yes, but if you did, you might not be thinking about the the question of how hard it is to live without any food in my stomach and how hard it is to see my wife having no food and my kids not having any food. On the other side of that, had a Limelech forgotten the lessons Of God's provision of the manna only a few generations ago, from his time period And do you remember what God's intent was with the giving of Amana? Well, fortunately, we don't have to guess. Deuteronomy 8 Verse three tells us He humbled you, allowed you to hunger, and fed you then with manna, so that you might know that man does not On a human level, a limile Failed that test, even though his name was My God is King. But I Remind you, there is one who would not fail that test. There is one who, when he was hungered and tempted forty days Days and forty nights in the wilderness would not bow down to the tempter, who said, Command these stones to become bread. If you are the Son of God. And he, the Son of God Jesus, responded, Man does not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God. Do you see these little pictures that are being dropped into the narrative of the book of Ruth. They're there. You've got to dig for them a little bit. You've got to use your concordance and cross-reference some things But if you do the digging, there's some wonderful things here. And maybe what I'm telling you will cause some of you to dig further. Now the story of Elimelech's life, Naomi's life in Moab, is a story of great difficulty. Very shortly after they arrive, Olimelech dies. Shortly after that, his two sons who had married Moabite women, they died. So now you've got Naomi and Ruth living in a foreign land, people who don't know your God, and actually don't like your God. I submit to you there was no welfare system to take care of them. And probably their neighbors were relatively hostile. So, Naomi decides she's going to go back to Bethlehem. At least she's got references there, or excuse me, relatives there And maybe life will be a little easier. Maybe they'll help her. Now she goes to her daughters-in-law and says You guys, you don't have to come back with me. In fact, she discourages them from coming with her. But Ruth One of the two, Ruth, the woman, the Moabites woman, uttered those famous words. In verse 16, when Naomi tried to persuade her to go home to her family, she utters those words. I won't go. I'll go with you. For your for your God is my God. And your God Your people are my people. And thus begins the story of this woman Ruth. This story of the woman Ruth, who becomes One of the first individuals in the Old Testament to be engrafted into the promises of Abraham. And you remember the the essences of the promise of Abraham? In your seed all the nations shall be blessed. And we know that that seed without a shadow of death, according to Galati shadow of doubt, according to Galatians 3, is Jesus. He was Abraham. Seed. In Jesus, all the nations of the world shall be blessed. Not just Israel, but Moab too. People in Moab will come to know Jesus Isn't that spectacular? Isn't that something? Now I told you earlier there was there are two fundamental mosaic laws that govern the understanding, help us understand the book of Ruth. I read the first one from Deuteronomy 25 about what happens if a brother's wife dies. Okay? And about redeeming the land. In Leviticus chapter 19, we read about the next important point that helps govern the understanding of Ruth. Beginning to read at verse 9. This was the Mosaic law. This governed agriculture. Anybody who had fields, anybody who had grew grapes, any kind of produce Verse 9, Leviticus 19, When you reap the harvest of your land, you shall not wholly reap the corners of your field. Nor shall you gather the gleanings of your harvest. You shall not glean your vineyard. You shall gather every grape of your vineyard. You shall leave them for the poor. And the stranger, I am the Lord your God. So the you see the uh the way in which God was providing for the needy in Israel If you have a farm and you have grain or whatever you're growing that's uh grain or produce, uh you don't uh glean the corners of the field. You let others who are poor and needy glean the grain. So this figures prominently in the book Of Ruth, when you get to Ruth chapter 4, excuse me, Ruth chapter 2 and chapter 3 of Ruth. Focus on Naomi telling Ruth, go to the field of my relative Boaz. Go to Boaz's field and see if you can glean his grain. See if he will let you glean his grain. And sure enough, Ruth does that. And sure enough, or unsure enough, Boaz permits that. and encourages his workers to help her glean the grain. Now I submit to you that Boaz's actions In this regard, are quite stunning. Imagine if you were a Hebrew farmer in those days And you have this law of God that is supposed to govern how you take care, how you glean your crops. Do you think you might wonder, why did God have that law in the first place? Do you think you might ask yourself the question Is there some way I can get around that? You know, you know that those fields that I'm I'm not bleeding, the parts of the field I'm not planning, that's an extra couple of bucks in my pocket. So far from being a minor matter, I think this This activity of Boaz reveals part of his attitude toward God and especially toward God's law. Because this was a law. He does not, according to what we know in the scriptures, he doesn't question the law, he doesn't try to get around it. He does it. And because he does it, Ruth and Naomi survive. By Boaz's obedience to the law of God and unselfishness By that I mean he's thinking not about himself, but about his neighbors. They live. It's most life and death. Even what I've just said is significant about Boaz I'm going to wrap this up in about two more hours, so just bear with me It it's a it's a uh it's fascinating, I think. Only the only the wonderful mind of God could do something like that You know how the Westminster Confession talks about the providential acts of God and how He performs His providence even through second and third causes? Here we're in second and third clauses of God's providential declaration of redemption being worked out in the lives of these people. Now, very quickly summarizing where we are now. We're at the end of roof two, and we're coming to roof three and four. But we find Ruth, a Gentile, and I'm going to say it, a Gentile believer. A convert, one who trusts in Yahweh, Naomi's God. We find her loving her mother-in-law But apparently also loving her mother-in-law's God. We find her, her, going out carrying baskets on her back, gleaning the fields, so that she and her mother-in-law can live. Let's say something also about her character And we find Boaz, the son of Abraham, one who obeys God's law Doesn't clean all of his field so the needy can be fed. And now that brings us to chapter three and four where things get really Interesting. If you think it's interesting now, wait till you get to chapter 3 and 4. If I don't dry out first. We got one, Jeff? Thank you. Well, we read that Deuteronomy chapter twenty-five passage. You got Ruth coming into the Boaz's field, gleaning. She's a widow. And what is I guess uh Boaz took notice of her, and I'm not going to deal with uh chapter two, uh all of chapter two. There's some things in chapter 2 that show further Boaz's good character as he deals with Ruth. You can you can read the book and look at that. But the issue comes up, what are we going to do about Ruth? And this widow from Moab. And it's here where Deuteronomy 25 comes in. Ruth and Naomi. Apparently at some point Naomi had land, or Elimelech had land, and he sold the land. And there is a provision, as we see in Deuteronomy 25, for the land to revert back to the family. From which it was sold. But it had to be done in a precise manner. God gave instruction for how this was to be done. Thank you, Joe. This shit this should hold just for a couple of hours. So, now I want to suggest to you also that you at least consider the concept that Canaan We know Canaan, where it's the promised land. It's the land God said I would bring you to when I take you out of Egypt. It's the land Israel fought for with God's help and settled. It's the land flowing with milk and honey. On an earthly level, it foreshadows Heaven. It foreshadows the peace and the prosperity and the joy of heaven Did it become that? No. Sin got in its way, but that doesn't mean it doesn't foreshadow the reality. And so we come to this way in which the people of God Can, if they sold land, had to sell land, that they could get it back. And that's what we read about in Deuteronomy chapter 25. And in that Deuteronomy chapter 5, there is contained what is called the law of the kinsman redeemer. Or the law of the next of kin's responsibility to redeem. And you see how God structured this. The next of kin in this law is encouraged, or the closest in kin, is encouraged to buy back the land of the deceased. Through marriage. Marriage of a widowed woman who was part of the family that owned the land at one point They could do this through marriage. They could do it through a payment of a sum or both. But in most importantly, the idea would be that they would raise up between these two a male heir. And then the land would revert back to the family. And when the land reverts back to the family. That means that the name of Elimelech is associated with that family in the Promised Land. That means that the name, the name of a Livelect lives on. In God's presence And that means that death does not end the promise of God to his covenant people. Death can turn can death can be turned to life Isn't that at the heart of what we Christians believe about the resurrection of Jesus Christ? Boaz is a relative, this guy who has the field. Boaz, who, and by the way, I don't think you can find Anything in the narrative of the book of Ruth that has anything negative to say about Boaz? He is a an unusual example. Of righteousness. Having said that, he's a relative of Neom. And a limelect. And he's interested in this law being this law, the kinsman Redeemer, Deuteronomy 25, being applicable to Naomi and to Ruth. So he comes before the elders of the city Bethlehem. He comes before the elders of the city in Bethlehem. And he brings a gentleman who is supposedly the next closest kin to Elimelech and Naomi. And there before the elders who function as witnesses to the discussion going on Boaz asks the nearest of kin if he's interested in performing the rite of the kinsman redeemer. But he first structures it by saying, do you want the land? Do you want Elimelech's land? And at this point in f at first, the next of kin says, yes, I want it. I want it. And then and then a littlex says, well there excuse me. Though as says, well, there's a little Condition attached to it as well. You have to marry Ruth, and you have to raise up seed to her and to her name. a little ex name. You have to bring a child into the world. At this point, the guy equivocates and he backs off. He wants the land, but he doesn't want to take Ruth as his wife and have a son. And he clearly says in verse 4, excuse me, verse 4 6 of chapter 4, I cannot redeem it for myself. Now look at his reason, lest I mar my own inheritance Redeem thou my right to thyself, for I cannot redeem it. The next of kin is unwilling to follow God's law. And he invites Boaz, who is now next in line. Once this refusal has been heard in the presence of the elders, he invites Boaz to take his place. This is something Boaz is very willing to do. But his words, the first of ten, his words ring a little hollow. What is his reason For not performing the act, it would mar my own inheritance. I submit to you that the next of kin is unwilling for his own personal reasons. To be obedient to the law of the kinsman redeemer. His refusal has to be seen as self-serving, at the very least And sinful at the worst. Because you see, by not following this law, the consequences are He's declaring That he is unwilling to do what is lawful before God, which is a dishonor to Naomi and to Elimelech. And isn't very loving to her or to Ruth. And so we have the story of Boaz gladly agreeing to redeem the land, marry Ruth, and preserve the name Of Elimelech, as Boaz says, that the name of the dead, this is important, verse 10, that the name of the dead not be cut off from his brethren. It's stunning. What does that mean? The name of lives with God's people through Boaz's uh uh faithfulness Now, and is it going to be two more hours? It's going to be about ten more minutes How should we think about all this today? How should you think about it? What application could this possibly have? to your spiritual life, to your spiritual good. Many times the book of Ruth is applied in this way Christians. It could teach us to have faith in God, like Ruth does. Or it could teach us to be obedient and merciful Like Boaz. Or it can teach us not to be selfish, like the first kinsman representation. Redeemer. All of those are legitimate points. But I think they missed the point that that's all you get from this. The book focuses on the Kinsman Redeemer and his work. It is his work that gives the Hebrews in Ruth's day a foreshadowing of God's plan of redemption. And their salvation. That God will redeem his people, even his sinful people. By seeing to it that God has erected a law in Israel that can perpetuate the name and the life of one who dies The dead who die in faith. Once again, the resurrection of Christ. Foreshadowed. Ruth is testimony also to the fact that God's plan for salvation always meant And one day, the greater kinsman redeemer will come to serve all of God's people. You see, a kinsman redeemer lays the groundwork for one who will come, who will be like us in all things, yet without sin. A kinsman-redeemer who is given a command by his God to redeem his people. And this greater kinsman-redeemer The ultimate kinsman-redeemer, the obedient kinsman-redeemer, the better Boaz kinsman-redeemer. Will not refuse to raise up the dead to life, even when it means sacrifice. Himself. Jesus, your kinsman redeemer, is like Boaz. But I really misstated that Boaz is like Jesus. One faithful to God, obedient to the law, showing grace, mercy, and compassion On his brothers and sisters. I remind you. Those wonderful words of Jesus, where he said We are his brothers and sisters. These are my people. And the resurrection of Jesus Christ It's not a new idea that comes on the scene with the New Testament, nor is it a myth. Nor is it, as liberal criticism has suggested, a fraud perpetrated by the twelve apostles. Who stole the body of Jesus and hid it so that they might be able to make themselves important in the subsequent days after Christ's death Rather, the resurrection of Christ is as old as the law. Moses as old as the book of Ruth. In fact, it's older. I remind you of Abraham in Hebrews chapter 11, verse 19, where he said, where it's said of Abraham that his faith included the concept that God would raise even his son Isaac from the dead if it was necessary. In Ruth, God is signaling to everyone who believes that the kinsman redeemer foreshadows the day of new life and resurrection. Resurrection in Jesus, the greater kinsman redeemer, the perfect servant of God, sacrificed His life for his people. And one final thought. At the end of the book of Ruth, there is the beginning of the genealogy Of Ruth and Boaz. Now direct your thoughts there to the last verses where we read this genealogy Salmon begot Boaz. Boaz begot Ruth. Begot Ovid. Obed begot Jesse, and Jesse begot David, and David Begot Jesus. Matthew 1:1. Jesus, the son of Abraham, the son of David. And it's another point you have to understand. Remember words mean sometimes mean something? The name of Obit is peculiar in that sense The name Obed means servant. They named their boy servant. I cannot help but see that even as another foreshadowing of what the greater Boaz comes to do. suffering servant of his people, to die for them and to give them life through his resurrection. Life eternal. I hope you learn learn to love this book as much as I do. It is the gospel. Take comfort in it. Take comfort in the truth that your God has been planning for your eternal life from before the foundation of the world. And he's done it well. Amen.