Well, dear friends, good morning. It's good to be with you all again on this Lord's Day morning. I do enjoy the opportunities to get to uh to preach the word of God God as uh these opportunities are very rare and far in between for me. So I grab them whenever I can grab them. With that, uh I'd like to uh lead us in a brief word of prayer. Ask for the Lord to bless us as we uh Spend uh a moment here reflecting on his word. Let's pray together. Our gracious God, we uh come before you once again, and we thank you truly, Lord, for Jesus Christ We thank you, Lord, for his great sacrifice on the cross, for the forgive for our sins, for taking upon himself, Lord, the penalty that we justly deserve. But yet, Lord, we rejoice to know that our sins are now forgiven in Jesus Christ. And as we meditate now upon the word of God that reveals to us, Lord, this gospel message. We pray, Father, it will be a blessing to our hearts, a nourishment to our souls, a reminder once again of the amazing love that you demonstrated in the giving of your one and only Son. Hear our prayers, for we pray all these things in Jesus' name Amen. The word of God that I'd like to uh uh meditate on this morning uh comes from the uh book of Deuteronomy, chapter six. Oh, thank you I have more water than I know what to do with. Is there a baptism today? Comes from the book of Deuteronomy, chapter six, and I'll be reading from verse four uh to verse nine Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4 to verse 9. Hear now the read this reading from God's Word. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your strength. And these words which I command you today shall be in your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk about them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as bruntlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Reading of God's word for uh for this morning. Uh I love this passage, folks. I mean, there's so much about the Old Testament that is so worthy of our reflections, uh, and so many amazing passages of the Old Testament. Testament that really stand out. But for me, this is one that is that is very special. It reminds me of one of my most favorite testimonies One opportunity I get is to meet various different people from various different backgrounds and to hear how it is that the Lord led them to faith. And and it's and it's a great thing to hear and and I'm sure that if we have the opportunity to uh uh to just to dialogue and hear the things that the Lord has done in your life to uh lead you to this stage of your life that it'd be a great story in and of itself. One of my most favorite testimonies uh is actually from someone that you may not expect it from. It's uh from my academic advisor, uh Dr. Dennis Johnson from Westminster City. seminary in California. I don't know if any of you uh uh know Dr. Johnson uh but he epitomizes to me the the type of man that we really need uh uh the type of god man godly man that we need for the twenty first century. A a harmony of academia and intelligence with a heart that just truly loves the Lord. Um when I was a student there I had an opportunity to have dinner with Dr. Johnson in his home with his family. And and I was curious, how did he come to know the Lord? And so I asked him that question. And this is what he shared with me. He said that uh he was about uh seven or eight years old. Uh He was attending church, just like any ordinary Sunday service like today. The pastor that uh morning uh of his church shared a message about having faith in Jesus Christ. But as a young boy, he didn't quite understand what that meant. It's hard for me to imagine Dr. Johnson ever saying that he didn't understand what it meant to happen in Jesus Christ, but at that early stage in his life, he didn't really understand What that meant. He went home afterwards and he asked the most logical person that you would think of to ask for clarity on that question, his father. And his father took this as an opportunity Took him back to the Word of God and shared with him the gospel message of Jesus Christ and the forgiveness of sins that we have in Christ. In other words, his father took that as an opportunity to share the message of the grace of God with his son. Now, folks, that's not terribly spectacular. There is no radical trans transformation of a life that was just in degradation of sin. But this is a very special testimony to me. It's something that I have held to for years. It illustrates to me some very important blessings and ministry opportunities that we have here within, even in the context of the Christian home. Now, this also is of course the month that we celebrate the Reformation, and this year of all years is particularly special, as you all know, as this is a 500th year anniversary. of the Reformation of the Church. One of the blessings that we have from the Reformation, of course, is the free access that we all now have to the Word of God. That is not to be limited just to the clergy But that the Word of God should be open to all of God's people. And for that reason we have bot uh uh scriptures in our pews, we have uh copies of Bibles that we carry around in our homes for us to read on a regular daily basis in our individual private devotional lives. But one other aspect and blessing that we have with this free access to the Word of God is not just The ability to have access to the word in our personal private lives as individuals, but also to use it in the building of the gospel as a value in our homes. The idea that the Word of God now is something that can be used as a foundation for the building up of our family lives. And that's the thoughts I'd like to share with you today. The blessing that the Reformation has given to us. In terms of the Word of God, and now the ability that we can have to build our families, our homes, on the Word of God. So the main message I'd like to share with you today is this: that a Reformation heritage not only reminds us of the blessing that we have in terms of personal direct access to the Word, but it also allows us to have Family-based access to the Word of God. And for that reason, we can build our homes on the values and the teachings of the gospel of Jesus Christ that is revealed in the Word. I hope that through this message that you will be encouraged for that reason, the application that I hope that you'll take away, that you'll be encouraged to share Christ, who is revealed in the Word of God. Not only as a constant reminder to ourselves, not only just generically to each other, but definitely to share it to perhaps the most obvious people that we share the word of God with to our families, to our children, to our family members at home. And we do so on a regular basis. There are really two simple points that I'd like to share with you from our passage here in Deuteronomy chapter 6. First, to see that there is a call to love the Lord our God. Verses 4 to 6. And then finally, to see that this love is something that we are not kept meant to keep for ourselves, that we are called to teach this to others, particularly to our children, verses 7 to 9. That's it, folks. A call to love the Lord, verses 4 to 6, to teach others to also love the Lord, verses 7 to 9. Perhaps another way of putting this, this passage teaches us that the Word of God and the gospel of Jesus Christ is a message that is deeply personal to us. And that this message for that reason is something that is to be proclaimed to others, personal to us, that is to be proclaimed to others. We begin first by meditating on this call to love the Lord, verses 4 to 6. Perhaps we should just not neglect the fact that what we are called to do here is to love. Simply put, we cannot move forward without emphasizing this all-important virtue here to love. But it's not just loving that is virtuous. It is the object of our love that seems to be very, very significant. We are called to love But specifically the Lord our God. Now at this context, remember that this is the Lord that freed Israel out of bondage in Egypt. This is the Lord in this context here in the book of Deuteronomy that had led Israel out of the perils of the wilderness. This is the Lord that gave them victory over their enemies. This is who the Lord is, and this is the one and only God that they are now called to love. They are called to love, to love the Lord thy God, and also to love the Lord thy God by obeying his commandments. And then the fourth thing that you see here is that learn to they are to love, love the Lord, love the Lord by obeying his commandments, and love the Lord with the whole person, with all of your heart All of your soul and all of your might. Now, one thing that you also see here is that Deuteronomy chapter 6 here, this command to love the Lord, comes immediately after Deuteronomy chapter 5. Because that's right so folks, five and then six comes right after five. You can't get anything past me. I graduated uh from seminary. Now one thing that that you do see though in Deuteronomy chapter five uh is a reiteration of the Ten Commandments. And I'm so thankful that we had an opportunity to read Exodus and the book of Exodus, Exodus, Leviticus, and the reiteration of the Mosaic Covenant and the law of that Jerusalem. there was really given to the Israelite generation as they were leaving Egypt, that initial first generation as they were leaving Egypt. But remember that they wandered in that wilderness for about 40 years, multiple generations during that time. And during that 40-year period, the Lord did amazing, fantastic things for the people of God. Now, here with the book of Deuteronomy, that generation in the wilderness that, as you all know, sinned against the Lord, violated his commandment was all died out all died out in the wilderness. A new generation, a younger generation, a second generation of Israelites now are now called forward by God. And this is a generation that is now going to enter into the land of Canaan. But before they enter into that land, the Lord renews his covenant with this generation one more time, the book of Deuteronomy. Which is the reason why you get so much repetition there in those sections of the Old Testament. The reason, though, it seems, that you have Genesis uh Deuteronomy chapter five, the Ten Commandments Immediately followed by Deuteronomy chapter 6, this command to love the Lord that you see that wasn't an accident to have the Ten Commandments And then this call to love the Lord thy God. By putting those two chapters in connection to each other, Moses, the writer of the book of Deuteronomy, is trying to tell us something. The first thing he's trying to tell us to love the Lord is a summary of the Old Testament law. And that is something, of course, that is not particularly unique to Moses. This is something that we also heard Jesus teach in Matthew chapter 22, the passage that we read this morning. What is the greatest of all of the commandments? It is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. Matthew chapter 22 in verse 37. And then in verse 38 he says, this is the first and the great command. You see the way that you can summarize the entirety of the old of the Ten Commandments? Love the Lord your God But by Jesus saying this, he really is sort of reiterating something that was already implicitly talked to you by Moses The second thing that we see here by putting the Ten Commandments and then this call to love the Lord your God is to say that to obey the law of God is how we show our love for God. Now Deuteronomy chapter 6 in verse 4 begins with this word here. Here, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. The Hebrew word here is actually the Hebrew word Shema. And some of you may have heard this that in Jewish circles that they refer to this passage in Deuteronomy chapter 6 as the great Shema. Because that's the word here for here, Shema. But the word Shema in Hebrew uh doesn't just mean here in a generic sense. When you hear the Word of God, the idea implicitly embedded in that is that you are to obey the Word of God, not just hear it and then do nothing with it. You hear it and apply it. You hear it and you obey it. So in other words, another way of possibly understanding this is the word heed. Heed, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one, and then he gives you This summary of the Lord uh of the law by saying that you are to uh uh love the Lord uh your God with all of your heart. Verse 6 also says this. That these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. This idea of being on your heart, I don't think we should mystify in take in a in an abstract sense, I think what he's talking about here is that we are to memorize the word. We are to uh have it some uh in our hearts, meaning to have it memorized in our minds. You see, obedience is such an important aspect of the life of a disciple. The commandments are referred to time and time and time again. This is what we are called to know. And this is what we are called to pass on to our children. So we are called to understand that to love the Lord is a summary of the law, number one. To obey the law is how we show our love for God, number two. But number three also, love in obedience is a response to redemption. Not a way to earn redemption. And that's such an important thing to keep in mind. Remember, folks, Israel at this stage is already free. They are no longer in slavery. They are freed from Egypt. You see, they didn't need to obey in order for God to free them. God already freed them. They are now a free people And now what God wants them to do is to tell, he is telling them, now live like free people by obeying my laws, by obeying my commands, you see. They have been redeemed, therefore live like redeemed people, obey these commandments. You have been freed, therefore live like free people by obeying these commandments. Before you couldn't do it. Now you can, because I have now freed you. you because I have now redeemed you. You don't need to obey this. For me to save you, I have already saved you. Now here are these commandments. Now I want you to obey. You see, at the end of the day, this is a very personal message. It is something very personal to us. We are called to love the Lord because He is our God. And he is our God who has loved us. And he didn't love us because we were great. He didn't love us because we were numerous. He didn't love us because of our qualifications. Simply because he wanted to love us. And that's exactly what you have in Deuteronomy chapter seven. In verses uh six to eight, it says exactly that the Lord your God has chosen you to be his people For his treasured possession, out of all of the peoples who are on the face of the earth, the Lord chose this people here, Israel. The Lord chose us. The Lord chose you. He chose me And then in verse 7 it says, It was not because you were more in number than any other people of the uh that the Lord set his love on you and chose you, for you were the fewest of all peoples. But it was because the Lord loves you and is keeping his oath that he swore to your fathers. In other words, and and uh I studied under uh Dr. Ed Clowney, and Ed Clowney at this passage would just simply say in such a simple but profound way. The reason why the Lord loves you is because He loves you. That's it. He loves you because He loves you. Use that on your spouse on Valentine's Day. I love you, dear, because I love you. Not because of all of the women that are out there, that you're the one who best fits my need You know, it's not like that. I love you because I love you. And now I want you to also love me as well by obeying And then he moves on here. Not only is this a personal command that is meaningful to us, this is now a message that is to be proclaimed to others, something that we are to teach to others as well. And you see that in verses 7 to 9, so verses 4 to 6, a personal message, a call to love the Lord our God, and to do so in humble obedience. Verses 7 to 9 describe some way in which we are to pass our faith out to our next generation and a proclaimed message to others. Verse 7 then talks about the law of God and how this is to be taught all day, all the time, to our children. Notice what he says here. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk about them when you sit in your house, when you walk by the way, when you lie down, and when you rise up. This sitting in the home to walking by the way is talking about the aspect of moving from the privacy of our personal lives at home To now interacting with the community around us. And that throughout that entire time, we are to be diligently teaching the Word of God. In other words, wherever you go, we are to be constantly teaching the Word of God. And then it moves on from lying down to rising up. That is lying down to go to bed at night to rising up in the morning to be able to go to when you wake up to now get your day started. In other words, throughout the entire day, we are to be constantly, diligently teaching our children about the Word of God. Everywhere you go. All throughout the day, this is what you are mentioning here in the book of Deuteronomy. We are to pass the virtues of Christian discipleship. And faith in Jesus Christ to our children underneath us. In fact, you could say, if it is true, everything that the Reformation has taught us about the Word of God, that it is authoritative It is necessary, it is sufficient, and it is clear in its gospel message that it makes sense that this be the highest virtue that we hold to, to pass on this word to our children. And for that reason, that's something that I would encourage everyone to know. I know of of of family members who discuss sermons on a Sunday morning, on a Sunday afternoon After the Sunday uh worship is done, to go back home and discuss the sermon during lunch, just to constantly reiterate and hammer in the message that was shared I know of fathers who text passages of scripture to their family members every single day so that they can meditate on that word throughout the day And then at the end that night, to be able to just share a few thoughts on that word to constantly teach their children the word of God I know of family members who will take their children on and this is truly radical, uh, when they whenever their child turns to a certain age about uh right about that high school age. that what they would do is that they would take their child on a special trip, just a week or two to anywhere where their child wants to go. And during that trip, that this father would now instill into the hearts of that child the expectation that he has as they are entering into their teenage You see, folks, isn't that fantastic? I mean, think about such a uh affordable time for a young uh uh a young believer, a young Christian teenager A time when they are so impressionable. And for someone to grab that and mold them, you could say, and encourage them to now follow the ways of God. To remind them how they are to live their lives, how they are to conduct themselves emotionally and physically, and to challenge them to grow in their faith in Jesus. All these are ways to fill our ch our children with the knowledge of the Word. And I encourage you to find even more creative ways to do exactly that same type of thing. Again, all day long. Wherever it is that you go that we are called to diligently teach our children the Word of God. And verses 8 to 9. Even talks about how uh we are to place the word in locations where it cannot be avoided. Uh verse eight, you shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be as thontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. This idea of of writing them on the on the um uh on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. As you know, uh Judaism began to take these verses very literally. So even today, if you go into a Jewish modern Jewish home And as you know, in in this area of Maryland there is a very large Jewish community. If you go into a Jewish home, what you will find is into their in their doorway, they will actually have a small little scroll that is nailed to their doorway And inside this little container is actually a small little partion with portions of the Word of God that is written on it. In other words, they took Deuteronomy chapter 6 Very literally when it says, You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. This idea of binding them as signs on your hand And it's frontless between your eyes there in verse 8 is the Jewish practice of phylactery. This is actually mentioned in the New Testament as well, where Jews would take small little lockets and have a a a small little ribbon tied around it so that they tie to their to their wrists, that they will actually tie around their foreheads. And inside that locket is small little portions written you could say, uh uh with portions of the Word of God. Now I think at this point uh perhaps this idea uh this is a metaphor, it's an image, and I think for that reason John Calvin is helpful when he says that Moses most likely meant that this should be that this should replace that it's the writing of the word on our on our wrists and our frontlets and our doorposts and things of that nature that this should replace jewelry, cosmetics, and outward adornments to make the people of God beautiful, but rather their delight should be in the Word of God. In other words, these are figures that aren't aren't to be taken literally But what it is supposed to do is to be a constant reminder to us that we are to put the Word of God in constant places where we are exposed to it, where we cannot avoid it It's front of our eyes, on our wrists, you could say, on our doors as we are walking out, that we are seeing the Word of God and exposing our lives to the Word of God in the fullest possible way. This idea of exposure to the Word of God was even something that was required of the most highest position of Old Testament Israel even for the king. If you read Deuteronomy chapter 17, verses 18 to 20, it says this When he, that is the sin the king, when he the king sits on the throne of Israel He will write for himself in a book a copy of this law, the book of Deuteronomy, and it shall be with him. And he shall read in it all the days of his life, and he shall learn to fear the Lord his God by keeping all the words of this law and the statutes, and by doing them That he may not turn aside from the commandment either to the right hand or to the left. I always find that so interesting that the only requirement that was given of the Israelite king in the book of Deuteronomy is that he read the book, that he read the Bible, that he read the Word of God, that he copied the Word of God, that he constantly exposed himself to the Word of God. Not just to the king But even to the Israelites of ancient Israel, this was a constant reminder to them that they are to read the word and be exposed to the word on a regular basis. There are so many uh different passages that describe this. Deuteronomy 31 describes how every year the Israelites are to gather at the Feast of Booze in the fall. And that the entire book of Deuteronomy is to be read to them so that they are constantly hearing the Word of God on a regular, regular basis. For the reformers, therefore, to open direct access to the Word of God for the masses of God's people, this was not a new thing You could say it was innovative, it was new for the Roman Catholic Church, you could say, to withhold the Word of God from God's people. Positively, God's intent was that we always have access to his holy word from the days of Moses of ancient Israel, you could say throughout even to the New Testament. Church, even to our day-to-day, that was the Lord's intent, is that we have access to the word. The significant thing to see here is that our children are to be acquainted with the scriptures From their childhood, through the instruction of a godly generation, and that they do the same to their children and their children's children, and so on, and so on, and so forth. And that what our children see is the love that we have for the Lord and for His Word. And that love be transferred to them, that they will also learn to do the same. Folks, when I was uh starting my uh PhD program in uh Semitic languages, um my program uh was dedicated to ancient language studies only which are dead languages that no one speaks to this day. Um things that are only written in old documents. And I was a little concerned because I, like so many of the students that I worked with in the seminary, thought myself not to be a language guy. Well, if I had a nickel every time I heard that in the context of the seminary. Um and I was a little concerned, but I decided to to do this in anyways, and after about a month into my doctoral program, I had thought I made the biggest mistake. My heart just wasn't taking to these studies. But I prayed about it, and sure enough, what I began to notice was Was this that my teachers loved teaching Hebrew? They loved teaching Aramaic. They loved teaching ancient Syriac. They loved teaching Ethiopic and and Old Babylonian and and various different Aramaic dialects. And as I begin it became to the point where they talked about it with such uh enthusiasm that they couldn't get the words out fast enough. Has that ever happened to you where you just love to talk about something? You just can't get it out fast enough. It's like your your your speech can't keep up with the enthusiasm of your heart. That's what I started to see. in the class. And sure enough, that began to rub off on me. And lo and behold, it wasn't too long after that that I found that I love studying Hebrew. I love studying these languages I can now study a Hebrew grammar and a Hebrew textbook that teaches you the language, and if I did that all day, I would be extremely satisfied and extremely happy Perhaps another way of seeing what we are to see here in this virtue that is being described here in Deuteronomy chapter 6 is perhaps to say it this way. that um I as a Christian parent um I want to be the one as a parent not as a pastor but as a parent I want to be the one to share the gospel with my children I want to be the one to hear them say, yes, I believe in Jesus. I mean God bless our work our our youth workers and God bless those who who dedicate their service to uh teaching our children Sunday school. And I'm sure some of you folks do that here and God bless you for it. Truly. The Lord needs people to serve God's church in that way. But as a parent, that's what I want to see. I want to do that. I want to share that message and I want to see them uh come to faith Negatively, what happens if we don't instruct the word? What happens if we are negligent in this area? Well, sure enough, the history of Israel is a large testimony of what exactly happened. Judges chapter 2, verses 8 to 12 says this. Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died at an age of 110. And they buried him within the boundaries of his inheritance in Timna Ferris in the hill country of Ephraim. Verse 10, and then all that generation also were gathered with their fathers And there arose another generation after them who did not know the Lord or the work that he had done for Israel. And the people of Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord and served the veal Now, folks, what we are talking about is one generation. Joshua and that godly generation of leaders that led Israel into the Canaanite land, they have now passed on, they have now died. The next stage you could say is the generation after them, their children. And what is it that the book of Judges describes here? That their children do not know the Lord, nor anything that the Lord had done for them And for that reason they began to worship false gods. Now, folks, this is one generation. This is my children's generation. This is your children's uh generation. I've often wondered, is it is it really possible That within one generation time you can have such spiritual deterioration that they can, you know, take everything that we have worked so hard to build and and reject it. Is it possible that could happen within one generation? Sure enough, according to the scriptures. Yes, folks It's very possible. That's exactly what happened. And book and Judges here perhaps is a testimony that as great as Joshua and his generation was, that they failed in the mandate of Deuteronomy chapter six. They didn't pass. 1 Samuel chapter 3 and verse 13 talks about the high priest Eli. and his inabilities to train his children in godliness, so that his two sons, Hotney and Phineas, were now blasphemers against God. 1 Samuel 8 in verse 3, even the great prophet Samuel, who is an absolutely crucial figure in Old Testament history. In the history of salvation as a whole. Yet even Samuel was unable to disciple his sons. So his sons did not walk in the ways of God, but were looking for bribery and looking for monetary gain. And for that reason, and in the context of 1 Samuel chapter 8, because Samuel's sons were ungodly and wicked, this is what caused Israel to now turn and ask for a king. Even David himself, the great David, failed as a father. And you could see that in the raising of his oldest son Amnon, who violated his half-sister Tamar. as well as his inability now to train his younger son Absalom, which resulted in Absalom's reve uh revolution and revolt against uh David The kings of Israel, the entire book of Kings, you could say, is a testimony to show that the kings of Israel all failed in the mandate of Deuteronomy chapter 17. The result of all of this, according to the Old Testament, leads to exile. Moral and theological collapse begins when we ignore, or perhaps even take for granted, the centrality of the word in the ministry of the church and definitely within the context of our homes. But positively, what would it look like if we took Deuteronomy 6 to heart? What would it look like if If we uh uh uh value this idea of training our children in the ways of godliness. Not not not sports, not uh athletics generically, not academics and pushing them to r to pursue in those areas. I mean yes, encourage them to excel in these different areas of life. But at the end of the day, without even a an apology or without even a point of contrast are their spirituality, their relationship With the Lord, their understanding of their Christian values is of highest importance. What would it look like if we actually took that value to heart? You actually find a picture of this in the Old Testament. The picture of an inquisitive child who doesn't understand something about the Lord, he turns to the most logical person that he would, to his father. And his father then begins to do I guess what would be the best way of understanding it is he is catechizing his son. Joshua chapter 4, verses 6 to 7. When your children ask in time to come, what do those stones mean to you? There's the question. There's the catechism. What do these stones mean to you? Now in the context of Joshua chapter four, uh these stones are a reference to a very specific event. In Joshua in Joshua chapter three, remember, the Israelites were about to now enter into the land of Canaan. But there is the roaring Jordan River that is right before them. And so what does the Lord do? The Lord parts the Jordan River. And the language there, folks, is exactly the same language, same image that the Lord did for Moses when he parted the Red Sea. The picture that you're getting there is that what the Lord had to do to free Israel from Egyptian slavery under Moses, the Lord is now going to reiterate and do now with Joshua as they enter into the promised land. And so as the Lord parts the Jordan River, as Joshua takes the Israelites across the Jordan River into the land of Canaan, What the Lord instructs Joshua to do is to tell the Israelites that they are to take twelve stones from the riverbed of the Jordan River. Crossover. Now on the west side of the Jordan River, you are going to set up these stones as a memorial to never forget what the Lord has now done for you today. That is these stones. And this son someday is going to walk perhaps on the Jordan by the the uh the the uh the riverbed of the Jordan River, and he's gonna walk with his father, and he's gonna come across these stones And he's going to ask his father, what were these stones all about? And his father can now take that as an opportunity to share that great, extraordinary message of redemption. This is what happened. This is what the Lord did. He did it for Moses, and this is the reason why we are no longer in slavery. This is why we are now in this land because the Lord did this extraordinary thing for us. Memorial stones. That's something fantastic about a church. Even uh any church that has a facility or a building like this, it it's almost like a memorial, something that we can pass on to our children. For them to be able to say, for us to be able to say to our children. You know, I remember when this place was about like this, and now the Lord has built it up to where we are right now. Something for them to be able to remember and see in a very tangible and real way what the Lord has done in the building of his church. Exodus chapter 12 in verse 26 is another catechism, a bit A short catechism, uh, in verse 26, in Exodus chapter 12, it says this: When your children say to you, What do you mean by this service? Now this service that he means here is the feast of Passover. And just like any feast like in ancient Israel, like so many of the religious practices that we have, even in the context of Passover. It is very easy for us to do these things without realizing why it is that we do this. Why is it that we are doing this Passover? That is what the Son is asking his father And then in verse twenty-seven, you, that is the father, shall say, It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover, for he passed over the houses of the people of Israel in Egypt when he struck the Egyptians, but spared our houses And the people bowed their heads and worshiped. In other words, the child asked, and the father reminds him that this is the reason why we are doing what we are doing. This is what it represents. sense. This is a constant reminder that we never forget that the reason why we are free is because what the Lord did for us in Egypt. Folks, as you know, Passover is just a type of a greater feast, a feast that we actually are about to take of today And it's so easy for our children and and as you know, we as uh as Presbyterians embrace our children as members of our covenant community. But they are not yet communicants who take of the Lord's Supper until they can make profession of faith on their own. And if your children are anything like mine when they were that age, they're going to want to know why. Why is it that they can't take of it? What do these things represent and why do we do this on a regular basis? You see, it's exactly the same scenario. Exodus chapter 12. What an extraordinary opportunity is before us as as as people of God to remind our children. This is why we take the Lord's Supper. The bread is a reminder of the body of Christ that was broken. For us. The cup is a reminder of the blood of Christ that was shed for us. And that's the reason why we do this to remember Jesus. That should have been us. Dying on that cross. That should have been us rightly. Justly. You could say, because there is no one righteous, not even one. Romans chapter three 3 verse 10. But yet while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Romans chapter 5, verse 8. Because God demonstrated his love for us in this You could say, for a while, for God so loved the world that he gave his one and only Son, John 3, 16. And for those who come by faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. There is no longer any condemnation for you. Romans chapter 8, verse 1. We were once objects of wrath, justly. Ephesians chapter 2. But now, because of Christ and what he did, we are now, you could say, have the right to be called children of God. John chapter 2 Chapter 1, verse 12. That's why we do this. To remind ourselves that we never forget that the world can crumble around us. Life can life can uh disintegrate, our loved ones can be taken from us. But the forgiveness of our sins, eternal life in Christ, can never be taken away because of what Christ has done on this cross. And someday, kids, we want you to take of this element as well with mom and dad. And maybe someday when you are able to say that you love Jesus, let's talk to your elders. Don't talk to me. Talk let's talk to your elders and Steve in fact they can say that yeah you really I really do love Jesus because I'll tell you as a parent there's nothing I would want more than to have you take these elements with me. Deuteronomy chapter 6 and verses 20 to 24 portrays another picture, you could say, of how this is to be passed on. Where Joshua chapter 4, Exodus chapter 12 gives us a short catechism. I guess we can call Deuteronomy chapter 6 a larger catechism. That is a longer catechism. In verse 20, he says this: when your son asks you in time to come, What is the meaning of the testimonies and the statues and the rules that the Lord our God has commanded you? Now folks, how would you answer that question? Here are the Ten Commandments. What are we supposed to do with this? We are called to worship the Lord. How are we supposed to do this? Let's say our children asked you that question. What answer would you give? Would you say something like, you know, we need to uh prepare our hearts for worship by, oh I don't know, by going to sleep earlier on Saturday nights. That's how we do that. that. It's not a bad idea, but you know, and it's probably something we ought to do. Uh you know, maybe what we ought to do is uh find out what passage is being preached on uh this coming Lord's Day And let's just kind of read that as a family throughout the week and prepare for the preaching of the word. That's a great practice as well. Or maybe what we really need It's just a lot of slong coffee on Sunday morning to help us uh in in our worship. I I don't know about that last one. That that one might be a little iffy, but none of these are bad practices, do you But notice the spirit of what the father says here, or what this father is encouraged to say, is not like that What is the meaning of the testimony than the statues and the rules that the Lord our God has commanded you? Here is what the Father is encouraged to say We were Pharaoh's slaves in Egypt, and the Lord brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand. And the Lord showed great signs and wonders, great and grievous against Egypt and against Pharaoh and all his household before our eyes. And he brought us up from there that we might that he might bring us in and give us the land that he swore to give to our fathers. And the Lord commanded us to do all these statues. to fear the Lord our God for our good always, that he might preserve us alive as we are this day. Do you notice what the Father's answer was? It had nothing to do with the commandments themselves What are these commandments about? His answer had nothing to do with the actual Ten Commandments. What he talked about is the Lord. who he is and what he has done. And by doing that, what he has done is to help you understand who you now are in light of the great Lord's work. His is the Lord, he has redeemed you. Meaning you are now a redeemed people. Hear the commandments now. You can now live by these commandments because before you could not It's emphasizing, you could say, the work of Christ, the person of Christ, and the great accomplishments of Christ, and what he has done for us. I remember there was a time when we speak, you see, we speak about those things that are precious to us. We speak about those things that are very valuable to us. I remember when my wife, who is here today, was pregnant with our third child. Um for reasons that I honestly I can't remember now, uh she asked me not to share this with anybody. Um she was pregnant with a with a child and she asked us she asked me not to share this with anybody Folks, you know what I did? I told everybody. I told everybody. I called my father, I called my friends, I announced it to our church, to a young college group that I was working with At the time I told everybody. And you want to know why folks? Because this was good news. Now how in the world are you expected to keep something good to yourself. You want to share that with everybody. And folks, that's exactly what the gospel is times ten. The gospel is good news. The love of God for you. We didn't deserve it, but he loved us nonetheless. So we call are called to now love him. And not only take a message that is personal just to us, but to now to proclaim that to others, because that is what we love to do is to share good news with those that are around us. To help our children in particular understand That our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, for the glory of God alone, and that this is the message of life and hope, because it is the message. of Scripture alone. And I pray that our church will be filled with such people as these, those who love the Word of God, those who love Jesus Christ. And in so doing, that this will be a message that will be proclaimed to The message of the Word of God, the message of Jesus Christ. I pray for that. God bless us. God bless us all. Let's pray together. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning and we thank you, dear God, for the Word of God. And we thank you, dear Lord, that you poured out your love upon us. Lord, we were not the greatest of people. We were in fact the least. We were, Lord, those who have violated your covenant. Sinned against you. Lord, there was nothing redeemable within us, lovable within us. But nonetheless, while we were yet sinners, Lord Christ died for us. us and we thank you Lord for that amazing love that you've bestowed upon us. As we reflect on that love, as we reflect on who we now are in Christ, I pray, Father, that you will help us to share that boldly. And wisely with those around us, our friends, our family members, our neighbors, and yes, dear God, particularly our children, that they also will come to love the Lord as we love Him And that they will pass this on to their children and to their children's children, that there may be generations of faith in the household of God. Lord, as we reflect on this truth and reflect on the gospel, I pray, Father, that you will remind us at this time once again of the great sacrifice of Christ on the cross for the forgiveness of our sins Help us, Lord, to grow in that love for you, a love, dear God, that we can only have because you first loved us. Hear us, dear Lord, for we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.