Amen. Don't put up your copy of God's word now to the Psalms. This evening will be in Psalm forty six I believe that's on page five hundred and fifty-seven of your two bibles. And I'll read the entire Psalm tonight. Preaching of the Word will be on the first three verses. Let's give our attention to the holy inspired and infallible Word of God. To the choir master, a psalm of the sons of Korah. According to Alamo, a song. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, we will not fear though the earth gives way. Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its speech There's a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not Not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth He makes wars that cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots of fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Amen. Du pays God and our Father, we ask now that you'd illumine our hearts by the work of your Spirit. That you would add your blessing to the reading of the Word. That you guide and direct our hearts tonight, Father. That we might not merely have understanding, but that you would cut to the quick, that you would Would Father do supernatural surgery upon our hearts. That you'd continue to mold them and shape them in just the way that you would work Work in us. Help us. We need your spirit tonight. We ask for that. We ask for Him. We plead for Him. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. But The passage we read earlier this evening from the Gospel of Matthew was in a sense All about the nearness of Jesus Christ. If you remember the account, Jesus had just fed the five thousand. And he had gone up on the mountain to pray, sending his disciples off to go before him, out in the boat, out into the water, these mariners, these fishermen out out in the sea and he had not yet come to them. They were buffeted, they were shaken about by the winds, by the waves And then Jesus comes to them walking on the water. You know the rest of the account As Peter is called to walk out to Jesus, he does so, but then he takes his eyes off of Christ and begins to sink. And Jesus pulls him from the depths of the sea. And as Jesus gets into the boat, the sea is calmed The winds cease and the disciples worship. There was great tribulation in the boat that night. Because Jesus was not yet with them. But as Jesus arrives, as he comes, as he enters the boat, The tribulation is in a sense gone. And there's peace, and there's calmness, and there's refuge. in Christ. It seems to be what this Psalm tonight is all about. If we begin to look at it, at least begin to look at the first three verses of Psalm forty six. It's a psalm by the sons of Korah. We don't know much about this. It was written to be sung. We know that the most famous Korah was the one who sought to take the place of Moses. But other than that, we don't know very much about the background or the backdrop to this song. Tonight I want us to see that the fear of God brings one Securely into his refuge and grants persevering strength. The fear of God brings one securely into his refuge And grants persevering strength. We'll see this in three points tonight. The trouble of sin, secondly, the refuge of God, and finally, the nearness of Christ. Well let's begin. The trouble of sin The psalm is premised upon the reality and the promise in the sense of trouble Trouble and tribulation. God is our refuge and strength of very present help in trouble. And so the trouble seems to be the backdrop to this psalm. It's implicit that we will experience trouble and tribulation. If no trouble, then no need for refuge. If no weakness, no need for strength. And so both of those are premised here as the psalmist begins this song. God is our refuge and strength. A very present help in trouble. Jesus tells his disciples to expect tribulation. Near the end of the upper room discourse in chapter 16, as Jesus is summarizing his teachings to his disciples, he tells them, These things I have spoken to you so that in me You may have peace. In the world, you have tribulation. But take courage at overthink. Jesus is telling his disciples, this will be the norm. You will, throughout your life, until I return, experience tribulation. You're in this world, not citizens of this world, but you're in this world, and as you live in this world, you will experience Tribulation, he gives them confidence though that he's overcome the world. And yet, the reality is that day by day they'll experience This tribulation. They experience a position of weakness and oppression, being placed and kept kept by God in a sheltered environment. You see the world, the earth, and all that is in it has been cursed by our sin. That's why Jesus can confidently say, In this world you will have tribulation because of sin. Do we read of tribulations and trouble in paradise? No, of course not. Before Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, everything was very good. There was no No trouble. There was no tribulation. There was no lack of peace. There was no need to find refuge because they had refuge as they lived with, intimately lived with, in communion with the living God. But since they sinned against him, all men, women and children, have been corrupted by sin. And thus there will be trouble. There will be tribulation. There will be conflict because of our sin. There will be an external war going on, an external battle which is Set forth here in this Psalm. And that external battle evidences spiritual warfare. That's the central theme. the primary backdrop to this psalm. The spiritual battle which surrounds each and every one of us, each and everyone here, each and everyone listening on the stream, each and everyone listening to the record. According but we want to see, we want to dig out of this psalm that root warfare and the one who is in control of it, who is directing it, and the one who will be exalted by and through it. That would be Jesus. And thus the reality, the promise of this trouble, the thrust, or the theme Or the teaching of the Psalm. The reality is that Christians are to know of it, they are to perceive of it, and they're to deal with it in a certain way and seek shelter And refuge as that tribulation surrounds us. So please remember as we go through this Psalm The psalmist is not writing about proclaiming deliverance from trouble, but refuge and help while you're in it. So how does the refuge, or how does the trouble get described by the psalmist Well, look at verses two and three. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. It's a fourfold description of this trouble, of this tribulation. There are other descriptions within this psalm, verse 6, the nations rage, the kingdoms totter. The others his voice, the earth melts. But these four, these four open the psalm up. He begins by calling attention to these things, those earth forms. and shapes the the sea and all that is in it, which we would consider to be immovable, a solid, foundational to our lives, to our world And then he begins to describe them in just the opposite way that we typically think of them. Rock, solid. Now slipping, falling into the seas. The mountains shaking and trembling as a leaf blown by the wind And the waters of the ocean just raging, beating up fury, converting itself into foam. There's a description here of constant change. Nothing remaining the way we would perceive it, nothing remaining the way we could consider it to remain Nothing steady or sure as he sets forth these four descriptions of trouble, of tribulation. The Israelites knew of trouble, wandering through the desert for forty years. Taking really no supplies with them, no water, no substantial provisions, trouble at every turn in the road, so to speak. This trouble became the basis for their complaints and their doubting questions. Was God up to the task of caring for them? Could he care for them? Did he have the power to care for them? Was he even with them? There seemed to be the questions running through their mind as they wandered through the wilderness. Yet even as the Israelites knew of that kind of trouble, this description in the Psalm goes far Beyond what they experienced. The picture which is painted here is even more dire than any trouble you can experience or even imagine It grips us, it grabs our hearts, it grabs our attention. In a sense, it holds the reader by the shirt collar and then shakes us, saying, Listen to me. I want you to consider the greatest trouble ever imagined. Things which you've never seen or never experienced. The magnitude goes beyond your wildest dreams. Picture is then of no calmness, no peace, no rest, constant motion and change, and dramatic, drastic destructive change. If you've ever been on a large ship at sea when the waters are rough, Constantly pounding against the side of the vessel, turning it from side to side, pitching it, making it dive into troughs and breaking over the tops of cresting waves. There is no rest There's no comes. One can't go to the galley and eat a quiet meal. Nothing stays on the table. The galley's clean You can't go to bed, you can't sleep, because in your rack you're just rolling from one side to the other and possibly pitched to the deck. Can't go to sleep. Your body is constantly in motion, moved by moved by the boat which is constantly pitching from side to side. Side to side, violence and unrest, no place to sit, no place to stand, no rest, no peace. That's a picture of what we have here In this sign. That's the point, that's the point of the trouble he describes. A magnitude unknown by mere humans, no stability No rock upon which anyone can stand, no sure foundation, nothing that one could count on to remain in place. The world as one knows it is crashing down, destroying itself. That's the picture psalmist gives to us. Indeed, it's a picture of what our sin dies. So if this trouble, this tribulation is real, and it is, if this trouble and And tribulation is certain, and it is. And if it cannot be avoided, if it cannot be sidestepped, if it cannot be overcome, how is one to live in this life and survive? It's a bit like running an endless gauntlet. How does one come out on the other end? Or where is the end? And the psalmist gives us an answer, doesn't it? God is our refuge and strength. present help and trouble. The Hebrew is just a bit shorter. If you were just to take the Hebrew words and translate them, it would be something like this: God to us refuge and strength. In English we need to supply the verb. But you get the point. God is, in a sense, in the Hebrew, described as refuge. He's described as refuge as strength for us or to us. And so that refuge is found by fleeing to Him. The one who created the mountains, the wind, the waves, by fleeing to the one who is more powerful than all these things which He Himself created Which he brought into existence. Then God said, Let the waters below the heavens be gathered into one place, let the dry land appear. And it was so. Despite his voice, he called into existence all these things which the psalmist Sets forth before us as those things which we would consider never to be moved, and yet he's saying that they can and will be moved. And what do you do as a result? He's telling you, flee to the one who knows these things. Even the wind which he created, who knows them intimately, so as to sustain and control each and every puff of wind, every direction of every cloud, every snow topped. mountain, flee to him, the one who causes the mountains to quake by his very presence. Judges 5. 5, the mountains quaked at the presence of the Lord. Nehemiah, mountains quake because of him, and the hills dissolved, even indeed the earth is upheaved by his presence. It's by his will that he causes these things to be. It is God who removes the mountains, Job nine. They know not how He overturns them in his anger, who shakes the earth out of its place and the pillars tremble, who commands the sun not to shine And by his righteous anger, the earth shook and quaked. The foundations of the mountains were trembling and were shaken because he was You see, that's what the psalmist is saying. Flee to this one. Flee to the one whose power Is Almighty. Flee to the one who is bigger than the mountains, mightier than the winds, the waves of the sea. Indeed, flee to the one who, with his outstretched arm, commands all things, and they obey his voice. Here's the comfort. Notice that the psalmist refers to God as the one who is for us or to us. us refuge and strength. Clearly the sense that God is for his people But then shall we say to these things, if God is for us, who is against us? So you may be asking that question to yourself tonight, what is it for God to be refuge It's because he is the creator and sustainer of all things The prophet Isaiah writes this, for you have been a defense for the helpless, a defense for the needy in his distress, a a refuge from the storm, a shade from the heat, for the breath of the ruthless is like a rainstorm against a wall. God is your defense. He's that safe harbor. Remember that picture of the ship being tossed to and fro by waves Well when the ship comes into a safe harbor protected by jetties which knock down those waves in the storm surge, they enter into that place where the water is calm. As Moses was placed in the cleft of the rock, he watched God pass by in a place of reference. You in a place of shelter, protected by God Himself. Think a bit aside. After witnessing the five thousand being fed as they rode their boat out on the Sea of Galilee, they were in harm's way. Winds were contrary, able to go nowhere. Why? Because Christ was not with them. It's exactly what John records in his gospel. Now when evening came, his disciples went down to the sea, and after getting into a boat, they started to cross the sea to Capernaum it had already become dark and Jesus had not yet come to them. But then he did. He became their refugee. He was their refugee. So much so that when he got into the boat and the wind stopped, those who were in the boat worshipped him, saying, You are certainly God's son. For God to be our refuge, we must look to Christ. You see that picture that we have in Matthew's Gospel and John's Gospel and the disciples As they were being tossed to and fro, not knowing whether they were going to make it to the other side, not knowing whether they're going to make it for another breath. not knowing whether they would be tossed into the sea and die that night. They had no refugee. until Christ came. They were in darkness. They were in their sins. And isn't that the picture that the psalmist is painting for us. But outside of Christ we will be in constant trouble. and tribulation. But there will be no rest in our sins. And when Christ comes While that trouble still remains, yet he is the one who provides that calmness and that peace, even in your estate of still being a sinner. But yet trusting in the one who has provided refuge. Trusting in the one who has done all things and done all things well. Trusting Trusting in the one who's gone to the cross at Calvary and suffered his father's eternal wrath in your place so that you can experience his rest. As he said on the cross, it is finished And he finished the work of satisfying the eternal realm for your sin. So all of the trouble, all of the tribulation that's associated with the ramifications of your sin, while not taken away, is satisfied in Christ. And his righteousness is given to you. So that you no longer have to be concerned whether or not you can enter into the presence of the living God you can and will in Christ, in his righteousness And so that tribulation that we experience in this world is only temporary. As we consider Consider his righteousness now, even now, clothes you. And in that clothing, in that clothing, you have refuge in Christ. We must see that tonight in the song. Such a powerful picture when we think of that boat and the disciples and it and Jesus had not yet come to them, but when he does a tribulation that had surrounded them. was calm and there was peace and there was worship. It brings us to the nearness of Christ. God is our refuge and strength at very present help in trouble. What does the psalmist mean by that. A very present help. The Hebrew could be translated this way, a helper in distress, he is found very much Seems to be the idea. That God will be found by those who are in distress. Not only will he be found, but he will be found in a great, in a mighty, in an abundant way. Not far off. But near. Near enough to help. Near enough to bring aid. Near enough to satisfy your needs Near enough to heal the wounded, near enough to bandage the infirm and to lift up the need. That's why we sang that passage from Psalm twenty-three tonight. Jesus is your shadow The shepherd is always near to his sheep. The shepherd is always concerned for his sheep, that that the sheep would have plenty of green grass to feed upon, that the sheep would have clean That they will be kept, that the that the stragglers will be brought back into the fold that the ones who have injured themselves will be bandaged up. The shepherd does all of those things because he is near and he cares for his sheep. He loves them. Never far. Doesn't sleep. It's always watching out for the wolves and protection of the sheep. That's why Moses wrote in the last book of the Pentecost. Time again. Yes, he is so near. The psalmist wrote in Psalm one hundred and forty five, the Lord is near to all who call upon him. Think of that. Do you remember that truth? When there is trouble, when there is tribulation that you experience He experiences nearness. If you don't, maybe you're not remembering this truth. If you're not experiencing the nearness of the Lord, maybe you're not remembering this truth that He's near to all who call upon Him. That even as the Israelites were about to enter that promised land it and they didn't actually know what it was going to be like or whether or not they they would have the strength To defeat those who were in the land, Moses was reminding them that that you are a great nation and made been made great because of the nearness of God to you Is that how you feel as a Christian, trusting in Christ? That he's near. Peter didn't know Jesus that way. Not at this time, not at the time that he began to He didn't know him as a present help. He didn't know him as one who was near to him, who was indeed his refuge and his strength. Isn't that why he's saying? Because he didn't know Jesus as being very present So we see we have both aspects of God here, both aspects of Jesus Christ set forth in one simple verse. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. You see, this verse tells us that God has infinite power, so much so that He controls everything, in the heavens and upon the earth. With all of its magnitude and power, he has greater power. He is almighty. He is one who transcends everything that he has made. Such that he's not part of his creation, that he's above it, and that his power is not inferior to it, but superior to it But alongside of this truth is also the truth that He is near. Yes, He transcends everything. But yet he is intimately present, such that he would hear you, protect you. Provide refuge to you and aid you as you humble yourself before Him. There's a necessary caveat to set forth here, or a necessary thing for us to us to consider as we think of the nearness of God, and that's a question to ask ourselves. How could God be near to one who is a sinner? It's a valid question to ask. How can God be very present with you if you continue to sin against him? You might say, well, that's impossible. For a holy God to be very present to one who still sins against him. And that would describe each of us. Here tonight. And the only answer to that question is it's possible only because You see, the Lord of the earth is not near to all He's only near to those who are in Jesus Christ. Psalm 34. The Lord is near to the brethren Brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. James writes in Chapter 4 of his epistle, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. James is saying you can't will draw near to God with filthy, sinful hands. They must be cleansed. And the only way to cleanse them is in Christ. For you, Lord, are good and ready to forgive. an abundant and loving kindness to all who call upon me. Do you see the the answer The answer to that question is yes, God is near to all those who are in Christ. God is near to all sinners who are in Christ. And Christ is near to you because He sent His fear Remember that's what he said to his disciples, it's better that I go away from you so that The Father and I will send my Spirit to be with you. He will give you another helper to be with you forever. You see that's how Christ is near you too. By and through his spirit. He dwells. Within each and every one of you is trusting tonight in Jesus Christ. That's how the psalmist continues I say tonight that God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. One more aspect to these first three verses, and we went through it pretty quickly And that is that verse 2 begins with this. Because God is our refuge and strength of very present help and trouble, therefore We will not fear. Isn't that the point? Though the earth, though the world, though the creation seems to be crumbling above The psalmist is saying those who who have God as their refuge and their strength who know that he is very near, a very present help in this trouble. Those will not fear The psalmist is stating, and the Israelites were singing, that it didn't matter. It didn't matter what circumstances surrounded them. It didn't matter whether the earth stood or fell. It didn't matter what the Lord sent their way. For I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor any In the sense that's what the psalmist was saying. The living God is for every single Christian a refuge and strength. And Paul wrote, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. So the psalmist reminds me us tonight that we will not fear, but we will fear God We will not fear our circumstances. We will not fear whatever happens to this world, but we will fear God. And the fear of God comes out of knowing that He is our refuge and our strength. The fear of God comes from knowing what Jesus Christ Christ has done and will do for every single child of God. The fear of God comes from knowing that He has pardoned you in the blood of Christ And that nothing else really matters. The events of men, the plans and activities of man Don't we matter even? Solomon writes in Proverbs 14, In the fear of the Lord there is strong confidence. Isn't that what the psalmist is calling you tonight to? Strong confidence, the fear of God Isn't he calling you to that tonight, even now, recognizing that his might is above and beyond our very conception And that this one, this creator, the sustainer of God, would take in a people like you and like me with all of your sins Pain and wretchedness that he would permit you to readily find him and find refuge in him, that this one would hear you and listen to you and respond And protect you in the very midst of your greatest trouble that He's able to, and more surprisingly, He's willing to, and He does. Doesn't that call you to fear him to me and not the circumstances in which you find yourself. For the Israelites, it may have been a lack of rain, crops that didn't grow, cattle that were dying or not breeding or calfing. For you it may be problems at work. Too much work, too little work, too little pay, the possibility of losing your work. Maybe it's problems at home, a husband who doesn't appreciate your labor Neighbors, children who are disobedient, financial distress, persecutions. These problems are not insignificant. That's not what the psalmist is saying. But he is saying, there's no trouble too big for God. There's no trouble that too great that his refuge, his strength, will not be present and ready to afford you a place where you can survive and flourish. And withstand the trouble and be preserved of his inheritance We read that this morning. As a child of God, you are an heir with Christ. So the call today is not to fear these circumstances, but to reverently fear the one Will not so much deliver you from the trouble, but preserve you through it But the fear of God brings one securely into his refuge and grants persevering strength. Peter and the disciples didn't know about the nearness and the refuge of the Jesus until they finally experienced it. And he was raised from the tomb. Brothers and sisters, look to Christ tonight for your refuge and your strength. And fear God. Amen. Father and our God, thank you and praise you for your work. We thank you and praise you for Christ, our refuge and strength tonight. And we ask, Lord God, that whether the mountains fall into the sea tonight Whether the waves, rage, and foam, if you would cause us, Father, to look to Christ. Christ. But he, Father, is our nearness and our refuge and our strength. Help us then. Cause us to persevere in your refuge and your strength until Christ returns or you take us home.