Would you turn in your copies of God's Word now to Joshua? I believe you'll find at least a portion of that on page 229 of your Pew Bibles. We'll be in chapter 20 tonight. It may be the shortest chapter in this book, not quite sure. The title, which is not inspired in this particular version that I'm reading from, is The Cities of Refuge. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Then the Lord said to Joshua Say to the people of Israel, Appoint the cities of refuge of which I spoke to you through Moses, that the manslayer who strikes any person without intent or unknowingly may flee there. It shall be for you a refuge from the avenger of blood. He shall flee to one of these cities, and shall stand at the entrance of the gate of the city, and explain his case to the elders of that city. Then they shall take him into the city and give him a place, and he shall remain with them. And if the avenger of blood pursues him, they shall not give up the manslayer into his hand. because he struck his neighbor unknowingly, and did not hate him in the past. And he shall remain in that city until he has stood before the congregation for judgment. until the death of him who is high priest at the time. Then the manslayer may return to his own town and his own home, to the town from which he fled So they set apart Kadesh in Galilee, in the hill country of Naphtali, and Shechem in the hill country of Ephraim, and Kiriath Arba, that is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah. And beyond the Jordan, east of Jericho, they appointed Bezerr in the wilderness on the Tableland from the tribe of Reuben, and Ramath, and Gilead from the tribe of Gad and Golon, and Bashan from the tribe of Manasseh. These were the cities designated for all the people of Israel and for the stranger sojourning among them that anyone who killed a person without intent could flee there so that he might not die by the hand of the avenger of blood till he stood before the congregation. Thus far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with him? Our Father and our God, as we consider the Old Testament once again this evening, is sometimes difficult for us to understand how this applies to our lives today. And so, Holy Spirit, we ask that you'd move powerfully in us That should give us not only understanding of what was happening in the Old Testament days in the history of redemption. But that you would certainly apply it to our hearts. That we might take your word, Heavenly Father, and by the work of your Spirit, Put it to use. Help us, guide us, direct us now. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you need refuge? This is significant question for each of us to answer tonight. Do you need refuge? In Psalm one hundred and forty-two, David was seemingly running from Saul. If you remember the account, Saul was still king, he still had the throne, excuse me, the crown on his head, and yet David had been anointed to become king, and so Saul was trying to put David to death so that he could keep the crown upon his head. In Psalm 142, David is running from Saul. He's hiding in a cave. He was seeking refuge. Now, we might think that David was seeking refuge in the cave. But he was actually seeking refuge in God. It wasn't a place, it was a who in God. Think of Noah for a moment. Think of how he sought refuge How the Lord told him that the flood was coming, that he had determined, meaning God had determined to make an end of all flesh, and he called Noah to make an ark. And Noah did. And God did. Bring a flood, that is And God informed Noah that he would save him and his family. And so Noah sought refuge in the promises of God, in the word of God, in the command of God. Go into the ark, you and all your household. He sought refuge in the only place provided by God. He sought refuge in the only one who could give him that refuge. Do you need refuge tonight? That brings us to our text. So far in Joshua we have been reading about and studying about the Israelites, the people of God, moving from outside of the Promised Land to inside the Promised Land after 40 years of wilderness. wandering, trusting in God, trusting in his word, trusting in his promises, in his provision. They have now entered into the promised land and as we've read, they have had many, many battles. And With the exception of one, they have won each and every one of them, driving the occupants of the land out from the land for the most part, not completely, and now they've divided up the land And so God is now telling them how to live in that land. As we come to this passage, this chapter on the cities of refuge. Now that they've made it into the promised land, now that God has fulfilled his promise, at least temporarily bringing them into the promised land, the question is how are we to live in this place knowing that sin still abides In these cities of refuge is at least part of the answer. We have a headline here. A point of the cities of refuge, of which I spoke to you through Moses. That's a reference back to Numbers chapter 35 and Deuteronomy 4 and 19. In those chapters, the Lord tells Moses, and Moses conveys to the people of God, that you shall identify six cities of refuge, all the cities which you shall give to the Levites. Forty-eight in total, but six of those cities shall be cities of refuge. You shall select for yourselves these cities to be those cities that the manslayer who has killed any person unintentionally, that's critical, that's key, may flee there from the Avenger of Blood Numbers sets down some very particular things, such as if a man uses an iron object or a stone in his hand to put someone to death, that's not unintentional, and they don't belong in the city of refuge. He's a murderer. But if a man pushes someone suddenly without enmity, meaning without hatred, without lying in wait. And he wasn't his enemy before he caused this death. And so the congregation then in those cities shall deliver the manslayer from the hand of the avenger of blood. That's the idea And ultimately restore that one to his home after the high priest who was in office At the time that he killed someone is now dead himself. And a new high priest is put in place. The text seems fairly straightforward to us. The only question is, what does it teach us? I'm going to suggest tonight very simply this That there is true refuge in Christ alone. There is true refuge in Christ alone. And we'll see that in four points this morning or this evening. First, there is death outside of Christ. Secondly, there is protection in Christ. Third, there will be justice through Christ, and finally, there will be reunion in Christ. As we go through this passage tonight, I want you to keep your mind focused on that question. Do I need refuge? Well, first, there is death outside of Christ. In this chapter, there is one clear backdrop to the whole Passage. And that's death. Death stood behind these designations of these cities, the reality of death. Each of these cities were positioned and selected as a place where deaths nearby would be anticipated, where someone would be killed, where someone was dead, and then these six cities would be set aside as places where That death would be looked into. The facts, the circumstances, the intent and mind of the one who had brought about the death, who had killed another would be examined, but death would be the focal point. Make no mistake. Loss of life was the reason for these designations. And if the manslayer was found to be without murderous intent, that means that he didn't intend this to happen Then he would remain in that city of reference refuge. So just think of that for a moment. All the occupants of the city would be reminded day after day. That a manslayer was in their presence because of death. Because someone died, being reminded day after day that death is ultimately the result of sin. There was no death in the garden. Remember, in the garden before the fall from grace, everything was very good. There was no sin. Adam was made very good, meaning Adam's heart was pure, blameless He sought to do the will of God always. And thus there was no death because there was no sin before the fall. There was no need to seek refuge in the garden. They were enjoying refuge, so to speak, in communion with the living God. No discord, no enmity, no strife, no division, no sin, and thus no death. But here in Israel, in the Promised Land, after the fall, there was sin. And there was death. And these cities were set apart to deal with death. To be reminded of sin and to deal with its ugliness and its wretchedness. You must grasp this picture. Just like the ark Outside of Noah's Ark, there was death. Inside of Noah's Ark, there was the reminder of death, certainly of sin and thus death, but but no human death. Just like the city of refuge. Outside the cities of refuge, there was death. Inside the cities of refuge, there was a reminder of sin and thus death, but no death. At least not for the manslayer. For the manslayer, there was life in the city of refuge. Doesn't that point us to Christ? Inside of Christ, there is life. As Jesus spoke to Martha, he said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. As Paul writes to those in Rome, therefore there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Inside of Christ, there's life. But outside of Christ, Outside of Christ, there's no grace. Outside of Christ, there is no forgiveness for sins committed against the Holy God. Outside of Jesus, there's no life, only certain eternal death. He's the one who said, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one, no one comes to the Father but through me. What reminds you? What reminds you of your need for refuge if you come to the conclusion that you do need refuge? What reminds you of your sin? These citizens of the cities of refuge were being constantly reminded. Apparently God considered that these needed the manslayer in front of them. To be reminded of sin and death resulting from Adam's fall. Do you need to be reminded? Maybe you don't need to be reminded of sin, of disobedience or transgressions constantly before us. But do you mean to be reminded that sin leads to death, eternal death in hell In other words, the death, every death, intentional, unintentional, death, all death is a result of sin. There's not one human death that occurs that is not the result of sin. Isn't that what God told Adam? But of the tree of knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat from the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Indeed, it is appointed for men to die once, and after this comes Judgment. These Israelites were being reminded of their great need for refuge from the eternal judgment that was coming. Does your sin remind you, constantly remind you, of your need for refuge? Should Yes, there is death outside of Christ, which brings us to our second point. There is protection in Christ. Well, the killing of a man brought out those who would avenge his death. The manslayer Who strikes any person without intent or unknowingly may flee there, meaning to one of the cities, and they shall be for you a refuge from the avenger of blood. What's going on here? This Avenger of Blood was pursuing the one who killed, likely a relative, based upon Genesis 9, I believe. It's likely based upon that. After the flood is over, God tells Noah, Whoever sheds man's blood by man, his blood shall be shed. It's a clear, clear command. And those who became the Avengers of blood were pursuing, likely pursuing this very command. Probably relatives, brothers, fathers, sons in pursuit after the one who had brought about their death of their brother, their son, their father. And so it was likely a dogged pursuit. Likely understanding that command, which fueled their emotional drive to exact revenge. Although God was not calling for revenge, was he? A pursuit that the one who killed their loved one to avenge his death, to bring blood back upon the head of that one who had caused death, no matter what the reason. Here then is a picture of an avenger who would not stop. Until the goal of death for death, blood for blood, was achieved. Thus, for the one who caused that death, yet unintentionally, a solution was provided by the Lord. These cities situated throughout the land, both on the east and the west, known by all as they're recorded here, published, so that the people would know. A little bit like the signs on the road you see for the hospital. Go this way to the hospital. Go this way for help. Go this way for a place of relief. Head to the hospital where you'll find shelter and protection. And the call here was to go quickly, wasn't it? The picture is one of urgency. Without premeditation, may flee there. He shall flee to one of these cities. Not walk, not stroll, not next month, not next year, no to run with rapidity, as Webster's put it. Run from danger to attempt to escape. That's the idea. The Avenger would not delay. The manslayer was to hurry, flee, don't delete. It's here, run to the gate. Don't take anything with you. Go now. That's the idea. And once through the gate of these cities there was protection, there was sanctuary. It shall take him into the city to them and give him a place, so that he may dwell among them. That's the idea. The community, the people of the city, would not allow the Avenger of Blood entrance. Once they determined that This one unintentionally, without malice, killed, the killer would be safe for a time. The pursuit would be paused, the Avenger would be restrained, the blood that he intended to shed would not be shed that day. No, there would be a peace of sorts There would be an end to the running, an end to the fleeing. There would be calmness in a sense. They shall not deliver the manslayer into his hand. And thus the manslayer would be able to rest in the city of refuge. Not in his own bed, not in his own home. The rest given would not be the same as being there, but it would be rest. Consider for a moment how Satan pursues. He pursued Jesus Christ. And I'm sure that you have experienced Satan pursuing you if you're following Christ tonight. The devil, your adversary, prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. That's Peter's description of Satan seeking someone to devour. Satan lives to slay Christians. Indeed, it's his work to pursue you to your death. And not only Satan, but the lust of the flesh will pursue you, won't it? Isn't that what God Himself told Cain? Sin is crouching at the door. If desire is for you, but you must master it. Paul knew that In Romans chapter 7, he confesses, the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Sin is crouching at the door. So both Satan and sin which remains in you, the lust of the flesh, will continue to pursue you. Even you, a true, faithful believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. What are you to do? Seek refuge The believer in this life is called to seek refuge in Jesus Christ. For if you're in Christ, there's There's really no concern that Satan will be victorious. Yes, he will pursue. Yes, he will shoot darts and arrows at you. Yes, he will tempt. He's crouching in roaring line waiting. You need refuge. But he will have no success against a single child of God. Indeed, isn't that what Paul writes at the end of chapter 8? I'm convinced that neither death nor life nor angels Satan would be included there nor principalities nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth Nor any other created thing will be able to separate us from the love of God which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. It's impossible How is Paul able to rejoice, even as he penned his letter, to those at Philippi Because the peace of God, which surpasses all comprehension, had infiltrated his heart. He was taking refuge in Christ as he penned the letter. Let me speak a moment to those who have yet to profess faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. This passage is is calling you to flee tonight, to flee to Christ. Just like the gates to the city of refuge were open to the manslayers, the way to Christ is open today. In Isaiah 55, he calls out everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. You have no money. Come, buy meat, come buy wine and milk without money, without cost. Three times he cries out. Come. Two times he calls out, listen, incline your ear and come to me. Actually, that's four times. Listen that you may live. How do you come to Christ? It is the work of the Spirit. But the Spirit uses your listening to the voice of Christ, to the words of life. Today's the day of salvation. Today's the acceptable time. He's calling you. He's calling you to take refuge from your sins in him. Come. Come. Come listen. That's the call from Jesus Christ tonight. That brings us to our third point. There will be justice by Christ And going to the city of refuge was not a free pass. There was to be justice. There was to be a hearing. He shall dwell in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment. It was to be a confirmation that the killer did not intend death. An investigation, looking into his heart. Understanding the facts, the circumstances, asking him whether or not he hated this one before the death occurred, was there malice in his heart as he took life? There was to be justice. And that's the idea, isn't it? In the cities of refuge, there was a hearing. There was a determination. Was he guilty? Was he malicious? Did he intend to do this? If not, stay here. Enjoy refuge. If yes, if you are truly a murderer, now you have to be on the other side of the gate. Now you have to get out. And suffer the Avenger of blood. Jesus will return to judge. In Matthew's gospel, in chapter 25, we read that all the nations will be gathered before him, and he will separate them one from another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. That's a vision, that's a picture, that's an image of what Jesus will do on the day he returns, on the day of judgment. There are only two places. There are only two kinds. The sheep who will go to be with Jesus for eternal life. Eternal glory. The goats who go to suffer eternal damnation because they refused Refuse to confess Jesus as Lord and Savior. We will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Each one of us will give an account. Of himself to God. Jesus will judge. This picture that we have in Joshua, the cities of refuge, where judgment was to be had, was to be made, Jesus will make a perfect. judgment of each and every person. For those who refuse to trust in Jesus. Just as there was true justice in the cities of refugees, the community in a sense, tribe, the manslayer and ultimately declared him guilty of murder, there will be justice me justice meted out on the last day by the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. That's one of the reasons for his return. And as he judges those who refuse to believe upon him, he will send them to their eternal death in that place of torment. The fires of hell forever. But for those who do trust, those whose hearts have been changed, see there will be justice that day as well. But the justice will be have been meted out upon Jesus. The justice of God will have been satisfied upon his son as he hung on the cross for your sins. And as you're dressed in His righteousness, there will be justness And the cities of refuge were a picture of that justice. Brothers and sisters, justice is coming. For each and every one of your sins. And the only question is, will you suffer the penalty for your sins, or has Jesus already done so? Yes, you need refuge. And that really is the only question, isn't it? If you're here this evening and you've yet to proclaim faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, hear me. It's only those who profess faith in Jesus, sincere faith in the Lord Jesus, that will not personally suffer the eternal wrath and judgment of God for their sins. The call today is to repent of your sins and submit yourself to Jesus Christ, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, trusting upon him only, as the one who died, that you would receive pardon and forgiveness. There will come a day. There will come a day and an hour which no one knows. But the opportunity to confess your sins and repent and believe upon Jesus Christ will be gone. Just like there was a day when the gates to the cities of refuge were shut, would no longer open to those who needed refuge. Once Jesus returns, the day of salvation will come to an abrupt end. And so the call is to come today, call upon Jesus Christ, believe upon Jesus the only one who can give you eternal refuge. That brings us to our fourth and final point, that there will be a reunion in Christ. Did you notice that the manslayer was separated? He was separated from his home. He shall dwell in that city until he stands before the congregation for judgment, until the death of the one who is high priest in those days. These manslayers could have spent years, even decades, in a strange city of refuge. Years as an alien. before he would be allowed to return to his own house. It only happened upon the death of the high priest, so who knows when that might have been. Or said in a positive way, the the manslayer was able to return when the new high priest was seated. Think of the celebration for a moment. The Avenger of Death is no longer pursuing. Judgment has been rendered. No malice was found, and yet the suffering of separation, years of separation, a price has been paid, a dear price. But now the suffering of separation is over. The manslayer reunited with his dear wife, if he had one, children, father, mother, brother, sisters, back home, a flood of tears of joy being shed. wetting the floor. It's a bit like that reunion that we'll have in Jesus Christ, isn't it? For Jesus is not returning only for judgment. He's returning to bring his bride home. You see, the bride of Christ was separated in the garden. As Adam and Eve sinned against God, they were sent out, both of them. from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken, he drove the man out at the east of the garden and placed the cherubim in the flaming sword so that he couldn't get back in. You've been separated from your one true love, from your Maker. You've been removed from your true home, your home of the living God. The one who gave you life, all because of your sin. But Jesus Christ is returning to reunite you. To carry his bride the church back home. Isn't that what we read in Revelation? Let us rejoice and be glad and give glory to him, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. What a picture. This marriage, this union, but it is actually a reunion, a true home going. No longer an alien here in this place. No longer a stranger, now dressed and adorned by the true love of Christ and taken home. It's hard to imagine the significance and the extent of the separation that Adam and Eve experienced the day that they sinned against God and were removed from the garden in Must's presence. It's hard to grasp because we have not experienced that actual intimacy that they had, that fellowship, that communion that they enjoyed before the fall. And so while you you may have a bit of that grasp, even today, if you love the Lord Jesus Christ and are following Him, while you have a bit of grasp of your wretchedness of your sins and the holiness of God, You don't truly know the extent of that separation, do you? It's difficult then for us to grasp the extent of the reunion. That will take place as Jesus comes for and takes his bride home. This passage gives us a little glimpse, doesn't it? Years of suffering, possibly decades of separation, day upon day, week upon week, month after month, winter after spring after summer after fall, and repeating it again, but now. Now the sweetness of family, the beauty of life, of the restoration of father and son, the relationship restored, there's an intimacy again As the manslayer comes home. That's what will happen as Christ returns for his bride, the church. As Jesus returns for you, if you're trusting in Him today, you do have a sense of that restored relationship even today. But On this side of glory, it is not full. It is not complete, and it will never be until he comes for you until he releases you from this world in which you live as an alien and makes that restoration with your Creator, God, complete. And that's why we can speak of it as a reunion. Because you once had this in Adam, but it was severed until the day that Jesus returns for you. And so as he gathers his bride to church from all nations, all tribes and all tongues, that celebration will be a celebration of reunion with a triune God that you've never experienced. Yes, you've been to weddings, I'm sure. You've seen the bride and groom and the smiles on their faces as they take their vows and and the banquet hall as it's being filled with joy, for now there's this new relationship. uh oneness, the closeness of husband and wife. And now as Jesus returns for his bride, for you He's not only joining you to himself as his wife, as his bride, he's bringing you home to his father's house. That place that he's been preparing for you ever since he ascended to sit at the Father's right hand. So that you can be with him forever. The union that was broken is now going to be made whole again in Christ. It's a celebration that will never stop. Each day and glory will be so fresh and so new as the love of your Heavenly Father is experienced face to face in Christ. Is that the hope you have today? That must have been the hope for the manslayer who's in that city of refuge As he waited for the high priest to die, new priest to be seated, as he waited for the Avenger of Blood to no longer be an avenger after him And as he went home, is that your hope? Are you taking refuge in Christ today with that ultimate hope, that certain hope that that Jesus in his perfect union and communion and fellowship with the one who made you, the one who loved you so much that he sent his only eternally begotten Son to rescue you. to give you refuge from the Avenger of blood, to bring you to himself and into that blessed, complete reunion. Is that your hope? What a joy it is to even meditate upon that truth. What a joy it is to believe that Jesus is going to bring you into that perfect union and communion again that He has secured. through his blood on the cross at Calvary, through his defeat of sin and death, through his love for you. Yes, there is true refuge in Christ alone. There was refuge in the ark. And there was reunion when the flood was over, and the ark came to rest, and Noah offered his sacrifices. And there is true reunion as Jesus Christ sacrificed himself on the cross at Calvary, washed you whiter than snow. And is bringing you home to his Father to enjoy that eternal communion and union and glory. Amen. Father in Heaven Oh, what a joy it is to open your word, to think upon how you've given this to us, to reveal yourself, to reveal your son, and to tell us what you're doing. Even today, as we wait upon Jesus to return. We thank you for the refuge that we have in him. We thank you, Lord God, that in Christ we have this protection from all the attacks, whether they're from outside or inside. And we know we can never be separated from Christ. And so our hearts are filled with praise. They're also filled with waiting upon that ultimate, that complete reunion that we look forward to and we know For certain, we know that he's coming for us. And so we look forward to that day of reunion, just like a manslayer looked forward to going home. Oh Father, we pray, give us patient hearts, waiting upon Christ to return, and until he does, give us joy and rejoicing in the refuge that we are experiencing today. We praise you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.