Let's uh turn to the first uh the next uh uh passage that we'll read, the first passage this evening, uh in uh Isaiah chapter one If you'll turn to Isaiah chapter 1, we'll read verses 1 through 20. And you can rise this time as I read. Hear the word of the Lord. The vision of Isaiah the son of Amos, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem In the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth For the Lord has spoken. I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner, and the donkey its master's crib. But Israel does not know. My people does not consider. Alas, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a brood of evildoers Children who are corruptors. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked to anger the Holy One of Israel. They have turned away backward. Why should you be stricken again? You will revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, and the whole heart faints. From the sole of the foot even to the heel. There is no soundness in it, but wounds and bruises and putrefying sores They have not been closed up or bound up or soothed with ointment. Your country is desolate. Your cities are burned with fire. Strangers devour your land in your presence, and it is desolate as overthrown by strangers. And the daughters of Zion. So the daughters of Zion is left as a booth in a vineyard. as a hut in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. Unless the Lord of hosts had left us a very small remnant, we would have become like Sodom. And we would have been made like Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, you rulers of Sodom. Give ear to the law of our God, you people of Gomorrah. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me? Says the Lord. I have had enough of burnt offerings of rams. And the fat of fed cattle. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or of the lambs or goats. When you come to appear before me, Who has required this from your hand? To trample my courts? Bring no more feudal sacrifices? Incense is an abomination to me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, and the calling of assemblies. I cannot endure iniquity and the sacred meetings. Your moon new moons and your appointed feasts My soul hates. They are a trouble to me. I am weary of bearing them. When you spread out your hands, I will hide my eyes from you. Even though you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Wash yourself, make yourselves clean. Put away the evil of your doings from before my eyes. Cease to do evil. Learn to do good. Seek justice. Deliver the oppressor. Excuse me. Seek justice, rebuke the oppressor, defend the fatherless, plead for the widow. Come now, and let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are light scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If you are willing and obedient, you shall eat the good of the land. But if you refuse and rebel You shall be devoured by the sword, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. What an amazing I mean, just consider that the Lord's attitude toward these who are his children, but who have abandoned him But then also notice how stern the warning is, how sure the judgment is, but also how also sure the offered grace is. Come, let us reason together. Though your sins be as red as scarlet, they shall become as white as snow. Please be seated. And that statement to the people of of Israel um About the people of Israel by uh uh by uh by Isaiah You notice it it was given to the people of Judah, but in the in the story he starts talking about the people of Israel. And how the people of Israel have been left desolate because of their sin. And in our text in Amos today, it is Amos is before Isaiah and speaking. He is speaking to the people of the northern kingdom urging them to repent before God brings that very desolation upon them that Isaiah 1 talks about. Even though this is a and then even though Isaiah is a is is prime uh it has this statement about the desolation of the northern kingdom, Israel, it is meant it the whole book of Isaiah is directed to the southern kingdom. And say, look at what happened in the northern kingdom. Now you listen. Or the same is going to happen to you. So God was not leaving Himself without witness In many ways to not only his warning, but also his offer, his gracious offer of forgiveness if there is repentance. So let's turn to the book of Amos, to the fourth chapter. Let's read verses uh chapter four and verses one through uh one through uh five. Listen to the word of the Lord. Hear this word, you cows of Vation, who on the mountains of Samaria, who oppress the poor and crush the needy, Who say to your husbands, bring wine, and let us drink. The Lord God has sworn by his holiness, behold, The day shall come upon you when he shall take you away with fish hooks, and your prosperity with fish hooks. You will go out through the broken walls, each one straight ahead of her, and you will be cast into harmon, says the Lord. Come to Bethel and transgress at Gilgal. Multiply transgressions. Bring your sacrifices every morning. Your tithes every three days. Offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven. Proclaim and announce the free will offerings. For this you love, you children of Israel, says the Lord God. The term Calservation is clearly a pejorative term. being used uh to speak about the people in the northern kingdom. And it it seems to have a primary reference to the women in the northern kingdom, but Because it it it keeps referring, uh he talks about cows of basions, and then a little bit later uh he says You press the poor, you press the needy, and say to your husbands, bring wine, let us drink. Bation is a very fertile region in the Northern Kingdom Samaria is the capital area, the capital city of the northern kingdom, Israel. And it's also a region. So This whole term calvation is being used as a metaphor for both the women and the men of Samaria for various different ways in which they're dealing with sin. their own sin and how they're oppressing others. And we get back to the fact that this is addressed to the northern kingdom when we turn over in verse five he says uh Offer a sacrifice, proclaim and announce the free will offerings, for this you love you children of Israel. These people who lived in the northern kingdom at the time that Amos was writing and urging them to repent of their sins These people had the best of the best. They were well off financially. They they were uh a power in the region. Um and they were pampered in every way. They had all kinds of servants, all kinds of luxury. There wasn't much they, there wasn't anything they lacked. And God's word is directed to that kind of people. A people we might term today in our culture as the upper middle class or the the rich of the of of that particular society. Their actions are clearly sinful. If you look at uh verse uh verse one, uh they are described as oppressing the poor. crushing the needy and say to their masters or to their husbands, bring and let us drink When it says this is not the first time God has criticized the Northern Kingdom for oppressing the needy and the poor. You can see the same thing God bringing to their attention in Amos chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. But fundamentally, what has God so concerned and upset about is how they treat people. They simply use people. They use people for their own advantage, for their own desires. They crush their spirits, they crush their lives, they crush their dreams. And they don't care about the needy and they oppress them. They make their lives even more miserable because they're needy They're already needy and they make the life more miserable. The people of Israel Israel are therefore being described as those who are quick to add to other people's sorrow. As well as take advantage of them in a time of need. They give no thought that their advantages disadvantage others Clearly, they have no love for their neighbors. They are involved in all sorts of exploitation of people. They crush the needy. And all the while they're doing that, they're saying to their husbands or their leaders, let's have a glass. Let's have a glass of wine to drink. The callousness, the callousness of these people, God's people, is on display here. It's a sin against others. And my friends, God promises that He will repay those who are treating others in this way. This is not the first time he will say this He avenges the cause of the needy, the poor. Psalm chapter 12, speaking to a different context, makes the same point. In verse 5, For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy. Now I will arise, says the Lord. I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at thee. Someone who puffeth at another makes himself big in other people's sights. God will relieve that oppression Of those who are poor and needy. Ultimately, of course, this speaks of the oppression that Satan brings to men. But there's no no denying the fact that it's also intended to speak to those who are really suffering oppression at the hands of their fellow men Proverbs 22, verse 22 points out the same concerns that God has for the poor and the needy. He says, Rob not the poor. Because he is poor. Neither oppress the afflicted in the gate, for the Lord will plead their cause and spoil the soul of them that spoils them. I think I read this morning. If I didn't, I thought I did, but I may not have. Luke chapter 1, verses 45 and 54, where Mary, through 54, where Mary sings her song. uh praise to God after she has been informed of the birth of her son, she echoes this theme about how God cares for the lowly and those who are oppressed. How God has delivered those who are oppressed and poor and are suffering Again, Mary is probably talking about the oppression and the poverty, the people who are of all of us who are sinners And under the oppression of Satan. But there is no denying the fact that God also ministers through Christ in his ministry to many who are just physically poor and afflicted. Verse 2: The Lord has sworn by his holiness that, lo, the days shall come upon you, and he will take you away with hooks, and your posterity with fish hooks. The Lord God has sworn by his holiness that this will occur. God's holiness, you see, is offended by the actions of the people. There is no one greater to swear by than God. And no aspect of anyone's character is greater than God's holiness. And this tells the reader that what God is about to swear is absolutely going to happen. He will make sure of his promises being fulfilled. What is it that God is promising But first, we see that their sin has offended him, and it's offended his holiness. I think when we look at that, we need to update that into our situation. to realize that sin is not, again, some minor thing that we commit against God. But that sin actually offends God, and it offends His holiness. It offends his being. And unless you understand that Unless you understand, unless you take sin as seriously as the Holy God takes Sin. You will never understand true repentance. And you will never come to true repentance. True repentance comes only when you realize your sin offends the holiness of God But it appears these Israelites, these cows of Vashan. The people in the northern kingdom, you know, cows are just sitting out there eating their grass, getting fat and happy Just doing what they can to uh have a have a happy life Why do these Israelites appear to ignore God's warning? And it's not just this warning. Remember when we started Amos, I talked about all the different Countries or nations around Israel and the judgments that came to them, the reasons why they came to them, all those judgments. Five different nations are mentioned. Then the Jews in in Judah and then the Jews in Israel are mentioned. But these were all designed by God to give warning that if the Gentiles are doing these sinful things, how do you expect that you will escape Israel if you do the same things? How do you think you'll expect uh uh expect how do you expect that you will avoid the judgment of God when you're doing the same thing Well, here it makes very clear that they're not going to escape. It says, he will take you away with hooks. And your posterity with fish hooks. Now that's a very a pretty pretty vivid uh statement. When you think of fishing, if you've ever been fishing and you have some success of it, you know, what do you do with the fish you catch? You put them on some sort of hook if you don't have a basket to put them in. But in the old days they had something called a stringer And you take your fish and you put them on the stringer, right through his mouth, or his under here, and then you hook the stringer together and then you just carry the stringer along And you get as many fish as you have, you put them on the stringer. While you're fishing, you can put it out in the water and let them still live. But at some point you pick them up and you carry them with you Uh you they're they're your trophies. Well the the Assyrian kingdom, which eventually did overcome and destroy the Israel, which Amos is warning about. Sorry, which Amos is warning them about The Assyrians actually would take these hooks. It's called fish hooks here, but they're actually much bigger hooks. And they would put the people, uh, their captives, any who survived the destruction They would line them up and hook them through with these larger hooks, hook them through their jaws, and tie that together and parade them out of their city and then on in through wherever they were going to end up. That's the vision here. These privileged people, these people of Israel who have everything and yet still feel the need to oppress others in need. God is going to exact a tremendous penalty on them. And it's pictured as something that is very, very, very unpleasant. It says, You shall go out of the breaches Every cow at that which is before her. In other words, one person after another shall go through the breaches of the wall, the breaches of the walls of the city of Samaria, walls which are designed to protect the people inside and keep the invaders out. Those walls won't be any good because what's coming is going to destroy those walls And all who are oppressed will be led through those walls one after the other, connected by hooks in their person Into captivity, into temporal judgment. The Great Wall won't protect them and won't save them They can't put their trust in that. It's not gonna work. And it says they'll be led into harmony and I can't find a place where I can't find where harmon is I don't know where it is, but I suspect it's somewhere, knowing the Assyrians, it's somewhere in their empire Now notice, notice, you have this statement in verses 4 and 5, and this is really important to understand as well. Verse four Come to Bethel and transgress At Gilgal, multiply transgressions. Bring your sacrifices every morning, your tithes. after free three days. Offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven. Proclaim and publish the free offerings, for this you like. O children of Israel, saith the Lord. Israel oppressing the poor and needy, with callous disregard for the plight of the needy. God is warning them of depending of impending destruction. What do they do? What do they do? They go to Bethel. And if you know something about the Northern Kingdom, you know what's at Bethel. And if you don't, let me refresh for you. The Northern Kingdom When it split apart from Israel, the southern kingdom and Jerusalem and Judah, didn't want the people coming back for the annual Passover to Jerusalem. So they built two golden cows, one in Dan and one in Bethel. And that's where the people went for worship. Well, it was perverted worship. But that's where they went, you see, to offer their sacrifices. When the word here says, when Amos speaks the word, he talks about them bringing your sacrifices every morning and your tithes. Every three days. In other words, I hope you get the picture here. This is really sarcastic These are people who are doing all these evil things to others who are not listening to the word of God, but they're running like crazy to get to death. And they are redding like crazy to offer their sacrifices. Every day they're offering their sacrifices Three days. And after three days, they're given their tithes. Oh my goodness, what godly people they are Do you see the picture? He calls it what? Transgressions, just to go there and offer the sacrifice To go there and offer the sacrifice he calls transgressions. And to beyond that, they're attempting by their own merit, by their own activity, to overcome their sins Refusing instead to fall on their knees and pray unto God for forgiveness, to confess their sins. And to ask him for forgiveness. This is how this is how polluted their worship has become It shows you what they're trusting in. It shows you where their hearts are. You know what? We can claim to be God's people. He calls us calvation. That doesn't really matter because we're going to go to the great calf. We're going to go to our God, and we're going to offer him all the sacrifices we can offer him, and we're going to pay him all the money we can, and he's going to bless us. Do you see it? Do you see it? Do you see the perversion of their religion? Multiply transgressions. Remember Isaiah chapter one Again, doesn't God have something to say there about people who bring transgressions whose heart is not right with him? I hate your offerings. I hate your festivals. That's pretty strong language, isn't it? You know why? Because they're worshiping God not in the way prescribed. They might have all the religious fervor That you could possibly muster and be absolutely completely wrong. And completely wrong in God's eyes. Boy, that doesn't sound too much different from what goes on today. Well, of course it's not any different. in some ways, because the hearts of men don't change. We're always seeking a way to cover up our sin We do the things that we think will please God. We won't do the things He says to do. Repent. believe. Ask for forgiveness. What do you think God is telling them? Why is God why is God sending Amos to give them this message So they can go out and do they can go up to the golden calf and continue to do whatever they do up there? No, he's Warning them to repent. Well, there is still time before this awful judgment is going to fall. They've ignored the scriptures. God says in Psalm 51, verse 16, as well as Isaiah 1, 13 and 14. In Psalm 51, verse 16, he says, For thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in birth offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Here's an example of sacrifices being offered without a broken and contrite heart And there's some other things that are that are wicked about their their their offerings It says that they offer sacrifices with leaven, which is uh Probably most likely in violation. If you're going to offer sacrifices that should be with unleavened bread, it's probably what it's pointing to. And that may not seem like much, but you know, God again says about worship and about the things regarding worship that we should worship not in any way we please. Not in any convenient way for us, but as He commands. And only as He commands. So after after they get ready, after they go up there to Gilgal and Bethel and they offer their sacrifices, oh my goodness, don't they feel great? It says they publish their offerings. They proclaim their sacrifices. They are not at all worshiping with the heart of one in secret before God, but they are parading their piety for everyone to hear about. And the seed. They're just like the Pharisees in Christ's day. They want others to see their piety when in their heart they're hypocrites and worse they hate Jesus. God with them. speaking of this uh this activity on the part of the same group of people in Israel. Hosea chapter 9 verse 15 says all their wickedness is in Gilgal Remember, they go to Bethel, they go to Gilgal, and you read it's he's Hosea is talking, but he's talking for God So he says, all their wickedness is in Gogal, for there I hated them. For the wickedness of their doings, I will drive them out of my house. I will love them no more. All their princes are revolters When God sends a warning about his sin, uh excuse me, about our sin When God speaks to you in his word and through the Spirit, working through the Word, It is not a good idea to intensify our religious Hypocrisy. That won't save us But what will save us is not turning to other gods, but turning to Him. No God other than Jehovah can save Repentance is not a matter of throwing money at a problem, nor is it a matter of having the pretense of piety Oppression and continuing oppression. Repentance is dealing with your own sinful heart Love God and love others. And God has given us away in Jesus, by his grace, to repent and believe that our sins sins might be forgiven. Don't you know, don't don't ignore that Amen. And let us pray. Most merciful God, our Heavenly Father, even though the book of Amos is written To a people, your own covenant people, who lived in a time, many centuries, even a few millennia from us They still demonstrate the sinful heart so very clearly. And Lord, um the things don't change. There's nothing new under the sun. But you are changeless. You're the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow You always hate sin. You extend mercy to those to whom you've given it to hear. We thank thee, O Lord God, for our Savior, who delivers us from the fate that fell upon unrepentant Israel Who delivers us from our sin. We are thankful and we praise your name for Jesus. Amen.