Direct your attention now to the Word of God in 1 Timothy chapter 4. And we will begin reading at verse 1 and continue on through verse 11. And this is in our continuing studies on the book of 1 Timothy. And now let us hear the word of our Lord. Now the Spirit speaks expressly that in latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed. To seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience seared with a hot iron Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving By of them which believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it be received with thanksgiving For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine whereunto thou hast attained But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness. For bodily exercise profiteth little. But godliness is profitable unto all things. having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come. This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptance. For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. These things command and teach. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation. In charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine Neglect not the gift which is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery. Meditate upon these things, give thyself wholly to them, that thy profiting may appear to all. Take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself and them that hear thee Thus far ends the reading of God's Word for this evening, and our focus tonight will be on verses 7 and 8. And you recall from our previous studies in Timothy that the Apostle Paul is writing to his apprentice. to his ventored friend Timothy. And Timothy has been put in charge of the Church of Ephesus. As Paul left Ephesus and continued on his ministries. Ephesus was a place that was special to Paul. Of all the places that Paul traveled in his ministries, and of all the churches that he started, Ephesus is the one place where he spent some time. Two maybe three years living in Ephesus. And uh it is it is, of course, his concern uh for the brothers and sisters in Ephesus for their spiritual welfare that he places now at Timothy's command. Timothy is taking over in place of Paul, and Paul is kind of warning Timothy ahead of time, alerting him ahead of time to the things that he should do and the things that he should protect. against. He talks considerably in this in this book leading up to our verses tonight. He talks considerably about having the church be in order. He talks also about false ideas, false teachers who will come and how Timothy is to prevent anyone from teaching any other gospel than what Paul has already brought to the Ephesian church. And this is a church where Timothy is not going to be doing this labor all on his own, although Paul charges him. to do this, but we remember that it's also in Ephesus that Paul had called the elders of Ephesus To come and meet him, as he said for farewell to them at Miletus in Acts chapter 20 records that that uh that farewell. And you recall in that uh in that passage the apostle Paul speaks to all those collected elders and tells them A number of things that they're to shepherd the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, to feed them with good food, because he knows that after he leaves Savage wolves will attempt to destroy the church. Some will even come from among you, he says. And so, but in general, the Apostle Paul is very much concerned about the people of God proceeding in their understanding of the faith. And uh the last time we were together, we talked about uh a rather curious uh idea uh uh uh in verse chapter four, beginning in verse one. Um Paul reminds Timothy that in the last days God's word says that there will be seducing spirits. Doctrines of devils will permeate. And uh and he then I believe he talks about two of those doctrines of devils when he talks about some are forbidding others to marry, and others are commanding people to abstain from meat. Bringing full force to the Ephesian church the carryovers from wrong-headed Greek philosophy as well as Old Testament Jewish dietary laws, that these no longer are in force in the body of Christ. And uh but he but they are part of these he mentions uh these things of as to being doctrines of devils, and you don't normally think of those things with that kind of cat You don't normally call them that way, but both of them have the ability to deflect God's people away from the truth. They're kind of like They're there are minor matters which be which people tend to make major uh uh thoughts Uh in uh in Christendom. Uh uh it's all about what you eat. It's all about what you don't do uh uh uh refraining from uh other things. It almost gives the appearance that there's something you do that helps preserve Or allows you to be saved, as opposed to, we all know it's solely and purely by the grace of God that we are saved. And tonight, in our words tonight, we come to another one of these For lack of better saying, another one of these kind of peripheral thoughts that tend to permeate through the church, which people sometimes get fixated on. and begin to see that as more important stuff than the gospel even itself. And he calls them Old Wives Fables. I don't know why he picked on wives. Here. I have no idea. But I think the point that he is mentioning, the the thing that he is talking about, are Kinds of sayings, kinds of ideas, traditional understandings that may sound good And perhaps even biblical, but you can't find any biblical support for them anywhere in Scripture, and they tend to take over The life of the church, if you're not careful. And he says to Timothy, I am warning you, Timothy, refuse to get engaged with those old wives' fables. Reject them is another way he might have put it. And I am Unbelievably surprised how often the Apostle Paul talks about old wives' fables. Two times, three times in chapter one, two times in chapter two of Timothy, and one time in Titus. He mentions this subject. Let me just uh share those pass share those passages with you. First Timothy one, four. Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions rather than godly edifying. You get a sense of Paul's concern, why these things are problematic, why they are an issue. They don't edify anybody. They just raise questions in people's minds. 1 Timothy 6 verse 20. Timothy, guard which was committed to your trust. Avoid the profane and idle babblings and contradictions of what is falsely called knowledge. 2 Timothy 2. 16, shun profane and idle babblings, for they will increase to more ungodliness. 2 Timothy 4. 4. They shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables. Titus 1, 14, not giving heed to Jewish fables and commandments of men that turn from the truth. And and and you know, there's always this thing about uh kind of the religious culture that that uh permeates uh uh the church. Whether it's The synagogue, or whether it's the church of the Lord Jesus Christ, there are these traditions that occur within the life of the church and sayings and ideas that are always there and they they they tend to get They tend to get approval by many. They tend to be baptized by a layer of Christian uh piety, and and they become uh significant in the life of the church They raise more questions rather than edifying believers. They divert our attention from the crucial things to things which are on the fringe. understanding. Some may call them knowledge, and when that happens, they start competing for that which is truly knowledge God's word creating confusion within the minds and hearts of God's people. These fables, old wives' tales, um uh uh traditions. can even lead to increasing ungodliness among those who listen. And they can also, people who listen will turn their ears away. Well, it's Paul says to Timothy, reject these old tales. Keep away from them. Even one translation has, don't have anything to do with them. Don't have anything to do with them And I know we've kind of been talking in abstracts, but let's kind of concretize this now. What kinds of things are there out there that might characterize as quote-unquote Christian tradition? tradition, Christian wa old wives' tales or fables. And I think maybe you can come up with some, but here's a few that I find particularly troubling. I mentioned this not too long ago in a sermon, the idea that permeates within the Christian community that faith is a leap in the dark. Faith is a leap in the dark. Then there's also out there in the general community, sometimes even gets into the church That as long as someone worships his God truly, they're going to the same place that we are. There's no real distinction between Between the Christian faith and any other faith. Then there are those who believe that church attendance and church involvement is optional for our Christian faith. But you don't really have to go to church To be a believer. Perhaps you might be able to think of some better examples, but these are some that are out there. As far as Paul is concerned, Timothy, don't even think about this stuff. Don't pay it any attention. And I believe it would be one of those things that Paul would say further: put an end to it. Stop it. Wherever you hear it or see it. Now, it's it also calls them profane. Reject profane old wives' tales. Now It's not, when we think of the word profane, we think of profanity. It's not profanity. It isn't. It's not that they're using profanity to express their point. But profane in its basic meaning means anything that is godless. Not godly, reject godless fables and thoughts Now, not only does he say reject, but he then, in the same verse, almost in the same breath, says, and exercise yourself. Rather unto godliness. Reject and exercise. Both are verbs Both are written in the present tense. Both signify in Greek an ongoing effort. Constantly, in a sense, constantly rejecting, constantly exercising unto godliness. And whenever our culture hears the word exercise today, I mean that's a big buzzword in our culture. You cannot turn on television and watch it for more than a half an hour without at least seeing one infomercial about exercise. And there's always some new exercise that's out there to capture our attention. This culture exercises. In fact, the city of Washington, D. C. , is said to be the second most exercising city in the country But you know, you've heard it all. You've heard all of those commercials. Every day there are people exercising. There's the extolling of people walking or jogging. Pilates, Zumba. You know, you've heard these things, right? And and uh and yoga, you know, yoga's now all the rage. And and there's this new one out that is so interesting. It's for Bowflex. Have you seen this one? Where Jillian Michaels, the physics, the renowned personal trainer, is on her bauflex, and she's doing three exercises in one on this machine. And this machine is so great that it has GPS built into it. So that if you want to exercise along the Riviera, You can punch in a code and you'll be taken to the Riviera on your screen while you do your exercising. Again, this is all bodily exercise. This, however, is not the exercise Paul is speaking of here. Exercising unto godliness is not bodily exercise, although bodily exercise, I must say, does not hurt. But that's not what he's saying here in this passage. You are to exercise yourself, Timothy, in godliness. Bodily exercise may have a little profit, he says, in verse 8. But godliness is profitable for all things. For all things And he not only says it's profitable for all things, but it's profitable for now, and it's profitable for the future, for God's people. How are we to understand exercising unto godliness that is profitable? What kinds of things would that we have to be involved in to be exercising in a godly way, or to be exercising unto godliness? Well, I think for that we're going to have to look at some other passages. And so I will share a couple of other passages that speak of godliness and how uh how we are to exercise uh uh uh unto godliness. Uh second Peter 1 verses 5 through 8. Give all diligence, he said. Now if you give all diligence to something, you're making you're expending some energy. Give all diligence, add to your faith virtue, to virtue knowledge to knowledge temperance. To temperance, patience, to patience, godliness, to godliness, brotherly kindness, to brotherly kindness, clarity. Charity, for if these things be in you and abound, they make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. And ultimately, you know, an exercising unto godliness is knowing Christ. Learning of Christ, learning about Him, but also learning about His kingdom and about His ways, His thoughts. His attitudes. 1 Timothy 6. 6 reminds us that godliness with contentment is great gain. Godliness with contentment is great gain. For Titus chapter 3. 8, this is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly. That they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These are good and profitable. Deuteronomy 28, 14. Do not go aside from any of the words which I command thee this day to the right or to the left, or to go other gods to serve them. Ultimately, exercising in godliness means focusing on God's word. Reading God's Word, but not only reading God's Word. uh doing God's word, doing what is good in God's sight, trusting in Him, delighting ourselves in Him, praising God. Walking in his way in the way of the Lord. A couple other thoughts about godly exercise. Psalm chapter 1, verse 2 says, His delight is in the law of the Lord, and in the law he does meditate day and night. First Timothy four, twelve through sixteen, let no man despise thy youth, but be an example. Of the believers in word, in your walk, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Until I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. Neglect not the gift that is in you, he's talking to Timothy, which was given thee by prophecy with the laying on of the hands of the Presbytery. Meditate upon all these things, give yourself wholly to them, that thy profiting may appear to others Take heed to yourself and unto the doctrine and continue in it. For in doing this you shall both save yourself, and you will bless those who Again, uh this title of the sermon was Reject and Exercise Reject the old lives' tales. Exercise yourself in the things of the Lord. In his word, in his in in his ways, in his will, in his doctrine, in his kingdom. That's what Paul is encouraging Timothy to do. And I believe that's what he's encouraging us to do as well in general. Timothy's more specialized in terms of leading the church, but it's still true for us as well. Uh may God uh add his uh blessing to the reading of the word and the preaching of it. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we are thankful that we have this example in the book of Timothy. About one of your servants, Paul, being so concerned that the saints be fed uh and nurtured uh by godliness, by by by right doctrine, and that they be uh not um directed toward uh the old uh fables and traditions, the old ideas which may have an appearing sound of somewhat of godliness and yet they they do not meet the mark of being true to your word. Uh Lord, we uh we live in a culture in which uh we are constantly being uh bombarded by uh religious sounding ideas um and uh ideas which compete uh for uh for uh even uh uh being new understandings of of uh of of your word. Uh and and so it does very much behoove us all, Lord, uh to uh to meditate upon your word, that we are certain that we know it. And we pray, Father, that you will continue to give to your church Men like Timothy, who will uh and Paul and others, Lord, who will be who will have such a uh concern for the uh truthfulness of of the ministry of the Word so that God's people would be uh uh uh encouraged and exhorted unto ever increasing godliness so that none of God's sheep would be lost, uh, but that all would uh persevere until the end. Uh we pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen.