If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter 8. You'll find that on page 967 of your Pew Bibles. We'll begin reading this morning at verse 28 and get into verse or chapter 9 just a bit Let's give our attention to God's holy word, Matthew eight, beginning at verse twenty-eight. And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs So that so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold, they cried out. What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them. And the demons begged him, saying, If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs. And he said to them, Go. So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold, the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned in the waters. The herdsmen fled. And going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon-possessed men. And behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus And when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. And getting into a boat, he crossed over and came to his own city. And behold, some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. And behold, some of the scribes said to themselves, This man is blaspheming. But Jesus, knowing their thoughts, said, Why do you think evil in your hearts? For which is easier to say, your sins are forgiven, or to say, rise and walk, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins? He then said to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed, and go home. And he rose and went home. When the crowds saw it, they were afraid, and they glorified God, who had given such authority to men. Praise be to God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, come before you this morning, having read your word and ask for your blessing upon it. And we ask now, Lord God, that you would lead us. Pierce our hearts this morning, Father. Convict us of the truth of your word, of our sins. And then, Father, we pray, use this passage. To build up your people, to convict hearts, Father, to even bring one to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, may all of your purposes be fulfilled even now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The plagues that fell on Egypt should have caused all who experienced them, even in the midst of them. To come to fear, truly fear the Lord God. You see that that happened even in this plague of hail. That some feared the word of the Lord, and those who did so brought their servants, brought their livestock within shelter so that they wouldn't be Killed by the hail. They believed the word of God. But Pharaoh. Pharaoh did not. It was only after the hail had fallen that people died, that livestock were killed, that he calls Moses and Aaron back in and requests that they petition the Lord. He confesses that he sinned against God and asks for mercy. But it's very interesting what Moses the way in which Moses responds to Pharaoh. I know that you do not yet feel. The Lord God. And as soon as the thunder and hail ceased And the rain no longer poured down upon the earth, Pharaoh sinned again, and hardened his heart. Sometimes we will superficially submit ourselves to the authority of God if we think such submission will provide some immediate benefit. Pharaoh did so. But this kind of submission is not only temporary, it is just not truly heartfelt. Pharaoh had no desire to place himself under the authority, the ruling hand of God. That brings us to our passage today. And really, this passage that we see, these two passages which go together, are all about the authority of Jesus Christ. We have been through the Sermon on the Mount where the kingdom of God has been described in much detail, and it ends with the authority of Jesus. And as we've seen in the last week or so, as Jesus begins to minister in the public now, the authority of Jesus is front and center. This morning I want us to see that to be set free by Jesus, one must submit to his authority. To be set free by Jesus, one must. Truly submit to his authority. We'll see that in two points this morning, in these two events, really. First, authority displayed and rejected, and then secondly, authority displayed and rejected. Feared. Brothers and sisters, I think if we listen carefully this morning, we're going to see that at times we ourselves have problems. Truly submitting to the authority of the Lord Jesus. Well, first, authority displayed and rejected. Authority really has been an issue since Adam's fall in the garden, hasn't it? As a serpent comes to Eve and tells her that God's word really isn't true. You will not surely die. Satan challenged the very word of God. E determined to reject God's authority. And in the life of Jesus, certainly since his baptism, we see the concept of authority as he is baptized. The heavens were opened. The Spirit of God descends upon him like a dove, and God the Father speaks from heaven. This is my son. My beloved son, with whom I'm well pleased. The authority of God speaking even during Jesus' baptism and authority was the primary issue during Jesus' temptation. Led up into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And the tempter comes and says to him, If you're the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But Jesus pointed to the Word of God. Satan had no authority over the will of Jesus. And again, as we've recognized Jesus Jesus' authority was recognized as he opened the Word of God in the Sermon on the Mount. And the authority of Jesus has been tested. He cleansed the leper. He made the servant of the centurion well by his word. The fever of Peter's mother-in-law flees as he comes and touches her. And as Jesus comes, the wind and the waves. The authority of Jesus is front and center, even as we get into these passages. And even as he now engages demons You see it here As he crosses to the other side to the country of the Gadderenes, immediately these two demon-possessed men met him. They come out of the tombs and they engage with Jesus. There's a history of demons with the Israelites. It begins in Egypt. Moses notes in Deuteronomy after the Exodus had taken place After the Israelites had left the Egyptians behind, after they had passed through the Red Sea, after they were about to enter into the promised land, Moses writes in Deuteronomy chapter 32, Jesheron, meaning Israel. Grew fat. The people grew fat, stout and sleek. Then he, meaning Israel, forsook God who made him and scoffed at the rock of his salvation. They stirred him to jealousy with strange gods. They sacrificed to demons that were no gods This is what Israel had brought out of Egypt. They had kept with them. The psalmist in 106 Writes this, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters to the demons. There's a history of demon, even demon worship in Israel And so now we we see in in a very strange turn of events demon possession amongst the Israelites Two demon-possessed men met him, coming out of the tomb, so fierce that no one could pass. We see immediately demonic power. Within those who were possessed. The New American Standard puts it this way: they were so extremely violent that no one could pass by. The demons were displaying their power, a type of authority. Remember, these demons were really against God, God the Father, God the Son, and thus they were showing their opposition to him by possessing the very souls of even these two men. And thus a display of violence by the demons, so fierce no one could pass by. Matthew writes as if everyone knew These two men in the tombs, they were so violent that no one would try to pass by them. They flexed their muscles. In such a way that no one could pass by. They displayed their authority with such violence, with such terror, with threats that the people readily obeyed this demonic authority. Well, what was this indwelling? This was not the first encounter for Jesus with demonic possession. Indeed, he was tempted by Satan himself. He wasn't possessed, but this was his seemingly first encounter with the power of Satan. And then in chapter 4 of Matthew, he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, healing every disease and affliction amongst the people. And they brought him all the sick, afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons. He healed them. And this would not be his last encounter with demons. A Canaanite woman from the region would come and cry out, my daughter is severely oppressed by a demon. And he rebukes demons in chapter 17 of Matthew. The indwelling of demonic spirits was prevalent in Jesus' day and the demons came, their purpose was clearly to destroy. We see it here, even as the demons are sent, they're called to go into the pigs, and what happens immediately? The whole herd rush down the steep bank into the sea and drown in the waters. Isn't that the purpose of Satan? Isn't his desire to destroy the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ? You might even be thinking, how? Well, these two were in tombs. That's the description that Matthew gives to us. Two demonic-possessed men met him coming out of the tombs, a place of the dead. Place of the unclean. That's where they lived. That's where the demons had brought these men. Can assume that these two are isolated. Without friendship, without community, outside of the camp, unable to worship, unable to work, unable to provide for their families. The demons had separated them, isolated them from the family of God, from the covenant people of God. It's a picture of bondage, of captivity in the house of Satan. The Israelites were never truly free from that bondage, were they? And this picture of these two men in the tombs is a picture of that bondage. In a sense, a judgment upon the people. Yes, they had been relieved of their slavery to the Egyptians, but they had taken that idolatry, even that demon worship with them. They'd taken the foreign gods of Egypt when they departed, so much so that Prophet Ezekiel The one who was writing while they were in exile was able to write, thus I will put an end to your lewdness and to your whoring begun in the land of Egypt. Unless their spiritual bondage was not left behind. The demonic possession of these two men, in a sense, represented the entire nation of Israel. A graphic image of the condition of the hearts of the people. And yet Even in this scenario, we see the demons responding to Jesus, acknowledging his authority over them. They begged, they cried out, What have you to do with us, O Son of God? I believe that's the first time that title is used for Jesus in the Gospel of Matthew. Have you come here to torment us before the time? Recognizing his authority, recognizing his identity. And they beg him. Look at verse 31. And the demons begged him, saying, if you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs. Recognizing his ability to cast them out. They had possessed these men. No one had been able to relieve these men of this demonic possession. And Jesus comes and the demons themselves recognize that he is able, that he has the authority to remove them. Now consider the response of the entire city. As the demons now cast out, as the herdsmen go, they flee to the city, they tell them everything Especially what happened to the demon-possessed men. The entire city comes out. Well, that's the way Matthew puts it. All the city, verse 34, came out to meet Jesus. The two men were relieved of their demonic possession, restored to their pre-demonic estate. The herdsmen focus on that. They're in their right minds. But there's no rejoicing. The city people, the townspeople come out, and we don't read of any rejoicing that these men have been restored. They begged Jesus to leave. Behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus, and when they saw him, they begged him to leave their region. Just as the demons beg. They beg to go into the herd of pigs, and now the people come and beg. It's the same word used in the original language. Both are recognizing the authority of Jesus, and this begging is a display of that. It's an acknowledgement of it. It contains a certain kind of submission, isn't it? Like Pharaoh. Please go plead with God to take this hail, this thunder, this fire away. There's a recognition by the crowd that they could not usher Jesus out by their own strength. He showed them his strength. His power was much greater than theirs, indeed greater than the demons who had possessed these men for who knows how long. If they were to be rid of Jesus, they knew that they had to ask him, they had to plead with him, they had to beg with him to lead. leave a certain kind of submission. Or maybe better yet, just a recognition of his authority being greater than anything they had experienced And yet they reject ultimately his authority. The city, many of them probably made their living from this herd of pigs. We don't have that in the text, but their focus seems to be on these pigs. The townspeople acknowledge the power of Jesus. They beg for him to leave. So we must consider that as they recognize his authority over him, they also reject it. They didn't desire to be subject to his authority any longer. You might consider that the pigs were a moneymaker for this city, at least some in the city. And Matthew doesn't record that the city Focused at all upon the relief that Jesus had provided to these who were possessed by the demons. No, there's an emphasis upon the herd of pigs who were destroyed. It was the herdsmen that go and relate what had happened to the townspeople. And the response of the city seems to be so closely connected to the destruction of the pigs. That it was as if the people were saying, we liked our way of life. Yes. It was in opposition to God's word. He had told us not to eat swine, not to eat pigs, not even to touch their carcasses And our brothers were unable to join us in worship. But that was a small price to pay for our entire herd of pigs. The herd destruction was not the plan of the townspeople. Their plan involved the herd of pigs that was yet alive and likely headed to the market at some point in time. Their plan did not include a pen emptied of their unclean animals. No, these events had not gone the way of the their plan The authority of Jesus was not that which they desired to continue to sit under. Jeremiah records the words of God with regard to these Israelites Israelite hearts. I spoke to you in your prosperity, but you said, I will not listen. This has been your way from your youth, that you have not obeyed my voice. Never mind that the pigs were unclean animals and it was unlawful for these Jews to eat them or touch them, touch their carcasses, these city dwellers apparently wanted very much to keep them. And this authority of Jesus superseded or got in the way of their desire And as a result, the city, in a sense, demands that Jesus leave and not return. Authority recognized and demonstrated, but rejected. This picture here is of one being in bondage to Satan and sin. The picture is one of one being held hostage in Satan's house, of one being in bondage. And the bondage that is spoken of here is the bondage of the people in the city. Of being directed by Satan. Paul writes of it in his letter to those at Ephesus: You were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of power of the air. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. It's exactly what the people in the town were doing. They were following the prince of the power of the air. While the two men were relieved of their bondage to Satan, the entire city was yet under his hand. There was no joy in seeing these two being relieved. There was only despair over the loss of the of pigs. The worldly possession, this herd of pigs, this unclean animals. That was their concern. And here's the most frightening verse of all. Verse 1 of chapter 9. And getting into the boat, he crossed over. Jesus left. He did what the people asked, what they begged him to do. The one who had life, the one who had words of life, leaves and takes life with him. The two men were restored, yet the city was still in the grip of their destroyer. And begged the Savior to leave There's a verse in John's Gospel that the Prince of Preachers Virgin notes. So Difficult. The disciples had gone down to the sea and gotten into the boat and started to cross The seed to Capernaum. And John notes it was now dark and Jesus had not yet come to them. It was a difficult scene. The disciples were alone without their master in darkness. It's a picture. But he was on his way to them. He was coming to them. He just wasn't there yet. Here the Savior wasn't coming. He had already come to the people of that city. But they rejected him. And now Jesus had left them to themselves. in their sin. Causes us to ask that question this morning, is Jesus come to you? The answer is of course he has. Jesus has come to all. He is offered to all. And that's what the townspeople didn't grasp That's what the demons didn't even understand. What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us? No, Jesus came to save. Jesus came to save. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Yes, Jesus has come. The only question is what was your response? That brings us to our second point, authority displayed and feared. Matthew's narrative here moves quickly. Jesus has been rejected by those in the city of, or the country of the Gadarenes. And now, seemingly, as soon as he crosses over, as soon as he crosses over the sea and goes to his own city, presumably Capernaum, this paralytic is brought to him. 2 of chapter 9. Some people brought to him a paralytic lying on a bed. This narrative of Matthew's gospel is a bit shorter than the one we find in Mark and Luke, but it does get to the point. Consider, no one asks Jesus to heal the paralytic. It's implied. All we know is that the paralytic is brought to him. And we know that he's unable to walk. That's what the definition of a paralytic would be. That's the implication. The implication is please heal him. And so what does Jesus do? And when Jesus saw their faith, he said to the paralytic, Take heart, my son, your sins are forgiven. That was not expected. It certainly wasn't asked for. Physical healing certainly was implicitly sought after. Restoration was hoped for. Indeed it was expected, but Jesus now forgives his sins. There's a sense in which the scribes grasp the difficulty of doing this because now we read of what's going on in those who are watching, those who were hearing, and the scribes who were among this group who heard Jesus' words and they say to themselves, not out loud, this man is blaspheming. And what they mean by that is he's taking the attributes of God and he's attributing that attribute to himself. And they say, well, that's blaspheming. That's blasphemy. That's the idea. They knew that God is the only one who can forgive sins And in this the scribes were right. And they may have also recognized the difficulty of forgiving sins. So Jesus brings that idea forward as he responds to their thoughts, not their words. Why do you think evil in your hearts? And behind that statement of Jesus is the truth that he was not blaspheming, that he was indeed and is indeed the Son of God, which the demons recognized, but the scribes would not. Why do you think evil in your hearts for which is easier? So now the difficulty of forgiving sin is brought forward. Which is easier, to say your sins are forgiven, or to say rise and walk. We know why forgiving sin is limited to God. It's because He is the one who's been offended. We see that throughout Scripture Joseph, as as Potiphar's wife, is enticing him to lie with him, says, you know, I can't do that because that would be sinning against God. David recognized it as he sinned with Bathsheba and had her husband murdered. Writes, against you you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. You think that David might confess that he'd sinned against Bathsheba and certainly against Uriah? But he confesses that he sinned against God. God is the one offended. God is the one who must forgive. But secondly, it's humanly impossible to cleanse oneself from the stain of sin which penetrates our entire being. We were brought forth in iniquity. We've all turned aside. We've all become corrupt. There's no one who does good, not even one. Our throats are open graves. This is a description of who we are in Adam. And Job. Job, even as he proclaims his own righteousness before God. He recognized who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean. There's not one. What is man that he can be pure? Or he who is born of woman that he can be righteous? Job knew Job knew the difficulty of cleansing those who were immersed in sin. And brothers And sisters, that defines all of us. And so the scribes contest Jesus' proclamation of forgiveness. And if Jesus were a mere man, we'd have to agree with the scribes. If Jesus were a sinner himself, how could he pronounce forgiveness? How could Jesus in any real way cleanse a paralytic? Without question, a sinner who needed cleansing, if Jesus were a mere man. But Jesus was not. a mere man. And so now he takes up the challenge and he he asks that question which is easier to say your sins are forgiven or to say rise and walk He puts everything into perspective. Healing this paralytic was humanly impossible. Forgiving sins was humanly impossible. So if Jesus were to do that which was physically impossible, it followed by logic that he could also do that which is spiritually impossible. And so he demonstrates his authority. He demonstrates his authority by healing the paralytic. But so that you may know. So that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. He says to the paralytic, Rise, pick up your bed and go home. And he rose and he went home. Now his authority was on display once again to heal physically and spiritually As this paralytic walks home carrying his bed, now Jesus' authority had been confirmed once again. He's given him authority to execute judgment. He's fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness. This one who is able to judge the world is one who is also able to forgive. Do you see the contrast? To each other. He performs healing on three individuals, the first two restored from their serious affliction of demon possession, the third restored from a life of paralysis. Frozen, so to speak, in his physical abilities. All three men. The contrast is in the reaction of the people who observe In the first case, the townspeople demand Jesus to leave. They didn't want him to remain. There was no glory to God, there was no thanksgiving, no fear worth noting, according to Matthew. But in the second case, the crowd sees and fears. They glorify the living God who had given such authority to men, to the God man. They saw this supernatural healing of the paralytic, this divine power, this dominion, this rule on display as Jesus had just shown it, that he controlled even the body of this man, that he'd been given the ability to restore the functions of this man's legs. Without medicine, without surgery, without even touching the man, only by the words of his mouth. This paralytic would no longer be known as a paralytic, but now a fully functioning member of the community of God, and so the crowd stood in fear and gloried in the God who they recognized gave such authority. Yes, great contrast. But we also must see the similarities between these two. These men. each one of them were frozen, so to speak, bound and chained in demonic possession in their very possession beings, the paralytic, also frozen or bound in his physical captivity, neither one was able to move, so to speak, toward Christ. That's the picture we're given. Both, all three, under a stranglehold that prevented them from moving to Christ in a particular way. The demon-possessed men could not come to Christ without first having the demons removed. The paralytic. The paralytic was able to physically move toward Christ without having his paralysis addressed. All three were in a sense bound or chained, and Christ came to break, to shatter those chains. This is exactly what Christ does for a sinner who's in bondage to sin. If you leave here with nothing else today, leave here with this: that Jesus came to set the prisoners free. The Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor, sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. The other similarities in the people who witness the supernatural works of Jesus The townspeople who formerly saw the demon-possessed men in their right minds now, and the herd of pigs in the water. And the crowd who witnessed the healing of the paralytic both saw the supernatural ability of Jesus on display. Two different events, but they both saw the same Jesus and they saw the same divine authority on display. The only difference was their reaction. The townspeople rejected his authority. The crowd feared and glorified God. Consider what the crowd witnessed just for a moment. This one who was paralyzed, who could not walk, who was immobile, who could not move on his own, immediately upon the word of Christ was completely healed. Restored in an instant, to do that which he'd been unable to do previously. It may be difficult for us to grasp that. Consider for just a moment a cancer patient. Consider the diagnosis process. The testing, the probing. To determine just what the ailment is. And then once the diagnosis has been made, the treatment plan has been prepared, the time involved in the process of of eliminating the disease, multiple visits for Radiation, injections, chemicals, other kinds of invasive treatments, months involved, sometimes years. It's never done by human doctors in an instant. But Jesus restored this man in an instant. That which plagued this man for who knows how long was healed in the blink of an eye And the crowd was struck with awe and fear. Ultimately, there may not have been much difference between the hearts of the two crowds. We don't know. Did the second crowd really focus on forgiveness? Or on the physical? Did they glorify God for the physical or the spiritual healing? We don't know. But that brings us to think about this just for a moment. Because there are many who call themselves Christians today who, like the townspeople, recognize the authority of Jesus. They would not deny the supernatural power that Jesus possessed then and possesses now. They would not deny that Jesus has been given all dominion, power, and authority. These would know the passages of the healing power of Jesus and would pray for physical healing. But some of these would not make the connection between Jesus' authority to heal physically and his authority to heal. spiritually, to forgive sin. For that is truly the center of this passage, isn't it? The center of this passage is the cross. The center of this passage is Jesus' atoning sacrifice on the cross. For that's the work of Jesus in which he secured forever the forgiveness of sin. For all those that trust in him, in his person, in his sacrificial death on the cross, in his resurrection from the dead, in his high priestly intercession. at God's right hand even this morning, for all these Jesus has purchased the forgiveness of sin. By his shed blood, by his atoning for the sins of many, Jesus has been given the authority to forgive So often we go to the Father and ask for physical healing. How often are we asking for spiritual healing See, that's that's the point at which we lose the connection. We may ask for forgiveness, which is good and right. But are you asking this morning for spiritual healing? Those bringing the paralytic didn't ask for it. You see, Jesus has two primary titles, Savior and Lord. Yes, we think of the Savior part, not so much the Lord part. But this morning Jesus is Lord over your spiritual healing. And brothers and sisters Sisters, that's what we need. Yes, we we have physical ailments, and we want relief from those things. And in the Lord's good timing, and according to his good pleasure, he'll provide that if it's his will. But what we need is spiritual healing. We battle besetting sins each of us. Are you asking for healing? We struggle with our quick, our gossiping tongues. Are you asking for restraint? We harbor bitterness and we covet our neighbors' homes. Are you asking for spiritual healing? The old man yet resides, brothers and sisters, and that is our problem. Jesus has saved, no doubt. Praise God. But we still need his lordship over our spiritual healing Yes, to be spiritually set free by Jesus, one must submit to his authority. Pharaoh. Pharaoh was never willing to do so. But continue to reject, just like the townspeople rejected the authority of Jesus. Brothers and sisters, brothers and sisters, you have accepted The authority of Jesus now. Pray for Him to use that as we all continue to battle for spiritual sins. Amen. Our Father and our God, Oh Lord, we are a weak people. We love to read the stories of Jesus healing. Whether it's Peter's mother-in-law or This paralytic, even the demon-possessed men. Father, we we love to read the stories of restoration, but Father, most times we focus on the physical. Help us, Lord God, to be those who focus our minds and hearts upon the spiritual healing that's only available as we submit ourselves completely and wholly to the authority of the Lord Jesus. Oh Father, help us by your Spirit. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.