Now listen to the reading of God's Word from Philippians chapter 4. We're getting close to the end of Philippians in a lot of ways. Chapter 4 really wraps things up. You know, Paul's really wrapping up final matters in his reasons for writing and things he has to say. Some some instructions here in verses four through seven. You know, you might think, if you looked at them, you might think, well, what do these all sort of have to do with each other? And what do they have to do with the Philippian congregation? Well, I think there's a reason they're put together. I think there's a reason these are put together, verses 4 through 7. They're basically three different instructions, verse 4, verse 5, and then verse 6 and 7 are another one. But give your attention to the reading of them and listen for what might be the thing that pulls all these things together. Philippians 4, verses 4 through 7, this is God's word. Give your attention to its reading this morning. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Let your gentleness be known to all men. The Lord is at hand. Be anxious for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving. Let your requests be made known to God, and the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it. May He bless the preaching of it this day in our midst. Like I said again, you have basically three different instructions here, three different commands, three different instructions as to how the Philippians should live In light of who they are in Jesus Christ, what brings them together? What brings together these three instructions? We have an instruction to rejoice in the Lord always in verse 4. You have an instruction in verse 5 to be known for your gentleness, and we'll consider what that means in a little bit You have an instruction basically not to be anxious about anything, but instead to find peace in God through prayer. What ties all these instructions together? You think about some of the background of what Paul's going through, some of the background of what the Philippians are going through. The thing they have in common is a suffering for Christ. It seems like Paul and the Philippians at at this time are both in the midst of suffering for Christ. Well, these three instructions here in Philippians 4, what they really encourage God's people to do is to face circumstances of difficulty and suffering. In such a way that we do not lose our poise and we do not lose the stance of faith, the stance of confidence in Christ. Even in the midst of going through difficult times, even in the midst of facing difficulties in this life, our faith should not be undone By difficulties and sufferings, even no matter how difficult those sufferings are. Again, we all have sufferings that we can point to, that we can think of. sufferings that are with us constantly, every moment of every day. And yet in the midst of these things, we are called to follow the instructions The very same instructions Paul gave to the Philippians, who also had their sufferings and their pressures they were facing. They were called not to lose hearts, not to lose their confidence. not to lose their faith, to not be undone by the things that they were struggling with and up against. Now notice this first instruction in verse 4 rejoice in the Lord when Paul says always, at all times, in all circumstances, in all situations, rejoice. Have joy Uh you know, he wouldn't have to say rejoice always if it was always easy to rejoice. But when he says, rejoice in the Lord always, it applies especially when it's difficult to rejoice, right? When it's easy to rejoice, well, you just rejoice. But it's when it's difficult to rejoice that you especially need to hear this instruction. Rejoice in the Lord always. Once again, think of the difficulties that Paul and the Philippians were going through, both of them, all of them together suffering for the sake of Christ in different ways You know, we know a lot more about what Paul was suffering. We know about some of his imprisonments, and we have record of the things that he went through in the book of Acts, so we were able to sort of draw on that to understand his sufferings. We know the Philippians are in some way suffering for Christ, we don't know exactly how. Chapter one verse thirty seems to imply that they are engaged in the very same conflict that Paul is engaged in, which is suffering for the sake of Christ. But when that's exactly when you need to hear this instruction. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, if it were easy to rejoice You wouldn't need to hear the instruction, or it wouldn't be as pressing of an instruction. Or you wouldn't have to hear that word always. But it's in the midst of suffering when we need to hear that word. Rejoice in the Lord always Now, how can we do this? How is it possible? Well, one key to rejoicing in the Lord always is to rejoice in the Lord. And it's significant that that's what Paul says. Rejoice in the Lord always. Who is the Lord? But when this word is used by Paul a lot of times here in Philippians, a lot of times in his letters. The Lord whom he's talking about is the Lord Jesus Christ. Rejoice in the Lord. Rejoice because of Christ. No matter what you may suffer or go through in this life, it is not able to take away from you Jesus Christ. If you have faith in him, it is not able to take away from you the Lord. It is not able to take away from you Jesus Christ. So even if it feels like you've lost everything or are losing everything, if that's what life feels like, and again, who doesn't feel that way from time to time, if not a lot of the time? Even if it feels that way, you still have the Lord. You still have Jesus Christ. You always have reason to rejoice as long as you have the Lord. So, take some time to rejoice in the Lord. Take some time to withdraw yourself from the struggles that you are dwelling upon. And take some time to dwell upon the Lord. Christ has purchased you with his blood, and if you have that, You can rejoice. At least you have reason to rejoice. You have a reason to be able to rejoice. You have a reason to be able to rejoice, like Paul says. Always We ought to think about that. We ought to weigh that. You know, Paul went through some pretty difficult times. Earlier in the book of Philippians, you know, he was in chains, he was imprisoned. There were a lot of reasons why he really shouldn't have been and it even felt a little bit unnecessary for him to be in chains. You know, a lot some Roman officials along the way had said, yeah, you don't need to be in chains. Why is this guy in chains That must have been frustrating. Paul's suffering, he's locked up in chains, he's imprisoned. Well this is going on, there are these other Christians who are envious of him and jealous of him, who are trying to afflict him and stir up. strife over their envy. But Paul still says in chapter 1, verse 18, that he finds a reason to rejoice, and his rejoicing is in Christ. He rejoices in the Lord. He's able to rejoice that Christ is preached through what he's going through. He's able to rejoice in the Lord always. So we have this example of Paul going through some very difficult things. He's able to rejoice in the Lord. He's able to rejoice because of the Lord. It's not always a matter of, you know, what exactly our circumstances are. We still ought to be able to rejoice in the Lord. And it may not always look like putting on a happy face. You know, i the the joy that we're called to in the scriptures is not the same as uh frivolous goodness, just putting on a smile, trying to make light of everything But it's a deep joy that we can have in who Christ is as the Lord and as our Savior. So again, listen to those words and remember how the Philippians would have heard them. Under difficult circumstances, under the difficulty of feeling the pressure of persecution possibly, suffering for Christ in some way Paul emphasizes throughout this letter, rejoice. Have joy. Rejoice in the Lord always. You have reason to have joy because you have the Lord. In the Lord there is reason to rejoice. Yes, we all have many things we are struggling with, suffering in the midst of contending against. The difficulty of living in this world, the difficulty of a world that's marred by sin and death, and our own bodies that are marred by sin and death And yet we have reason to rejoice, just like Paul did. Rejoice in the Lord. Let's do so. Let's seek the Lord that he may grant us the ability to do so. More and more, better and better. Hold fast up against the challenges. Hold fast under the difficulties. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say, rejoice. Yet another instruction comes to us in verse five. Another instruction of verse five. Yet another way we're to hold fast. Hold firm in a position of steady faith and poise even when there's difficulty. Umtice what Paul says in verse 5. Let your gentleness be known to all men. Let your gentleness be known to all men. Gentleness. Some translations say reasonableness It's a you know there's a Greek word behind it, of course. Um but the translation, you know, one of the Greek dictionaries might suggest the translation forbearing spirit. Let it be known by all men that you have a forbearing spirit. The Greek dictionary will go on and sort of define this, not insisting on every right of letter, of law, or custom. So not always insisting on your own rights, but instead yielding, gentle, kind, courteous, tolerant. Putting up with wrongs that are um uh putting up with offenses that are committed against you and being willing to just take it and sometimes just let it roll off your back. Now we saw in last week's passage, we saw this instance in the Philippian church. There were these two women who weren't quite getting along. And so you can see how verse 5 applies a little bit to that situation. These two women who were not getting along needed to be yielding towards one another, tolerant, forbearing. Needed to be able to drop whatever had happened and move past it together. You could also tie this into the bigger theme of church unity. Paul gets at this in chapter two of Philippians. How is it that we can live together in unity as those who are united in Christ? Well, one way we can do so is by not insisting on our own rights. That's what this word gentleness points to. Gentleness, reasonableness. Church, those who belong to Jesus Christ, are you known for your gentleness? Are you known for your reasonableness? Are you known by all men for this? When Paul uses that language of all men, a lot of times it's pointing to outsiders. Outsiders to the faith. Outsiders to the church. All men means all those people out there. Are you known for being reasonable, gentle, forbearing, yielding, tolerant? Are you known for your ability to put up with wrongs and not hold it against people? Are you known for that within your church? Are you known for that among outsiders, those who are outsiders to the faith? You want to talk about outreach? You want to talk about the outreach of the church Paul gives us one form of outreach here in our passage. Be known by all men for being yielding. Tolerant, forbearing. Be known as people who don't hold grudges. Be known as people who don't hold wrongs against each other, or even against outsiders at times. So again, this is another form of posture that the Philippians are to maintain. Be known for your reasonableness, your gentleness. Among all men. Now, how can you have such a spirit of gentleness, reasonableness, forbearance, tolerance Well one of the keys is what Paul says then in verse 5. How can you be known as as having such gentleness? Well Paul says the Lord is at hand. And notice how those things connect, because the fact that now who is this Lord? Again, this is Christ, who is soon to come again. And as you remember that the Lord is at hand, this is actually what enables you to be forbearing, gentle, tolerant with people who wrong you, right? Because the Lord is right around the corner and is just about to bring to you something much greater than you could ever have in this life. Be willing to drop some of the things that happen against you here and now. Some of the wrongs that are committed against you. Some of the things you lose because somebody hurts you. Be willing to just let it go. Because the Lord is at hand. He's coming, and he's bringing to you something much better than anything you could gain or anything you could lose. Here in this life. Remember that. The Lord is at hand. Let's remember that the Lord is at hand. And then let's be known or become known. As those who are gentle and reasonable, those who are able to put up with wrongs and show forgiveness, forbearance. This is one thing the Church of Jesus Christ should be known for. Its willingness to forgive those who are sinful people. After all, that's who we are. So how can we not have that mindset towards one another, towards others? How can we not be known for our gentleness? And our reasonableness. The Church of Jesus Christ should be known for this, and this is what Paul says. Alright, yet another thing we see in our text These verses in verse 6 and 7, the instructions that come, another aspect of holding firm in the faith in the face of difficulty is To do what Paul says in verse 6 and verse 7. He says, be anxious for nothing. How is that possible? Raise your hand if you are good at not being anxious about anything at any point in your life. Alright. I don't actually want you to raise your hand, but be anxious for nothing, Paul says. How is that possible? How is that possible How is it possible in the midst of all the ups and downs of life? And yet again we remember Paul's circumstances in the book of Acts. You know, Paul is this missionary who travels all over the place. New and strange places all the time. Every time he goes somewhere, opposition shows up from the corner where you might not expect it or At least in a way that there's no way you could even anticipate it or possibly be ready for it in advance. You know, as you read that story, so many twists and turns along the way. Paul bringing the gospel to different places. And what it costs him to do so. Getting beaten, getting thrown in prison, getting falsely charged, that extended process of the appeal that he that he seeks and ends up getting in Rome The fact that he ends up getting shipwrecked on his way to Rome. Through all of it, what do we see Paul doing? We see him him holding steady. We see him. Holding fast to the gospel and continuing to preach the same gospel. How is it possible? We at least have to understand when we hear these verses, be anxious for nothing, in verse 6. We at least have to understand that the man who says it Has done quite a bit to show us that he has the right to say it, in the sense that he has demonstrated it in his own life as much as anyone can who's an ordinary person. And yet We need to understand his instructions. Be anxious for nothing. How could he be anxious for nothing? How can we be anxious for nothing? How could the Philippians be anxious for nothing? Well the answer will come in verse 6 and verse 7. How can you be anxious for nothing? Obtain peace from God in this way. By letting your request be made known to God So again, you know, prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, but let your request be made known to God, and the peace of God will guard your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Be okay with the fact that if you have let your request be made known to God through prayer, you should know that he knows. You should know that he is able to answer your prayer. The one who's able to answer your prayer is the one who sent his own son to die for your sins, who's purchased you at the cost of the blood of his own son. If you can know that that's who hears your prayer, if you can know that that's who knows what you need, Be okay with that. Be at peace. Have that peace. Be anxious for nothing. The Lord knows. And if the Lord knows, Who else do you need to know? And who better could you have who could know your needs and your requests? If you've made your request known to him through prayer, And even if you haven't, he knows. He knows what you need. Be able to rest in him. Be able to trust in him. The God to whom you make your request known has paid for your your own body and soul at the cost of the blood of his only dearly beloved Son. And if that can't give you peace, Nothing can. How can we be anxious for nothing? By approaching God in prayer, by making our request known, and then by resting in the fact that He knows And he hears. Who else do you need to know? No one. Don't be anxious. Be anxious for nothing. Bring it to God in prayer. And then be at peace and receive his peace. And so here we have these instructions again. They they really apply to circumstances of difficulty. The Philippians were facing quite a bit of difficulty. Paul himself faced quite a bit of difficulty when he wrote these instructions. And yet, for us, this is instruction as to how we should live in the face of Whatever difficulty we face. For yes, we all face many difficulties. We all have things we are going through, things we are struggling with. But let us seek to follow these instructions Let us ask God for his grace to help us to live in all these ways, so that we might bring glory to him. And so that is indeed what we should do. We should look for Him and for His grace to give to us what we need to be able to rejoice in the Lord always. Even in the face of the most difficult of circumstances and suffering. We should look to Him for grace and mercy, for Him to give to us the ability to be known by all people, especially outsiders, as people who are gentle and reasonable, willing and able to forgive and to overlook wrongs committed against us We should do this because the Lord is the one who is at hand. Christ the Lord is at hand, bringing us something wonderful. And we should also seek God's grace in being able to be anxious for nothing and seek him so that we might receive from him the peace of God through making our requests known. Well, beloved, may these verses be a reflection of your life. May they be a reflection of your continuing growth in His grace. May these things be true, not just because we want it to be true, but because it's he who actually gives these things to you by grace. May this be true. We ask God for these things, for the glory of our Savior. Amen. Well now let's go to God in prayer, asking Him for His grace. Oh Father, these instructions that we've received from your word, we do in fact receive today. We've heard them, read. In our hearing, in your presence. We have heard them proclaimed. We have examined them. We have considered them, looked over them. Help us to consider them, continue to consider them throughout our week Help us to look to the Lord and to look to you, to look to Christ the Lord, as our Savior in the midst of the things that we face. Oh Lord, grant to us your grace. Strengthen us by your Spirit Grant that we might be more and more people who rejoice in the Lord always. Grant that we might be, because of Jesus Christ, People who are known by all people for our gentleness, reasonableness, forbearing spirit, because we know that the Lord is at hand. We know that Christ is about to come. And give us something very great, far greater than anything we can lose in this life. Oh Lord, grant us grace that we might be people who aren't thrown off. in anxiety by the curveballs that we come across in this life. Help us to be people who trust in you through all the twists and turns, people who make our request known to you, and then find your peace in doing so. We ask you for your help and for your grace and for your strength. We know that in ourselves we are people who are prone to complain about our circumstances. To focus on everything that's wrong with our circumstance, possibly to blame you for it, or whatever the case, to fail to trust you for it. We know that this is what we're prone to do. And yet we ask you, for the sake of Jesus Christ, make us able and help us to be those who glorify you with our hearts and with our tongues and with our lives. Oh Lord, would you apply this passage by inscribing its truth upon our hearts so that we might live after its pattern more and more for the sake of what Christ has done?