Amen. Now for the reading of God's word from Luke twenty three. And earlier this morning, you know, we were in Acts, and in Acts Peter was referring to how Um the men of Israel had made this choice to release Barabbas in place of Jesus, and how you know they were given the option by Pilate. They were given the option by Pilate. that they could release Jesus and instead they chose to have a murderer released rather than the one who was innocent of all the charges against him. Well let's read um uh Luke chapter twenty-three verses one through twenty-five. Here is God's word and here is you know the account about how Jesus gets um you know hand led to Pilate and gets accused and false charges get placed on him and then Barabbas is you know um set before the people and they choose to let Barabbas go instead of Jesus Now listen to the reading of God's word. Luke 23, 1 through 25. Then the whole mut multitude of them arose and led him to Pilate, and they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation. and forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a king. Then Pilate asked him, saying, Are you the king of the Jews? He answered him and said, It is as you say So Pilate said to the chief priests and the crowd, I find no fault in this man. But they were the more fierce, saying, He stirs up the people, teaching throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee to this place. When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked if the man were a Galilean. And as soon as he knew that he belonged to Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who was also in Jerusalem at that time. Now when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceedingly glad, for he had desired for a long time to see him, because he had heard many things about him, and he hoped to see some miracle done by him. Then he questioned him with many words, but he answered him nothing. And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him. Then Herod, with his men of war, treated him with contempt and mocked him, arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him back to Pilate That very day Pilate and Herod became friends with each other, for previously they had been at enmity with each other. Then Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests, the rulers, and the people, said to them, You have brought this man to me as one who misleads the people. And indeed, having examined him in your presence, I have found no fault in this man, concerning those things of which you accuse him No, neither did Herod, for I sent you back to him, and indeed nothing deserving of death has been done by him. I will therefore chastise him and release him. For it was necessary for him to release one to them at the feast. And they all cried out at once, saying, Away with this man, and release to us Barabbas. Who had been thrown into prison for a certain rebellion made in the city, and for murder. Pilate, therefore, wishing to release Jesus, again called out to them. But they shouted, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Then he said to them the third time, Why? What evil has he done? I have found no reason for death in him. I will therefore chastise him and let him go But they were insistent, demanding with loud voices that he be crucified. And the voices of these men and of the chief priests prevailed. So Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they requested. And he released to them the one they requested, who for rebellion and murder had been thrown into prison. But he delivered Jesus to their will. The reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it and to his And when you see the way that justice is carried out in this text, it really has all the marks of just another instance of the tragedies of injustice in this world, doesn't it? The death of Jesus Christ, being sentenced to death under these charges, appears to be Just one more instance of the kind of tragic injustice that seemingly often takes place in this world beset by sin and the curse as it is. Here we read in our text about something getting pinned on a man Something that has little to do with truth, hardly anything to do with the truth. This accusation gets pinned on him, these charges get pinned on him in order to take him down. What is it that motivates the charge? It's not the truth. No. It's a crowd that is bent on taking someone down. Again, did you notice what the charge is that is brought against Jesus in this text in verse 2 They make their case in front of Pilate, and the charge that they bring against him is described in verse 2. We found this fellow perverting the nation. And forbidding to pay taxes to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ the King. Now the charge itself is actually in it in its wholeness, it is false. Now It's a partial truth, right? It's based in some half truth in a way. Now why do they use this charge? Well this charge, if true certainly would ring true with someone like Pilate, someone who's in a position of authority within the Roman Empire And in fact, someone with an authority within the Roman Empire, a representative of government within the Roman Empire, actually would hear a charge like that, and it would raise cause for alarm and concern This would not be the first time that a Roman official has heard a charge of this sort, and hearing a charge of this sort would have caused some concern or some alarm, and rightly so. After all, there was one of the characteristic things that happened during the days when the Roman Empire was dealing with the Jewish people and had them under their jurisdiction. It had been something of a somewhat common occurrence that the Jewish people had been sometimes led in revolts and uprisings against the authority of the Romans. There had been different leaders who had sprung up among the Jewish people and sought to lead these uprisings against Roman authority. Sometimes the results of those incidents had led to violent outcomes, but one way or another, whenever this had happened around these days, it had always been the source of trouble for the Roman government And the Roman Empire wished to maintain a general peacefulness and wished to avoid trouble as much as they could. And so oftentimes when an accusation like this would come You know, it would ring true with what had already happened on other occasions. And so again, by using this charge, it's something that would be troubling to pilot, if true, again, if true. A man who is in a position of authority within the Roman Empire would be troubled by such a charge. There's only one problem with the charge. Is it true? The charge is not true. And in fact, it's not exactly that it's completely false. It actually is sort of a half-truth in this case, isn't it? Because You know, they they ascribe to him this title that he is claiming to be the Christ, a king. And does Jesus accept the title of being Christ or King? Yes, he does. In verse 3, Pilate asks him outright, are you the King of the Jews? And Jesus answers and basically says, yes. So Jesus is a king. He does accept the title of king. He does claim to be king. But being king does not bring with it the things that they say comes with it in this text. Okay? So here in this text they say that he's claiming to be a king, but in claiming to be the king, what do they say he's doing? They say he is leading the nation astray. He is perverting the Jewish people because he is leading them essentially in a in a rebellion or an uprising, telling them to stop paying taxes to Caesar. Now again, so this is the charge they put on him. They're trying to make him out so that he looks like one of these um, you know, these these Jewish people who had led uprisings in the past. They're trying to make him out in the mold of those others. So that he looks like he's just another one of them, and that would give someone like Pilate reason to sentence him to death, the very thing that they are seeking, without justification. Now, the problem with their charge is that Jesus has spoken to the issue of paying taxes to Caesar or not, hasn't he? If you turned back to Luke chapter 20, verses 20 through 26, you would see that in the past Jesus has given a statement or comment on what he thinks about paying taxes. Now back there there were some people who were looking to get him to say that it was not okay to pay taxes to Caesar. So they were trying to get him to give the answer that would get him in trouble with someone like Pilate. But we see that what he does in that case is he gives the exact opposite answer. The answer he gives is that no, it is correct. To pay taxes to Caesar Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And by saying that, it seems like what he's saying is that they should pay taxes to Caesar. So again, what you see here is that it's sort of a half-truth that is being put on Jesus. Yes, he did claim to be a king. But not in any way in which he was actually leading an uprising or was actually encouraging people not to pay taxes to Caesar. So the charge itself does not stick. The charge itself is a lame charge. It's a false charge. It's not rooted in the truth, is it? What is it rooted? It's rooted in somebody who has a vendetta against somebody else. And how easy it is when that situation arises for charges to be stuck upon someone. that are rooted in partial truth or half truth, but yet to try to push those charges to stick on someone when in reality and at truth it is not able to stick. Now this is obvious that this charge doesn't stick, isn't it? It is actually obvious to those who are listening to the charges being made, isn't it? Who listens to the charges being made? Two representative rulers of the Roman Empire. Pilate and also Herod They both are officials in positions of government, rulers of one sort or another. They both end up hearing this charge in our text. And what is it about Jesus that makes them hear this charge and say, there's nothing to it. You know, how is it that they know? They have him come before them in their presence. They hear the charge being made, but somehow without feeling like they need to go and you know go and further investigate these things They simply know. Is it possibly the manner of his demeanor? Is it possibly that he is someone who sits there having these charges spoken against him? And yet is still able to maintain calm composure because he knows the truth. Isn't that likely? Jesus comes before these men, this charge is t is made against him. But him his calmness and his in some cases refusal to answer, but in the answers that he gives, the way that he answers seems to signal to these men that he's not he's not the kind of man who would lead an uprising. So something about Jesus Christ As he's there in their presence of these rulers, something about his manner communicates to them. This is not the kind of man who is leading a violent uh uprising and revolt And this is not the kind of man who is leading an insurrection. So there's something about his presence that communicates this, and it communicates it to the point that is perfectly clear not just to Pilate, but also to Herod. Now again, uh it's Pilate and Herod who are the ones who are not dealing justly in the matter. After all, um you know Herod Herod takes this as an opportunity to mock Jesus. And to treat him with contempt um even to make fun of him. And you know, it's interesting. So So he's not convinced that Jesus is guilty in verses 6 through 12. But even still, he just concludes that he's not guilty and doesn't nothing to stop the death from happening. Similarly, also Pilate is aware that there's no reason why Jesus should be guilty and should be worthy of a death sentence. Pilate comes back to the crowd. He comes back to them in verse 13 with it with the answer, both the answer from him as well as the answer from Herod. And the answer he gives in fourteen is what he says there. You have brought this man to me as one who misleads the people And indeed, having examined him in your presence, I have found no fault in this man concerning those things of which you accuse him. No, neither did Herod, for I sent you back to him, and indeed nothing deserving of death has been done by him. I will therefore chastise him and Release him. So again, two rulers remark on the case of Jesus. Two come to the same conclusion. This man should not die. So again, we see the injustice of the charges that are brought. It's a very false charge that's being brought against Jesus, and it's so false and so lame that it's obvious even to two rulers who see what is going on here. Now it's sad because these two rulers, they know he's not guilty of death, but what do they do anyways? They still end up not stopping the death from happening. And in fact, Pilate is the one who lets the death happen. And lets Jesus be delivered to the will of the people. Now again, we see that he tries to let Jesus off the hook. Now, he tries to do it by getting the crowd to do it for him, essentially. He uses this custom they have of releasing someone at the feast. He puts up someone who ought to be an obvious lock for someone that you don't let go. Barrabbus, who actually did lead a rebellion. Barabbas who actually did commit murder in the course of this rebellion. Barabbas is the person that they're trying to make Jesus out to look like. And this Barabbas, you know, Pilate sets him up as the one against whom there should be no competition between him and Jesus. To make it obvious, they ought to back off, they ought to let Jesus go. What do they do anyways? They continually insist upon bringing down Jesus. Pilate tries to reason with him. What evil has he done? I have found no reason for death in him. But then in verse 23, they were insistent, demanding with loud voices that he be crucified. Sometimes when reason fails, and when it's obvious that there is no reason behind such an attack Sometimes people just go at it and shout all the more loudly. And this is what we see happening in this case. But again, the thing that's sad in the end of it is that Pilate Recognizes Jesus is not guilty. Pilate tries to get the crowd to back off from thinking that he's guilty But at the end of the day, Pilate doesn't stop Jesus from ending up going to death. At the end of the day, Pilate gives in. to the will of the people. Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they requested. And he released to them the one they requested, Barabbas, the one who for rebellion and murder had been thrown into prison. But he delivered Jesus to their will. So you see, the crowd is bent on injustice. Pilate, the ruler, is not necessarily bent on injustice, but he's also not necessarily bent on justice. And here we see the dual injustice that's so common to life in this world. The crowds demand a false justice The ruler passes the buck when it's his responsibility to deliver justice. The crowd is thirsty for violence. The ruler can't be troubled to hold back their violent will. How common this sort of thing is in our world, isn't it? How common it can be in our world. The crowds demanding justice of a sort that is false Rulers who can't be troubled to stand up against injustice. Doesn't it look like the death of Jesus is just one more instance of this? Again, it's possible that we could find examples of this in our own lives. It's possible that we could find examples of this in history. Plenty of examples of this same phenomenon. People getting sentenced under false justice, people getting condemned under false justice, and nobody doing the right thing to stop it from happening. Doesn't it look like the death of Jesus is just one more instance of this? But the question is, is it just one more instance of this? Because the scriptures show us That it's not just one more instance of this false justice. Obviously, it is an instance of false justice But the death of Jesus Christ is not just one more instance, even though it is one more instance. The death of Jesus Christ is not just one more instance of false injustice. The death of Christ is the one instance that actually undoes and redeems all the rest. The one death of Jesus Christ is the one instance of unjust suffering that undoes and breaks the power of injustice forever, for good, once and for all. This one instance of suffering under injustice is the one instance that the living and true God planned to use. to undo and unseat all the injustice that resides in God's good world in places where it shouldn't reside. This instance of suffering brings about a new creation, a new heavens, and a new earth, in which righteousness dwells. A place where there will no more be mobs to prosecute mob justice. A place where there will no more be Rulers who pass the buck on executing justice for the sake of convenience and expediency. This new creation that Christ's death brings about is a place where there's no more need for systems of justice, because it's a world filled with justice, filled with people who live according to justice from the inside out. This one instance of unjust suffering, it's not just one more instance. It is the one instance that undoes and unseats injustice forever. The question is, how is that possible? How can it be? How can one more death, one more unjust instance of suffering be the one that undoes all other unjust suffering. Well it's because of who the one is who suffers it. And it's because the one who suffers it is no mere innocent man. He is an innocent man. That's not all he is Who is this innocent man who suffers in our text? He's the Son of God. He's God the Son come in the flesh. He came to bear the fullness and the full effects of sin and its curse He came to do this in order to undo the curse, to overturn it, to overthrow it for good. God the Son comes in the flesh to bear the wrath of God against sin. Bearing the severe injustice of wicked men is part of that wrath of God. It's part of what he came to bear. Wickedness in the world is part of the curse. The lack of true justice in this world is part of the curse. Jesus comes and bears it here in our text on his way to the cross because that injustice is part of what he came to overturn and to overthrow And notice what this means for those of us who belong to Him. We who belong to Jesus Christ know the one who has overturned injustice forever. We know that in the midst of whatever we suffer in this life, even if it be injustice on the way to death. We know that that unjust suffering will not be the last word on our lives. And we know that at the end of our lives there's something better waiting for us. And we know this. Because Christ has already triumphed over sin and the curse and his death on the cross. And because this is true Shouldn't it be true that Christians, out of all people on this earth, are the ones who are the most patient in the face of suffering? Also, the ones who are the slowest to complain, not the quickest to complain about injustice, not the quickest to speak ill of those who cause injustice against them. But those who are actually the most patient, the most forbearing, the most filled with hope in the face of what they suffer Isn't that the way things should be? As we look to our Savior, we are shown the way we ought to be in the face of injustice. Patience. Calm, composed, trusting in God, waiting on God. Waiting for God's answer. Waiting for God's final answer. God's final answer is not death. God's final answer is not injustice. God's final answer is resurrection. God's final answer is life. God's final answer is new creation. Because we have received this, we ought to be able to live much the same way our Savior did, even in the face of difficult suffering. And injustices that are committed against us. May we be quick to walk in these ways for the glory of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we give thanks to you that you sent your only Son to die for our sins. Thank you, Lord, that part of the promise in the death of Christ is. A new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness will dwell, in which there will never again be the sorts of things that happened to the Lord Jesus Christ. There will never again be the sorts of things that too often happen to your people here on this earth. There never will again be the kinds of false justice and false condemnation and uh a foolish, wicked leadership that there often is here on this earth. Give to us patience in the face of all that we contend with in the world Even as we continue to deal with the effects of the curse, give to us patience, give to us wisdom, give to us above all else faith and hope and love. So that we may live as your servants. Grant these things to us only through what Christ has done for us. We pray all these things in His name and in His name alone. Amen.