Now here we are at the part of the service where there is the reading of God's Word once again. Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 9, through Ecclesiastes 12, verse 8. We are nearly at the end of Ecclesiastes. We are we are moving through a good portion of the well, the end of chapter 11 and then a good portion of chapter 12. So that means that next week is very likely the last. the last sermon from Ecclesiastes for our purposes, but at least for today. The reading of God's Word is Ecclesiastes 11:9 through chapter 12, verse 8. And Again, you'll notice the conclusion that comes at the end, verse 8, very fitting way. He opened the book with this statement. He's closing it with the same statement, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What you'll see in this passage, you'll see two things put held up side by side. You'll see some of the realities of vanity connected with youth. Young age, life as a young person, and you'll see that put next to some of the vanities of life in old age, some of the vanities of old age, what it is to be a person who is aging and whose body is breaking down. This is described in this passage. So again, early on it's talking to the young, addressing the young, and then later on it's addressing the older. And we'll see that there's instruction there for us, whoever we are. So the reading of God's word comes to us again, Ecclesiastes eleven nine through chapter twelve, verse eight. Listen to the reading of God's Word this morning. Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth. Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. But know that for all these God will bring you into judgment. Therefore, remove sorrow from your heart, and put away evil from your flesh. For childhood and youth are vanity. Remember now your Creator in the days of your youth, before the difficult days come, and the years draw near when you say, I have no pleasure in them. Well, the sun and the light, the moon and the stars are not darkened, and the clouds do not return after the rain. In the day when the keepers of the house tremble, and the strong men bow down, when the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look through the windows grow dim. When the doors are shut in the streets, and the sound of grinding is low, when one rises up at the sound of a bird, and all the daughters of music are brought low Also, they are afraid of height and of terrors in the way. When the almond tree blossoms, the grasshopper is a burden, and desire fails. For man goes to his eternal home, and the mourners go about the streets. Remember your creator before the silver cord is loosed, or the golden bowl is broken. or the pitcher shattered at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the well, then the dust will return to the earth as it was, and the Spirit will return to God who gave it. Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, all is vanity. Thus far the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it and to its preaching this day. So again, this passage gives us a very fitting reflection on the vanity of life in a sin-cursed world, yet In terms of the two poles of life, the two poles of life, the early on beginning pole of life and the later-on-end pole. of life. Life in its beginning, in its newness, in its freshness, in its youth, and life in its oldness. Life in its end. Life as it is breaking down. There's vanity to both parts of life here in our text. First of all, there's vanity in the life of the young. There's vanity in the life of the young. In these first few verses, verse 9 of chapter 11 through verse 1 of chapter 12, there's vanity to the life of the young. Now there is vanity to the life of the young, but before there is vanity to the life of the young, there's also joy. There's also pleasantness. Notice some of the language we see in verse 9. Rejoice, O young man, in your youth, and let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth. Walk in the ways of your heart and in the sight of your eyes. There's acknowledgement that the days of the young are easily filled with joy, pleasantness Pleasure. It's easy to find cheer in the days of youth. We understand this as we get older. We understand there are aches and pains that come. We understand there are griefs and sorrows that come that we didn't have when we were young. But because of this, we also understand that there's vanity in youth. In the fact that the young do not prepare themselves for what is coming. The young can live in the cheer of their days and in the joy of their youth. in ways that loses sight of what is to come, what is to come in older age, but also what is to come at the end of days, at the end of life at the end of the world. And here Ecclesiastes inserts this warning, but know that for all these God will bring you into judgment. So understand the instruction here. Again, the instruction is yes, receive cheer, receive joy in your youth. But do so in such a way that you're aware of what's to come. And remember that what's to come is God's judgment. Do it with an awareness of God. Do it with an awareness that God is the judge. You know, you heard there in that 2 Corinthians passage about how we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Receive the joy of being young if you are young, but also do it knowing that you have a judge. Do it knowing that God is judge. God is the one to whom you are accountable. And again, therefore, remember your Creator in the days of your youth. So again, he's not telling the young not to enjoy youth. and childhood. But he is pointing out one of the dangers that the young are susceptible to in their youth and in their childhood. They are, again, susceptible to um living in the cheer and in the joy of youthfulness as if there was no creator or forgetting their creator. And so here comes the instruction, remember your creator, therefore, in the days of your earth. Be aware that God will bring you into judgment. So, yes, enjoy the cheer of youth. If you are young, enjoy it while you have it. But don't forget. Don't forget God. Remember that God is your judge. You are accountable to God. So youthfulness is a time of vanity. Childhood and youth are vanity. There are um immaturities to the young where they are short-sighted, where they do not see what is coming, and the the main thing that they are easy quick to overlook is that it is God's judgment that is coming. But this is just the vanity of youth and childhood. So we we're given kind of a warning that that allows us to be aware of that, that helps the young to be aware of that beforehand. We also see vanity on the other end of the spectrum. So again, there's vanity for the young. There's a vanity to youth and childhood. There's also a vanity that comes with the realities of the other end of the spectrum, old age, the later portions of life. And now this this is given as instruction, you know, it's given as instruction to the young so that the young are shown what is coming. when the days come later on. Now again in verse 1 of chapter 12 he says, Remember now your creator in the days of your youth. So while you're young, remember your creator, because look at what's coming. difficult days. There are days that are coming that will be difficult, and there are years that draw near, and you will not be able to say in those years that there is pleasure, or you will be saying, I have no pleasure in them. So again, what we're seeing in chapter twelve then, especially verses two through six, be aware, young people, that there is a time coming. When life will not be so easy to enjoy. And we understand that Solomon is very aware of this. We expect that he wrote this book later in his life. at a point of old age where he had come to many griefs and sorrows on the other side of what had be begun as a promising sort of life for him And yet what does he give us here? In these verses, verse 2 through 6, he's basically portraying the aging process in very poetic terms. And there are a lot of um images, there are a lot of impressions here about um, you know, uh uh expressions of things. But the overall point of what he's doing here is he's portraying the ugliness of aging. He's portraying aging as something in which the body is breaking down And which the source of pleasure is shutting down. So take a look at some of the images he gives us here, especially in verse 2 through 6 of chapter 12. And remember that, again, what he's portraying is the aging process. So especially in verse 2, what is aging like? In verse 2, aging is compared to the lights of all the created universe going dark Shutting down. Light in the scriptures is a symbol for life It's a symbol of pleasantness and pleasure. You know, verse 7 of of chapter 11 just before this spoke about the sweetness of light and the pleasantness of the sun. You think of what it is to be warmed by the sun and to enjoy that pleasantness. And yet the aging process is like the light of the universe going dark. All the lights, the sun, the moon, the stars, going dark. That's what aging is compared to here. Aging is also compared in verse 2 to the way that the clouds might return after a rain. You know, we all understand one of the joys of um experiencing a rain on the earth. One of the joys of it is the aftermath of the rain when The earth smells because the water has come down upon it. The dirt has been stirred up, and so you can kind of smell the freshness and the moistness of that dirt, and it's a good smell. And then the clouds also break, light comes through, the birds start to sing again. It's as if the world has come back to life after a dark darkness that has been over it. And yet, just the opposite of that is what aging is like. It's as if there has been a hard, heavy, gloomy rain. Yet after that rain comes, the clouds neither break nor dispel. The clouds double down. The darkness remains. The darkness doubles down. The darkness grows darker. This is what aging is like in this passage. Again, aging is compared to things that are miserable, things that are not fun to experience. And yet again, this is an instruction to the young. Remember that as you are young, this is what you will be one day, Lord willing, and this is your appointed end. As the Lord instructs you in the scriptures, your days will not always be pleasant and sweet. On the contrary, there will be gloominess. There will be darkness that will overshadow the coming days of your life. And remember that now. Remember that now while you are still young, if you are still young. Another thing we see in our text, notice uh verses three and four, you know, there are there are a number of images put forth here. But what it seems like is being said is that old age is compared to a house that is breaking down and shutting down its operations. The people who live in the house and the people who work on the house begin to vacate the house and the th the house falls into a state of disrepair. Again there are a lot of um specifics in there and Uh commentators have different opinions as to well what exactly is this talking about? Is this sort of like a literal reference to different parts of the body? You know, there are discussions and debates about uh what that is, but if you just read it, you kind of get the overall sense that the house is shutting down. And the house is breaking down. And the people who take care of the house are beginning to evacuate the house and stopping the work it would take to keep up on it. Another aspect of old age and its vanity in our text comes in verse five. Verse five mentions the fearfulness of old age Sometimes when you're young, it's very easy for you to think that there will be less to be afraid of when you get old. It's easy for the young to think that way, isn't it? And yet, verse 5 points us in the direction of the fearfulness of old age. There are fears that you will come into that you didn't even know were something to be afraid of back when you were younger. And we see in verse five language of uh being afraid. We see language of terrors We also see in verse 5 how desire is something that fails. Perhaps when you are young, you are driven by desire. You have goals, you have ambitions, you have things to chase after. But as you get older, your desire fails. Motivation fades. Motivation drifts to a silent stop, slowly. In verse six, yet another picture of old age and its vanity. And the way it's portrayed in verse six is particularly in precious metal objects. Being broken. Precious metal objects, silver cord, golden bowl, things that get broken. Things that lose their value, things that lose their purpose, things that lose their attractiveness or their desirability. Isn't that what old age is like? Slowly moving in that direction. The silver cord is loosed. The golden bowl is broken. The pitcher is shattered. The wheel is broken. And so again, we're just getting a building up of of imagery, a building-up of imagery that points to the vanity of old age. It is all going in this direction of breaking down. Um the body is breaking down. Life is coming undone. It's moving towards futility. It's moving towards brokenness. And where is it all headed? Especially in verse seven and also in verse five In verse 5, man goes to his eternal home. Man goes to the place where he is bound to rest forever. Where is that place? In verse 7. In verse 7, that place he is headed towards is such that the dust returns to the earth just as it was. The same dust that we were made from in Genesis 2. 7. We were made out of the dust, yet breathed into, so that we might live. Yet that same dust that became a living being returns to the dust owing to the curse of sin in Genesis 3. 19. But there in Ecclesiastes twelve, seven, here's what we have to look forward to in old age. Here is the climax of old age. The body breaking down, desire fading and failing. Where is it all headed? It's all headed in this direction, where the dust goes back to the earth, and the spirit given of God is revoked and returns back to God who gave it. Here is the vanity of old age. Again, there's vanity in youth. There's vanity in youth because the youth do not know what's coming and do not adequately prepare themselves for what's coming. But here is the vanity of old age, and this vanity of old age is shown so that the young might remember, might keep in mind where they are headed. When you're young, you're oblivious to the realities of death and suffering that will come with old age. And so you live without sound judgment. You forget the judgment of God. But when you're old, you run out of things to live for. And you come to a point where the only thing you feel you have to look forward to is death. eventually, and that is poetically portrayed here in Ecclesiastes twelve. And so again what what we're seeing on both ends of the spectrum of life Both in youth and also in old age, life is overtaken by vanity All is vanity, as Solomon says there at the end of verse eight. All of life is dominated by the vanity of the curse. The frustrating aspect, the vexing aspect the futile aspect of life in the world, owing to the sin and the curse, in the fact that it is dominated by death and it is dominated by foolishness in the face of judgment. How is a Christian to deal with these realities that are spoken of here in our passage? Again, we are shown the vanities of life in the world. We can't deny that these things are true. Youth and old age truly are marked by vanity. And we know that's true even for those of us who are indwelt by God's Spirit and redeemed by God's Son. Being a Christian does not exempt you from vanity, does it? Even if you're a Christian, your youthfulness can still be a vanity to you, and your old age can still be a vanity to you. So how do we respond to these realities? How do we live in light of these realities in light of the Word of God? In light of the Word of God, in light of the gospel, how do we live in the right way? Now again, the answer comes, especially in verse 12. Remember now your Creator in the days of your youth before the difficult days come. So the answer is to remember your creator. The answer is to live in light of who your creator is, and to begin to do so while you're young. So that you continue to do so even when you're old. Whether you're young or you're old, live in light of who your creator is. Now again, how do we do that? How do we do that? Well, it includes two things. It seems to include two things in our passage. One thing seems to be enjoying and rejoicing in that which God gives For again, as we saw at the beginning or of the text, verse 9 of chapter 11, to rejoice in that which God gives. Rejoice in your youth while you have it. Let your heart cheer you in the days of your youth, well you have it. Walk in the ways of your heart, well you have it, and in the sight of your eyes, well you have it. Yet at the same time, do so, remembering your Creator with awareness that God will bring you into judgment. So, yes, indeed, receive what God gives to you and enjoy it. But do so in such a way that you're not forgetting who God is, but you're actually remembering him. Use what he gives you, but use it for his glory. Use it not just for your own pleasure. Use it for his glory. May this be the way we live before our God. Are you young? Are your days carefree today? Don't forget that old age is coming. Don't forget that what you have received in your youth is God's gift to you and that it is for you to use for him. Are you old? Have you come to the other side of this? Have you gotten to the point where you feel your body breaking down and you feel desire failing you One way or another, whoever we are, whatever we wherever we are in life, live soberly. Remember who your creator is. Live wisely, live well. Prepare yourself for what's to come before it comes. If you're young, prepare yourself for old age and even death. If you're old, prepare yourself for death. Receive what God gives you today. Don't squander it. Use it for Him today and now. Don't put yourself in a position where all you have to look back on is regret for how you failed to remember him. But use what he's given you. Use it for him today, wherever you are. And indeed, even when you face up against the vanities and the problems, whether of youth or old age, what are we to do with those things? We ought to let those things drive us to find satisfaction in God and His promises, shouldn't we? Again, as we see our own bodies breaking down, as we deal with vanities of youth and old age. We know that these are things that we are not exempt from as God's people. But what can we choose to do with those things? We can choose to let those things drive us deeper into Him. and deeper into trust in his promises. For this is really what we ought to do. Again, as we see the vanity of our bodies breaking down, This ought to point us to the sure hope that we have in Christ of the resurrection life and ought to point us in the direction of Um finding satisfaction in him rather than in sin. After all, it is sin that brought misery into this world And as we see the m miseries that it brought into this world, this should drive us to revol to have revulsion for our sin. As again we remember that sin is what drives misery. Oh beloved, let's uh be careful to remember our Creator. Let's be careful to remember who He is, that we stand under His judgment, but also In Christ, we have very great promises from him, and these promises outstrip even the miseries of this life. We have glories stored up for us. And let's live soberly and wisely in light of the days that are to come. Yes, whatever those days are to come, whether in life there are days to come that are dark and difficult. And that's true. But at the same time, at the end of all things, there are glories that God has for us and has promised to us. So let's be careful to live for Him in light of these things. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, we are in many ways confronted by this word as this word exposes the the vanity that we are perhaps far too prone to live in and continue to to live um um as if we are forgetting you and not remembering you as our creator. Oh Father, we see that um we see that in young young age there is foolishness and vanity, and we know that um we, no matter who we are, we have been all too prone to forget that We are brought into judgment for that which we do in the body, and we pray that you would help us to remember our Creator as you have instructed us in the Word. Well Lord, help us to look to you in the light of the many realities of old age that are to come. Help us to find comfort in you. Help us to find encouragement in your promises and in the resurrection body that is to come. Thank you that we have so great a salvation stored up for us. Sustain us for that great salvation and deliver it to us, we pray, on a day that is to come. Father, would you be with us and just grant to us the wisdom to live as we should? To live before your face soberly, rightly. As you enable us to do so by your spirit. We pray all these things in Christ's name. Amen. Then let's continue to pray. And Father, we come before you as your people, asking again for that which we need from you. You are the one who delivers every blessing that we need. We come to you. Asking you to hear our prayer, asking you to meet the needs that we have. You are a good and gracious God. You are steadfast. You are long-suffering. You do continue to supply for us. You supply for us in ways that are even greater than what we have any right to ask of you or to expect from you. Sometimes you even supply for us in spite of the things we ask for. And yet we come asking, as your children, Father, thank you for your provision for our brother Russell. Thank you for providing for him. Thank you for sparing his life and sparing him from an aneurysm in the brain and sparing him from the possibility of surgery. Father, we pray that you continue s to sustain his life in our midst. Lord, be with all of us, we ask, as we all of us have uh uh problems of the body and are all headed towards that day when the dust will return to the earth We ask you to sustain us by your Spirit, to grant to us opportunities to seek out healing and means by which such healing can come about. We pray that you be with us and that in the midst of our sufferings you turn our hearts towards you and towards the great hope and the great promise that we have in Christ. Lord, we ask you this day, would you bless the ministry of your church? Would you continue to uh raise up uh good good gospel preaching in the midst of your people? Would you continue to spread that to The ends of the earth, would you continue to gather for yourself a people who exist for your praise? And would you attend such preaching with the working of your spirit? Lord, would you also be with us in the midst of our sanctification? Would you grant to us hearts that are eager to repent and hearts that are eager to grow in your ways? Would you grant these things to us? Um we are all in need of that. We ask you to grant these things to us, O Lord