It's my fault. Brothers and sisters, if you'd open a copy of your word of God to the Old Testament We'll be reading this morning from Psalm, Psalm chapter seven. It should be on page 530 of your Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading the whole Psalm, but we'll be focusing this morning on only three verses, verses 11 through 13. Let's give our attention now to the reading of God's Word, Psalm seven. A Shigeon of David, which he sang to the Lord concerning the words of Cush, a Benjaminite. O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from all my pursuers and deliver me. Lest like a lion they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver. O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is wrong in my hands, if I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause, let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it. Let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust. Arise, O Lord, in your anger. Lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies. Awake from me. You have appointed a judgment. Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you, over it return on high. The Lord judges the peoples. Judge me, O Lord, according to my righteousness and according to the integrity that is in me. O let the evil of the wicked come to an end. And may you establish the righteousness, you who test the minds and hearts, O righteous God. My shield is with God, who saves the upright in heart. God is a righteous judge and a God who feels indignation every day. If a man does not repent, God will wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts. Behold, the wicked man conceives evil and is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies. He makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole that he has made. His mischief returns upon his own head, and on his own skull his violence descends. I will give to the Lord the thanks due to his righteousness. And I will sing praise to the name of the Lord the Most High. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we thank you for your word. And we pray now, Holy Spirit, that you would open it to us. That you would speak through your servant. And Father, you would ensure that your word reaches the ears of those who hear. Father, be merciful. Guide your children this morning. Save the lost. Bring about your most holy and perfect will. Even to this time, as your word is opened. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well children, do you know what Wednesday will bring? It's called the New Year. And many times as we approach a new year, people, most likely adults, will make resolutions for the new year And so what are your resolutions for twenty twenty-five? Webster's 1828 defines resolution in twelve different ways. It's the sixth way that I think would be appropriate for us this morning. It defines it as a fixed purpose or determination of mind, a resolution to reform our lives. How are you resolved to reform your life in 2025? Does your life need reforming? Naomi's life needed reforming. If you remember in Ruth, uh Naomi had been taken by her husband along with her sons. from the promised land into Moab, which was not part of the Promised Land. And there she suffered much loss. Her husband dies, her two sons die. And she's left with her daughters-in-law and she decides to reform her life. She resolves to return. It's that same word. Return that's used with regard to repent. But Naomi resolves to return To Bethlehem, she determined to change As we go into this passage this morning, this chapter seven of Psalms It seems to be all about returning or repentance. David is seeking deliverance from his enemies who are pursuing him. It's a bit difficult to understand exactly who those enemies are. He states that This song that he put together, this inspired song or prayer, concerned the words of Cush, a Benjaminite. Matthew Henry takes this as being Saul, King Saul, who was pursuing David to kill him, or possibly one of those who spoke to Saul. Not in complimentary ways about David. And David refers to this one as Cush, Benjaminite, Cush, or an Ethiopian One who is not, as Matthew Henry notes, a true-born Israelite. And so David is now suffering and he's seeking deliverance. As we go into this Psalm this morning, and again we'll be focusing upon verses eleven through thirteen, I want us to see that in light of the indignation of God, the Lord Jesus calls all people To repent. In light of the indignation of God, the Lord Jesus calls all people to repent. And we'll see that in three points this morning. First, the reality of indignation. Secondly, the result of indignation. And finally, the repulse of indignation. Well, first, the reality of indignation. As I said, David the Psalmist is under attack. Consider those first two verses. O Lord my God, in you I take refuge. Save me from all my pursuers and deliver me. He's seeking deliverance from his enemies who are pursuing him, whoever they might be. I think it's a good thought that it was Saul and Saul's band. Seems as though the psalmist is under attack. And the only way that he can be delivered is by seeking God, seeking God's face. He's suffering under the attack, possibly the verbal attack, of Saul or Saul's cohorts David, as in other Psalms, is seeking deliverance. He's seeking to be saved. Verse 1: Save me from all my pursuers. Verse 10: My shield is with God who saves the upright. And David knows that the Lord God is the judge He is petitioning the judge. Verse 6: Arise, O Lord, in your anger, lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies. Awake from me. You have appointed a judgment. Verse 8, the Lord judges the peoples. Verse 11, God is a righteous judge. David knows God is the judge and will judge righteously, even to the point that he asks God to judge him first. Look at verse 3. Oh Lord my God, if I have done this, if there's wrong in my hands, if I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemies without cause, let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it. If David is seeking deliverance, he's petitioning the judge, but he's also recognizing that he might have sin within himself that needs to be dealt with. David cannot rightly ask for judgment against his enemies if he himself deserves the wrath of God. And that brings us to this indignation of God We begin with this realization by the psalmist that that God feels or has indignation. Look at verse eleven. God is a righteous judge and a God who feels indignation every day. To understand what this means, we have to understand what it means to have indignation. As we think of God as a judge, we have to think of him as a judge who has indignation. So what does that mean? We don't use that word often. It's a case of God's state of conscience if we can speak that way about God Indignation is defined by Websters again as anger or extreme anger, disgust or abhorrence, the anger of a superior. Webster notes that when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, and Mordecai would not stand before him, he was full of indignation or anger against Mordecai. Here in this particular passage, this indignation refers to or references back to the righteous wrath or anger of God arising against men. Who in their sin and rebellion neglect him and forsake his word and thus his will. This is really the first step to understanding the need for repentance, to understand God's Indignation. We must grasp what it means. We must understand it as best we can as human beings created in his image. And so we have to ask that question: why is God indignant? Why is he wrathful or full of wrath? Why is he angry? And notice that David recognizes that this is not a one-time event. David was not saying and and writing Uh you know, if if a man doesn't repent today, in my day, in my time, God will in my time wet his sword. He doesn't write that that a God who is a righteous judge who feels indignation once in a while, or just just when I'm writing this psalm. Now he writes, a God who feels indignation every day, continual indignation. A God who experiences, as we put it in human terms, this indignation, this anger every single day, continually. Continually wrathful or angry or indignant, not merely during the days of the psalmist. It's always As long as there are human beings on the face of this earth created in his image, God will be indignant. You might ask the question, when did this arise? We must begin then with creation, with the God who has no beginning and no end, the God who created all things from nothing In the space of six days, and all very good, including men and women created by God, Adam from the dust, the Eve from the rib of Adam. Adam bore the image of God as a moral creature. As those who are created in holiness and righteousness, in purity and innocence, able to think God's thoughts after Him, and most importantly made to worship Him and do it rightly. And they stayed within God's will for a time. Adam and Eve obeyed as they stayed within his will, as they pursued his will, as that which they desired above all things. And they worship him in spirit and in truth. And there was no anger in God. There couldn't have been He made all things very good, including Adam and Eve. There was no reason for wrath. There was no reason for indignation within God until they sinned. Until Adam and Eve sinned against God by eating the forbidden fruit, at that very moment, anger, fury, and the wrath of God arose. Upon Adam's breaking of the covenant, the indignation of God began. Joshua. In a sense, it summarizes this in chapter 23. If you transgress the covenant of the Lord your God, which he commanded you, And go and serve other gods and bow down to them, then the anger of the Lord will be kindled against you. Joshua is writing to the people as they had entered the Promised Land and warning them of God's indignation. Well, that might cause you to ask another question. Why did sin cause God's indignation? Why was God angry as a result of sin? Certainly that's the backdrop. But that question still needs to be answered. Why? Why did Adam and Eve's sin anger God? Why does our sin, which proceeds from our sin nature, Which we inherited from Adam, anger God. Why does our sin, which we commit as a result of our sin nature, arouse indignation within God? I think you have to consider why God created anything. He made all things, including Adam and Eve, for his glory. Psalm 19 tells us that the heavens declare the glory of God and the sky proclaims his handiwork. Romans chapter 11 tells us that from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. The reason God created anything, even you, is for his glory Not that he needed Adam and Eve, or any other created thing or being, for God is self-sufficient within the triune God. He stands in no need of anything outside of himself, yet he chose to create all things including men and women and children for his glory And he created man and woman in his image for his glory. And that must mean, among other things, that he created man to obey And in man's obedience to worship him rightly. These all go together. To be created for God's glory must also mean, at least in part, created to commune with him. And moral creatures, meaning you and I, are the only creatures which are able to commune or fellowship With the triune God through worship. There are no others. And so as man, Adam and Eve strayed radically by and through their disobedience. As Adam and Eve sought to prevent God's plan of eternal fellowship and communion from being fulfilled, God becomes righteously angry. The righteous wrath of God arises as a result of his moral creatures, meaning man and woman, refusing to do that which they were created to do. So when the Creator's purpose, his intent, his plan, at least from our perspective, is broken or dashed by his creatures, his wrath is righteous and it results from that because his purpose, his intent, his plan is righteous. An illustration might be helpful. Parents think of your response to a disobedient child. As you give your child a task, say taking the garbage out, and he purposefully determines to disobey, what happens within your heart? You might expect disappointment. That would be expected. We might expect a degree of righteous anger as well. Because your child has knowingly, purposefully determined To do that which attempted to prevent you, to prevent your plan, your determination from coming to pass. Your good and right plan of taking the trash out was dashed because your rebellious child determined to go his own way and neglecting and hating your purpose and your righteous plan. That may help us a little bit to understand the why, why God becomes indignant as we sin against Him. The Lord is holy and pure and good and righteous. And the glory of his holiness and purity and goodness is to be displayed by all of his creation, including us. Our Creator God has given us pure and righteous and a pleasing way to live before Him, to shine forth His glory. And we've rebelled in our sin. We've determined not to put the glory of the Lord on display through our obedience. This is the reason, at least in part, for the righteous indignation that continues every day. Well let me ask, do you acknowledge the indignation of God for your sins? Do you confess that God is angry, righteously angry, as a result of your transgressions? This is significant. I'm not sure that we can truly repent if we don't first recognize and acknowledge and confess the anger and the wrath of God that arises as a direct result. of your sin. I think this is the beginning of a true repentance. This is the beginning of turning back to God. Why were the prophets sent to the Israelites, as recorded in the Old Testament, constantly telling the Israels to turn back? Turn back to God. They were straying. They had strayed. They had neglected the true worship of God. The prophets were sent to call them back to return. To see the anger of God as a result of their neglect of Him Do you acknowledge the indignation of God for your sins? Brings us to our second point, the result of indignation. Well the indignation is really not the end of the story, is it? For God is a righteous judge. That's how David puts it, that's how he begins verse 11. God is a righteous judge and a God who feels indignation every day. It should be a frightening thought for us. He's a righteous judge who must bring about his justice. Shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just? Genesis chapter 18 And so we must ask the question: what is the result? We must note that the righteousness of his judgment stands behind or is the cause of the result. So what is the result of his indignation? What's the end? Look at verse 12. If a man does not repent, God will wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts. At a description of weapons of war. A sword, a bow, fiery shafts or arrows, deadly weapons. Those that will destroy those who remain in unrepentant sin David is painting a picture for us. He's painting a picture for those who will not repent. He's painting a picture for those who do repent. He's painting a picture for all as what is the end of God's indignation as the righteous judge. Some might read this and think, well, it's just annihilation. That's all that will happen. I will die if I remain in my unrepentant sin. God will kill me And that will be it. It will be over. And that couldn't be further from the truth The consequence of remaining in unrepentant sin is not annihilation That would be a mistake to leave this place with that understanding. Scripture tells us, it tells you this morning that God's wrath, his anger, the punishment that he will meet out upon all unrepentant sinners is eternal. Meaning it won't end. Meaning that the the weapons described here will not stop. The destruction. It will be an eternal destruction. Daniel was told this. Many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. Jesus spoke of it. At the end of chapter 25 in Matthew's Gospel As Jesus is describing to his disciples what's going to happen on the day of judgment, he says, then he, meaning the king, meaning himself, will say to those on the left, As he separated them from the sheep and the goats, depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels, and these will go away into eternal punishment. Jesus did not speak of a once-in-time annihilation. He spoke of eternal punishment. He spoke of eternal torment. John's Gospel recognizes a resurrection of all Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. And those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. It's foolishness to think that there will be annihilation. Now, God's indignation for unrepentant sinners ends in eternal punishment, eternal wrath. If you die in your sins, having refused to repent, you will surely suffer eternally without end. And consider the picture that David paints here. He paints a picture of God's readiness. It speaks to the readiness of God to pour out his judgment on all those who will not turn away from their sin. If a man does not repent, God will wet his sword. He has bent and readied his bow. He's prepared for him his deadly weapons. What does that mean to wet his sword? Apparently it's an old English word meaning to sharpen the event. It's the image of a sword, it's God's sword that he already has in hand. It's ready for use, it's at his side, it's in his sheath. And it's waiting to be drawn and sharpened and used. God has it He has prepared for him his deadly weapons, making his arrows fiery shafts. He has bent and readied his bow. He doesn't need more time. He doesn't need more time to get ready. This description is one of constant and current readiness. The truth is that there will be a day of judgment, a time for repenting will be over, and justice, God's justice or his indignation, will be poured out And yet he's ready today. Even though we don't know when that day will be, God is ready. You must understand that none of us know the day of judgment when it's coming, but we do know that Christ will return and it could be today. And God is ready. The question is, are you? Are you repenting? Are you turning away from sin and turning back to God? The righteous judge has indignation every day. Are you repenting? That brings us to our third point. The repulse of indignation. Repulse means to ward off or drive back. So what is the solution? What is the solution to God's everyday indignation for your sin? Verse 12 actually gives it to us. If a man does not repent, God will wet his sword. Did you notice the conditional introduction? The then is missing. If a man does not repent, then God will wet his sword. But it's implied such that the verse may be understood this way. If a man does not repent, then God will, or we could make the conditional phrase positive, if a man does repent, then God will not wet his sword. The key, the solution, the way to repulse or drive back or ward off from a human perspective is to repent. This message is so clear. Repent. Repent today. Repent this week. Repent this year. Repent until the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, or you take your last breath. That is the call. That's the positive reading of Psalm 712. And so we must know what is it to repent When Nehemiah was building the wall, and there were those who didn't want the Israelites to complete it. They left the wall for a time, and then they returned to complete it. With swords in hand, of course. They returned to the wall. They returned to the work. They returned to that task that God had given them to do Building the wall around the temple, around the city of Jerusalem, where the temple was being reconstructed. That's the idea. This return. There's also an idea of restoration within that word repent. Psalm 85, restore us again, O God of our salvation. Put away your indignation toward us. We see it in Naomi as she returned to Judah, to Bethlehem. We see it as Abner calls out to Joab as they're fighting. Shall the sword devour forever? Do you not know that the end will be bitter? How long will it be before you tell your people to turn? From the pursuit of their brothers. Abner was saying, Stop! Stop, turn back But the truth of the matter is that it's a call to return to God As Solomon was dedicating the temple, he prays, When your people, Israel, are defeated before the enemy because they've sinned against you, and if they turn again to you and acknowledge your name and pray and plead with you in this house, then here in heaven, and forgive the sin of your people. And bring them again to the land you gave them. To their fathers. It's turning back to God. That's that's the essence of repentance. Return, O Israel, to the Lord your God, for you have stumbled because of your iniquity. Hosea 14. Lamentations 3. Let us test and examine our ways and return to the Lord. A Hebrew dictionary summarizes it this way. That word repentance, shuv in the Hebrew, is used of someone who has shifted Direction in a particular way and then shifted back from it in the opposite way. That's the idea. To repent means that we've gone in the wrong direction, and now we need to turn, to turn from sin and turn back to God. The shorter catechism puts it this way. It's a repentance is a saving grace whereby a sinner out of a true sense of his sin and apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ, and that's why we turn back Because we recognize there is mercy in Christ. Even though as a sinner we're turning from our sins, we're hating our sins more and more. We're turning back to God because we apprehend He's a merciful God. The grief and hatred of a sin was full purpose of an endeavor after new obedience. All those are wonderful to help us understand what it means to repent, but we have it right here in Psalm seven. The clear picture of repentance is right here in Psalm 7, and it begins with David. Remember, David asks God to judge him. If I have repaid my friend with evil or plundered my enemy without cause, let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it. Let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory in the dust. If I've done this, if there's wrong in my hands, he's asking God to judge him. How can he do that? How could he actually have continued to write this psalm to the inspired psalmist? How could he continue with this psalm? How is it that God did not just strike him dead there and then? Because he wasn't a perfect man. David was a sinner, just like you and me. So how was it that he was able to continue writing this psalm after he had asked God to judge him? It's because David was a repenting man. David was a repenting sinner. We see that in Psalm 51. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me. I shall be whiter than snow. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. David was a repenting man, and he knew it was God's work. To enable him to repent, to bring him to repentance, so much so that he can call upon the Lord to examine him in this psalm and be confident That while a sinner and while he was repenting of sin, God would not destroy him It was only through repentance that David could continue. And then he contrasts that with the wicked, doesn't he? This description of repentance continues with David's reference to the wicked, to those who are pursuing him. He defines repentance by describing the non-repentance of those who are pursuing him. Behold, the wicked man conceives evil. And is pregnant with mischief and gives birth to lies and makes a pit, digging it out, and falls into the hole he's made. Notice all those action words. The verbs. The wicked man is conceiving, he's planning sin to the point of being pregnant with it. And then he gives birth to it, bringing forth the commission of sin. He makes a pit. He digs his own grave and then he falls into it. The contrast is so clear. God is the only one who brings about repentance, and the wicked bring about their own destruction. The wicked bring about the indignation of God and then once aroused neglect the means of turning away, turning it away from them. And when I say that, we know that the only reason that God's wrath turns away from us is because of Jesus Christ. Because of what he's done on the cross at Calvary, because of his righteousness. And because of the power of the resurrection, he's worked in us life. And he sent his spirit to enable us then to repent. But it begins with Christ, doesn't it? Indeed, the call to repent was significant for Jesus. The first sermon recorded by Mark is very short. The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. Jesus' first sermon, as Mark records it, begins with a call to repentance. Think of the Sermon on the Mount, as Matthew records Jesus' first sermon. It is filled with a call to change. To repent. Let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father You've heard it said to those of old, you shall not murder. But I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother shall be liable to judgment. Change. Repent. You've heard it said, you should not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks on a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery in his heart. Change. Repent. Turn away. You've heard it said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist the one who's evil. If anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him. The other also change. Repent. Jesus loved the people so much that he continued to call for their repentance, their change. The Father was so concerned for your repentance that he sent his son to call you to it. Did you listen to Jesus in two thousand twenty-four? And what will be your resolution for 2025? Yes, the light of indignation, in the light of the indignation of God, the Lord Jesus. Calls all people to repent. Naomi didn't find what she was looking for in Moab. And so she returned. She returned to the promised land. She returned to God, to the people of God. And there the Lord provided everything that she needed. The call really is no different this morning. The Lord Jesus knows of his Father's indignation, and he's calling you to repent. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, we are weak and frail people. As we think of repentance, we usually don't even grasp the depth of it. We think of it infrequently Father, we pray that you'd help this call to repent, to be on our hearts and minds throughout this coming year. That we would be a repenting people. That others around us, Father, would see a turning A turning in our lives, a turning in our hearts. A turning in the way that we engage with them. And most certainly a turning back to you. Help us, Holy Spirit. Work, repentance, true, sincere, constant, continuing repentance in our hearts this day and this coming year We ask all this in Jesus.