If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to 2 Corinthians, I believe that's on page 1148 of your pew Bibles. We'll be in chapter 7 tonight, and I'll start reading tonight at verse 1. Our preaching of the word will be on verses 9 through 13. Let's give attention once again to the holy, infallible, and inspired word of God. Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. Make room in your hearts for us. We have wronged no one. We have corrupted no one. We have taken advantage of no one. I do not say this to condemn you. For I said before that you are in our hearts to die together and to live together. I am acting with great boldness toward you. I have great pride in you. I am filled with comfort. In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy. For even when we came into Macedonia, our bodies had no rest. But we were afflicted at every turn, fighting without and fear within. But God, who comforts the downcast, comforted us by the coming of Titus And not only by his coming, but also by the comfort with which he was comforted by you, as he told us of your longing, your mourning, your zeal for me So that I rejoiced still more. For even if I made you grieve with my letter, I do not regret it. Though I did regret it, for I see that the letter grieved you, though only for a while. As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting For you felt a godly grief, so that you suffered no loss through us. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret Whereas worldly grief produces death. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness To clear yourselves with what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment. At every point you have proved yourselves innocent in the matter. So although I wrote to you, it was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered the wrong. But in order that your earnestness for us might be revealed to you in the sight of God. Therefore, we are comforted. Would you pray with me? Lord our God, we ask now that you'd give us The ability to focus our minds, our hearts, upon Jesus Christ, upon the things above, indeed, upon repentance. O Father, we pray, work in us a godly grief. Lead us tonight, Holy Spirit Open your word, edify us, convict us of sin, and cause us to rejoice in Christ. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen. How do you perceive repentance Do you perceive it as that which is hard? Or maybe that which is easy? Do you see it as a curse? Or possibly a blessing. How did Lot understand repentance? The one who lived in a city of sinners, with none apparently pursuing repentance, how do you think Lot understood repentance? As the angels came, as he tried to protect them, as the entire city surrounds Lot's house Wanting those angels, those men to come out so that they might behave wickedly with them If you remember that account, the angels were sent to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah. And before they did, they warned Lot That unless he left, he would be taken up in the punishment of the city. And Lot lingered. He was struggling with his repentance. And so they tell him, once again, escape your life, don't look back or stop anywhere in the valley, escape to the hills lest you be swept away. Indeed, even the angels urging them to depart quickly and not to look back, a sign of their inability to repent. And we know the account of Lot's wife, who turns back. Who is unable to repent, to actually turn away from the city of destruction, the city of sin. Longing to go back. She couldn't repent. So how did Lot understand repentance? It's a question for us tonight. How do we understand repentance? Here in this passage of 2 Corinthians and chapter 7, Titus has now come back. to Paul and provided some news of what was going on in Corinth. We know that Paul had sent a prior letter. We have a prior letter of Paul's entitled for us, 1 Corinthians, that was sent to the church, in which he addressed many problems that were going on at the church at Corinth. And it's possibly that very letter that Paul refers to here in 2 Corinthians. And it's possible that Titus was bringing word to Paul. About how the church responded to his first letter. Maybe the most problematic. In the church was the fact that there was sexual immorality among them, even the kind that was not tolerated amongst the pagans For a man had his father's wife. And the church had done nothing about this sin. And Paul called them to mourn. He called them to remove this one from their presence. He called them arrogant. It's quite possible that this is exactly the letter that Paul refers to here in 2 Corinthians. Indeed, he was calling them to repent. Tonight, as we go through this short portion of 2 Corinthians, I want us to see that only godly grief for sin Opens the blessing of a sincere repentance, which leads to salvation. Only godly grief for sin opens the blessing of a sincere repentance. Which leads to salvation. Tonight we'll see that in two points. First, godly grief leads to repentance, and secondly, repentance leads to salvation. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourselves that question: how do I perceive repentance? Well, first, godly grief leads to repentance. Here in chapter 7 of 2 Corinthians at verse 9, Paul refers to two kinds of grief. He first announces his joy due to the repentance of those at Corinth and significantly notes that this repentance flows out of their grief. Which a result arose as a result of Paul's prior letter Well, what is grief, generally speaking? The Greek lexicon indicates that it's a pain of the mind or spirit. It's sorrow. It's the affliction of your spirit Webster's defines grief in the same way: a pain of mind, a sorrow, a regret, a regret for something that you've done wrong. A regret or a grief that you experience when you've offended someone or injured a friend. The kind of grief that we want to focus our hearts on tonight is that which is set forth in Psalm 31. Well the psalmist prays this, be gracious to me, O Lord, for I am in distress. My eye is wasted from grief. My soul and my body also, my life is spent with sorrow, and my years with sighing, my strength fails because of my iniquity. The psalmist was grieving or sorrowing over his sin. Now importantly, Paul refers to those two kinds of grief that I referred to earlier, a godly grief and a worldly grief. Certainly, there must be something significant for us here, something that stands behind a true repentance. For that's what Paul writes about. But he first writes about grief, and he makes that distinction between godly grief and worldly grief. So, in order for us to really and truly grasp what godly grief is, it's good for us to unfold what worldly grief is, that which leads to death. So what is it? What is a worldly grief or sorrow? Now I would think that maybe it's best illustrated by Judas. By the one who betrayed his master, Jesus. The one who sold the Jesus into the hands of the chief priests and the scribes to be condemned. Those who claimed blasphemously that Jesus had sinned by referring to himself as the Son of God. That's what Judas did. He betrayed his master. He betrayed Jesus. And then as that account unfolds, as Jesus saw that he was the betrayer. That as Jesus Christ was condemned, he understood that he had sinned. He even confesses it to the chief priests and the elders. He says, I betrayed innocent blood. He gives back the thirty pieces of silver, and then he goes and hangs himself Well indeed, Jesus or Judas did confess sin. He ultimately saw that he had betrayed an innocent man, his master, Jesus the Christ. And gives that payment back to the chief priest and then kills himself. And we might see those two actions, his returning the payment and that which he received in his suicide as responses or reactions to his coming to grips with his sin of betrayal. But there's nothing in the scripture which would indicate that Judas trusted or had faith in Jesus Christ as the Son of God as the one who died for him. We see nothing in Scripture which would indicate that Judas had now come before his death, came to understand that he had offended a holy God. Jesus himself acknowledges that much. In the high priestly prayer, he prays this: while I was with them, meaning his disciples, I kept them in your name, which you've given me. I guarded them, and not one of them has been lost except the son of destruction. That scripture might be fulfilled. I believe that's a reference to Judas. There's no evidence that Judas returned the money or determined to end his own life because he understood and was grieving over sinning against the creator of the universe. There's no evidence that Judas repented. And the disciples understood that As they're gathered together, as Dr. Luke records the situation in Acts chapter 1, Peter says the scripture had to be fulfilled, which the Holy Spirit spoke beforehand by the mouth of David concerning Judas. Who became a guide to those who arrested Jesus? The disciples never indicate that Judas turned back. The return of money is not equivalent to repentance, not true repentance. And certainly the taking of one's own life is not repentance, but the commission of another sin. Well without that evidence, you really have no other choice but to receive this or to understand Judas' actions after his betrayal as worldly sorrow. He was seemingly sorrowful or grieving because he felt badly or felt guilty. And yet this guilt which he felt does not seem to have any connection whatsoever to his having offended a holy, living, triune God. Thus the idea behind worldly sorrow or worldly grief is that one can experience an emotion of guilt or a guilty feeling because he knows that he has done something wrong or broken God's law. But this is never connected to an acknowledgement or recognition that he has grieved the Holy Spirit by his sin. That's worldly sorrow. Worldly sorrow can include grieving over the fact that one has been caught and now will suffer punishment as a result. But worldly sorrow is an emotion or a guilty feeling that is disconnected from the realization that God Himself has been offended by sin, by your sin. Well, hopefully that helps us understand godly grief, true heartfelt, godly grief or godly sorrow, which does lead To repentance. In order to find a godly grief or a godly sorrow, we would understand that it must be a grief or sorrow that arises from the belief, the knowledge, the acceptance of the truth. That God Himself has been offended by my sin. This grief is that which arises not out of the act of sin. But out of the realization, out of being cut to the quick, or to the depth of the heart That is, this act, this thought, this word spoken, which was sinful, is an affront to God Himself. Now it may have been an act or a thought or a word spoken against a person, but godly grief arises from your realization An acknowledgement, an understanding, and the heartfelt response that your transgression has affected, from a human perspective, your holy God. That you have tarnished or made dull, if we can use those words, the glory of God. That you have cast filth on the image of Christ. That your sin is put the name of Christ in an unfavorable light to all those around you. That you brought dishonor on the church of the Lord Jesus. It's this kind of understanding and not mere knowledge. But a heartfelt belief that happens as you sin against God And from this understanding and belief comes that godly grief or sorrow. In a sense, we do well to memorize Genesis 6. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth at every intention. Of the thought of his heart was only evil continually, and the Lord regretted that he made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart See, that's exactly what Paul was recognizing in the church at Corinth. Apparently, as Titus comes to report to Paul all that's been happening at the church at Corinth, he reveals that there is a godly sorrow that's arisen as a result of the church's failures. Possibly the refusal to remove this one who had his father's wife, to remove this one who had committed the sin of adultery, that the church had put on blinders. To it and lived with him within their communion. The church now understood the grievous nature of what they have failed to do, whether it was this sin or another. And now we're grieving over their sin. And Paul takes comfort in this, not wanting to cause them worldly sorrow. But clearly wanting to cause them godly grief and sorrow. As it is, I rejoice, not because you were grieved, but because you were grieved into repenting. For you felt a godly grief that you suffered no loss through us They came to a biblical understanding of their sin as the body of Christ. That's exactly what happens when a godly sorrow arises within a church. Within an individual that leads them to repentance Does that describe your reaction when you sin? When you sin against the Lord your God? Do you sorrow? Because you you know, you acknowledge, you you believe you've grieved God. Not generally, but particularly. See, Paul was not calling the Church of Corinth to generally grieve over your sin. No, he had referenced several sins of the church And he appears to be referring to this one in particular. So I wrote to you. It was not for the sake of the one who did the wrong, nor for the sake of the one who suffered the wrong. How he was writing to them. That their earnestness for them, Paul, might be revealed to you in the sight of God. Do you grieve over your particular sins? Do you grasp that as you sin each and every time you grieve the Spirit? So we read in Isaiah 63, they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit And Paul warns against doing it in Ephesians chapter 4. Do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God, by whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. Do you acknowledge that even those things you might consider to be little sins, and brothers and sisters, there are no little sins Tarnish and bring dishonor to the name of Christ Do you grieve? Do you sorrow over even those little sins? That's the question. That's the question we need to be asking ourselves. This is how the life of a sincere Christian ought to be. That we would grieve, that we would enter into godly grief, godly sorrow every time we recognize that we've sinned against him. Brothers and sisters, as we consider our lives in 2024, can you even think of a single instance after recognizing and confessing your sin that a godly grief arose in you? Each of us needs to be seeking this And asking the Spirit to work this kind of grief, this kind of sorrow within our hearts. For it is only this kind of sorrow that leads to repentance That brings us to our second point. Repentance leads to salvation. What is the significance of repentance? If this passage that we've read tonight is really all about repentance and the fact that godly grief is the only thing that leads to it, what's the significance of repentance? For godly grief produces the repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief produces death. Godly grief produces life. Or as Paul puts it, salvation without regret Consider this is one reason why Jesus came, Luke 5. I've not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. Seems that repentance is fairly significant for Jesus Well, the question must be asked is how does repentance, which is significant, lead to salvation? We see here in this passage that indeed it does. It's exactly what Paul says. For godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret. Paul is not saying That repentance is a work that you perform in order to earn your way into heaven. It's not saying that. No mere man or woman or child can earn their way into glory. That is clear throughout Scripture. It is only Jesus Christ who has merited or earned life by and through his perfect obedience and willing submission to his Father. Only Jesus has accomplished Salvation through his perfect obedience, through his innocent death on the cross, through his rising again from the dead on the third day from the tomb, through his intercession at the right hand of God the Father, and through his coming again. Only Jesus Christ has accomplished salvation. Only Jesus Christ has earned life. So, what is Paul saying as he writes that repentance leads to salvation? Well, he is saying that without repentance, no one will be saved. That's what Luke writes in chapter 13. I tell you, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Or those eighteen on whom the lower on whom the Tower of Siloem fell and killed them, do you think that they were worse offenders than all the others who lived in Jerusalem? No, I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise. Perish. Jesus is saying, you must repent This is what the disciples learned from Jesus Christ as they repeat this back in Acts chapter 3 as Peter preaches. Repent, therefore, and turn back, that your sins may be blotted out. That times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, and that He may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus. Peter seems to be saying that unless you repent, your sins will not be blotted out, that unless you repent, there will be no time for refreshing. Because the Lord Jesus won't come for you. So without repentance, no one will be saved. And so thus we must understand repentance is a saving grace, a gift. Look to Judas once again As we fail to see any evidence of repentance, any evidence of a turning back to God, any evidence that he was actually hating his sin and striving after new obedience, all pointing to the truth that repentance is a gift. That Judas had not received. That's what the Westminster Confession of Faith tells us. Repentance unto life is an evangelical grace. You might substitute gift for that as well. It's a saving grace that you must receive. through the Holy Spirit and certainly participate in if you will spend eternity with the Lord Scripture tells us so clearly that repentance is connected to faith. You see, for faith With faith, the Lord grants you works. Isn't that what Paul tells us in Ephesians chapter 2? For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus For good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. And this is what I want us to see tonight, that one category of those works, which has been prepared in advance, that you should walk in them. As you trust in Christ Jesus, is called repentance. We usually think of works in terms of serving others Passing out cups of cold water, opening up the food pantry. We usually think of works that way, but that's too narrow a view of works that God has prepared in advance for you to do as one who's been given the gift of faith. So as God gives faith along with it, he gives repentance as a work for you to perform as the Spirit works in you. It's like a package under the Christmas tree. One big box with a label on it. It says salvation. A singular box. And then as you unwrap it, you see that inside there are various gifts within that singular box. One singular gift is labeled faith. And as you pull that one out, there's a slight string attached to it that leads to another box that you open up, which is entitled Repentance. All in one singular box called salvation, along with justification and adoption and Perseverance and sanctification and glorification Single package with multiple gifts, all taken together, adding up to salvation Like the other works which James writes of. Behold, some will say, You have faith, I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. That's the same idea with repentance, isn't it? Repentance is a spirit-led, guided, gifted work which flows out of a true, sincere faith in Jesus Christ. Consider Lot again, who had trouble with his repentance, who selected a place to live which was filled with sin. And even hesitating when he was told to leave, he lingered, and who drank too much. Yet Lot was a righteous man. Peter recognized it. For as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard. Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials. Lot describes our lives of repentance. An ongoing blessed work. The blessing of the work of repentance involves many things. Becoming more like Christ, pleasing the Father, submitting to His will, building the kingdom by example, encouraging the brethren, conscience being lightened. Let's just dig into some of those before we close. Repentance conforms one to the image of Christ. Romans 8. 29. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. You may be thinking, well, Jesus never repented. That's true. He never needed to repent because he never sinned. So there was never a time that he had turned away from God. And so there was never a time that he needed to turn back to God. And so how does your repentance make you more like Jesus? Well, think of what you're doing as you repent. Every time you repent, you're turning away from sin and you're turning back to God. Every time you repent, you're hating the sin that you acknowledge you've committed. The filthiness, the odiousness of your sins, which is contrary to the holy nature and righteous law of God, as the Westminster Confession of Faith puts it. Every time you repent, which has arisen as a result of your godly grief, you become less likely to commit that same sin again. And every time you repent, you're moving further away from your desire to re-enter into sin and transgression. You see, the truth of repentance is that over time you're sinning less and less as you turn away from that which God hates. And back to God Himself and thus righteousness, and that conforms you more to the image of His Son, Jesus. Repentance conforms your will to that of the Father. And thus it pleases him. Psalm 119, therefore I consider all your precepts to be right. I hate every false way. That's the idea. Every time you repent, you're forsaking the way of offense and rebellion, and are in essence seeking the will of your Heavenly Father. Every time you repent, you're determining to change that which you desire. Your will to seek that which is opposed to God lessons. And you'll strive after that which is pleasing to God. In other words, strive after His revealed will And repentance encourages the brethren. Does it have any effect upon others around you? Of course it does. Consider the fact that Paul and others were comforted by what was going on at the church at Corinth. For see what earnestness this godly grief has produced in you, but also what eagerness to clear yourselves, what indignation, what fear, what longing, what zeal, what punishment This is what Paul was recognizing, and they were comforted by so recognizing this godly grief and thus repentance in those at Corinth. And repentance lightens your conscience as you know you're forgiven. Isn't that what Jesus was saying? As he spoke, these words come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. See, as you repent, your conscience is cleansed. As Jesus, by and through his Spirit, convicts you that you have been forgiven, that your sin has been separated from you as far as the East is from the West. That God will not judge you based upon your sins, but based upon the righteousness of Jesus Christ himself. That lightens your conscience, doesn't it? No longer bearing the burden, the weight of your sin. As that godly grief which the Spirit has worked in you as you understand that you've grieved God Himself is a result of your sins, and then He reminds you that Jesus Christ has paid the penalty. That he's taken your sin upon himself. That he's satisfied the judgment of God in your place. And he's convicted you that you're forgiven as you repent. Your conscience is light. Because now you've taken the yoke of Jesus He's given it to you. And his burden is light. Brothers and sisters, repentance is such a blessing. We need to dig into it this year. To uncover all the blessings that God has for us in it. Only godly grief for sin opens the blessing of a sincere repentance, which truly leads to salvation. Yes, Lot struggled with his repentance, just as we do. And yet It is such a tremendous blessing to the people of God to pursue it even more earnestly. Let us pray that the Spirit would help us with that in this new year. Amen. Oh Lord, we're weak, we're frail, we're like Lot. We struggle with our repentance. And so help us, Father. Holy Spirit, work a godly grief, a godly sorrow within each of us. Immediately as we sin against you, work this that we might be led to a sincere and full repentance. We thank you and praise you, Holy Spirit, for your indwelling. We thank you, Lord Jesus Christ, for your intercession. Oh, Father, we thank you for your love. Help us, Lord To pursue repentances here with a zeal, with a godly zeal and diligence that can only be supplied by and through your Spirit. We ask all this in Jesus'.