Whatever he's fine, he's facing it. His hip satellite. And Jacob's hip was put out of joint as he wrestled with him. Then he said, Let me go, for the day has broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go you go unless you bless me. And he said to him, what is your name? And he said, Jacob Then he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. For you have striven with God and with me And have prevailed. Then Jacob asked him, please, Jacob asked him, please tell me your name. But he said Why is it that you ask for my name? And then he blessed you It is rather interesting, brothers and sisters. The name of this message, of this exhortation tonight, is Resolutions that make a difference. We are gonna see how the resolutions that we make in our lives sometimes, or most of the times, or a hundred percent of the times, do change. So let's get started. Every year we we are prompted to make resolution. And most of us do it. In many cases, I venture to say more of the resolution, most of the resolutions have no structure behind them. The only logic is This is something I would like to accomplish this year, or this week, or this summer, or this vacation In other cases, our spouses or our parents make those resolutions for us And they may be to fix something in the house or perhaps in our lives. How many of you have made resolutions to read the Bible more? How many of you have made resolutions to witness more? How many of you have made resolutions to give more? These are the kind of resolutions that I wanted to talk about. Keen businessmen inventory their stock. And wise people take stock of their lives. And as a result, they look back on past successes and past failures Based on that ba based on that they make projections for the future. This procedure of self exam examination is a good idea. I recommend you do it. It's proper and it's right But did you know that in the Bible we read time again, time and again, of individuals who made such resolutions? Resolutions that humanly speaking will determine their destinies in life. Resolutions that will make a difference These kinds of resolutions are the ones I want to consider with I want you to consider with me tonight. First, let us think of the resolution made by Jacob. Yes, the resolution made by Jacob, made by Jacob in Genesis. One night when Jacob was returning home, after he was away earning his fortune, an angel came down and began wrestling with him. Let's turn to Genesis chapter thirty-two and briefly look at the context. I will begin on verse 24. And Jacob was left alone, and a man wrestled with him until the breaking of the day When the man saw that he did not prevail against Jacob, he touched his hip socket, and Jacob's hip was put out a joint. As he wrestled with him. Then he said, Let me go, for the day has broken. But Jacob said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. And he said to him, What is your name? And he said, Jacob. Then he said, Your name shall no longer be called Jacob, but Israel. For you have striven with God and with men, and happy that Jacob's was not a resolution of priorities. Was a resolution of priorities, sorry. Somehow during the struggle, Jacob came to the realization that The one with whom he was wrestling was the pre-incarnate Christ, who was appearing as the angel of Jehovah. This physical struggle was to be for all generations the symbol of the great spiritual conflict. that goes in men's hearts. When they begin to get serious with God. With all of with all of his shortcomings, yes. All his shortcomings. We also have them. Don't forget that. Jacob knew what was important. But one thing keeps coming back as as you read the the the whole history of Jacob. Keeps coming back again and again. Jacob did know what was important. That is why earlier he did treat his brother Esau out of The birthright. Esau came in and was angry and wanted something to eat. So Jacob said, I have some soup, but you're gonna have to give me something. in return. Esau asks, What would you like? And Jacob says, Well, the birthright. And Esau said, okay, and gave his brother Jacob the bird right for a bowl of soup. Keep keep that always in mind. Such a big thing for such a little. Okay? How many people over the centuries were like Esau? The birthright was theirs, but they failed to grasp its value and it slipped through their fingers. They lost it. I'm thinking of children that grew up in families under the umbrella of the covenant of grace. Mom and Dad are believers in Jesus Christ. Children who were taught of the glories of redeeming grace. Children that were taught to sing the songs of Zion. But children who as they grew to adulthood gave it all up for something temporary. Temporal and passing. Failing to appreciate the privilege of being of such a thing. Jacob knew what was important, and he made it the goal of his life. Therefore he said to the angel of Jehovah, I will not let you go until you bless me. You have to understand that what we have here is a situation all for Jacob's benefit. And ours. I'm sure that the pre-incarnate Christ, coming as the angel of Jehovah, could have the fear in Jacob. without even working out of the sweat. But for Jacob's benefit, he wrestled with him pretty much as a father wrestles with the son. To get him down and even to win. That is what the pre incarnate Christ was doing with Jacob And he brought Jacob to a place where he said, unless you bless me, I will not let you go. But I will continue holding on to you. He knew it was important. He knew how to praise God, from whom all blessings flow. He knew. That all blessings come from the Lord. Have the words of eternal life. You have the words of eternal li- No, I'm sorry. Come from the Lord. Jacob reminds me of the Apostle Peter In John chapter 6, verses 66 to 69, we read of Peter. After this, many of his disciples turned back and no longer walked with him. So Jesus said to the twelve, Do you want to go away as well? And Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. And we have believed and have come to know that you are the Holy One of God. Peter knew what was important. Jesus was apparently beginning to lose a little bit of his popularity. And this is the most interesting part, because of the doctrine that he was teaching. People didn't want to hear his doctrine because his his doctrine, especially the Jews The authorities at that time were not too happy with uh what he was saying. Well, that is the reason why he was beginning to lose a little bit of his popularity And so, as the crowds begin to leave him, he turns to the twelve and says, Are you going to live too? Is it too hard for you to hear the truth of God? And Peter says Where will we go? You are the holy one of God. You have the words of eternal life. Brothers and sisters, I ask you this evening. Do you know what it is important? Tell me. Very yet, tell yourselves. What is more important for you? You're standing before Almighty God or you're standing before men? Have you made a resolution of priorities like Jacob did? Have you? It is reflected in it is reflected in life. Do you know God first of all through Jesus Christ? Do you read his word daily Is that a priority for you? Do you bear witness to his savings grace? Do you dedicate the Lord today to worship? To godly meditation? To worship piety and rest? Do you return to the Lord ties? Can people see the reflection of Jesus Christ in you As they watch and observe you, if not, you need to make a resolution of priorities These questions are very heavy and not that that simple. I recommend that you listen to them later and and start writing and answering those questions to yourself. Matthew 6. 33 says, but seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all things, and all these things will be added to you. Second one, let's now think for a few minutes about Daniel's resolution. His was a resolution of conviction. The year was six hundred and five B C before Christ. The occasion was the Babylonian invasion of Judea and the deportation of the elite among all the Hebrew young people. The purpose of this was to convert these Hebrew lads into naturalized Babylonians. These select young people would be treated as royalty by their captors. I would like to make a comment to the fact that in our society, presently society here in the United States, Satan holds more captive by affluence than by adversity. And I can explain why. So the young Hebrews were taken away from their parents, from their homeland. In Babylon The chains would all drop and they were treated like the king's son. New clothes, new education. and they were to receive meals prepared for the king. So they were in a treaty good. And in Dal in Daniel 1 eight we read But Daniel resolved that he would not defile himself with the king's food or with the wine that he drank. Can you imagine such a thing? Suppose someone someone had taken all of that for you. Would you have taken the stand just like it? Daniel did? That obviously was a transgression of his Jewish conscience. It wasn't anything wrong with the food It was the finest, most delicious, and nourishing food in the world. But there was one tiny little thing wrong with it. You see, the food has been offered in sacrifice to a Babylonian idol. Some would say, well, if I don't eat, then I will starve to death And if I starve to dead, what good will I be to my people? So I guess I better eat. That is how most of us would have reasoned. But Daniel did not reason that way. He wasn't thinking carnally at that point. time. He wasn't even thinking about Daniel. He was not even thinking of what was best for his people. No. He was thinking of what was best for God. And the glory of God and putting God first. And he was being very careful, not disobeying God. in this crucial matter. Knowing that if he obeys God, God would attend to the other matters. Daniel at that young age was not concerned about living a sign, but he was not going to the file himself. For Daniel to eat food sacrificed to pagan idols was unthinkable, because it would spiritually contaminate him. The English word defile means to make filthy, to violate, to make ceremonially unclean, to pollute, to tarnish one's own reputation. To dishonor and its synonym is to contaminate Nabucles' political theory was to completely change the brightest and most gifted children of the countries that he conquered. He wanted to win them over with affluence, giving them everything, spoiling them so they would give to him their wholehearted allegiance. and forget that they were Jews. For the Hebrew lads, the first thing to be done was to change their names. And here is why The names had great spiritual significance. For example, Daniel's name meant, God is my judge. The Babylonians knew that. They were able to speak fluent Hebrew. And they knew that every time anyone called this young man by his name, Daniel. It was ringing in his ears, God is my judge. God is my judge. That is why when they put that food before him, it was against his Jewish religion. And when they said Daniel eat, they were saying, God is my judge, eat. And he would say to him, to himself, I can't. I can. Because God is my judge. He was reminded of that continually. Daniel had three friends with him. The first one was Ananiah. Hananiah's name meant God is gracious The second one was Michelle. Michel's name meant God is without equal. Can you imagine being called by that name? God is without equal every time they would call him. It would resonate in his mind, God is without equal. The third one was Azariah. Azariah's name meant God is my helper. These name names had to be changed. So the Babylonians changed them in an attempt to wipe from their minds. Of all of these Hebrew lads, all knowledge of the Jewish faith, and they were given new Babylonian names instead. Daniel's name was changed to Beltesazar, which means Baal will protect my life. They wanted him to think the Babylonian think like a Babylonian and adapt their ways and more important their religion Hananias name was changed to Shatrak, which means worshipper of the moon god Mishal's name was changed to Mishak, which means devotee of the goddess of wine. Azariah's name was changed to Abedno, Abedneko, which means servant of light. But the change of names was too late. Too too late. God already had written their names in the Book of Life So it didn't really matter what the Babylonians did. God has chosen this young man for himself, and they will stand the test by God's Persevering grace. The Babylonians knew that a man's religion controls his life. There is no exception. You may say, how about the atheist communist? That is the religion. That is why they lived away. How about the people that don't care? They never go to church. They never read the Bible. That is their religion. That is why they do that. They worship themselves very punagat, I would say. So the Babylonians changed these guys' names. Furthermore, they changed their education. No longer would they be taught in Hebrew school They will now be taught the real truth about the creation of the world. That is a according to the Babylonians. That's why it's the real truth. Changing their eating habits, eating food sacrificed to idols, was designed with a purpose. It was designed to break down their sick the sacred scruples, their moral convictions, in an attempt to enable their conscience to accept the change in their standard. But it didn't work. The reason why it wouldn't work was because the law of God is eternal and can never change. That law was cemented into the minds and hearts of these young men. Therefore, these young men immediately realized what was taking place and made a resolution of conviction. We cannot eat this food, but we offer you an alternative Give us vegetables and water that haven't been sacrificed to the idols and let us eat and drink them. So when you when you have deep and abiding convictions, it doesn't mean you are impossible to get along with. The king's representative said, I am in a bind, you guys. Look, if I let you have it your way, And I let you have the food that was not taken from the king's table, and was not sacrificed to idols. And I give you vegetables that I pick at the marketplace And you don't perform as well as the other captives. My life is in jeopardy. The king will cut my head off Do you understand my dilemma? That is why I'm asking you, please eat. And Daniel responded, Please let us eat the vegetables. Let's just try it for a little while and let's see what happens. And he agreed. Then the test ended. They looked healthier and they were brighter than all the rest of the captives because God was with them. Well, I explain all of this to say the world's flesh and the devil are continually trying to cause you to sacrifice your biblical faith in order for you to get ahead or to navigate in this world. And so, with that in mind, I have a question for you. What would it take for you to give up any of your beliefs? What is your price? Satan is willing to pay it And I'm not advertising Satan by all means, but I'm letting you know that he's willing to do anything Brothers and sisters, the last for material things is causing professing Christians to live beyond their means, to live beyond their means. And they give up The eternal principle of the tithe, because of the debt acquired that it is so great, they now have house payments. Car payments, school payments, close payments, entertainment payments, and so on and so forth. You can understand that, aren't you? I can. It is totally wrong. But I do understand where they're coming from. You know, they were bought out. Other professional Christians give up the Sabbath principle through all the various rationalizations. It's the only time we have to do it, they say. I cannot fix or paint my house any other day. I guess it doesn't need to be fixed or painted. Otherwise you would have taken a couple of days in the middle of the week and do it. You see, brothers and sisters, how Satan works. Very sad. And the horrible thing is we are all in his sight. Because he gives us what we want. So the human part of us has been pulled. We are pulling like this and we are okay, yeah. Sunday football, Sunday park Still others relinquish convictions on nearly every doctrine in in order to get on in this world. You see how demeaning it is? I wanted us to see how demeaning it is, so when we look on the mirror We are ashamed of ourselves because we have failed and we will say, I am not going to be bought out again. Enough of that. I am not going to be born again by Satan or by my whole nature. I am going to begin to act like Daniel, Hananiah, Meshael, and Azariah. Wouldn't be worth it for us to take a resolution of conviction That would include the following. We would not defile our spirits. We would not dishonor our inheritance in Jesus Christ. We would not allow our reputation to be tarnished. We would not Pollute our minds. We would not violate our beliefs in order to get ahead or to be popular. Because of the fear of ridicule or rejection. Those two words are very powerful, ridicule and rejection. But we are above that We know what we are, we know who we are, and we know who we be we belong to. And brothers and sisters I said that should be our determination. Perhaps you are thinking this is great. But it is too late. I have already done all of that, somebody said. I have already squandered my opportunity and relinquished my privilege. Third, let's now consider the resolution of the prodigal son. His was a resolution of repentance. The prodigal was a son of the covenant. He was raised in a godly home and had received the sign of the covenant made to Abraham. Yet he considered not the spiritual riches which were within his reach. He went to a far country and lived a licentious life. while out there. Moreover, he foolishly wasted his entire inheritance. in his pursuit of pleasure. While he had money, he had friends and everything else. When he was out of money, he had to hire himself out to take care of hogs. Finally came to his sense and reason in his mind. What am I doing? What am I doing out here? I'm starving among pigs. And I'm so hungry that I want to eat the food, but nobody will even give it to me. So he decided I will go back to my father Brothers and sisters, don't miss the glory of this story. When the text says he came to himself, don't assume that this was some independent conclusion. No Not at all. Jesus said, no man come to me except the Father draws him. And later he said, I will send you the Holy Spirit. So he wasn't independent. So let's apply what we know about the Word of God to the prodigal. The Holy Spirit activated the young man's conscience to condemn his wicked life. Then the father drew him home. The text says, while he was yet a long way off, his father saw him, his father respected him He was waiting for him. He knew he would be back. Tell me. Now you tell me. Is the Holy Spirit dealing with you about sin? Is the Holy Spirit dealing with you about righteousness and judgment? Your personal sin and transgressions against God, your lack of righteousness, you don't have any. There's no worry about that part unless it is given to us. Has the Holy Spirit been bringing to your mind again and again the fact that one day you will have to stand in front of God to give an account of your life? Is the Father drawing you home? Is He calling you to salvation through His Son Jesus Christ? Then you need to make a response. You need to make a resolution of repentance through God and faith in Jesus Christ. Fourth, let's consider the resolution of the Apostle Paul. His was a resolution of forgetting what was behind. Turn with me to Philippians chapter 3, verses 10 to 14, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and may share his sufferings. becoming like him in this in his death, that by any means possible I may attain the resurrection from the dead. Not that I have already obtained this or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own Because Christ Jesus has made me his own. Brothers, I do not consider that I have made it my own. But one thing I do, forgetting forgetting what lies behind and is and is training forward. to what is ahead. I press on toward the goal for the price of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Paul had persecuted the church of Jesus Christ. One of the greatest persecutors against the family of God in the New Testament here. Paul had stood, he stood by while they stone and killed Stephen And even after salvation, Paul, like all of us, having occasions, failed the Lord. When we had disappointed our Lord, or in some way brought pain to his loving heart, or saying to his holy name, we must repent. We must learn to mourn for our sin. That is what Jesus meant when he said, Blessed are those who mourn. Brothers and sisters in the faith, there are not many mourners in our times. But we need to mourn over our failures and our sins and our insufficiencies But then the time comes when restitution has been made. And we must get off our faces and go on in life for the glory of God. There comes a time to forget our past failures and determine to learn from them. And not to repent, not to repeat them, but to go on. and walk away from them into success. For how often have we all learned that failure is the backdoor to success? Maybe just maybe. I'm talking to you today because you are letting yesterday's defeat Keep you from winning today's battles. Because you keep dwelling in the past. And the time has come when restitution and forgiveness has been granted. But you need to put it behind. And go on. You cannot live in the past. You must move on. If you don't, you will become bitter. You will become cynical. And you will be a liability to the kingdom of God. You will not attract people to Jesus Christ. You will repulse people from Jesus Christ. It is interesting that Paul takes his illustration from the athletic arena Pictures of a runner that it is dashing to the finish line, exerting all of his energy and ability to win the race. A runner must never look to the side, to compare how the next runner is doing. Don't look back to past failures. Just keep your eye on the goal. Keep your eye on the finish line. The goal is Christ and his plan for our individual life. So you need to learn to keep your eyes fixed on the goal. Perhaps the resolution to press on the goal on the goal and forget the past. is the resolution that you need to make. You are on the brink of changing your life. When we think of change, we think of the gift of a new opportunity that God has given us. Maybe there are some resolutions that he wants you to make. Let's see, which resolution of the ones that I mentioned would you would he want you to make? Perhaps the resolution of priorities. The one that Jacob made, knowing what was important. Perhaps the resolution of conviction, the one that Daniel made, not allowing Satan or his world to buy you out. But being authentic, genuine Christians at home, in church, at all times All the time. Perhaps there's a solution with repentance. Maybe you are not a Christian And you need to repent of your sins and accept Christ as your Lord and Savior That is the way to begin your new life. I guarantee it will be an exciting time. One that you will never forget. Perhaps you need to make a resolution of forgetting what is behind. Maybe it has been a lousy year for you, but nothing. But looking forward to the finish, but looking forward to the finish line is where we need to go. Amen. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, for this privilege that we have to be able to talk about your word, to read. We thank you, Father, for the opportunity that you provide us to get together, to be together, and to listen and to read and to sing and to learn Lord, we ask you that we will learn today. We'll be able to apply in our lives and we be able to see what it is and how it is that we can change. Father we ask your Lord this and enemy you send our Lord and Savior the only one Jesus Christ. Amen