If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Joshua, be in chapter 8 tonight. I believe that's on page 216 of your Pew Bibles. We continue our study in this book. Joshua chapter eight and we'll read through the entire passage tonight. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Joshua 8, beginning at verse 1. And the Lord said to Joshua, Do not fear and do not be dismayed. Take all the fighting men with you. And rise, go up to Ai. See, I've given into your hand the king of Ai and his people, his city, and his land. And you shall do to Ai and its king as you did to Jericho and its king, only its spoil and its livestock you shall take as plunder for yourselves. Lay an ambush against the city behind it. So Joshua and all the fighting men arose to go up to Ai, and Joshua chose thirty thousand mighty men of valor, and sent them out by night, and he commanded them, Behold, you shall lie in ambush against the city behind it. Do not go very far from the city, but all of you remain ready. And I and all the people who are with me will approach the city And when they come out against us as just as before, we shall flee before them, and they will come out after us, and we will have drawn them away from the city. For they will say, They are fleeing from us just as before So we will flee before them. Then you shall rise up from the ambush and seize the city, but the Lord will your God will give it into your hand. And as soon as you have taken the city, you shall set the city on fire. You shall do according all the you shall do according to the word of the Lord. See, I have commanded you So Joshua sent them out. And they went to the place of ambush and lay between Bethel and Ai to the west of Ai, but Joshua spent the night among the people. Joshua arose early in the morning and mustered the people and went up, he and the elders of Israel before the people to Ai. And all the fighting men who were with him went up and drew near before the city. and encamped on the north side of Ai with a ravine between them and Ai. He took about five thousand men and set them in ambush between Bethel and Ai to the west of the city. So they stationed the forces. The main encampment that was north of the city and its rear guard west of the city, but Joshua spent that night in the valley. And as soon as the king of Ai saw this, he and all his people, the men of the city, hurried and went out early to the appointed place toward the Arabah. to meet Israel in battle. But he did not know that there was an ambush against him behind the city. And Joshua and all Israel pretended to be beaten before them and fled in the direction of the wilderness So all the people who were in the city were called together to pursue them. And as they pursued them, Joshua, as they pursued Joshua, they were drawn away from the city. Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel who did not go out after Israel. They left the city open and pursued Israel. Then the Lord said to Joshua, Stretch out the javelin that is in your hand toward Ai, for I will give it to your hand. And Joshua stretched out the javelin that was in his hand toward the city. And the men in the ambush rose quickly out of their place as soon as he had stretched out his hand, and they ran and entered the city and captured it. And they hurried to set the city on fire. So when the men of Ai looked back, behold, the smoke of the city went up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that. But the people who fled to the wilderness turned back against the pursuers. And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had captured the city, and that the smoke of the city went up, then they turned back and struck down the men of Ai. And the others came out from the city against them. So they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side and some on that side. And Israel struck them down until there was none left that survived or escaped. But the king of Ai they took alive and brought him near to Joshua. When Israel had finished killing all the inhabitants of Ai in the open wilderness where they pursued them and all of them to the very last had fallen by the edge of the sword. All Israel returned to Ai and struck it down with the edge of the sword, and all who fell that day, both men and women, were twelve thousand, all the people of Ai. But Joshua did not draw back his hand, with which he stretched out the javelin, till he had devoted all the inhabitants of Ai to destruction. Only the livestock and the spoil of that city took as their plunder, according to the word of the Lord that he commanded Joshua. So Joshua burned Ai and made it forever a heap of ruins, as it is to this day And he hanged the king of Ai in the tree until evening. And at sunset Joshua commanded, and they took down his body from the tree and threw it at the entrance of the gate of the city, and raised over it a great heap of stones, which stands there to this day. At that time Joshua built an altar to the Lord, the God of Israel, at Mount Ebal, just as Moses, the servant of the Lord, had commanded the people of Israel. as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an altar of uncut stones upon which no man has wielded an iron tool. And they offered on it burnt offerings to the Lord and sacrificed peace offerings And there, in the presence of the people of Israel, he wrote on the stones a copy of the law of Moses which he had written. And all Israel, sojourner as well as native-born, with all with their elders and officers, their judges. stood on opposite sides of the ark before the Levitical priests who carried the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, half of them in front of Mount Girzim And half of them in front of Mount Abal, just as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded it first to bless the people of Israel And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessing and the curse, according to all that is written in the book of the law. There was not a word of all that Moses commanded that Joshua did not read before all the assembly of Israel. and the women and the little ones and the sojourners who lived among them. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we have read your word. We thank you for it. We ask now, Holy Spirit, that you'd work in our hearts, that as your word is preached, you would have your way with each of us. You'd accomplish all that you've you've uh ordained from eternity past. Teach us, Lord. Convict us, comfort us, encourage us, build us up as your people We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you being restored? In a sense, that seems to be what this passage is all about, restoration, and that's the question that's before us tonight. Are you being restored? We read from John chapter 21 tonight about Peter, and if you remember from the preaching in Matthew's gospel, Peter had sinned against Jesus Christ by denying him three times. Even as we looked at that passage this morning, Jesus was suffering before the chief priests and the elders, being questioned, being tempted. He remained silent. And even as he was suffering, Peter was just outside denying his Savior three times. And then we read in John's Gospel, after Jesus' victory on the cross, after his resurrection from the tomb, as he's spending time with his disciples before he ascends, he talks to Peter and asks him three times, do you love me? Peter needed to be restored. Peter needed restoration. He had fallen through his denial of Jesus Christ three times. And there was no possibility of Peter communing with God in that estate. No possibility of ministry, no possibility of entering into glory without repentance, without forgiveness. without restoration. And so each time Peter responds to Jesus' question, Do you love me? He was actually repenting. He was repenting of his sin of denial. He was telling Jesus that not only did he know Jesus, but he loved him. And Jesus responds with forgiveness and restoration. Feed my lambs. Tend tend my sheep. Feed my sheep. And finally follow me. Peter was restored. And Jesus was telling him to now seek after new obedience. By feeding my lambs, tending my sheep, feeding my sheep, and following me Restoration seems to be what this passage in Joshua is all about. We know that Joshua has been commanded to arise, go over the Jordan, enter the promised land. He is now the commander of Israel, and we know that they have entered. We know that that Jericho has been decimated. By the power, by the supernatural power of God, the walls fall down upon the shouting of Israel. Not upon their battering rams, but upon their shouting. The walls fall down and they're able to go in and capture and destroy Jericho, a supernatural victory. They've entered into the promised land, and now they're continuing to enter and capture and occupy. But as we read in chapter seven, the next city to be defeated was AI. And as we read that chapter, we found That Israel was defeated. As the spies go up, they recommended Joshua that, oh, this is smaller, only send three thousand men. They were confident now in themselves after having defeated Jericho. Only send three thousand. No one knew that the things of the ban They've been taken from Jericho. But they were residing in the camp of Israel. And as a result of that sin, as a result of Achan's sin, of his taking the banned things, Israel's defeated. Indeed, crushed, unable to continue on Men died as a result of Achan's sin. Indeed, the whole nation is now devoted to destruction because of Achan's sin, if the Israelites didn't address it. So now we come into chapter eight, where the sin has been addressed, where Achan has been identified, where he and his entire family have now been killed. And now we see a victory. The turning, the complete turning of a nation that they're able now to enter into battle and take the next city. A resounding victory. And then a post-victory celebration Where an altar is set up, burnt offerings are offered, peace offerings are offered, there's worship, there's communion, there's restoration. We might sum off the teaching here in chapter 8 this way. Eternal restoration occurs through the promise of the Father, the victory of the Son. And the ministry of the Spirit. Eternal restoration occurs through the promise of the Father, the victory of the Son, and the ministry of the Spirit. We'll see that in three simple points tonight. First, Christians need restoration. Secondly, Christians need to press on, and finally, Christians need the victory of Jesus Christ. As we're going through this passage tonight, I want you to be continually asking yourself that question, am I being restored? Well, first, Christians need restoration. As chapter 8 opens, we see the Lord speaking to Joshua. Do not fear, do not be dismayed. Why is this here? Why is the Lord using these words of reassurance? Why did the Lord speak to Joshua this way at this moment in the history of redemption? In a sense, we need to go back and rehearse a little bit more of chapter seven to understand why it is the Lord speaks to Joshua in this way. Obviously chapter seven goes before chapter eight. But we have to dig in a bit to the disobedience of Achen, because Achan's sin stands as the backdrop to all of chapter eight. And you might be asking yourselves at this point, well how is that? How is it that Achan Sin stands as the backdrop to this victory, this great victory of AI, this complete battlefield victory of the Israelites In short, chapter 8 or the Israelite victory at Ai is a picture, it's a story of redemption, of restoration, of renewal And as we recognize that we might be then asking, well restoration and renewal from what? And that's why Aiken's sin stands as the backdrop. That's what its redemption. That's what its renewal. That's what it's restoration from Achen's sin. Well, why is Achan's sin so significant? Remember that Achan's sin brought about the initial defeat of the Israelites. The spies go up, they say 3,000 men are needed, they go up, and then they are defeated The entire nation has been devoted to destruction because of Achan's sin. The Lord tells Joshua, Israel has sinned. They have taken some of the devoted things. They have stolen and lied. and put them among their own belongings, therefore the people of Israel cannot stand before their enemies. That's from chapter seven. Did you notice all of the plural personal pronouns that were used? God doesn't say Achan has sinned. God doesn't say Achan has taken some of the devoted things. No, Israel has sinned. They have stolen. They have taken The people of Israel cannot stand. It's collective. It was plural. Everyone was included. It was one man's sin, one man's transgression, taking the banned things, one man's breaking of God's law. breaking of God's imperative not to take these certain things, just one man, just one sin, just one breach of the perfect and holy law of God, brought about the defeat of an entire nation. Does that remind you of anything? Of course. Reminds you of Adam's sin in the garden, doesn't it? The sin which brought about the fall of an entire race, all men, all women, all children, born through the ordinary generation of Adam and Eve, fallen. An entire human race fell from grace. At the end of chapter three of Genesis, wherein we see the sin of Adam and Eve, what happens? The Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man. Could have written he drove out everyone. It was in the loins of the man. Everyone. Removed from the Garden of Eden because of Adam's sin. Paul puts it this way, just as sin came into the world through one mingin and death through sin Just one man. An entire human race was defeated in a sense. Similar to the Israelites first advanced into AI. I think we must see this parallel, the parallel back to the garden, if we're going to understand the meaning of this passage tonight. One man achen brought the entire Israelite nation to its knees in defeat before a wicked and evil people, the men of Ai. That's the backdrop to our passage. Indeed, the backdrop to all of Scripture when we consider Adam's sin in the garden, and now how God is redeeming a people for himself. Now Adam is not a federal head like Adam, excuse me, Achan was not a federal head, as Adam and as Jesus are. But nonetheless his sin, his act, and the resulting defeat of the Israelite Would have caused the first recipients of this book to think back upon Adam. And it should cause us to do the same. Sin is so wretched. Sin is so wicked. Sin is such an abomination to God that he must first satisfy his justice and then he will and does Restore his people by himself and through his son to his loving kindness The people have broken God's law. The nation, as God viewed it. Had taken the things of the ban. They had misused, misappropriated, stolen from the Lord, the entire nation. That's how God viewed it. They had defiled the entire camp. They defiled the entire nation. And as a result, the entire nation needed restoration. The nation needed cleansing. They were in the process of entering into the promised land, the resting place. Where they were being led by the commander of the Lord's army, there was no possible way for the nation, the Israelites, to continue entering into their rest. Entering into the promised land with the things of the band to be carried with them, so to speak. They had to be cleansed of that. They had to be restored from that transgression. Before they could continue on their path with their leader, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we read those words. Do not fear. Do not be dismayed. Why? Why was it necessary for God to repeat or restate or re-proclaim these words, these very similar words that Joshua had been told at the beginning of this book? Because God was proclaiming, he was promising restoration. As a result of his covenant promises to the people of God to be their God. God was saying, do not fear, do not be dismayed. My covenant promises will prevail. It may not look like it right now, but they will. And so he uses these words to Joshua because the Lord wanted Joshua to see that he and the nation had been restored. by and through the promises of God. Certainly pointing to the forthcoming person and work of the Lord Jesus Christ, the restorer of the people of God. But here But here it's based upon the promises of God, the forthcoming Christ. But now he needed Joshua to know the nation had been restored and now they were able to continue. Continue on. Well Christians today have a different situation. We also need constant restoration. And restoration occurs through the covenant promises of God. That's the foundation. Every time we're restored, we're going back to the covenant promises of God to be our God. He can't be our God unless he restores us. And so Christians are being led day by day to the promised land, which we consider to be glory or heaven, and you can't take sin with you. And so day by day the Lord is working by and through his promises to cleanse you, to remove sin from you. So you need that constant restoration that he's bringing about by and through his promises. Brings us to our second point. The Christians need to press on. Joshua may have been asking himself, well, how do we go forward? Okay, Lord, I hear what you're saying. Do not fear or be dismayed, but But how? How is it that we go forward? How do we continue to enter the promised land? We have failed miserably We've been utterly defeated. We've fled before the men of Ai. The hearts of the people have melted and become like water. How do we go? We know that Joshua asked questions. In chapter 7, alas, O God, Lord God, why you brought this people over the Jordan at all? Would that we've been content to dwell beyond the Jordan? Israel's turned their backs before their enemies. You can imagine Joshua was asking that question to himself, how do we go forward? And the Lord gives him the answer. Get up. Arise. Go up to AI. In other words, press on. That's the idea. Take all the fighting men with you. Arise and go up to Ayya. The entry is not over yet. You've much more work to do. The call is to continue the battle. The Israelites were called to press on In fact, the living God had already acted, verse 1. C I have given into your hand the king of Ai and his people, his city, and his land. God was telling Joshua, it's done. I have already done it. But there was a particular way in which the Israelites were now to press on with the battle. Yes, the victory is then secured. God tells them Joshua that. But there was a particular way for Joshua and the Israelites to press on. Verse 1, take all The fighting men with you. Remember, the spies said three thousand, that's all we need. God says, No, take all the fighting men, a particular way. Secondly, lay an ambush against the city behind it. Do not go very far from the city. This is now Joshua's instructions to the men. After God gives him the plan, do not go very far from the city. Remain ready. We shall flee before them. They will come out after us. And when they're when they see us fleeing, they'll flee, they'll run after us, then you shall arise from the ambush, seize the city, set the city on fire. A different call, a different command than what was given from Jericho. You remember Jericho? March around the city. All the men of war going round the city once, you shall do this for six days. The seventh day, you shall march around it seven times. The priests shall blow the trumpets, when they make that long blast of the ram's horn, then all the people shall shout with a great shout. That was the plan. That was Jericho. This plan for AI was very different. It was very particular for AI. Notice there had already been an attempt to take the city which had failed, but God's plan incorporated that failed attempt. In order to secure the victory. And when they come out against us just as before, we shall flee before them, and they will come out after us. That was the whole idea behind the ambush. And so we see that victory, don't we? Not a man was left in Ai or Bethel, who did not go out after Israel. They left the city open. And pursued Israel. God had devised a particular plan for the Israelites, one that included the requirement for them to trust in Him. You see the restoration going on? The Israelites had to trust that the men of Ai would indeed take the bait and pursue the fleeing army, thinking that was a repeat of what had just transpired previously The Israelites needed to trust that the city would be emptied of the warriors. They had to trust that the men of Ai would fall into the trap, into their hands, according to the word of God. And the city would be open for destruction. They had to trust that God's plan, his word, was true and good and right A plan which was particularly devised by the commander of the army of God to enable the Israelites to press on toward their rest in the promised land. Paul speaks of pressing on, doesn't he? In Philippians chapter three He writes, For his sake I've suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish, in order that I may gain Christ, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection. may share his sufferings, becoming like him in his death, if by any means possible I may attain a resurrection from the dead. Not that I've already obtained it or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. Paul said, look, I'm trying to attain to these things. I'm pressing forward. in seeking to obtain these things that I may know Christ and the power of his resurrection. May I share with him in his sufferings, and becoming like him in his death, forgetting what lies behind Straining forward to what lies ahead. I press on toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Jesus Christ Paul is pressing on. The Israelites were called to press on toward their rest In a particular way. And and Christians are called to press on in a particular way. Each time, every time of restoration from sin, there is the call to press on in a particular way. Some might refer to this as sanctification. Even as we read in our confession, it's in the whole man. Imperfect in this life. There's a suggestion within the confession that it's a continuing work that's going on. It's imperfect. That there's this war, an irreconcilable war going on between the flesh and the spirit, and the spirit and the flesh, continually needing that supply of strength from the sanctifying spirit of Christ. So the saints grow in grace. That idea of growth is that idea of continual restoration from sin, isn't it? But more particularly it involves repentance, doesn't it? Solomon writes, keep your servant back also from presumptuous sins. The psalmist knew that that he was going to be tempted into presumptuous sins and he's asking God, keep me back from that, a continual work. Luke writes that Jesus proclaims, unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. And the Westminster Confession speaks to repentance, that man ought not to content themselves with general repentance, but it is man's duty to endeavor to repent of his particular sins particularly. Call to press on in a particular way, a particular path that the Lord places for you, for your restoration. You see, as the Spirit moves you away from sin, he cleanses you and then calls you to move on and press on toward holiness, toward blamelessness, toward righteousness. At the dedication of the temple, as Solomon prayed to God, God then responds He responds as as Solomon prayed. He said, I've heard your prayer and have chosen this place for myself as a house of sacrifice. If my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven and forgive their sin and heal their land. Restoration Restoration based upon confession of sin, based upon turning away, based upon pressing forward in holiness Repentance and the life includes not only grief and hatred of sin But also turning from it unto God with full purpose of an endeavor after new obedience. That's the pressing on. We're called to do. It's all by the work and the ministry of the Holy Spirit, isn't it? Every time a Christian sins and then is restored by and through his or her repentance, it's the work of the Spirit. That's why repentance is a daily requirement, for we sin daily. We're required to turn daily from our individual particular sins. That's a pressing on, brothers and sisters. And we do that in a particular way, from particular sins to particular new obedience. Consider the sin of lying, of breaking the ninth commandment, thou shalt not bear false witness against your neighbor. How do you turn away from that sin? You've got to confess it first of all. You've got to recognize it. You've got to come to God and and plead with Him for restoration. You've got to ask him that he would by and through the work of his spirit cause you to hate that sin more and more as you confess this and as you turn to him in new obedience. What does that new obedience look like? It's got to be particular to that particular sin. And it must look like telling the truth. Doesn't it? Just as the Israelites were called to attack Ai in a particular way, having sinned against God in their first attack now, returning and doing it in the right way. As you turn from lying, you're turning the truth. That's particular. That's a particular pressing on. That's a particular new obedience. It's not a means of salvation. But you do that by the work of the Spirit. Because you have been saved. Yes, Christians need to press on in their sanctification and repentance by the work of the Holy Spirit. Brings us to our third point. Christians need the victory of Jesus Christ. Here we see the victory on the battlefield, don't we? All who fell that day, both men and women, were 12,000, all the people of Ai. Joshua didn't draw back his hand until all the inhabitants were destroyed. And they burned AI. They made it a forever heap of ruins as it is to this day. Those who are reading this for the first time read that Ai was still that heap of ruins to that day a great heap of stones was raised over their kings. Israelites needed that victory, didn't they? Consider what might have happened had they not secured, defeated, and burned the city of AI to a heap of ruins. How could they have pressed on How could they have continued their entry into the promised land? We can speculate that everything would have come to a screeching halt. If they had not defeated Ai according to the plan, the promise of God. His plan, his promises would have been thwarted. How is that possible? It's not But if it had, the Israelites would have been completely defeated and eradicated. Now the Israelites needed that victory God's purpose for them included the victory at AI. The surrounding nations needed to see the continual power of the hand of God as AI was a ruined heap. Also that the Israelites could press on with the indeed more ultimate battle plan of conquering the entire promised land and dwelling there in peace. And security and worship as God has promised. Did you see the the victory then was culminating in restoration We might think that just their victory was restoration, and I think that's part of it, but the real restoration occurs is as Joshua builds that altar of uncut stones. And then offers on it, burnt offerings, and peace offerings. That was worship. The sin of Achan having been removed, having been washed away, the banned things now having been restored, the victory over Ai being accomplished according to the command of God, now the Israelites were once again able to worship. God, burnt offerings, peace offerings, offered up with sincere, cleansed hearts Fulfilling that which Moses had prophesied and told them that they were to do once they entered the promised land to write the word of God on the stones which had been plastered. That's exactly what Joshua did. He wrote the words of the law on the stones, the plastered stones as they had entered into the promised land, now indicating their restoration. Indicating that God was with them, indicating that they were obedient to the Word of God. And then as the blessings and the curses were announced, One as those groups stood on Mount Gerizim, and the others as those who stood on Mount Ebal, just as Moses had called them to do. The Israelites needed the victory to Ai. They needed the restoration that God provided. So that they could enter back into worship with him. They needed that cleansing. They needed that victory to continue their most blessed act of worship. What do you need? We need the victory of Christ. We need the complete Fulfillment of Jesus Christ's work on the cross at Calvary It's the only he could do. Only Jesus could fulfill the will of his Father. Only Jesus could take your sins upon himself And bring him to the cross and suffer the eternal wrath of his Father in your place. The taking of the things that were banned by Achan and and then the removal and and and rest restoration of those things were just a a a dim picture. Of what Jesus Christ did on the cross. The complete victory over Ai, the burning of the city to the ground, representing the burning of your sins, the removal of your sins from from your soul by the Lord Jesus Christ, a dim picture at AI, but a complete picture on the cross at Calvary by Jesus Christ. Washing you clean. And his blood. And his blood that was poured out for you. This table is representing all of that which we're going to go through in a moment. But you need the victory of Jesus Christ on the cross at Calvary so you can be truly and eternally restored. Are you being restored? Is Christ's blood washing you clean even tonight? Oh brothers and sisters, that we would ponder this, that we would meditate upon this, that we would be convicted that indeed we are being restored through the blood of Christ. And the Spirit continues his work in us to that end. This true restoration happens through the promise of the Father, the victory of the Son, and the ministry of the Spirit. Peter is restored, buying through each of them the promise of the Father, the victory of the Son, and the ministry of the Spirit. What a joy. Peter must have been jumping for joy as he was being restored. Even though he might not have understood it at that point in time, he must have, as he looked back upon it, jumped for joy. And the complete and ultimate restoration done by and through the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. What a joy it is to open your word, to read it, to see, to see, Father, the the redemption of your people occurring there In the battle of AI and then in their ability to worship you, offering up burnt offerings, peace offerings, knowing Lord God at this this pointed us directly to the cross Ultimate restoration is only in Jesus Christ by the work of the Spirit. And so we come tonight to praise you and thank you. Thank you for your words. Thank you for the restoration that we have, even through your promises, through your son, and through the Spirit. Nasty things in Jesus.