Our New Testament reading this morning comes from the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew chapter 27. If you would stand. In reverence for the Word of God, we'll be reading Matthew twenty-seven, verses fifteen through twenty-six. Just give attention now to God's word. Now at the feast, the governor was accustomed to releasing the multitude, to the multitude, one prisoner whom they wished. And at that time they had a notorious prisoner called Barabbas. Therefore, when they had gathered together, Pilate said to them, Whom do you want me to release to you? Barabbas. or Jesus, who was called Christ. For he knew that they had handed him over because of envy. While he was sitting on the judgment seat, his wife sent to him, saying, Have nothing to do with that just man. For I have suffered many things today in a dream because of him. But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitudes that they should ask for Barabbas and destroy Jesus. The governor answered and said to them, Which of the two do you want me to release to you? They said, Barabbas. Pilate said to them, What then shall I do with Jesus who is called Christ? They all said to him, Let him be crucified. Then the governor said, Why? What evil has he done? But they cried out all the more, saying, Let him be crucified. And Pilate saw that he could not prevail at all, but rather that a tumult was rising. He took water and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. You see to it. And all the people answered and said, His blood be on us and on our children. Then he released Barabbas to them. And when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified. Amen. You turn in your scriptures to Genesis. You're reading there from chapter forty today. At this point, Joseph has been cast into prison. Hated by his brothers, separated, sent to Egypt And now lied against and cast into prison as a result. Let's give attention to God's word. It came to pass after these things that the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt offended their lord, the king of Egypt. And Pharaoh was angry with his two officers, the chief butler and the chief. Baker. So he put them in custody in the house of the captain of the guard in prison, the place where Joseph was confined. And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them. So they were in custody for a while. Then the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, who were confined in the prison, had a dream, both of them. Each man's dream in one night, and each man's dream with its own interpretation Joseph came in to them in the morning and looked at them and saw that they were sad. So he asked Pharaoh's officers, who were with him in the custody of his lord's house, saying, Why do you look so sad today? And they said to him, We have each had a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. So Joseph said to them, Do not interpretations belong to God? Tell them to me, please. Then the chief butler told his dream to Joseph and said to him, Behold, in my dream a vine was before me. And in the vine were three branches. And it was as though it budded. Its blossoms shot forth, and its clusters brought forth ripe grapes. Then Pharaoh's cup was in my hand, and I took the grapes and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup and placed the cup. in Pharaoh's hand. And Joseph said to him, This is the interpretation of it. The three branches are three days. Now within three days Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your place And you will put Pharaoh's cup in his hand, according to the former manner, when you were his butler. But remember me when it is well with you, and please show kindness to me. Make mention of me to Pharaoh and get me out of this house. For indeed I was stolen away from the land of the Hebrews, and also I have done nothing here that they should put me into the dungeon. When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said to Joseph, I also was in my dream And there were three white baskets on my head. In the uppermost basket were all kinds of baked goods for Pharaoh. And the birds ate them out of the basket on my head. So Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation of it. The three baskets are three days. Within three days, Pharaoh will lift off your head from you. And hang you on a tree, and the birds will eat your flesh from you. Now it came to pass on the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday that he made a feast for all his servants, and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants. Then he restored the chief butler to his butlership again, and he placed the cup in Pharaoh's hand. But he hanged the chief baker, as Joseph had interpreted to them. Yet the chief butler did not remember Joseph, but forgot him. Pray. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would work powerfully in us by your Spirit, that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word That you would cause us, each one of us, Father, first to submit ourselves to your word and to your will. And as we do, Father, convict us of sin And then draw us powerfully to remember the promises of Christ. We ask these things in his name. Amen. Well, if you've ever participated in a team sport or watched it on television You know that coaches use substitutes. They start with the best, the best players on the team. They take the field or the court or whatever it is, the best players are out there first. But they get tired. They have to come off the field, off the court, for a rest, for a break, and the substitute goes in. Substitute plays an important role, but it's not a permanent role, it's a temporary role. They're there for a few moments while the while the starter, while the really good player, gets a rest. And then the coach sends the good player back in to finish and to win the game. Substitute. Back on the bench. Having a limited particular role. Today's passage turns that picture upside down. Joseph has been sold off. The one who was favored and loved by his father, the one who is the dreamer of dreams. has been hated by his brothers and now sent off to Egypt. He's been sold Two unbelievers as a slave to a Gentile. And while Joseph is suffering as a slave, we get that picture of his family that remains in sin, Judah. Sinning against his daughter-in-law in many ways, even Tamar, using deception to get what she desired The sins of the family continue while Joseph, the righteous one, is imprisoned, enslaved. And last week we saw that while the family was caught in sin, Joseph was loving the Lord, seeking to do the will of God, seeking to remain righteous. And thwarting the advances of Potiphar's wife. And as a result, God sends him to prison, working out his plan of redemption as the righteous one. Suffers. This morning I want us to see as we look at chapter 40 of Genesis, the living God restores sinners out of the dungeon of death by and through the substitutionary suffering of his son. See that in three points. Rebellion belongs to sinners, revelation belongs to God, and restoration belongs to Jesus. Rebellion, revelation, and restoration. Well, let's first turn to this point on rebellion, which belongs to sinners. The narration here as Moses opens it up to us again shifts away in a sense from Joseph. To those that are related to him in some form or fashion. Remember in chapter 38, it shifted to Judah, his brother, so we could observe the sin, the corruption. In Jacob's family. Remember, this is all about the generations of Jacob. And now it shifts to those who share his prison cell. The baker and the butler. You might have in your versions the cup-bearer, but in the New King James it's translated as butler. They have offended their lord, the king of Egypt And right away in verse 1 of chapter 40, the Israelite reader, the one to whom Moses was writing, is being instructed in four critical things. Four things that are critical for their relationship with God, four implied truths, four unstated truths. that the Israelites must be reminded of as they're about to enter into the promised land. Four things that they must understand to know, to believe, in order to survive. First. First that the lord or master of the chief butler or cup bearer and the butler had authority. He had power to determine how and by whom he was offended. The butler and baker of the king of Egypt offended their Lord. He was able to determine what kind of behavior was expected, what kind of behavior was appropriate in his presence. Here, Moses doesn't record likely purposefully what it was that the butler and the baker had done. We just don't know what they did It's not important for us to know. Moses leaves it out. He doesn't refer to it. He just merely states a blanket precept that they had offended their master. Whatever words or actions they had taken or spoken, it's not important. They had broken the standard established by the king. The king had the right to determine and to proclaim that he had been offended. Secondly, everyone offends. Calvin notes that these two are not commoners, Chief Butler, Chief Baker. They were officials. In Pharaoh's government. There were men who were close to the king, likely having daily engagements with him. And these were the two that offended their master, the Pharaoh. Sin does not limit itself to the working class. It infects all, even those who are close to the king, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Thirdly, Thirdly, Pharaoh is angry. There's an immediate consequence of sin Every sin has an immediate effect upon the one who is offended. Here then lies the problem for the butler and the baker. Yes, their offenses were the basis for their predicament, but directly flowing from their faults, from their offenses, came the immediate effect, the anger, the wrath of the king Their master. Fourthly, in his anger the king had the right to set and to determine the punishment. Look at verse 3. So he put them in custody. The direct result of the offenses committed is that these two are cast into the dungeon This temporary penalty assigned by the Pharaoh, seemingly a place of death, a grave. These two were now suffering the fruit of their faults, their offenses, against their master, their lord, the king. Pharaoh becomes angry. And according to his exclusive and sole will. There will be no trial. There will be no jury, no presentation of evidence for or against. These two were merely waiting for the king's anger either to subside or to be appeased. There's nothing that they can do. They can only wait. They will be summoned. King's judgment will be pronounced. Life or death. Only two possible outcomes. Well, we see those four things that the Israelites needed to see in this passage, but how did it apply to their lives? It was a reminder, first, that each and every one of them were sinners, offenders against God, and that their sin has consequences. Adam was told, and they must have remembered, the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. God defines what is morally right. God determines what is offensive to him, to himself. God's wrath is immediately aroused by sin. And God determines how his people should think, act, and speak toward him and toward one another. All of that is contained here, even as the Israelites read that Pharaoh was offended and became angry and cast these two into the dungeon. The butler and baker belonged in the dungeon. They defended their master, their lord, their king. And this was their temporal punishment that he had determined. The wages of sin is death. The Israelites were being called to remember that it's God who declares the standard for right behavior in his eyes. He is the only one who determines the punishment. Up to this point, as the Israelites are reading through this, they're seeing that Joseph's relatives aren't being punished. There haven't been consequences of their hatred toward him. There haven't been consequences of Judah's sexual sin. But here. The consequence of sin is brought forth. They cannot avoid it. They must see it. Every sin is punished. Every sin receives its due punishment. Every sinner belongs in the dungeon of death. Our sin offends a holy God. And every offender has earned a place in the dungeon of death. Well, here it was also unmistakable, that the Israelites would see that Joseph was surrounded by offenders, by those in rebellion. As the narration turns to the butler and the baker, Joseph is certainly not left out. Indeed, the reader has shown that Joseph continued to be surrounded by those who were in rebellion against God. His father, the schemer, Jacob, his brothers, the haters, the murderers, the want to be adulteress, Potiphar's wife, and now these two government officials, he is surrounded by those in rebellion Those who are offenders. It's a picture of the righteous Joseph, isn't it? In the midst of sinners And Moses wants to ensure that the Israelites note the situation. He's making it crystal clear that Joseph did not belong in the dungeon. It wasn't that Joseph was sinless, but he is portrayed as the righteous one amidst. Sinners. Unlike the baker and the butler, Joseph was not an offender Joseph had exhibited love for God and righteousness toward his master Potiphar and his wayward wife. And that righteousness continued as the jailer saw it in Joseph in prison. He was standing out like a sore thumb. First in Potiphar's house, and now in prison. Joseph didn't belong there, he was different Joseph continues to point us to Christ, doesn't he? Jesus didn't belong. The divine Son of God certainly did not belong in a cattle stall upon his birth. The Son of God, even Jesus, did not belong in the midst of that group of twelve sinners known as the disciples. He was wholly unlike them in his righteousness. Jesus did not belong in Pilate's place of judgment. He was innocent. And Pilate knew it. Pilate knew that Jesus didn't belong there Jesus didn't belong on the receiving end of the scourging. There was no stain upon him to be scourged away. Jesus didn't belong on the cross at Calvary, the Holy One of Israel, but we did. As sinners before a holy God, as rebellious ones, we belong there. There's a place for sinners And a place for the righteous. Jesus told us so very clearly: when he returns, he will separate one from the other. The blessed of my father will inherit the kingdom. Those on the left, the cursed, will depart into everlasting fire. If you're here this morning, if you're listening on the stream this morning, if you're listening to the taped version of this, and you don't know Jesus, The one who is suffering in the dungeon of death, if you don't know Jesus as your personal Savior this morning, if you are in rebellion this morning, if you are remaining in your sins this morning. You will go to everlasting fire. This is the place prepared for unrepentant sinners. So the call this morning is to flee. Flee to Jesus. Cry out to Him for mercy. Plead for the forgiveness of your sins, and He will save. All that the Father gives me will come to me. Those are the words of Jesus. And the one who comes to me, I will by no means cast out fleet of Jesus this morning. Yes, rebellion does belong to sinners. That brings us to our second point, that revelation belongs to God. Note so very clearly throughout this passage: there is one significant thing that is missing. There are no words, there is no dialogue, there are no comments from the king. From Pharaoh. Despite the offenses that are made against him, this one who is in charge of the most powerful nation in the world at this point in time, Pharaoh remains silent. There's not a word spoken. The reader does not know how Pharaoh was offended. The reader does not know how Pharaoh became angry. There was no communication. And thus there was no communion with the king. He was silent. Pharaoh and his nature, his thoughts, his attributes, are a mystery to the reader, and certainly to the butler, and to the baker. But yet, a significant portion of this part of Scripture is the dreams From verse 5 to verse 19, in one way or another, this passage is full, is focused upon the dreams. The baker and the butler were given a communication, but yet they could not understand it. In other words, while they received a communication of sort, they yet remained in silence from their king. Joseph notes this as he sees them. Why do you look so sad today? And they said to him, We each have had a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. Do you see? Silence remained. Even though they were spoken to through these dreams, the silence remained. No one was speaking to them, at least not in a way they could understand. They desired to know their situation, their status, indeed, their condition. Would they live? Would they die? Would they be returned to their positions? Would they remain here in the dungeon? Would they ever see their families again? Dreams At this point in time, most likely would have been understood as providing a window into the future. But to these men Prior to Joseph entering back into the picture, that window was obscure. They could not understand what the dreams were telling them. The king was yet silent. But finally, finally, someone speaks to these two. Finally, there was a voice in the dungeon, a voice that was speaking in this deep dark place. Joseph interprets He provides understanding. He spoke for the true king. To the butler he says, Pharaoh will lift up your head and restore you to your place. To the baker, Pharaoh will lift off your head and hang you on a tree But notice, even as Joseph proclaims the interpretation, what does he do? He says, it's not of me. Do not interpretations belong to God? The side note, we must continue to see the righteousness of Joseph coming forth. It's humility. Before these men, he barely knows. The Lord had brought Joseph low. And now his his humility was showing forth. Even as he wore the tunic to his brothers, see the love of God, the love of the Father for me, I'm the one with the tunic. Now he's brought low, humbled. He's given glory to God Why is it that interpretations belong to God? Is it not because the dreams originated with God Is it not because God was the one speaking in these particular dreams? We have dreams today. I'm not suggesting that God is speaking to us through those dreams. At this point in time, at this point in time In the history of redemption, God was speaking in these dreams. And if God was the originator, or better yet, if God was Speaking through the dreams, and certainly God is the one who knows the purpose, the meaning of the dream. And here the Lord has provided his servant, Joseph. With the ability to supernaturally interpret, to bring God's word to these men. He was the messenger of God. For the Israelites. Moses was telling them that God will certainly be present with you. That he is providentially planning and preparing for them to enter into the promised land. They were being called to remember the truth that even when, or especially when, circumstances did not appear to be headed in the right direction for them in the wilderness Like Joseph in prison? That from a human perspective, when they were thinking there was no hope, no way to get out, no way to be saved? That God was at work. Especially then. Even here where Joseph was in the background And the butler and Baker took the spotlight. The Lord was orchestrating his plan of redemption, his plan of salvation. That's why there's such a focus on these dreams. It was through these dreams in Joseph's interpretation that God was speaking and foretelling what he was planning or what he was doing. Through those dreams, God was revealing his character and his nature. He's a God who watches over and speaks to His people, even when he appears to be absent, that the word was able to penetrate these dungeon walls That it gets into places that other things can never reach Maybe today you're feeling. You're thinking that God is absent. Think of Joseph during the trip from Canaan to Egypt. During his time as a slave to Potiphar. During those days, after days of Potiphar's wife tempting him during his stay in the dungeon. Especially after the chief butler was lifted up from the dungeon and left there unremembered. Maybe Joseph was thinking that God was absent. Maybe you're going through a difficult trial Maybe you're gripped by loneliness and despair. Elijah was seemingly so gripped. Maybe you're suffering from painful health ailments. Paul suffered from a thorn in the flesh. Maybe you're struggling this morning with besetting sin. And you're wondering, where is God? Brothers and sisters, there will be no dream forthcoming, no special revelation. No, he's already given you something much better. His spirit If you're believing in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning as your Lord and Savior, He has given you His Spirit. As you trust in Jesus, as you believe upon Him, God is with you. His spirit is abiding. He's dwelling with you. But much more than even that, if I can say that. He's giving you his word. His completed word. The butler, the baker, had three days. Three days worth of foretelling. Three days worth of God's word. You have the completed word And the Spirit takes it as he abides in you. It's penetrating your heart. You see, it gets into those places that nothing else can. Provides that comfort. Reminds you so very powerfully that God is present, that He is overs seeing. He's caring for you. He's watching over you. He's giving you good things. Even in affliction. His all-sufficient word will take you all the way to eternal life. Brings us to our third point. The restoration belongs to Jesus Well, the dreams were given, the interpretations were proclaimed, and the third day arrived, and things came to pass. Just as Joseph had interpreted, just as God had provided to them. The baker's head is lifted off and he is hanged. But the butler. The butler is lifted out and restored Why? Why was one given life and the other given death? Again. We have no reason. Pharaoh just decided. That was his prerogative. He was the Pharaoh, he was the king He was offended. His anger did burn. And he just decided. On the surface, this seems either unreasonable or it happened by chance. We know it didn't happen by chance. He was angry. Both were in prison. Both were awaiting this day of judgment. And now, as we come to it, we find that there's no explanation. What was Moses teaching the Israelites? These two chiefs, from the Israelite perspective, from our perspective, we were on the same track, both servants of the king, doing their work not perfectly, offendingly. They had earned their way into the dungeon, and now neither one of them had done anything in the dungeon to earn their way out. They couldn't. Pharaoh wasn't listening. He wasn't watching. Pharaoh just decides. Only his will mattered. That was it. Each of them were in the same sunken boat. They were not put in there to earn their way out. The king was not overseeing them. Both of these men were as good as dead in prison, cast off, cast aside, and yet one is raised up Do you see the picture? That which the spirit is pointing us to? Moses wanted the Israelites to know God's wrath does burn against sinners. As the baker is hung for his offense. But we also see a substitution, don't we? The righteous one. The only one in this account who resisted the arms of the tempters. The only one who stays behind. This is the one who stays behind. Well, the butler, the offender, is set free. The innocent Joseph remains in the dungeon while the guilty butler is restored. The Israelites needed to know that they needed a substitute for their souls so that they might be set free from sin. The butler moved on with his life, didn't he? While they waited, these two Gentiles, the butler and the baker, were blessed to be in the presence of Joseph. The one whom the Lord was with. The one who was being blessed by the Lord. Whatever he did, the Lord made it prosper. The chief butler, the cupbearer, were captives. Into the darkness of the dungeon, and yet they had the light of Joseph watching over them, caring for them. He served them with kindness. blessing. But that was apparently forgotten as the as the chief butler makes his way up the stairs into Pharaoh's right hand, so to speak. Gone was the downcast face of the butler. Gone was the darkenness and the death of dungeon The butler now had fresh air and life again with the king. The only thing the butler needed to do, the only thing that Joseph requested was that the butler remember him But for the butler, the dungeon appears to be a distant memory. Joseph had been discarded in his mind as the butler gives no thought to this one who was his light in times of trouble. Trouble, Joseph was no longer necessary. The relationship with Joseph was no longer beneficial The butler to everything he longed for in the presence of Pharaoh. No need to remember the plea of Joseph as he walked up and out of the dungeon. The butler was on to bigger and better things. Let me ask you, do you do that with Jesus? He calls us to remember. This is my body, which is given for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Jesus wants you to remember that he stayed behind while the disciples fled. Jesus wants you to remember that he stayed in the dungeon in your place. He doesn't ask you to remember to help him to get out. No. He wants you to remember that he willingly went to the cross. To his real bodily death in your place. He wants you to remember that he gave up his pure body, his innocent blood, his righteous life, so that you could be lifted up and out of the dungeon. So that you would not suffer the crucifixion, the very wrath of God. Jesus wants you, He wants all who call upon Him as Lord and Savior to remember that He stayed in the dungeon of death, the tomb. Jesus wants you to remember that he took the punishment that was reserved for your sins so that you could be set free. From the grip of sin. Jesus wants you to remember that he lived a life of purity and righteousness in the most difficult of circumstances, so that you could be clothed in his blamelessness Before God the Father. Jesus wants you to remember that He's the only one who cared and cares for you. He's the only one who continues to bless you. He's the only one who mediates for you. He's the only one who advocates for you. He's the only one who pleads for your life based upon his death, his resurrection. And his life of righteousness. The question this morning is: do you, do you remember For you must know that as you do remember, as you meditate upon these truths, that you will likely be brought closer to Christ, that you will be made more thankful and praiseful, that you will be more prayerful. And more inclined to follow his precepts as you do remember. But do you remember? Because if you don't, it's because like the chief butler, you have become too busy, too occupied with yourself, and with this world. While you might have remembered Jesus in your time of trial or in need in the good times, you walk up those steps out of the dungeon, lifted up by Jesus, and you forget. Oh, that God, through his spirit, would cause us, each one of us, to remember. Yes, the living God does restore sinners out of the dungeon of death by and through the substitutionary suffering of his sin. Sports teams would be crushed if they did not use substitutions. They are critical to winning. And we must give God praise today and every day as we remember our need for Substitute, the only one who went willingly to the cross in our place, and who rose from the dead to give us life in Himself, even Jesus Jesus. Amen. Do you pray with me? Oh Father, we are weak and frail, and we are prone to forget Help us, Lord. Forgive us of our negligent hearts, of our forgetfulness, and help us by your Spirit To remember Jesus, to remember his love for us, to remember all the ways in which he has served us even to his death. So that we might be even more praiseful and thankful throughout the days of our life. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.