The New Testament reading this morning comes from the Gospel of John. The preaching of the Word will be from this passage. In fact, it will also include uh portions up to verse seventeen. This is the chapter that I think you're probably familiar with and which the Lord Jesus Christ raises Lazarus from the dead. Lazarus has become ill. His sisters send word to Jesus Christ to come. To be with him, hoping that he would cure this illness. We'll pick this up at verse 17. In chapter eleven of John's Gospel, let's give attention now to God's holy word Now when Jesus came, he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off, and many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. But even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet he shall live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, The teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly. and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. And the Jews who were with her in the house consoling her saw Mary rise and and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now when Mary came to Jesus and To where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. And Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, See how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of a blind man also have kept this man from dying? And Jesus deeply moved again. Came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man. Said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around, that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. Some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now we ask by your Spirit You would illumine our hearts. Grant us, Father, eyes to see and ears to hear, that we may receive all that you have for us this morning in your word. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you ever wondered why Some don't immediately see the glory of Christ when they are spoken to about his good news. Why don't they immediately see the glory? Why didn't Nicodemus immediately See the glory of Jesus Christ. The very Son of God was standing before Nicodemus, and he was unable to see his glory. He was unable to see the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature on Jesus Christ. It was not that the Son, the second person, had removed his divine glory But the Son of God had generally veiled it by his human nature. He'd emptied himself, taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. Nicodemus was not able to see the glory because he didn't believe. He needed that new birth in order to believe and to see the glory of the Son of God. Jesus Christ told them, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus needed faith. In order to see the glory. At this point in the Gospel of John, many have and are continuing to distance themselves from the Lord Jesus Christ. despite his supernatural acts, despite the miracles, the wonders, his divine teaching, complaints and grumbling against Jesus Christ just appear to be growing Even after he feeds the 5,000 in chapter 6, we read of Jews grumbling about him because he said, I am the bread that came down out of heaven. Many of his disciples were withdrawing from him. Even his brothers mocked him. They knew of his supernatural works, and they said, Hey, look, go to the feast so that others may see the works you're doing. A portion of the scripture ends with John's statement that not even his brothers believed in him. Even the testimony of a blind man, the one who was healed by the Lord Jesus Christ, could not convince many that he indeed was the good shepherd who'd come to lay down his life for the sheep. But those words, some of the Jews said he is a demon and is insane Many people were refusing to connect the supernatural works of the Lord Jesus Christ with his true identity. People were not believing and thus not seeing his glory. What I'd like us to see this morning out of this passage, this short pass. Passage in the Gospel of John that the glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. The glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Three simple points this morning. Vanquishing the enemy of sin and death. Secondly, removing the blindness. of unbelief, and then finally unveiling the glory of resurrection. As we go through this passage this morning, what I'd like you to be thinking about, at least in the back of your minds What is it to see the kingdom of God? What does it mean? And have you seen it? Well, first, vanquishing the enemy of sin and death. This passage before us this morning, especially if you start at verse 1 of chapter 11, it's full of death. It begins with illness. In verses 1 through 3, I think we have the word ill written three times by John. A certain man was ill. Lazarus was ill. Mary sends to him and says, Lord, he whom you love is ill. John wants us to know this is the backdrop. the illness of Lazarus. But it doesn't stop there. The passage is weighted toward death. In verses 1 through 46, the first 40 verses seem to be superficially centered upon that object, death, illness. Which leads to temporary death for Lazarus, sickness, which moves Jesus Christ to stay away from Lazarus so that the glory of God might be shown. Lazarus has fallen asleep. Code words Used by Jesus Christ for death. The misunderstanding of the disciples about death, the tomb which holds death or the lifeless body of Lazarus, the consoling of Mary. by the Jews because of death. The statement that Lazarus will rise again from death and the weeping of Mary, the weeping of the Jews, even the weeping of the Lord Jesus Christ, the command to remove the stone, Lazarus being in the tomb for four days, the wait. of this passage is on death. And it was not an expected death It was an untimely or or unexpected death. That's the message we get as as Mary sends word to Jesus, come, come, he's sick. We didn't expect this. He's probably not in his old age. This was out of the norm from their perspective. I really think John wants us to see that It's actually the norm because of our sin Jesus had healed others from blindness, from leprosy. And now he'd been called to try to heal this one. They thought that he could, but death Thinking of those surrounding the Lord Jesus Christ, that death was final, it was incurable, it was undefeatable, even the disciples. What does Thomas say? When Jesus said, yeah, we're going to go to Lazarus. Thomas says, great, let's go that we may die with him. Death was the enemy. It was brought about by the fall. It was decreed by God as the righteous justice for transgression. And it's that which in God's plan of redemption becomes the last enemy to be destroyed. And then the picture we're given here is that death has has seemingly taken center stage the power of illness, the human condition. Caused by sin, leading to death, with strikes the living, with seemingly permanent separation from family, friends, and certainly from God. And now we see the work of Christ, don't we? He's working the eternal vanquishing of the enemy of sin and death. I think this passage is really all about raising Lazarus from the tomb. And it is about that, but clearly it's so much more. This illness does not lead to death, it is for the glory of God. That's what this passage is about. This was the central work of the Lord Jesus Christ and the illness, the unexpected From a human perspective, death of the Lazarus was providentially provided by God. So that Mary, Martha The Jews which surrounded them could have a foretaste of the end of Jesus' work. It would be a mistake for us not to see that this passage also contains an assurance that Jesus would in fact accomplish that He was sent for. Nothing would stand in the way of Jesus Christ. Not those who sought to kill him, not even Satan, not sin, not death, nothing. We didn't read it this morning, but in verse nine, Jesus answers the disciples, who are so concerned about Jesus going back. His people are are threatening to kill him. They're saying, Well, Jesus, I don't think we should go. And he says, Are there not twelve hours in the day if anyone walks in the day? He does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night. He stumbles because the light is not in him. It's a curious thing for Jesus to say, as the disciples are concerned that Jesus' life might be in danger, but what Jesus was saying to them He said, my work will be accomplished. I walk in the light of God. And his work will be accomplished. Those who would oppose me walk in darkness. They would not triumph over Christ. Glory of Jesus is the fact that He has won. He has defeated death and sin, like the rising of sun of the sun above the horizon at daybreak, are you beginning to see the glory of Christ in this passage? Followers of Jesus may truly see and appreciate the breath of the glory of Christ when you start with death. That's when you begin to see the glory of Christ, the condition of all of us who have descended from Adam, if we begin with remembering, with grasping. The ultimate and the absolute end of our wretched sin, that which is offensive and an abomination to God. And we see not only the difficulty of the work of Christ, but the depth of his love. You see, as sinners, we were offending even Jesus Christ. But he's moved by his love to accomplish his work. This work of love to defeat sin, which results in death. Let me ask you this morning. Do you look for the glory of God in his providential acts which surround you daily? Do you look for it? So often our eyes are focused upon those providential things which we're not too particularly fond of I don't think Lazarus was too fond of the sickness that had befallen him. I know that Mary and Martha were not fond of the fact that their brother lay in the tomb, and yet the providential hand of God surrounded them in that event. Do you look for those things of glory of God and those providential acts We should think of it this morning He has caused you to desire to be in this place this morning, to be in worship. He has arranged all things in your lives so that you could be here. this morning to worship him. That's to his glory. All of those providential things that have happened in your life that have enabled you to be here, especially his work upon your hearts. That's to his glory. There are so many things that the world is offering today, other than being in this place. But by his providential hand, he's brought you here. That's to his glory Worship has become more and more prominent and necessary and joyful in your lives. You must see the glory in that work of God. Well, not only does he vanquish the enemy of sin and death But that brings us to our second point, that he removes the blindness of unbelief. It was appropriate for John really to spend time focusing upon death, the illness. So that Jesus could now move the thoughts of people to the resurrection, with death as the backdrop. The need for the resurrection would become so clear for the future apostles and followers of the Lord Jesus Christ But it would take more than merely mentioning the word or suggesting the doctrine for those around Christ to see the glory in Him and come to faith See, for those whom Jesus was ministering to, they had all fallen from grace, just like we have. They were not yet enlightened, they were not yet understanding, they were living and thinking. earthly thoughts, not kingdom thoughts. There's a great sense in in which the illness and the death of Lazarus was a picture of the hearts of those who were watching the wonders, the supernatural acts of the Lord Jesus Christ and hearing his words and yet remaining lifeless. Toward Christ, toward his ministry. These were not at this point clearly seeing the kingdom They were not yet able to see the glory of the Son of God who had veiled his glory with the human nature. Their focus was upon the physical, the material world. How do I know that? Even leading up to this passage, we see Nicodemus's focus was on the material world. How can a man enter the second time into his mother's womb? He wasn't thinking spiritually, he was thinking worldly. What about the Samaritan woman? She was fixed upon getting water and intrigued by by Christ's suggestion that she might not have to come back to the well It was the same thing with those who surrounded Christ on this day. Their focus was upon earthly life. Upon the physical existence of Lazarus amongst them. The disciples. Raven focused on the natural world. Lord, if he had fallen asleep, he'll recover. Their minds were not fixed upon the spiritual. The Jews who see Christ weeping, they see how he loved them. Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this one from dying? Their depth of unbelief was deep. Even as Jesus provides clues to the reader of his focus upon the spiritual realm. He was telling his disciples, I go to awaken him so that you might believe. Do you see how Jesus' focus was on the spiritual? The disciples were constantly upon the world. Jesus did not say, let us go to console Martha and Mary. Let me go so that I can proclaim a eulogy for Lazarus. No, let me go so that I may raise him from the dead so that you might believe. Even in light of that explanation, the remaining unbelief, even in Martha and Mary, is quite extraordinary. Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. Martha was thinking of what life would have been like if Lazarus had not died, that he would still be with them, they would still be in fellowship. They would still be brother and sister. She doesn't really expect that Jesus can do anything now that Lazarus is dead, this illness Jesus might have been able to deal with, but death It's too final, too powerful for Jesus. And then Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection. There it was. The reason for Lazarus' death So that Jesus Christ might reveal to those with blindness that the resurrection was not an event, that it was a person, and he was standing before them. I am the resurrection. Significantly, Jesus asks Martha if she believed. Do you believe this? Why was that important? Jesus had just stated the truth: whoever believes in me, though he die yet, he shall live. And everyone who lives and believes in me shall never die. Remember, Martha was convinced that she knew who this was standing before her. Yes, I believe you're the Messiah. One promised from long ago But in Martha's heart, the Messiah might have been able to deliver politically from Rome, but not from bodily death. The Messiah might be able to re-establish Israel as a nation, but not to establish eternal life with God. And so Jesus questions Martha to show her that her beliefs, like those others around her, were not false Even her words at the tomb suggest that she was just not understanding that the Messiah equals the resurrection. Her beliefs were not yet believing in this one as as the Savior of her soul And so Jesus questions her, seeking for her to make that connection between his works and his person. No one at this point was seeing the glory of Christ. Martha was loved by Jesus. The resurrection was right in front of her, speaking to her, proclaiming to her the good news, and yet, like Nicodemus Martha was blinded from seeing the glory of Christ. Signs, the wonders, the supernatural works of the Lord Jesus Christ were not being understood. They were not being seen or or understood for what they were, confirming that the Lord Jesus Christ was in perfect union and communion with God the Father, and that he had been sent by God to do the work of God, and that he was in fact. God Himself. What was the solution? Well, amidst this unbelief, what does Jesus do? It goes to prayer, doesn't he? Look at verse 41. Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I don't think we have the entire prayer here. It's in the past tense. You have heard me. I know that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me. That was the problem. They were not connecting his works with being sent by God. And now as he prays to the Father, he wants the people, the Jews, Martha, Mary, to hear that God the Father hears him and responds. positively as Lazarus Lazarus was now to be raised by the mere voice of the Lord Jesus Christ, demonstrating without question That he, Jesus, was doing that which only God could do, triumph over death. The word and the works of the Lord Jesus Christ go together. They cannot be separated. Here Jesus communes with his father in the hearing of the people and connects the word with the raising, with the work of raising the Lazarus. With raising Lazarus. So that some of those hearts that were there that day will be broken into and believe. What does it take for someone to see the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ? What does it take? Remember the passage we read from Isaiah this morning. It's a wonderful passage. Seek for the Lord while he may be found. Call upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way and the unrighteous man his thoughts, let him return to the Lord, that he may have compassion. How does that happen? How does it happen that one might seek the Lord? How does it happen that one might forsake his way? How does it happen that one might return to the Lord? All these appear to be precursors to the compassion of God and to his abundant pardon and to seeing his glory Clearly it's the work of the Lord. All of these things Notice, as soon as the prophet Isaiah writes this, then he states, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. Do you see? If you call upon the Lord when he's near, if you forsake your way, if the unrighteous man his his thoughts And return to the Lord. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, and my ways are not your ways. You see, it was the Lord who would do it in unexpected ways. Who would have thought or planned the illness? and death of Lazarus. Who would have delayed two days so that the death of Lazarus would be confirmed? So that he could raise him from the dead. Who would have wept before these witnesses and who would have prayed out loud that Lazarus might be raised? So that many would hear the word and the works of the Lord Jesus Christ. This was God's divine plan. My ways are not your ways. And then And then Isaiah says, For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, they do not return there but water the earth. making it spring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater, so shall my word be that goes out from my mouth Do you see the connection between God's works and his word? That they go together? You say, well, that's an analogy. Yes, it is. But it's also the work of God that goes along with His Word. This is how the Lord Jesus Christ removes blindness and unveils his glory through his word and his works. It's a glorious plan. It's a glorious work, even in the lives of those that day that saw Lazarus rise up. From the dead. Yes. Removing the blindness of unbelief, a glorious work of the Lord Jesus Christ. That brings us to our third point: unveiling the glory of resurrection. This passage culminates now, at least from a worldly perspective, in temporary triumph over the grave. So they took the stone away, and when he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out at his hands and feet bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. It's interesting that John didn't use Lazarus' name when he wrote that the man whom had died came out. You see the focus has now shifted. It's shifted from death to life in Christ. And so he doesn't use his name. Unbind him, let him go. Jesus said these words. It was Jesus who raised Lazarus from the dead. It was his supernatural power of Jesus as he calls out to his Father His prayer on display, his words on display, his works on display. Marks of death, those linen strips. I think this is something I read in a commentary, I'm not sure where Removed, unbind him. Jesus Christ, at the command of his voice, brings forth life from death. But only for a time. Lazarus died again. Why? Why did Jesus raise Lazarus to make him to be subject again to the misery of this life and the body of sin? Certainly had the effect of reuniting family. Martha and Mary were certainly overjoyed, I'm sure. But why As a reader of this event, we know that unequivocally this resurrection was for the glory of God. And we might think that at that moment, as Lazarus is raised, as he's walking now and speaking. That the glory of Christ begins to shine forth. That his human nature, in a sense, if we can think of it this way, it was just pulled back a little bit The divine nature was shining gloriously, as the observer could clearly here and see the communion, the intimate connection to the living God of creation, and thus that this work, this temporary work of resurrection, that was glorifying the Lord Jesus Christ and his Father. You might ask, well, how was God glorified here in this passage? What was it that Jesus Christ did? Well you say, well, he raised Lazarus from the dead. That's glory that's glorious. Yes, glorious. But there's something missing in this passage. There's something strange about it. John placed such an emphasis upon death, upon illness, upon the sorrow that was being experienced. The heartfelt sorrow of Mary and Martha and the Jews, even Jesus as he's weeping, the sorrow, the grief, the grieving And then as the stone is being rolled away, the Jews are most likely thinking Jesus just wants to see the body for one last time to say goodbye, and there's going to be this stench rolling out, and there's this climactic turn of events as Jesus calls him to life. Where's the celebration? Why doesn't John write of of Mary and Martha embracing Lazarus? They so wanted him to be alive. Why weren't they weeping tears of joy at this point? Why isn't John recording that? Such a build-up and no celebration. You see what John is doing? You see what the Spirit is doing with us? Today, Lazarus was truly raised from the dead to live again, to walk upon the earth with his sisters and with Jesus, but that was not the focal point. That was not the message. That was not the purpose. Look at verses 45 and 46. It seems to be that the celebration that most likely happened was set aside, was not recorded by John, so that he could record that which was God's purpose. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. There was Work of the Lord Jesus Christ. He was not seeking a celebration. He was not waiting for the crowds to begin cheering. He was not waiting for tears of joy to to run down their faces. No. He wanted to see their hearts moved from unbelief To belief. He wanted to see more entering the kingdom of God. He wanted to see more worshipers of God. Do you see it? That whole event culminates in belief. Jesus was seeking true worshipers. These Jews that now believed would be folded ultimately into true worshippers of God most high, that's the glory of God, is it not? There seems to be a glory which all can see Psalmist writes of it. The heavens declare the glory of God, the heavens proclaim his righteousness, and then there is the glory of God which can only be seen by those with true faith. Isn't that what Jesus told Martha? Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God Here it is, the resurrection of Lazarus prefiguring the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, and thus the resurrection of all believers in Christ, clearly seen in faith, as they see the glory of God now. He's bestowing the riches of undeserved and unmerited grace, eternal life with himself Upon his creatures who become worshipers. What about the glory of Jesus? Where is that in this passage? Again, you would say, what was the resurrection of Christ? It's the raising from the dead. That's the glory of Christ. It's pointing to his resurrection. And I think that's all right. I think that's all good. But there's more. Look at his sacrificial heart. He risked his life to come Lazarus was not just dying, he was dead. And in the midst of those trying to kill him, Jesus Christ He's not thinking of himself. He's thinking more of the sheep than of his own well-being. He goes, even as the disciples say, whoa, wait, wait. Oh Jesus goes. He needs to protect the sheep. The wolves are going to be attacking. He needs to stand in the gap. He's bringing those to life We're dead. And he does it by his sacrificial heart. Did you see his unconditional love in this passage as well? His unconditional love for the people of God. What did Lazarus do to deserve to be raised? What was it? Well, he was dead in the tomb. He did nothing. He did nothing to deserve the unconditional love of Christ. That's why it's unconditional. Christ goes because he loves the people of God. Unconditionally. He loved sinners so that he could serve his father He loved sinners to his own death. That's the unconditional love of the Lord Jesus Christ, shown in this passage. His human nature is clearly shown in this passage. I asked. I asked our pastor at the church where I've been serving, what do you think this passage is about as Jesus weeps? He says, I I think it shows the human nature of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think he's exactly right That's the Christ's glory. He weeps alongside of his divine nature that God would condescend to take on a human nature is glorious It's shown here for us in this passage. His passion, his comp his pity is shown so very clearly. Many might be tempted to think, wow, You put Lazarus through this trial? You put Martha and Mary through this trial just for your glory? But the truth is that this passage sets forth the sympathetic nature of our God, the loving and the caring nature of our God in Christ. His spirit is troubled to the point of weeping as he sees the ravages of sin and death, not only upon Lazarus, but upon those who surround him, upon Martha and Mary. And he weeps because he sees them He sees that separation. He knows the pain It's part of the glory of God in Christ that He is able to and does condescend to His creatures and show forth publicly his sympathetic heart, and then we have the power and authority of the Lord Jesus Christ, don't we? Even over sin and death. All of those are in this passage. All of them show forth the glory of Christ Let me ask you one last question. How does this change your worship? How does this passage Change your worship of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you're trusting in Him today, if you've been able enabled to See the kingdom of God as you've been able now to see the glory of Christ, to see what that means in this passage. How does that change your worship As you've been given the gift of being able to see his glory as a result of your belief, how does that change your worship Remember the people here are not recorded as cheering and and celebrating The recorders coming to belief in the Lord Jesus Christ, they were quiet, at least as John records it, they were quiet. They leave the place believing, not all of them, not all of them, but those who are chosen by God seemingly leave the place Believing, seeing, and worshiping And this should affect our worship as we come every Lord's Day To gaze upon the glory of Christ. The glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as seen Brothers and sisters, this passage is a blessing to us today And it should increase our joy and gladness in worship. It should increase our praise as we are enabled to see the glory of Christ. And as we do, see the glory of God. Amen. Could you pray with me? Father in heaven. What a glorious passage that you've given to us this morning. To see what our sin does to us. See the righteous judgment of God. And yet, Father, in your wisdom and your unconditional love, In your glory, you sent your Son to raise us out of a pit of damnation and hell and set us upon the rock that's Christ. We praise you this day for Christ. We praise you this day for allowing us, Father, mere humans, mere creatures. To engage in seeing his glory. Father, help us to see it even more clearly as you continue to work in our hearts. And give you all the praise and thanksgiving. Father, as we think of the Lord's Prayer, as we think of the model prayer, we ask, Father, that you'd help us now to pray. Our Father, who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we have also forgiven our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the glory and the power and the glory forever. Amen