Well, let us now go to the text for our message tonight from 1 Timothy 4, beginning at verse. uh 6 in that chapter and reading on through verse 16 uh the focus of my remarks will be verses 14 uh through 16 14 and 15 primarily So turn to Ephesian Ephesians to 1 Timothy 4, beginning at verse 6. If you instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ. nourished in the words of faith, and of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed. But reject profane and old wives' fables And exercise yourself toward godliness. For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. having promise of the life that now is and that and of that which is to come. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. These things command and teach. Let no one despise your youth, but be an example to the believers in word. in conduct, in love, in spirit, in faith, in purity. Till I come, give attention to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine Do not neglect the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the elders. Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them, that your progress may be evident to all. Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine. Continue in them. For in so doing you will save yourself and those who hear you. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. And I know that, you know, we have been uh plowing through Timothy, and uh I know that we've been talking a great bit about the last couple of weeks About Timothy's responsibility, the charge that's been given to him by Paul, and how Paul says Timothy can implement that responsibility And you do remember that this is Timothy is now taking over the church at Ephesus. He's a very young man in terms of age. But he's had a wealth of experience, and he has been serving with the Apostle Paul, alongside the Apostle Paul, in Ephesus. where Paul labored for several years. And as Paul leaves, he wants to make certain that there is no false doctrine that comes into the group after he leaves. And so he has left Timothy there to be responsible to see that that doesn't happen And he talks about various different kinds of things he should be aware of. And then he gets to where we are tonight. And uh uh particularly the the thought that he says uh right before we get to where we are going to come tonight. He says to Timothy, do not let anyone despise your youth. And you might recall last time, last few times we've looked at what Paul says will help Timothy, in not having anyone despise his young age. And he says, you're to be an example. And he lists about six things that Timothy is to be an example of so that essentially he wins the confidence of the people that are under him. That they won't look at him as some just some young whippersnapper, but someone who has some spiritual substance to him And you recall some of those six things that Paul says you're to be an example in, you're to be an example in the Word. In other words, Timothy's understanding of God's Word, Timothy's understanding of God's gospel and of Christ, the focal point of the Word of God. is one that should be highly developed. He's to know his Bible well. He's to know the gospel well. And we can all understand that someone who knows the Bible well and is teaching it faithfully and correctly is someone that we do give some respect to. regardless of w of uh of uh whether they're young or or old. He says then also be an example in your conversation according to the old King James, but he's not there talking about the kind of speaking. The word conversation there actually technically means your conduct Be an example in your conduct. And the Apostle Paul in the Ephesian church, no less, talked about Ministers having what he called worthy conduct. In chapter four and verse one Paul writes, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that you walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. How do you walk worthily? He goes on to say, with all meekness and lowliness, long-suffering. bearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Timothy, Paul is saying, your life The way you conduct yourself is to be according to this pattern. And if you conduct yourself that way, you will earn respect, even though you are a young man in the ministry. And then he adds, here's another way in which you need to be an example. You need to be an example in love. And again, the the word love there is the agape word that signifies the willingness to sacrifice. In this case He is to give his life as a sacrifice to God, but also to the brothers and sisters to whom he ministers. And 1 John 3, verse 16 reminds us hereby we perceive the love of God, because he came and laid down his light for us. And so we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers and sisters. You show love, Timothy, and the people will respect you, even if you are a young man. Then the Apostle Paul goes on to say, in spirit, you demonstrate, and this is not here talking about his the Holy Spirit, but he's talking about his human spirit or what we might call his a person's attitude. Let your attitude, uh be one that demonstrates that you are committed to God, you're committed to Christ, you're committed to the Holy Spirit, you're striving To live a good example for their glory. That that kind of is what is what motivates you, what is part of your reason for being. Then he adds a fifth thing that Timothy can do to help people not despise his youth. He says Show it in your faith. Let your faith be one that holds to the mysteries of the faith with a pure conscience. Believe in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Believe that God is. Believe that God is a rewarder of those who seek him diligently. Have faith. Don't let your eyes dictate what you believe, but believe in the promises of God. And be steadfast in that, regardless of whatever negative circumstances come your way. And then finally he says, demonstrate, be an example in purity. And the word there in Greek for purity is moral character Let your character be consistent with God's definition of holiness He says, if you do all these six things, now obviously when I say that, I am we understand that that's through the Holy Spirit's ability. and power in Timothy's life. But if you do these things, then you'll go a long way to preventing people from despising your youth and respecting you, and respecting the ministry, the gospel that you preach and teach. And now tonight The Apostle Paul gives further instruction to Timothy about what it means to be a good minister, beginning with verse 14. Neglect not the gift that is in you, which was given to you by prophecy, with the lay on of hands. First of all, Timothy is told that he has a gift, a very important gift. It was something that was of divine origin. The gift that he has is by divine grace. The Greek word indicates that. 2 Timothy 1, verses 5 through 7 clearly locate the gift that Paul is talking about here as being a gift of God. Listen to what Paul says. 2 Timothy 1 verses 5 through 7. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned or the sincere faith that is in the which first dwelt in your grandmother Lois and your mother Eunice, I am persuaded that in thee also Which I am persuaded that it is in thee also. Therefore, I put in remembrance that you stir up the gift of God which is in you. By the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind Timothy, you have a gift. It's a God-given gift. It it really But it's essentially God has gifted you for ministry. God has gifted you for the task of ministering the gospel to his people. Now he encourages Timothy not to neglect that gift Not to neglect that gift, and the Greek word connected with not neglecting there is to disregard the gift. Or to reject it. How do you disregard or reject The gift that God has given to a person to minister the Word of God, not simply Timothy, but anyone. How could that happen? Could that happen Well, surely it could. Particularly if you don't continue to exercise that gift. Or as verse fifteen is about to say Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them that your progress might be evident to all. Now I want you just to keep that in the back of your mind because we're going to go there in just a minute and talk about that. But I want to clean up something else here. that uh I uh back in verse 14 that I I want to address. Neglect not the gift, the gift that God has given you for ministry, which was given to you by prophecy. What does that word prophecy there mean? It is the word that when we hear prophecy, we think of being able to predict the future. But here the word prophecy is another word for The testimony of the gospel or the word of God. The gift that is given to Timothy is through the Word of God. In other words, everything that he has learned about this thing called the gospel, this glorious gospel of Christ. has been conveyed to him from God's Word. As Paul has taught him God's word. And as his mother And his grandmother taught him God's word. Yeah. Lois and Eunice. And you remember their names come up again. In 2 Timothy chapter 3, that familiar passage of Scripture, where Paul talks about Scripture itself, that all scripture is God-breathed. God inspired, and it's profitable for instruction in righteousness, for training, for reproof, and so on and so on, so that the man of God might be equipped for every righteous act. And you see, that's the idea lying behind this word prophecy. Revelation chapter 1, verse 3 speaks a little indirectly to this idea that prophecy here is referring. to the study of God's Word or the Word itself. It says, Blessed is he who reads, and those who hear the word of this prophecy. Well, this prophecy is the book of Revelation, the Word of God, and keeps those things which are written. in it, for the time is near. Revelation 19, verse 10 clearly says that Prophecy is equated with the Word of God. Let me read it. I fell to his feet to worship him. But he said to me, Do not do that. I am your fellow servant, and of your brethren who have the testimony of Jesus Worship God, for the words of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Did you catch that? The words of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy. Where are the words of Jesus? Are they not here? But their prophecy as well. And so again, I'm saying that what God is what Paul is telling Timothy Is to neglect not neglect not the gift that is in you which was communicated to you by prophecy. Communicated to you through the Word of God. All gifts of God are blessings. And God expects these gifts which He has given to us not to be neglected, but to be used. Used for who? Used for him, used for his glory, but also used for the benefit of God's people. Even as First Corinthians twelve, verse twenty-eight says, God hath given some in the church First apostles, second prophets, third teachers. After that, miracles, gifts of healing, helps, government, diversities of tongues. He's given in the church or to the church. It's for the benefit of the church that God gives these gifts in individuals. And the parable of the talents from Mark chapter Matthew chapter twenty-five verses fourteen reminds us that What God gives us as a gift, he expects it to have some degree of payback, some degree of multiplication. He expects fruits to come from the various gifts that he gives. And so he says to Timothy, neglect not the gift which has been communicated to you by prophecy. continue to keep stirring up that gift, using that gift. And then he adds something a little funny or seems a little funny He says in verse 14, which has been communicated to you through prophecy, that part we can readily appreciate. And then he goes on to say, with the also with the laying on of hands Of the elders, also with the laying on of hands of the elders. Now, what are elders They're leaders of the church. Apostle Paul was a leader of the church. And while the apostles were alive, They were the ones who were setting apart prominent young men who had gifts for ministry, they were the ones who were ordaining them. They were the ones that were laying on hands. on young men for ministry, as well as ordaining elders. In Acts chapter 13, verse 3, you read In one of the churches, I believe it's Antioch, it says, when they had fasted and prayed and laid hands on them They sent them away. Now, there it is, the elders at Antioch who are laying hands on them, which refers to Paul and Barnabas. Laid hands on them, in other words, commissioned them to go on a mission journey. If you go a little bit further in Acts to chapter 14 of Acts, You'll find the Apostle Paul is on this journey. He's on a missionary journey. And in verse I believe it's verse, yeah. Verse 23, he starts naming the places where he is or where he's been. Places that we don't recognize, but geographically they exist or did exist. Pascidia, Pamphylia. It says, when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down to Ataliah. From there they sailed to Antioch. where they had been commanded to the grace of God for the work that they had completed for the by the to the grace of God for the work that they had completed. And just before it I skipped a little bit ahead, it says, so when they had appointed elders in every church and prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord in whom they believed. Paul and Barnabas, in all the churches they went to, ordained elders. There's a kind of a, there's a, not a kind of, there's a New Testament organizational structure to the church. That no less than the Apostle Paul was active in ordaining elders. And now we get to Timothy, one of the ones that Has been growing in his understanding of the gospel. And Paul writes, neglect not the gift which was given you by prophecy or by the word of God With the laying on of the hands of the elders. So the elders, you see, were instrumental. They didn't communicate the gift. The gift was communicated to Timothy by the reading and the understanding of the Word of God. But what the elders did was to publicly ordain these men. And to lay hands on them, and to set them apart, and act as those who are confirming That Timothy has giftedness for ministry Timothy understands the gospel. Timothy has a life that is consistent. with the word of God. Timothy has a burden to feed the Lord's sheep. We have seen it. We have witnessed it. And our laying on of hands of him is setting him apart for that ministry. We're confirming that he is a child of God and he's equipped for the ministry and that he's not neglecting the gift. You understand? And that is extremely important. It's just as important then as it is today. Simply because what is Timothy battling? What was John battling? False Christs, anti-Christs False teachers. He's been told, protect the church, Timothy has from these false teachers and these old wives' fables. Timothy goes at that job with the knowledge, number one, that God has been instructing him. And that's true for all ministers Should be. They should be men of God, both in what their understanding of the word is and what their life portrays. But in addition to that, Timothy goes is to look back on his ordination and to remember that there are other brothers out there that have seen The evidence of Timothy's giftedness. So you see, Timothy, and not even Paul. Not even any of the other New Testament apostles kind of go off on their own and do their own thing with regard to ministry They are all subject to their peers And their peers being the other elders and apostles of the church. Now, as the apostleship is slowly dying off Nevertheless, you see the elders of the church picking up this duty. And that's not by accident. That is, we good Presbyterians believe that is God's design for the order of the church. So that So that no one goes off and self-ordains. And everyone is responsible to their people. If you have a group of ministers, you have someone who's overseeing you. The call to the ministry The call to the ministry is not just subjective It is also objectively verified by the Church Don't you, Timothy, neglect the gift that was given to you by God Through prophecy and by the laying on of hands from the eldership. Obviously, you can see I have some feelings, some strong feelings about this. But the church then, and the church even today, has had too many lone wolves. Now, the Apostle Paul then says to Timothy, Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them that your progress may be evident to all. And of course, in the context, these things are what he has just been saying in verse 14. Think about, think deeply about the fact that you've been gifted by God for this task, and that other Elders, other fellow elders have set you apart for this task. Think about what all that implies. Meditate on these things Give yourself entirely to them, so that your progress may be evident to all. When he says meditate, the tense is present. Which always means keep on thinking. Keep continue to meditate. Continue to think about these things. Cultivate them in your heart. Think deeply about them. Don't just read it in the scriptures and pass pass it pass it by, but think about it. Think about what it means for God to have gifted you. Think about what it means for the elders to have laid their hands on you and set you apart and said, you have gifts for ministry. And and it's interesting, um Meditate on these things. Give yourself entirely to them. There's there's a a little word that's used in there which is translated B, and it's not the word B-E, and it's not easy to translate it in the way it's written here. But the basic idea is that when it says meditate on these things, the basic idea is that you are to be in these things. These are part of your very life. These are to be part of your very existence. And then he goes on to say, if you do this, this will lead to progress in your ministry. Remember He says in verse fourteen uh uh he mentions um um In verse 14, don't neglect the gift. Now he's talking about let your progress be shown. In other words, just because you've been given the gift, just because the Presbytery or the eldership has laid their hands on you and said, you have the gifts, We've seen God at work in you. We've seen the confirmation of your faithfulness. They basically do it more. Keep doing it. Let your progress in these things be known Don't back off. Keep growing in your understanding. Keep meditating upon the Word of God. Meditate upon His precepts. Believe that his law is your delight. Meditate upon it day and night. Psalm 1, verse 2. And keep progressing. Progress denotes A better state, but it also denotes more to come. Right? And so No one who has the title of minister or has been placed with the hands upon them by the Presbytery should ever think that Well, I've made it. I've arrived. I know everything there is to know And I don't need to learn anymore. That is not, my friends, the Apostle Paul's own testimony. Listen to what Paul said in Philippians 3, verses 9 through 14. And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law But that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable to his death, if by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained it Either we're already perfect, but I follow after, I pursue If that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus. Brethren, I count myself, count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do Forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before, I press on. I pressed on toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. so that the progress might be evident to all And this is, you see, part of what Timothy or Paul is saying to Timothy. uh showing continuing to give fill in this picture of what it is that makes a minister of the kingdom of God and of the Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. Let us pray. Oh Lord our God, we would uh we would pray to you, Father, that uh these words, this this uh The this uh this entire section of Paul's writings, Lord, would uh inform uh your people, particularly inform your people about um Those who are contemplating ministry, full-time ministry service in your kingdom, but also, Lord inform your people as well who are part of the congregation. Because as Paul says Here in 1 Timothy 4. In the next verse, after what we were reading, he says, Take heed to yourself and to the doctrine Continue in them, for in doing this you will save both yourself and those who hear you. So the again, the point is that Ministers are given gifts by God. They are encouraged to stir those gifts up. to keep progressing in the call that they have received and been confirmed in by the laying on of hands by the elders. That there is to be evident progress in their understanding and in their life before their congregation. And even more significant that by doing so they will save both themselves and their people. Father, we pray that you would give, continue to give to your church men with a heart for ministry, men with a love for your word. Men who are gifted, and men who see the wisdom of submitting themselves to the oversight of their peers. We pray these things in Jesus' name, Amen