If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel, we'll continue our study there in chapter 27 this morning. That's on page, I believe, nine hundred and ninety-one of your pew Bibles. We'll begin reading at verse twenty-seven. Once again, let's give our wholehearted attention to the very Word of God Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the governor's headquarters, and they gathered the whole battalion before him. And they stripped him and put a scarlet robe on him. And twisting together a crown of thorns, they put it on his head and put a reed in his right hand. And kneeling before him they mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews. And they spit on him, and took a reed and struck him on the head. And when they had mocked him, they stripped him of the robe and put his own clothes on him and led him away to crucify him. As they went out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name. They compelled this man to carry his cross. And when they came to a place called Galgotha, which means place of a skull. They offered him wine to drink mixed with gall, but when he tasted it, he would not drink it. And when they had crucified him, they divided his garments among them by casting lots. And they sat down and kept watch over him there. And over his head they put the charge against him, which read, This is Jesus, King of the Jews. Then two robbers were crucified with him, one on the right and one on the left. And those who passed by derided him. Wagging their heads and saying, You who would destroy the temple and rebuild it in three days, save yourself. If you are the Son of God, come down from the cross. So also the chief priests with the scribes and elders mocked him, saying, He saved others. He cannot save himself. He's the king of Israel. Let him come down now from the cross, and we will believe in him. He trusts in God. Let God deliver him now if he desires him. For he said, I am the Son of God And the robbers who were crucified with him also reviled him in the same way. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a solemn passage A passage which is difficult for us to read, a difficult passage to hear. As our Savior. Our Savior King is mocked and crucified. Guide our hearts this morning, Lord, that you would give us all, that you would have us to hear and to know, to be convicted of And to be admonished. And Father, to be encouraged. Help us. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. Who is your king? That was really the question before the Israelites, as Samuel was nearing the end of his life and the end of his judgeship. We just read that passage a few moments ago from 1 Samuel chapter 8, as Samuel's sons are about to take his place, but they are no Samuel. And so the elders of Israel gather to him, come to him, and call upon him to give us a king, to judge us. And as Samuel is disturbed and he prays to the Lord, the Lord reveals to him, they have not rejected you, but they have rejected me. From being king over them. But interestingly, the Lord calls Samuel to go ahead and do exactly as they have asked, to give them a human king. But with a warning. And so S Samuel gives them that solemn warning. Even as the people were in the midst of rejecting God as king In a sense, that brings us to this portion of Matthew. In a sense, it brings us to all of Matthew, as the underlying theme of Matthew is to proclaim Jesus as king. Here in chapter 27, we've seen much. Jesus has been betrayed and delivered over to Pilate. He's been tried. He's been found guilty, so to speak, of being king of the Jews. Barabbas has been released. Jesus has been scourged and delivered over. And now he's mocked. Jesus is mocked as king. Before and after he's crucified, he is mocked by Pilate, he's mocked by the soldiers, he's mocked by the chief priests, the scribes, the pastors, by even the criminals who are hanging to his left and to his right. It is a horrendous scene. Of sinners surrounding King Jesus as he suffered for the sins of the world. We might sum up the teaching here in this passage very simply that the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ are called to revere him As their king. The followers of Jesus Christ are called to revere Him as their King. We'll see that in three truths, three points this morning. First, corrupted hearts believe they can choose their king. Secondly, self-centered hearts reject divine kingship. And then thirdly, regenerated hearts long for divine kingship. So we go through this passage this morning. I'd like you to be asking yourself that question. Who is my king? Who is my king? Well, first, corrupted hearts believe that they can choose their king. This passage, indeed, as I indicated earlier, this whole gospel, but this passage in particular is all about the kingship of Jesus Christ. Indeed, that's the question that the governor, meaning Pilate, asked Jesus, Are you the king of the Jews? in verse 11 of this chapter. That kind of sets the tone for the entire chapter, but at least for this particular segment of the chapter, are you the king of the Jews? And so we can't miss that repetition throughout what we just read this morning of that word the king. Verse 27, as the soldiers strip Jesus and place that scarlet robe upon him, that crown of thorns, that reed in his hand, and mocked him. They dressed him up as the king so that what they could bow before him mockingly, hail king of the Jews. And then as directed most likely by Pilate, they placed that sign above him on the cross. This is Jesus the King of the Jews. That's the charge, so to speak. That's what would be proclaimed above those who are being crucified. This is why this man or this woman hangs here in this place. This is Jesus The king of the Jews, and then the chief priests and the scribes and elders do the same, mockingly He saved others. He cannot save himself. He is the king of Israel We recognize that each of these instances of referring to Jesus as King was said from different perspectives. Pontius Pilate had it posted. As the moniker of the crime that he was had committed, so to speak. It seems to be a response to the chief priests and elders, for he knew that they had delivered Jesus up out of envy. Interestingly, Pilate had also known that Jesus was called the Christ. But he didn't put that on the charge that stood above him. And so he mocks He mocks. The soldiers mocked, dressing him, upholding themselves as superior to Jesus, spitting upon him, hitting him with the reed The chief priests, those who called for him to come down from the cross and save himself as he has saved others. somehow saying if you're the king, the ruler, the son of God, then use your power and come down. Three different perspectives. All of them different, and yet all of them the same, all rejecting Jesus as their true King And at the same time, each one of them needing a king Now why would I say that? Why did Pilate soldiers, the chief priests, the scribes, why did they need a king? Actually, the answer to that question is a very simple truth. They didn't create themselves. Indeed, you didn't create yourself. You didn't make yourself. And as a result, neither you nor the pilot, nor the soldiers, nor the chief priests No one. Not the person sitting to the right or to the left of you in the pew, not your neighbors on either side of your homes. Didn't create themselves, didn't create yourself. You don't possess yourself. You don't belong to anyone but the one who made you. Just like your material possessions. Just think of those for a minute. Those things that you either have by purchase or by gift, you own them, you possess them, you can do with them as you desire. You rule over those things, and in a significant sense, no one can tell you what to do with them It would be very strange for your neighbors to come into your house this afternoon, into your living room, and tell you to paint your walls a shade of light blue. They have no control, they have no possession over your home. They have no rule. You're able to determine what color you want to paint the living room walls. You decide, you rule. In a similar way, you don't own yourself. As David wrote Psalm 139, he writes this: For you formed my inward parts, you knitted me together in my mother's womb. I praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Wonderful are your works. My soul knows it very well. David knew it. David knew what's in our hearts. We know that we haven't made ourselves. We know we belong to another. Wonderful are your works. And thus as a creature of God, you have been made to be ruled because you didn't make yourself. It's a very simple truth. God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. You don't possess yourself, you don't own yourself, so you need the one who made you. To do so. You need the one who made you to rule over you, who's capable and able to rule over you as a sovereign king. In a sense, what I'm really saying is you've been made to worship. Isn't that right You can think of being ruled over, being governed, in the same sense as you can think of being made to worship. We're creatures. made to be ruled and we're creatures made to worship the one who rules us. They go together, they're inseparable. Scripture speaks of it. Psalm 150, we didn't read it this morning, but let everything that has breath praise the Lord. Where did the breath come from? It came from the Lord. Revelation chapter 4. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. Why? For you created all things. See, worship flows out of being created. Worship flows out of being ruled over by our Creator. There's only one true King. Fear God, give him glory, because the hour of his judgment is coming worship him who made heaven and earth. Revelation fourteen. I hope I've convinced you. We're made to be ruled. And we're made to worship the one who does rule us. But there's a problem, isn't there? In our corruption, in the corruption that we've inherited from Adam, we think we're able to choose our king You see, it's not that we actually deny the need for a king. Whether you're following Christ this morning or not, everyone will agree, maybe not outwardly, but inwardly, that I need a king. A problem is that we think we're able to choose. Eve thought she was able to choose in the garden Would she submit to the living creator God as her king, or would she submit herself to the devious, the sinful, the fallen angel, Satan as her ruler? Well we know she chose Satan. That's why God says that I will place enmity between your seed and her seed. We'll break that bond. It's really not true that Eda Eve had a choice. But in her corruption, she concluded that she did In her corruption, she chose to be led by Satan. She chose to follow her own heart, which meant at that moment being ruled by Satan. So, as if you had a choice, who would you choose? Will you submit to the rule of Jesus Christ as your King, the one who was rejected as he hung on the cross at Calvary, saving a world of sinners? Or will you rule your own heart by and through the voice of Satan? Who will you choose? God or Satan to be the one who rules your heart? It's a valid question. And it's one that actually leads us to our second point. Self-centered hearts reject divine kingship. Well, that's exactly what we have in this passage. Despite the fact that each one used the title King of the Jews or King of Israel, none of them believed that Jesus actually ruled over them. Not Pilate, not the soldiers, not the chief priests. None of them accepted or submitted themselves to his kingship. Pilate was merely provoking the religious leaders of the day as he put that sign above Jesus' head. The Roman soldiers were displaying their disdain for the one whom from their perspective thought he was better as he claimed kingship. The chief priests called for Jesus to save himself and likely did so with a smile on their faces. Believing that they had Jesus exactly where they wanted him so that they could continue their corrupt rule. You see, each of them despised authority. Each of these, Pilate, the Roman soldiers, the priests, rejected authority. They rejected the authority of God. None of them were submitting themselves to the rule of their Creator. Indeed, each one were living in their own ways in opposition to the rule of the living God. Each one reviled Christ. Well, what does that mean? We don't use that word very often. The soldiers kneeled and mocked him. They stripped him of his robe. They took off his garments. They were trying to strip him of his royal robes that he was wearing. What were they? His righteousness. They were trying to strip Jesus Christ of his righteousness because they hated it. They wouldn't submit to it. They derided him, those who passed by, even those who weren't willing to stop. And for a moment gaze upon the Savior of the world. They weren't willing to stop. They were passing by. And even as they did, they wagged their heads, meaning they scorned him. Not even willing to stop for a moment. But on the way to something more important, they mocked him. They scorned him. They derided him. That's what it means to revile. And even those crucified on either side. That word specifically used. They reviled him in the same way. To revile is to reject. Please and make no mistake. It's to rebel It's to spew hateful speech. In this case, we're the son of God. That's how Webster defines it. Contemptuous language. It's to reject, it's to be cast off. It's exactly what Adam and Eve did in the garden. Each one of them rejected the rule of God, the authority of God and the authority of his word. Don't make that mistake and miss that. To reject Christ is to reject his word, and to reject his word is to reject communion with him. That's what Adam and Eve did. They rejected that communion and fellowship they had in their obedience by rejecting his word. Through Adam's corrupted nature, he plunged himself into that place of separation from God as he rejected God's authority and thus his kingship and certainly his word. And we have inherited that We've inherited that same rejection of communion with the living God, and so we're born. As we're born, we want none of it. We want nothing to do with the living God, and certainly nothing to do with his righteous son. That relationship has been severed by our sin. And in our birth, we relish that sin. We relish that separation. We want that separation. We want no King, Jesus. We want to be autonomous. That means self-governing. I'm my own king. So we can have our own way. And so we as we review the rejection of Jesus' kingship by Pilate, the Roman soldiers, the chief priests, by the criminals, we're reviewing our own hearts. We're seeing our own rebellion against the kingship of Jesus Christ. We're seeing our own reviling. We're seeing our own rejection of the Word of God. Isn't that how Jesus governs? Isn't that how God governs? It's by and through his word. We read this this morning, the Ten Commandments. And so we are born. Being revilers. We are born rejecting. We're born rebelling against his law. And the greatest sin possible is the sin of unbelief. The first sermon that Jesus preaches as recorded by Mark in his gospel is the time is fulfilled, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. It's a command, it's a call. The greatest sin really is to reject that call, to reject that word. Do you do the same? Some of us Are still reviling today. Some of us are rejecting the kingship of Jesus today as we reject his word. Some of us are saying that the word of Jesus Christ is not worthy for me to live under. Some of us are saying, no, I will live according to my words. I will live according to the way that I, in my human reason, which has been corrupted by Adam, however that guides me to live, that's how I'll live. And as you do this, you revile his word, you reject and rebel against Jesus Christ. You're saying, I will not love you as king. Do you see the connection? As you mock Jesus Christ, as you revile Jesus Christ, as you reject his word, what you're ultimately saying is, I will not love you as king. Does that surprise you? That your lack of obedience is really saying to God, is saying to Jesus Christ, I will not love you. But the definition of love is really obedience, isn't it? That's what John tells us in his first epistle. Whoever keeps his word in him, truly the love of God is perfected. The opposite of that is just that. Just the opposite. Whoever does not keep his word, in him truly the love of God is not perfected Let me speak to those this morning who are reviling Jesus Christ. Even this morning. What is the result of this reviling? What is the result of this rejection of Jesus Christ as King of His Word? What is the result of substituting your word for the word of God with your human reason? Isn't it misery? Isn't that the result? You see, the very thing that you desire by rejecting Jesus as King is your happiness, isn't it? You think that by rejecting Jesus Christ I will secure my happiness You believe that you will live in accordance with your own authority and thus bring to yourself, create for yourself, happiness. But it's nowhere to be found. As you take authority from Jesus, so to speak, you take the crown from Jesus' head, so to speak, and place it on your own head, the only thing to be found as you wear the crown which belongs to Jesus Christ is misery. That's what Scripture tells us. Psalm 31, for my life is spent with sorrow, my years with sighing, my strength fails because of my iniquity. What the psalmist is saying is that when he is in sin, he is in sorrow My ears was sighing. Psalm 32, for when I kept silent, meaning he was not confessing his sins, my bones wasted away through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was dried up. as the heat of summer. You see, that's what happens when you live in sin. You you think you found happiness as you live in sin, but it's just the opposite. Even as you read of Jesus Christ on the cross, as the sins of the world were poured out upon him How happy was Pilate? How happy were the soldiers? How happy were the chief priests? Did their mocking bring joy? Did they feel good as Jesus was crying out to his father in agony as the light of the sun turned to darkness and the earth trembled, and the rocks split open? No. There must have been terror in their hearts. It's the same as we revile Jesus. There's no happiness. There's no happiness outside of Christ. So the call this morning to those who are here or listening on the stream, who are reviling Christ, is to bend the knee, confess your sins. Cast them off and cast them to Jesus Christ, who went to the cross, even as we're reading this morning, to purge all the sin of all of those who trust upon him. To purge it away and cleanse them. Come to Christ. Believe upon Him. Submit to Him as your eternal King. Brings us to our third point. Regenerated hearts long for divine kingship. Well, I want us to remember the way that Samuel described or gave the warning to the Israelites. about the human king that they sought as they rejected God as their king. And if you remember that passage, it began, the warning began by Samuel was saying, he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands, commanders of fifties, he will take your sons, he will take your daughters, he will take the best of your fields, he will take the tenth of your grain, he will take your male servants, he will take the tent Of your flocks You shall be his slaves. I think there are six or seven times. As Samuel is given the warning that he talks about the king taking and taking and taking until the Israelites become his slaves. You see, Jesus is not a taking king. See, everything we know about the Lord Jesus Christ equates to being giving. Giving of himself. This is the prophet Isaiah proclaims the words of Jesus, come everyone who has thirst, come to the waters. And he who has no money come buy me come buy wine and milk without money, without price. It's free. He's giving it. He's giving life through his word. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. John 6 and John 6 again in verse 51, I will give for the life of the world. My flesh. I lay down my life that I may take it up again. John 10. Jesus is a giving king. Just the opposite of the worldly king that Samuel was describing for the people as they rejected God. He is a sacrificial king. Indeed, that's what we're reading about even in this passage. As Paul writes to those in Philippi, as he was describing the hypostatic union, the joining together of the Son of God, the Divine One. with the human nature who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. He's a sacrificial king. What kind of a king gives up or veils his glory? Even as we watch the television and heads of state or or presidents or princes or whatever, we're seeing them in luxurious plains, red carpets and Now Jesus gives it up. He wouldn't count equality with God a thing to be grasped and emptied himself. He's a sacrificial king, and he's a loving king, a loving ruler. He cares, so much so that he would go to the cross We're reading about that demonstration of his love, aren't we? The King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, the condescending God. Who takes on a human nature, he lowers himself, he humbles himself to go to the cross, to suffer a wretched death in the place of those over whom he rules. What kind of a king dies for his people? What kind of a king cares for his people so much with a tender and loving heart that he would allow himself to suffer unbearable, unthinkable pain, physical and spiritual, for you. See, that's the kind of king that Jesus is. And and some would they think that that's really a weak king, isn't it? But he's an all-powerful, almighty king. The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He's a powerful, almighty king. He came And said, as he was about to ascend, all authority in heaven on earth has been given to me And then as Paul writes to those in Rome, I'm sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ. Why? Because he's an all-powerful, mighty, loving king. And he's a righteous king. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He takes it away. He doesn't bring it in. He removes it. He's the righteous one who comes. The righteous branch springs up for David and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. Isaiah, excuse me, Jeremiah 33. And there's a day fixed when he'll judge the world in righteousness. Acts 17. Oh, the joy of being ruled by a righteous king. Think about that just for a moment. If we turn on the television, maybe we shouldn't. But as we do and watch the news, we can see throughout the world unrighteous kings ruling. But Jesus is a righteous ruler. Well, there wasn't one that day that revered Jesus, was there? Not even the disciples are recorded by Matthew as revering him. Well, it's not an excuse. They didn't have the full picture of Jesus yet, did they? They didn't have the Holy Spirit as he was poured out at Pentecost yet. So let me speak to those who are here who have professed Jesus as Savior this morning. You do. You have the full picture of Jesus. You have the Holy Spirit abiding in you. So how do you revere the Lord Jesus Christ today? Let me suggest three things. First, trust him. Trust him as your king. Ask that your faith might be increased. Even this morning, as we take the supper, ask him, plead with him. Plead that your doubts may be taken away and replaced by pure assurance Trust that Jesus, as your humble, kind, merciful, righteous, giving, and compassionate King, will continue to give you all things you need for the day of salvation. Trust him as King. Second, live in obedience. To revere is to respect. To revere is to live in obedience. Love the word. Put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and receive with meekness the implanted word. James chapter one In other words, I'm gonna go out on a limb, live in happiness. See, that's where true happiness is found. In revering the Lord Jesus Christ It's exactly what the Psalm tells us. It's the happy man, it's the blessed man who meditates upon the Lord the law day and night. Yeah, the word blessed can be translated happy as well. Living in obedience is reverence. And it is Immeasurable happiness. And third, love the king. See, the only way that you know love this morning is because he laid down his life for you. The only way that you know love this morning is because God has loved you in sending his son for you. So the call this morning, if you've missed everything else, please don't miss this. The call this morning is to love the one who loved and loves you with an everlasting and eternal love. A love that cannot and will not end. A forever kind and compassionate and communing love. To revere King Jesus is to love this King Jesus as he loves you. Yes, followers of Jesus Christ are called to revere Him as their King. Israelites The Israelites had rejected God as their king and sought fallible, sinful men to rule them. Exactly what Pilate and the Roman soldiers and the chief priests and the criminals up to a point were doing on the cross. Brothers and sisters, what a joy it is to have a king, a righteous, a loving, a sacrificial Kind and gentle King caring for you this morning, leading you to glory. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you of how it points us to Christ our King. Father, it pains our hearts to read of the mocking that took place on that day, and yet we know, Lord God, this is just a reflection of our own hearts. And so we thank you and praise you for the way you have worked, changing our hearts, that we have gone from reviling to revering. And so we ask, Lord God, that you'd help us to increase our reverence for the Lord Jesus Christ as our King and to help us to love Him. And Father, again we ask for those here this morning or watching who are reviling. Save them. Turn their hearts to the true King, the only King, to the one who can save them. We ask all this in Jesus His name. Amen