Now here we come to the sermon passage and the reading of God's Word, Acts chapter 3, verses 1 through 10. You already heard some reference, some allusion to it previously in the service, therein Isaiah 35, this vision of the lame leaping for joy. Well, we see one instance of that, a very clear reflection of that in an actual person, a man who has been lame from the time of his birth, or even, you know, it says from his mother's womb. The man who has been lame from his mother's womb is brought to leap up suddenly his ankles receive strength He leaps up, he stands, he walks, then he enters the temple leaping and praising God. This is what we see in this section here with Peter and John coming to the temple to pray at the hour of prayer. Um they run into this man and this is what happens. So here we are. Um Acts chapter three verses one through ten. This is the reading of God's word. Please add your or give your blessing or please give your attention to it, and may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of it. Okay. Acts chapter three, verses one through ten. Now Peter and John went up together to the temple at the hour of prayer, the ninth hour, and a certain man, lame from his mother's womb, was carried. whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple, which is called beautiful, to ask alms from those who entered the temple, who, seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple, asked for alms. And fixing his eyes on him with John, Peter said, Look at us. So he gave them his attention, expecting to receive something from them. Then Peter said, Silver and gold I do not have, but what I do have I give you. In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And he took him by the right hand and lifted him up, and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength. So he, leaping up, stood and walked, and entered the temple with them, walking, leaping, and praising God. And all the people saw him walking and praising God. Then they knew that it was he who sat begging alms at the beautiful gate of the temple. And they were filled with wonder and amazement at what had happened to him. Thus far the reading of God's Word, may he bless it and bless the preaching of it in our midst today. So once again we have this instance of a lame man whom Peter and John come across. Peter and John being apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. Here they are, they're headed to the temple to go and pray at the hour of prayer. Again, they they worship the God of Israel. He is the God of the Lord Jesus Christ, whom they serve. And here they are going to pray to him at the temple. And as they are going to pray to him in the temple, they come across this man who is lame, described as lame, a man who has not walked a day in his life. Verse 2 of our text makes very clear how long is it that this man has been lame? He's described as being lame from the time of his birth. Basically it says from his mother's womb. Here's a man who has grown up all his life long unable to walk. How long has he been lame? If you um flipped ahead to chapter 4, verse 22, where it seems like the same man is referred to, the man, it seems, is more than 40 years old. More than 40 years old. Acts 4, verse 22, if you want to see that reference. So again, more than 40 years old the man has been living upon this earth without the ability to walk. He grew up as a child unable to walk. He was that kid who was always sitting on the sidelines because he was unable to get up and walk. And play his whole lifelong, something more than forty years, he has been dependent on others. Dependent on others for movement. Again, we read in verse 2 of him being carried to places. We read of some who are laying him in places. So if he wants to get somewhere, he has to have somebody else carry him there And set him down there. But here he is, his whole life long, dependent on others, unable to move for himself, unable to do things for himself. From childhood up into adulthood, many years Multiple decades of dependency. In the situation of being unable to walk, we also see in verse 7 the condition of his legs and his bones. The bones in verse 7 of his ankle and his ankles and his feet are not strong. You'd also expect someone who hasn't been walking his whole life long, you would expect that his muscles would be undeveloped or underdeveloped because again his whole life long he does not use those muscles he does not use those bones. If you don't use those muscles and bones they do not get strong. They remain weak They remain unused and unuseful. And so here he is in this state of physical dependency on others. He can't go where he wants to go. He can't move about the way he might want to move about. He's not able to do things for himself. He depends on others to do things for him. This is the normal way of life. for him. This has been his normal way of life, again, seemingly for decades, for more than forty years. But not only is there this physical dependency he has in terms of having to be moved around by others, being dependent on the the activity and energy of others to move around. This also seems to translate into an economic dependency. And it makes sense, right? If you don't have strength in your your uh bones and muscles, if you aren't able to walk, how can you earn a regular income? How can you get money for yourself? In order to meet his needs, it seems like he's dependent on the gifts of others. We see um in our text we see description of alms. Now that word alms is based on the Greek word that describes mercy. The Greek word for mercy is reflected in the language of alms. These are quite literally gifts of mercy. Gifts that are given out of compassion. Gifts that are given out of pity to the one who is in misery. And again, this man Why else would he be there at the temple every single day? Why else would it seem like he makes this priority to be there at the gate at the time when it's the time for prayer? Well it's because He depends on those alms. He knows that he can't he is not uh seemingly able to make um uh the money that he needs to continue to live. And so he depends on the the goodwill and the mercy of others in order to carry on in his um life and livelihood Now again, um those alms, they would have been something that in Jewish religion was considered part of righteousness, part of righteousness for one who was religiously Jewish would have meant that you ought to give to the poor You ought to make gifts of mercy to those who are in positions of need. And so again, here's why he's there at the temple. He waits there seemingly every day. He's obviously a regular because he's known there in verse 10 as someone who regularly begs for alms. He's there at the right time of day. He's there at the time of day when there are people coming in who would be inclined to give those alms again if they're going to the temple to pray. And they obviously have some level of devotion to to God, and so they're intending to um do the things that come with that, including the giving of alms. So he finds his way to the temple every single day, seemingly, and seems like that's a priority in his schedule. But why would that be a priority in his schedule? Because he's in need Because he depends on the gifts of others. So again, what do we see? We see a man in a position of dependency. Physical dependency? Unable to walk. has to be carried to places, has to be laid down to places, and then once he gets there, has to just sit in those places. You see a man in a position of some kind of economic dependency in order to keep himself alive. He's dependent on the gifts of others. Why else would he be there? Did he have some family that was perhaps unable to help him or perhaps unwilling to help him? We don't know. But for whatever reason, he's found himself in this position where he's dependent on the generosity of others. He needs those alms. He needs those gifts to keep going But here he is. How often does he go there? Again, his presence there is regular. He's known for being the one who would typically sit begging for alms. at the beautiful gate. Many who have come and gone know this man. They recognize this man as the the guy who begs for alms. But here he is, seemingly, um, you know, time after time, day after day, as often as he goes. He just happens to be here on this one day. And this one day, what is he looking for? What is he looking for? He's looking for the very same thing he's been looking for every day that he's been here, isn't he? What's he looking for? What is he looking for? He's looking for one more gift. And notice that that is the pattern of his life. That is the regular existence he lives in. Just one more gift. Just one more gift. What is the next gift? What is the thing that will be handed to me? That's what he's looking for. That's what he expects. That's what you do when you're in a position of dependency. You just wait for the next thing to come to you. If you don't have the b the ability to get it for yourself, you wait. And you wait until what is given to you is given. And when it's given, you receive it. And yet what does the man receive here in our text? He receives in our text so much more than what he was looking for, doesn't he? And notice what he does receive. Now it's interesting the way he is approached by Peter and John. Verse 4, it's very interesting. We read, fixing his eyes on him with John, Peter said, look at us. Why would Peter have to say, look at us? Have you ever driven by the side of the road and seen people who are typically begging on the side of the road? Do they look at you? Do they try to look at you? Do you try to look at them? It's not easy to look them in the eye. Sometimes it's very difficult to look them in the eye, or sometimes it's very difficult for them to look someone else in the eye. And isn't this a symptom of the condition of the man's life? The fact that he is living in such dependency means that he is simply waiting to receive a gift with his hands open. And yet it means that he's expecting that people are not going to give him any more than just a gift, any more than the silver and the gold that he requests. And yet as he looks in this way, it's somewhat dehumanizing. It would come to a point where you would just stop trying to look people in the eye because people would not be willing to look you in the eye. And yet, what does Peter do? He says, look at us. He says, look at us. He wants to look at him. He wants him to look at them. And as he gets the man's attention, gets him to look at them, The man still thinks, what am I waiting for? Just another gift, just another gift to keep going. But what does he receive instead? Instead he receives something else entirely. We see in the words of Peter in verse six, silver and gold I do not have. Peter has not come to give him Just another gift of gold or silver to keep his life going one more day, or whatever. Peter has come to give him something else entirely, something much greater. The ability to walk. The ability to walk. Something the man has gone without his entire life for decades. Suddenly, in an instant, in a moment, the man is able to lie The man doesn't just take a few feeble steps and sort of work up to it. He doesn't go to a rehab facility to train his muscles and his bones to walk. What happens? Peter gives him the ability to walk. He takes him by his right hand in verse 7. He lifts him up immediately. His feet and ankle bones receive strength. And so the man who has never walked a day in his life is suddenly walking but also leaping and praising God. The leap itself is expressive of the spontaneous joy of what has happened. The manner of his walk is a form of praising God. He has seen something great. He has received something great. And he answers that something great, with great joy. And it's expressed in leaping. Again, bones and muscles that have never done this, have never even come close to doing this. Suddenly he's walking, he's leaping, and he's praising God. Again, how amazing that is. Um a lifelong, lifelong experience of not walking To suddenly leaping, jumping, praising God with um energy, vitality, vigor How does it happen? How does it happen? How is the man able to walk suddenly? What is it that gives him the power to walk in our text? Well notice the thing that gives him the power is the thing that Peter says. It's the word that Peter speaks. So again, it's not he has no silver and gold. Peter's not here to give him just another handout as, you know, as the man was looking for. And again, you know, rightly looking for, rightly thinking he needed. You know, he was looking for silver and gold, not silver and gold. What does Peter give him? He gives him a word that is spoken in the name of Jesus Christ. And notice that that is the thing that gives him the power to walk. The power to walk comes through the name of Jesus Christ. Why is that? Because who is Jesus Christ in the moment when Peter speaks his name? Jesus Christ is God's Son who has come in the flesh, who has come to bear the consequences of sin Who has come to overturn and undo the curse of sin by his death, by bearing the wrath of God in his own flesh. Jesus Christ is the one who decisively overturned death. And did so by dying in place of sinners, but then also by being raised from the dead. And by being raised from the dead in order to share and spread resurrection life And to spread the vitality of resurrection life by the sending of his Holy Spirit. This is who Jesus Christ is. This is what the name of Jesus Christ brings to this man in this instant. The curse is undone in a very pointed way. The man was lame due to the curse. The man was lame due to the effects of sin. in our world. Not necessarily for a sin that the man had necessarily done or that his parents had necessarily done that should lead to him being lame as a punishment. Not necessarily Possibly just owing to the general curse that is in the world due to Adam's sin, the corruption of this world. The man was lame on account of that, at least. But here, through the name of Jesus Christ, what does he receive? He receives salvation from the curse. In a very pointed way, a very pointed way, the man who could not walk suddenly is filled with vitality. is able to walk, is able to not just walk, but also leap and praise God by his manner of walking and leaping Now the man himself um obviously recognizes how great it is the thing that's been done for him, for this is what he expresses in his leaping and in his praising of God. Not just him. Other people also see what's happened to him, and they recognize something great has been done by God. After all, in verses 10 and 11, we see that they recognize this man, they've known him. He he's known as the one who would regularly sit and beg for alms, and they too are filled with wonder and amazement and recognition that something has been done. Whether or not they fully understand it yet, they may not. But nonetheless, they recognize that something great has been done. Now, what does this text have to show us as God's people? What does it have to show us as people who are receiving the Word of God and hearing the Word of God proclaimed? As people who know the name of Jesus Christ, you know, we know the very same name that healed this man in an instant. The same name that healed this man in an instant is the name that we call upon, and it's the name that we trust in. What are we to learn from this? But we're to see in this reflection of what God came to accomplish through the death and resurrection of His Son, Jesus Christ. After all, again, this pointed instance of undoing the curse is a picture of what the Lord intends to do for all of creation, for the whole world, and for all those who trust in him in particular. Us who trust, we who trust in Christ, we ought to recognize that we belong to a Savior who came to undo death, the brokenness that came into this world due to sin. But also sin itself. This one incident of healing is a reflection of what God intends for us and something that is promised to us. Now again, what are we promised? We are promised very much the same form of healing that this man received in many ways, his healing immediately into the ability to walk and leap. is a reflection of the beginnings of true resurrection life. The true resurrection bodies we will receive one day on the last day. When our Savior returns, a resurrection body that is like his. Again, here are the beginnings of resurrection life. The feet which were unable to walk suddenly walk and leap. That's what resurrection is like. It's like that, but it's even greater than that. Those who are dead and decayed in the ground Will spring to life in a moment. And in a moment, they too will praise God, just as this man praises God. That's our promise. That's something we're promised in Christ. And that's reflected here in our passage. Notice what else this passage points us to as well. It points us to that resurrection that is promised on the last day. But it also points us to life that is begun in us now. After all, the very same thing that Peter does by speaking the name of Jesus Christ to this man It's also a reflection and a picture of our spiritual quickening and awakening, isn't it? Because again, the man who is lame, he is a reflection of our hearts. He is a reflection of the hearts of sinful people. This is what sinful people are by nature. They are like the ankle bones of the man. who previously were not strong, and yet who in an instant, which in an instant receive strength, and receive strength to do what they were made to do Again, this is our heart. Our hearts are like the man's um the man's lame bones and lame muscles. This is what we are in ourselves. This is what we are apart from Jesus Christ. And yet what we see here is the power that God is able to exercise through Christ, power to undo the effects of sin, power to undo the effects of curse of the curse. He, by the name of Jesus Christ, has undone the lameness of our hearts. He has woken us up, so that our hearts that had been inert and had done nothing good. We're suddenly, in an instant, filled with the ability to weep and to praise God. So again, we see reflection of the work of God in Christ. God is at work. Bringing about a new creation through the Lord Jesus Christ. The fullness of that new creation is promised to us on that last day, and it is the sure and certain comfort and hope. But it is also something that we see the beginnings of, even now. Again, we who trust in Christ, we have received the beginnings of that new creation life, that very same life It's reflected in what Peter says. This is the power of the name of Jesus Christ. The name of Jesus Christ has the power to undo the effects of the curse, even in our world today. And we want to be careful because we don't just use the name of Jesus Christ as if it's a magic word or a magic formula. But what is it for us as God's people to put our faith in the name of Jesus Christ? And to even uh call upon the name of Jesus Christ and to even invoke the authority and the power of Jesus Christ. When we align ourselves with that which God proclaims in His Word, in light of the gospel, we are calling on the name of Jesus Christ very much in the same way that Peter was using the name of Christ. We have the the authority and the right to declare the Word of God, and as we declare the Word of God, we are invoking. The authority of Jesus Christ. And we are evoking such authority that has the power and the ability to undo the effects of the curse. Well, because that's true, we ought to not be shy about using the Word of God. We ought to not be shy about calling on the name of Jesus Christ and trusting in the name of Jesus Christ. This is the calling of God's church, and this is the calling of each of us to look to the name of Jesus Christ and to seek from him that which that name is able to evoke and to bring into existence. and to bring to light. This is what we are called to. Again, this this passage reflects for us The power and authority that reside in the name of Jesus Christ, so that we might know that this is the one whom we trust in, so that we might also continue to look to him. And continue to seek that which belongs to him. Well, let's be careful to continue in the name of Jesus Christ. Let's continue to follow him and to serve him. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we come to you confessing readily that our hearts and our lives are very much reflected in the lameness of the lame man in our passage. We also come, O Father, giving thanks to you that through Christ and through the work that He has done, you have raised us to life. And we have reason to have confidence and hope in the work that you have begun in us. We also have reason and confidence to hope in the work that you are able to do and that you have even promised to do. We praise you that there is a day coming when There will be the fullness of a new creation in our presence and in our midst. When we will be with you forever, when we will know you as our God, and we will be known as your people in your presence forever. We look forward to that day and we long for that day. Yet we pray, O Father, continue to work in us, continue to strengthen our hearts. Um grant that our hearts would become more and more those hearts that bring glory and honor to you, those hearts that are quick to jump, those hearts that are quick to leap for the praise of your name. Grant this to us, we pray, by your spirit at work in us. We ask all these things in the name of Jesus Christ. We ask these things through his name and his name alone. Amen. Now let's continue to pray for the needs of God's people at this time. And Father, again, we come to you, leaning upon you, trusting in you, asking you to hear our prayers and to meet the needs of your people as we bring them to you. Father, you know our needs. You know our needs even better than we do. You know that, you know, even sometimes we think we know our needs, and sometimes you know better than us. You know, there are many instances of that in our lives. We trust that that is true even as we bring our request to you. Yet we still come bringing our request to you, asking you to hear, asking you to answer, because we know you love us and you care for us. Father, be with those in our midst who are struggling with issues of health. Grant patience, grant perseverance and endurance where that is needed. We also pray and ask for healing. We ask for a healing. recovery. We pray that you would grant um means for that, whether it be through um seeking out the help of you know, medical expertise or what it may be. We pray that you would give us um the faithfulness and the fortitude to seek that out where we need to and should. But we pray that you would pro provide and supply what is needed for each one Father, we also pray this day asking that you would work in our hearts to make us more like Jesus Christ, that you would make us people who are more and more sanctified by the work of your grace. We know that this is the work of your Spirit. We ask that He would increase His work in us. Father, we pray for the proclamation of your gospel around the world. We pray that you would uphold it, sustain it, give the strength and the boldness that is required for it to continue upon this earth We pray for those who are in China who are uh being persecuted for the faith. We pray that you give them a bold testimony and a faithful testimony, that you uh continue with them in faithfulness and you sustain Father, be with those who are uh in positions of elic elected leadership, um in positions of government. We ask that you would use them for your purposes, that you would bless with wisdom and justice where these things are lacking, and that you would be pleased to restrain. uh foolishness and wickedness where these things abound. We pray, O Father, that your will would be done, that your honor as Creator would be reflected upon this earth, in the way of justice being done for all who are made in your image. And we pray that Lives would be protected and preserved for all who are made in your image. We ask that you would increasingly make that to be true, knowing that you are able to make this happen. We would grant this in our world today. Father, once again we come with uh nothing to bring to you of ourselves, but we know that we come as receivers who have received all things from you. Therefore, we would bring back to you what we received from you in praise of you. Grant that this would be the pattern of our lives increasingly. Grant that our hearts would be fixed upon the coming of your kingdom increasingly And as this is true, we also pray for your help that we might be able to continue praying the way that our Lord Jesus taught us to pray by saying, Our Father. Thou art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil, for thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen.