If you turn your copy of God's word now to Joshua, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 5. I'll read the first twelve verses. I think that's on page two hundred and thirteen of your few Bibles. We'll actually split this passage up into two sermons. Tonight we'll focus on verses 1 through 9, and Lord willing, next week. We'll look at verses 9 through 12, but I'll read 1 through 12 tonight for us. Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. Joshua chapter 5. As soon as all the kings of the Amorites, who were beyond the Jordan to the west, and all the kings of the Canaanites, who were by the sea, Heard that the Lord had dried up the waters of the Jordan for the people of Israel until they had crossed over their hearts melted And there was no longer any spirit in them, because of the people of Israel. At that time the Lord said to Joshua, make splint knives. and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time. So Joshua made flint knives, and circumcised the sons of Israel at Gibeeth Haaraloth. And this is the reason why Joshua circumcised them. All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war, had died in the wilderness on the way after they had come out of Egypt. Though all the people who came out had been circumcised, yet all the people who were born on the way in the wilderness after they had come out of Egypt had not been circumcised. For the people of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness until all the nation, the men of war who came out of Egypt, perished. Because they did not obey the voice of the Lord. The Lord swore to them that he would not let them see the land that the Lord had sworn to their fathers to give it to us. A land flowing with milk and honey. So it was their children whom he raised up in their place that Joshua circumcised. For they were uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way. When the circumcising of the whole nation was finished, they remained in their places in the camp until they were healed. And the Lord said to Joshua, Today I have rolled away the reproach of Egypt from you. And so the name of that place is called Gilgal to this day. All the people of Israel were encamped at Gilgal. They kept the Passover on the fourteenth day of the month in the evening on the plains of Jericho. And the day after the Passover, on that very day, they ate of the produce of the land unleavened cakes and parched grain. And the manna ceased from the day after they ate of the produce of the land. And there was no longer manna for the people of Israel. But they ate of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? God and our Father, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for your word. We thank you for this revelation that you've granted to us and kept for us. And now, Holy Spirit, we ask that you'd give us eyes to see and ears to hear all that you have for us tonight. For we know that you're the one who pierces our hearts, and you're the one who encourages us, and you're the one who leads us. uh in applying this word. So Father, we pray, have your way with us. Have your way with each of us tonight. Do not let your word return to you void without accomplishing all that you've sent it to do within each of us tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Is the power of Christ resting on you tonight? If you'd asked Paul that question when he wrote 2 Corinthians 12, 1 through 10, I think he would have answered yes. If you remember that passage as we read it earlier this evening, Paul was boasting, in a sense, about the visions, the revelations that he had received. He was inspired of God. And had received the very word of God that he was even that time that he was penning this letter to those in Corinth, which he was inscripturating. He had been blessed And so as he writes about being caught up into paradise, receiving revelations and visions of God And the boasting that that could result in, he says, so to keep me from being conceited because of the surpassing greatness of the revelations, a thorn was given me in the flesh. A messenger of Satan And you see, Paul then asks three times that the Lord would take this away from him But you see, that wasn't the purpose of it. God had a very specific purpose for leaving the thorn in the flesh in place so that Paul wouldn't sin against him. So Paul is weak. And so he determines to boast in that weakness. And here's the point: that the power of Christ may rest upon me. Is the power of Christ resting upon you? That seems to be what's happening in Joshua chapter 5 Remember, Joshua has been commanded by God to arise, go over the Jordan, enter into the promised land, which I'm giving to you. Take the promised land. Then he takes the word of God to the people. They've prepared their provisions The spies have been sent out. They've returned with information. That's very helpful. Those in Jericho, their hearts have melted away as they know the Lord has given them the land. And so the people are encouraged. After forty years of wilderness wandering, now God is bringing them into the promised land. He separates the waters of the Jordan River like he separated. the waters of the Red Sea, bringing them into the promised land, all the while reminding the people of God of his presence, the Ark of the Covenant His powerful hand holding back the waters of the Jordan, allowing the people to cross on dry land all the people The Ark of the Covenant leading the way, powerful symbolism given to the Israelites. And then we read in the last chapter of those twelve stones that were erected so that the Israelites would remember who it was that brought them over, and even telling their children that this is what God did. As 40,000 warriors crossover, ready to take the promised land. And that the stones may be a sign, a memorial. Constantly remembering the people of God there in that land that He was with them. Brings us to our passage. This evening. Now is the entire nation is on the other side of the Jordan, on the bank of the Jordan. The hearts of the kings have melted. The hearts of the kings of the Amorites, of the Canaanites, those who would oppose the Israelites in their coming into the promised land and they're taking the promised land, their hearts have melted. That's how the inspired writer begins. Interestingly, then he moves right into telling us that all of the men needed to be circumcised. That those who were circumcised, who came out of Egypt, had died along the way because they had disobeyed God, and now their children who were now working their way through the wilderness but had made their way over forty years later into the promised land had not been circumcised. And so now it was time. It was time for these men, as the time had actually already passed. It was time for them now to be circumcised and then take the Passover. That's simply what's set forth before us tonight in this first portion of chapter 5. And again, we're going to take these first twelve verses and two sermons, Lord willing. Tonight we'll cover verses one through nine. Lord willing next Sunday. We'll cover 10 through 12. And so as we look at verses 1 through 9, I want us to see tonight very simply that the power of Christ is made perfect in your weakness. But the power of Christ is made perfect in your weakness. And we'll see that in two points or two doctrines tonight. First, the Lord determines the time for battle. And secondly, the Lord provides time to heal Again, as we go through this passage, these first nine verses tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, is the power of Christ resting on me? Well first, the Lord determines the time for battle. You've already noted The first thing that uh the inspired writer notes as the people have now crossed over and are in the promised land that the hearts of the kings, the Amorites, the Canaanites As they've heard that the Lord dried up the waters of the Jordan, their hearts have melted. Notice it it's the hearts of the kings. The kings of the Amorites, the kings of the Canaanites, whose hearts melt. If we compare that to Jericho, to Rahab's statement to the spies, it was the hearts of the people of Jericho that had melted. We have heard how the Lord dried up the waters of the Red Sea before you when you came out of Egypt, and what you did to the two kings, the Amorites. Shyen and Og. As soon as we heard it, our hearts melted, and there was no spirit left in any man. She's speaking of those in Jericho. She's speaking of the people. Their hearts had melted when they heard what God had done. But here in this passage, it's the heart of the kings that melt, the leaders of the people. And notice that it's plural. Multiple kings, multiple princes, so to speak. It's their hearts that melt. Those who are supposed to have been the warrior of warriors, leaders of men into battle Their hearts have melted. And the question is, why? And the answer is the same for both: the people of Jericho and the kings. For we have heard. We heard how the Lord dried up the waters of the Red Sea. The kings heard that the Lord dried up the waters of the Jordan. Both events seemingly brought together, causing hearts to melt, as the people and as the kings hear of what God had done. But the Israelites had come first through the Red Sea, now through the Jordan, by the power of the outstretched arm of God And now here, as a result of hearing, what the Lord God had done, the king's hearts have no strength. They have no spirit left. In essence, they have no desire to enter into battle with these divinely supported and moved people of God. That's significant. They heard and were moved by what they heard, not what they saw. That's not what the text says. In both cases, Rahab notes the people of Jericho heard, and now the writer tells us that the kings of the Amorites, the kings of the Canaanites, they hear what God had done. They heard of the work of God. They heard of the hand of God and they feared. They heard and they feared. They heard and they had no strength. They heard and they had no spirit. They heard and they were moved Think of that. How often can we say that about ourselves? That we hear and our hearts melt before God. Not in the same kind of fear, but in that familial fear. And the fear knowing that God loves me so much. But he'd send his son for me. That kind of fear. Does your heart melt over that when you hear it? These were not the people of God. And as they hear of what God has done, their hearts melt. How often do our hearts melt as we hear the Word of God? Well what the author here is telling us, what the spirit is telling us What he's pointing us to is that a picture of the leaders of the people who would oppose the Israelites are now weak. They're weak, they're demoralized, to the point that they're not ready and will not truly oppose the advance of the Hebrews into the land. That seems to be the picture that's being given to us as their hearts have melted, they have no spirit left, in a sense, they're weak. It seems that this is the appropriate time to attack. God has brought the Israelites across the Jordan River on dry ground. They have everything they brought with them, their food, their weaponry, their strength. Nothing was lost. The kings are weak. That means the people are weak. What better time would there be for the Israelites to begin their battle, their attack? From a human perspective, this was the window. This was the opportunity. The enemy's weak. It seems as though this is the perfect time for an attack. Let's go! But isn't that the danger? Sometimes, many times we look at things from a circumstantial point of view, from a human perspective. And from a human perspective, this appeared to be the right, the perfect time to begin the attack against the Amorites and the Canaanites. Everything seemed to be in place. Now that was the problem. That the Israelites would would take it upon themselves to attack in their own strength, using their own physical power, using their intellect, their wisdom, and attributing the success the success, if it were to have happened To be because of themselves. We did it. Remember the first attempt to go up into the promised land after the people received the bad report of the land and said, no, no, we don't want to go in, we won't go in. And yet afterward they're convicted that they had sinned against God, as he now is sending them on a forty-year journey back into the wilderness. And then there are certain people who mourn. And then they say, here we are. We'll go up to the place the Lord has promised. For we've sinned, and then Moses tells them, what are you doing? Why are you now transgressing the command of the Lord when that will not succeed? So if you know the passage, they do exactly that which the Lord tells them not to do, but the Lord was not with them. They presumed to go up to the heights of the hill country, although neither Ark, nor the Lord, nor Moses departed out of the camp. And the Amalekites and the Canaanites came down and defeated them. That's what happened when they went, and the Lord wasn't with them. When they went in their own strength. When they went without God. Remember this book was written, initially written for those who had entered the Promised Land. And now they were there, they were in the promised land, and most likely this was certainly at a time when when they still had battles in front of them. Yes, they had conquered some at that point. But there were more battles to fight. And so they needed to know that the time to fight, the time for battle, was according to the Lord. And if they were to wait upon him. See, sometimes we look at our circumstances, don't we? And determine whether or not it's the perfect time for us to go or stay Sometimes we we just go in light of our corrupt thinking and our corrupt wisdom. We go in light of our fallible and finite thinking. We look at things sometimes through our worldly lenses, instead of considering our circumstances through a holy God. And through God ordained lenses. How often do you wait on God Now I'm not speaking about waiting upon God when you have no choice. There are times like that. Maybe we've applied for a job. Maybe we're waiting for someone to recover from an illness. We have no choice but to wait. But that's not what I'm asking tonight. How often do you wait on God when you do have a choice? When the choice is either go now or wait and hear the word of God. How often do you wait upon the Spirit to work in your heart, giving time for the Spirit to work before you go? The Israelites apparently had an opportunity to go and attack. But it wasn't time for them to attack. They didn't know it yet, but it it wasn't time. It wasn't the time that God had ordained for the attack. But the Spirit had to work. And they had to wait. You might be thinking or even asking the question, well, when? When should I wait? I think the answer that this text gives us is whenever you think you're strong in your own will and heart. That seems to be the time for you to wait. That seems like a good time to wait. I think that's what the Psalms teach us. Psalm 27: Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear, though war rise against me, yet I will be confident. The psalmist was waiting. It ends with this way: wait for the Lord. Be strong. Let your heart take courage. Wait for the Lord. Psalm 31 is very similar. And you, O Lord, do I take refuge. Let me never be put to shame. In your righteousness deliver me, incline your ear, rescue me speedily, be a rock of refuge for me, a strong fortress to save me, be strong, let your heart take courage all you who wait For the Lord. Isaiah actually addresses this even more specifically in chapter 40. But they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings like eagles, they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Isaiah was saying As you wait, what the Lord is doing is renewing your strength. He's building you up so that then you can run and not be weary. Walk and not faint. It's like Paul, who might have been feeling very strong in himself as he had received these revelations and had spoken with God and is in Scripture reading God's Word. But that was exactly the time for him to wait. Three times I pleaded with the Lord about this. What was God doing as he's pleading? He's giving Paul time to wait. Because his answer was, no, I'm not going to take it. No, I'm not going to take it. No, I'm not going to take it. And so Paul finally comes to the realization that his strength was in God. It's in Christ. And so he was called to boast in his weakness. So that the power of Christ would rest upon him. Do you see how God was calling him to wait, to come to that realization? That his strength wasn't in himself. It was in his weakness. And he had to give Paul time. Paul had to take time. To wait upon the Lord as he pleaded with him to take that thorn away, to come to the realization that his strength was only in Christ. How often do you wait that the power of Christ would rest upon you? That brings us to our second head, our second point. The Lord provides time to heal. Well, what were the Israelites waiting for? And another way to say that is why didn't they attack right away? Again, it seems like the weakness of their enemies, which stands as a backdrop to this passage, You've got 40,000 warriors that have crossed over, they're ready to go, but before they can go, they needed to be circumcised. Did you hear what the Lord told Joshua? At that time, it's interesting the way The inspired writer puts it, at that time, meaning when the hearts of the kings melted, at that time The Lord said to Joshua, make Flintonize and circumcise the sons of Israel a second time. You see the the warriors they needed their reproach. To be rolled away before they could continue to enter the promised land. The land where they were to dwell with the living God, before they could join this fight, being led by the Lord. They needed to be circumcised. In other words, as Psalm 15 puts it, who shall sojourn in your tent? Who shall dwell on your holy hill? And the answer is given by the psalmist, he who walks blamelessly and does what is right and speaks the truth in his heart Psalm 24 is very similar. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart, and these warriors had neither They were not walking blamelessly, they did not have clean hands, and they certainly did not have pure hearts, because they were not circumcised. Now this calls us to review a bit of the command to be circumcised. We know that they weren't. Joshua is called to circumcise these. And so we know right away That they weren't. Even the text explains that to us as we go on. We know that the people who came out of Egypt, the warriors who came out of Egypt, all the males who came out of Egypt, were circumcised. That's what the text tells us. All the males of the people who came out of Egypt, all the men of war who had died in the wilderness on their way had come out of Egypt, they were circumcised. Yet, all the people who were born on the way, this is verse 5, in the wilderness after they'd come out of Egypt had not been circumcised. Those are the people who had crossed the Jordan, who were now sitting on the banks of the Jordan waiting to attack. They had not been circumcised. They were uncircumcised because they had not been circumcised on the way, verse 7. And you might be asking yourself, so what? Is this the right time to do this? They're ready to go. The hearts have melted. It's the opportune time. God is saying, nope. Circumcise them. Okay, God entered into covenant with Abraham. I will give to you and to your offspring after you the land of your sojournings, Genesis 17, all the land for Canaan, for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. That's the covenant language of God. As he enters into or rehearses the covenant with Abraham. We see a connection then between being the God of the people, the descendants of Abraham, and taking possession of the land. They go together, they can't be separated. They're in the covenant together, God's promise them together. Now, what was involved as far as the people are concerned? This is God's promise, this is his covenantal promise to Abraham, I'll be your God, I'm going to give you the land. You shall be circumcised. Every male among you shall be circumcised. Genesis 17. It shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. That's what circumcision was, a sign of the covenant, a symbol Circumcision was so connected with the covenant that it's difficult to separate the two. In fact, I don't think we can So shall my covenant be in your flesh, an everlasting covenant. It was a sign, it was inscribed Upon the males. Indeed, any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off. And so these men, these warriors who were sitting on the banks of the Jordan now, they were all sinners. And indeed, the whole nation of Israel were sinners. This was the obligation. This was the duty that they had, the command for every Israelite family, as they had a child, a baby boy, eight days old, they were to circumcise that child, that baby. Remember, this nation had been wandering in the wilderness for forty years. Imagine the number of males born. It's not just in the thousands, it's not in the tens of thousands, it's in the hundreds of thousands And so these men who were equipped and ready for battle, they had their provisions, they have their weapons, their implements of war, they have their strengths. We're not yet circumcised. All who came out of Egypt were circumcised. They died. Those who were born in the wilderness, who were now warriors on the other side of the bank of the Jordan, had not yet been circumcised. The people of God, the nation of God. had not obeyed the commandment, the single commandment that allowed these baby boys to enter into the covenant of God. And those who didn't enter the covenant by being circumcised were to be cast off from the midst of the people of God. How could they fight for Israel? How could these warriors, ready to go, uncircumcised, how could they fight for the people of God against the enemies of God if they themselves were enemies? Just think of that for a moment. Anyone not in the covenant was an enemy of God. Only those in the covenant were part of, at least formerly, formally, and outwardly the people of God. Everyone else was an enemy. Everyone else was a covenant breaker. Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He's broken my covenant Only those in the covenant were part of the family of God. Everyone else was a covenant breaker, meaning a sinner. Meaning one who opposed the purposes and plans of God, meaning an enemy. Jesus clearly said, whoever is not with me is against me, whoever does not gather with me scatters. That's the idea. Now it doesn't mean that people couldn't be brought into the covenant. But the point that's trying to be made here is that those who were on the banks Those people of God, those Israelites, those warriors, had sinned against God and thus were enemies at that very moment of God. And so the solution was circumcise them. Bring them into the family of God. Bring them into the covenant. Forty thousand of them needed circumcision. Actually, all the males in the Israelite nation needed circumcision, but we're thinking about those ready for battle. Now, before they could enter battle, they needed to be circumcised So we have to heed what the Lord told Joshua. The hearts of the kings are melted. So now's the time you need to circumcise You're warriors. The hearts of the kings have melted. Now is the time to circumcise. It's not time to fight. They needed their reproach to be rolled away before they could continue to enter the promised land, the land where they were to dwell with the living God, before they could ascend the holy hill of the Lord, they needed clean hands and a pure heart. And so that's the solution. They needed circumcision. They needed to be brought into the covenant They needed to be made children of God, part of the family of God. And it was circumcision which would accomplish this supernatural event. I'm not saying that circumcision was salvation. It's not what this text is saying. But it was an outward sign of them belonging to God. And as we know, circumcision involved the removal, the cutting off of the foreskin on each of the males And as we know, that's surgery. That's the need for the flint knives. Minor surgery, yes, but nonetheless surgery. Blood had to be shed A sign, a symbol of the need for their spiritual cleansing from their sin. The justice of God on display in circumcision, in the cutting off, and the bloodletting. But also the mercy of God on display in their healing, An open wound would be created by each and every one of these circumcisions. And it would require time for healing. It would require the hand of God for them to be healed. And the warriors would not be ready for battle unless and until they were fully healed. And so while God's justice in a sense is being set forth in the circumcision itself, but in his mercy He's also showing that it's being brought into the covenant, and he's healing them. Look at verse 8: when the circumcision of the whole nation was finished. They remained in their places in camp until they were keeled. The Israelite, the nation, was in need of healing. As they failed to circumcise these men, their babies, which had now become grown men. As they wandered through the wilderness for forty years, each one of these men, these now warriors, should have been circumcised. When they became eight days old. And so the entire community, the entire nation as a whole, had failed and refused to keep God's word. Each of them were in sin. For they were God's covenant people, his covenant community. And think of this. In order to belong in the covenant, these males were required to be circumcised. And so as a nation, they refused and failed to do so. And so the nation needed healing. For the failure to circumcise was a great sin against the God of creation Indeed, the covenant was founded, in a sense, in the nation through circumcision. It was a sign and a seal of the covenant. This is my covenant, which you shall keep. Every male among you shall be circumcised. Circumcision represented the covenant. And so you may be asking, well, what is the covenant? It was God's plan for bringing a people to himself and keeping a people for himself. It was the means by which God drew a people to himself and kept the people. We we are thinking wrongly if we think of the covenant as a mere agreement, kind of like a contract that men or men and women enter into. It couldn't be further from the truth. The right understanding was that the covenant was a means by which God identified his people and God kept his people for himself and for no other The entire nation had rejected the means used by God to bring a people into the covenant and keep his people for himself. So, in a sense, the the Israelites were not his people. The warriors who sat on the banks of the Jordan at that very moment were not his people. The entire nation needed healing, and yes. The warriors certainly needed healing from the surgery of circumcision. But the true healing. The true healing was pointing to their hearts, which needed circumcision. Indeed, God had promised to circumcise their hearts. Deuteronomy 30. The Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring God's promises are being fulfilled on the banks of the Jordan. The Lord your God will circumcise your heart and the heart of your offspring in an outward way. Their sins had to be cut off. And this day of circumcision was a day of cutting off. It was certainly a day of much blood, and it was a day of beginning the healing process. And so God gave his people time to heal. You see the mercy here? Remember, the prior generation of Israelites were not allowed to enter the promised land because they were disobedient. And they died in the wilderness. They refused to go into the promised land upon the command of God. They died in the wilderness, but these warriors, those who sat on the other side of the bank of the Jordan, on that day That generation who just crossed the Jordan had also sinned against God. And yet God gave them time to heal. Time for their sinful hearts to reflect upon what they had failed to do and how they had offended their God. Sitting on the bank of the Jordan outside the walls of Jericho waiting to attack in a very weak condition, and yet God gave them time to heal. Their weakness was truly defined by their sin, not merely their surgery. So God gave them time to heal before the war began. Has Jesus Christ given you time to heal As he sits on the throne, as he oversees and governs all peoples, all things, all events, all time, has he given you time to heal? Just think upon that for a moment. See, Satan is like a roaring lion, a crouching lion, ready to pounce on you. He's prowling around as Peter writes, seeking someone to devour, really you. He's ready, he's waiting He's waiting for an opportunity to pounce upon you every moment of every day. Satan is ready to attack, to draw you away from Jesus Christ, your Savior and Lord. Every hour He doesn't lose strength, he doesn't lose sleep, he's ready and he's waiting and he's cunning. Has Jesus Christ given you time to heal? You see, when you've sinned, when you're re reeling from your sin, when you have recognized and you've confessed your sin, when you're still in the mode of repentance from your sin, when you're weak As a result of your sin, possibly even unconfessed sin? Has Jesus Christ given you time to heal? Has Jesus Christ interceded for you as he sits on the throne before his Father and sought time for your healing? Has he restrained Satan from further and more powerful attacks upon you? Just like he did for Peter, Satan requested to sift Peter like wheat I think if you know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior tonight, that He's doing exactly that more often than you think. You probably don't consider that aspect of Jesus' intercession. That he recognizes your weakness. And then he knows is your healing from sin. But you need time before Satan's next attack You need time to heal. You need time for the power of Jesus Christ to rest upon you. And give you strength. Because that's the only way that you become strong. You see, Jesus Christ is healing you as he intercedes for you, and he knows you've got to have that time, and he knows that it's only in your weakness as you confess your weakness before him. That then he pours out his strength, his power upon you. It's Christ's power. It must rest upon you as you confess your weakness. And it's Christ's power that you don't get unless you recognize and confess your weakness in sin. And he's the one who gives you time to heal. Praise God. The power of Jesus Christ is made perfect in your weakness. Paul recognized that. But it took time. It took time as he was suffering under that thorn. As he pleaded with God to take it away three times, and God said, no, I need to leave it there so that in your healing, in your weakness, My son's power will rest on you. Praise God for the power of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Our Father and our God, we confess, Father, that we are weak in sin Even as Jesus Christ has broken our chain to sin, Lord God, we we do confess along with Paul that we we do continue to sin and we're weak in it, Father, even as we repent We confess our weakness. But Father, we rejoice that we know as we confess our weakness and our sin, as we're repenting, as we're Healing from our broken hearts as you're healing us through the power of the Spirit, that Christ's power is resting on us And so we pray, Lord Jesus, continue to pour your power out on us. Continue to restrain Satan and only allow him To attack when you've given us the power to resist. Help us. Help us, Lord Jesus. Work powerfully in us, Spirit, and help us to give you all the praise and thanksgiving, our Father and our God. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.