All right, Genesis twenty two. And don't be confused. I am actually going to be going to Romans chapter 5, but we're going to use this as an introduction. Genesis 22. Now it came to pass after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. And he said, Take now your son, your only son Isaac, whom you love, and go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains, of which I shall tell you. So Abraham arose early in the morning and saddled his donkey, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son And he split the wood for the burnt offering, and arose, and went to the place of which God had told him. Then on the third day Abraham lifted his eyes and saw the place afar off And Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey, the lad and I will go yonder and worship, and we will come back to you. So Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand and a knife, and the two of them went together. But Isaac spoke to Abraham, his father, and said, My father, And he said, here I am, my son. He said, look, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abram said, My son, God will provide for himself the lamb for a burnt offering So the two of them went together. Stopped there. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that you would be with us. As we continue to open your word and the letter to those in Rome, we ask, Father, by the power of your spirit That you would keep us alert, that you would give us, Father, the illumination of the Spirit. We would understand your word and Father that we would apply it to our lives. All for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, brothers and sisters, uh, we are back Back in Romans after our brother taught on Deuteronomy 6, we are back to our study. in the letter to the Romans. And specifically we're in chapter five Paul has already informed those to whom he has been speaking or writing That he wants to set forth before them the gospel that he's been given, that he's been called to proclaim And he has done so effectively, drawing each one, each reader, each one who would read this letter, and as well as us. uh to the point of mm despair in a sense. He has he's told us that each one of us uh are uh are sinners Uh and there's nothing we in ourselves can do about it. We can't work our way out of it. Uh that uh our our works are are really uh of of no worth And we are subject to God's righteous judgment. And he has set the table that way, and this is the way that Paul would proclaim his gospel. This is the way that Paul would draw men, women, and children to Christ. Not that Paul had the power to do it, but God used him as means. uh to draw many into the kingdom. Well, uh as we know, Paul has been uh teaching uh uh after he set the table, met all our sinners, that there was a way of salvation, that God indeed did provide a way, which we were speaking of this morning during worship. And that way is by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not through works, it's not through the keeping of the law, it's through the one who did keep the law. So much so that he went to the cross in conformity according to his father's will. And that we can be saved if we have faith in this one. That's the teaching. Justification is by faith alone. And so we come to chapter 5, and Paul continues to teach, write upon the subject of justification. He opened up uh the beginning of chapter five with therefore, or hey, just based upon what has gone before, let me tell you some more about uh justification And as we've said in the past uh three weeks or so, that this is really the practical aspect of this doctrine of justification. Sometimes we can take biblical doctrines and think that this is for scholars. This is for those who just spend their day studying scriptures, opening up the Hebrew, the Greek. It's for academics. That's never really true. Here, here we are given very practical information. teaching by the Apostle Paul as to the goodness of justification. He's established the truth that we are saved only by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as a result of that faith we have been justified or declared innocent before God because of Jesus Christ. Uh and and now he proceeds uh to tell us, as we are listening to Paul now. The effect of that justification, what does it do? And again, Uh as as we go through this, I want us to understand that that as we think of that, as we think of the benefits to us of justification, I don't want us to fall off the deep end, so to speak. I don't want us to fall off and say, well, this is all about me. This is all about what God does for me. That would be a grave error because justification, this doctrine, is that which brings much glory to our Father. And it helps us to worship him. It helps us to see uh who he is, what he's done, the the depth of his love for us. Uh and and that should cause us uh to um to enter deeper into worship, to uh to improve our prayer lives, um so that ultimately We are the ones who are shining even more brightly for Jesus because we see God's glory in this doctrine of justification. Well, uh, as we said in the past weeks, the the premise or the uh the thought behind all of this is that the faithful are enabled to stand before God in grace and rejoice or boast or exalt and glory in him as a result of justification We've talked about the fact that we've been given peace. We've talked about standing in his grace. And today we are going to be talking about the hope that we have. uh uh in Jesus Christ, the certainty of that hope, the basis of that hope, and the depth of that hope. So let's um let's just read uh Romans 5, 1 through 11, and then we'll jump into this first point, the certainty. of hope. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace. in which we stand and rejoice in the hope of the glory of God. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations Knowing that tribulation produces perseverance, and perseverance character, and character hope. Now hope does not disappoint Because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. For when we were filled without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet perhaps for a good man someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrated his own love toward us, in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than. Having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if when we were enemies we were reconciled to God through the death of his son much more, having been reconciled. We shall be saved by his life. And not only that, but we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received the reconciliation. Well, let's talk about the certainty of hope. Look at verse 5 just for a moment. Now, hope does not disappoint. That's where we are in this passage. Paul writes in the negative. And he does so, I think, for emphasis. He does not say that hope pleases. He says hope does not disappoint. Think of when you are disappointed in terms of hope. You're disappointed when the thing hoped for does not come to pass, when your hope fails. I had hoped for a motorcycle on my birthday, but I was disappointed as I was given a bicycle. See, hope was disappointed. As we unfold it as we think about it, as we meditate upon it Paul means that that hope does, in fact, make one happy. It makes us delight. It satisfies, it pleases. That the thing hoped for actually happens. The thing hoped for comes to pass. It becomes a reality in time. Hope does not disappoint. In other words, the hope of the Christian is certain. It's not a mere wish or desire. That's not how Paul writes of it. That's not how he uses it. All that's gone before In chapter 5, and there hasn't been that much, but it seems to culminate here in this idea that hope does not disappoint. Well it'd be good for us to to kind of unpack or think about what this hope is. Well, if we are just looking at chapter 5, we begin at verse 1. Therefore having been justified. We hope that we are justified. We hope that we've been declared right or just in the eyes of God. We hope that the punishment for our sins has been fully purged from us. That there is not a drop of God's wrath left for us on the day of judgment. We hope that we have and will receive the righteousness of Christ, that we will not stand before God in our righteousness That's our hope, and that's a certain hope of being justified. That's a hope that we have. And again, don't get it confused with a desire or a wish. Because those are uncertain. This hope is certain. We also hope that we have peace with God. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We hope that we are no longer enemies of God. We hope that we're no longer at enmity with him or in a battle with him. We hope that we are indeed his children, called sons and daughters, brought into his home, seated at his table. feeding upon his food, the king's food. We hope that we have peace with God. Certain hope. And we hope that we stand in his grace. We hope that we have access into his throne room by and through his son, our Lord Jesus Christ. We hope that we're not condemned to stand in judgment but have been declared innocent and thus can come into his presence by grace. And we hope that this is an eternal standing, never to be taken away, never to be changed, never to be reduced, always standing in his grace. Again, certain hope. And we hope that the glory of God will be magnified through our salvation. Here's what I was speaking of earlier, that we we tend to think that salvation is all about us, but here our hope is that God's glory will be magnified If that's possible through our salvation. But as Jesus returns for his bride, God will receive the glory for his plan of salvation. That Jesus himself will return riding on clouds with myriads of angels and trumpets blasting in glory. And that we will be taken up to live with the triune God for eternity. Yes, we hope that the glory of God will be magnified through our salvation. See, I think all of that is included as Paul writes that hope does not disappoint. That's the hope, or maybe I should say those are the hopes, the certain hope that should be on our mind as we think of that. Hope does not disappoint. But there's also that step-by-step idea of how God works in us. Which is also part of that certain hope. And not only that, verse 3, but we also glory in tribulations. Knowing that tribulation produces perseverance and perseverance character and character hope. All of these things, tribulations, perseverance, character, they all end in hope. It's as if the the the hull of a ship has these words on it, uh tribulation, or and then and then perseverance on one side and and then on the other side character and they all end up in the bow of that ship and the bow is called hope All these things conclude or or maybe the better thought is that they support or underlie hope. Each of the things mentioned by Paul have certainly other purposes and uses character, perseverance, tribulations, but each of them also build up and undergird this Christian hope. They're not the things that make it certain, but they lead to that certainty of Christian hope. Yes, the certainty of hope. That brings us to our second point, the basis of that hope I'm sure you've heard it said that faith, that Christian faith is a leap in the dark. You could easily substitute the word hope for that and come up with the same idea, the Christian hope. uh uh is a leap in the dark. Uh I just uh this afternoon read on one website the religious faith I don't know that this person was actually supporting this idea, but he may have just been parroting it. Religious faith is a blind leap a close your eyes kind of moment or series of moments where in the face of insufficient evidence you somehow trust God with your life anyway That's the that's the claim, that's the uh that's the allegation. And certainly many many have sought to respond to this accusation. But I think Paul Paul has probably done the best job of responding to that in this passage. Faith or hope, and they're certainly not the same, but they're also related. They have a basis, a foundation out of which they spring So let's just ask that question. Why? Why, or on what basis should the Christian hope? Or maybe the better question is, why has the Christian been justified? Why has the believer, why has the one who has faith been declared just? What's the basis? What's the reason? Why would God do such a thing And brothers and sisters, if we can't answer that question I assert that our hope will fade. If we don't know the basis for why we have been justified by God then our hope really has no foundation. It will become a leap in the dark Is it because we're good? Well, that that could be an answer. We're justified because we're good, but that would be the wrong answer. We're told that in Romans chapter 3. We've gone through that. That was hammered home to us so many times by the Apostle Paul. And he summarizes it in in chapter three at verse ten, there's none righteous, no not one. There's none who understands There's none who seeks after God. They've all turned aside, have together become unprofitable. There is none who does good. No, not one. I think Paul shut the door on that argument as being the basis for our justification. uh there are no good people other than jesus and so that can't be the basis for our being declared just Well, what about earning justification? What about uh working uh toward being declared just? What about uh the fact that we might take our good works and put them next to our bad works and say, well Lord, the good outweighs the bad. So therefore justify me. Put them on the scales. Let's see. I think my good ones are going to be much heavier than the bad ones. I think the only thing we need to do at that point would be just to turn back to Genesis chapter 3, where we see Adam and Eve sinning against God and the result. of their sin. They're removed from the garden. And God places cherubim and the flaming swords at the entrance to the garden. garden such that there is no way that they can get back into the garden in their own strengths. They're not told to do good works, to outweigh the sins that they just committed in the garden. It's not explained to them that they must perform mighty acts in order to return. No. It's impossible for them to have overcome that offense that they committed against God because their offense had eternal consequences. For the day in which you do, you shall surely die. We can't earn justification. Our sins are overwhelming. They are eternal. And we're not. So we can't outweigh or we can't earn justification. Well, is it because God has swept our sin under the rug that He has just, in a sense, put on blinders uh and said, well I just won't look at what they have done. I'll just look beyond it. I'll just be kind and merciful and gracious to them, even though they have offended me greatly. No. We read throughout Scripture that God is just, that He is righteous. and that his uh wrath must be satisfied. Paul, as he is speaking to those in the Areopagus, tells them this Because he, meaning God, has appointed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness by the man whom he has ordained. Obviously, Paul's speaking of Jesus Christ, the man who's been ordained by God the Father, to judge the world. How? How will he judge? In righteousness. God will not sweep our sins under the rug. He will not put on blinders Well then what is the basis for our justification? If none of those things are the right answer, what is the right answer? Look at verse 5 of chapter 5. And I hope you've not disappoint, because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit Who was given to us. Here then is the basis of the hope as written by Paul The certain hope of the Christian is that Jesus Christ has truly, without question, saved him from the eternal wrath of God and secured for him eternal life with the Godhead. Consider that word because Hope does not disappoint because. In other words, the reason that hope is certain, the Christian's hope is certain, The reason that the Christians hope will come to pass, that the thing hoped for will happen All those things which we've already gone over. That this hope which resides within our very being, our very soul, will be pleasing to us is because the love of God has been poured out. And not only poured out, but into our hearts by the powerful work of the Spirit. I want to look at that in two points. First, the love of God, and then secondly, poured into our hearts. Let's consider this incredible basis for our certain hope. The love of God so powerfully and beautifully shown in this passage. Look at verse 6. For when we were still without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die yet. Perhaps for a good man, someone would even dare to die. But God demonstrates his own love toward us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. This is a description of God's love. And the description is founded upon an action. And that action is the death of Christ. God sent his only eternally begotten Son so that Abraham didn't have to. That's why we began this passage with Genesis 22. Let's just think about that for a moment. Can you imagine? What was going through Abraham's mind, his heart, as he has been called now to to sacrifice his son, his only son, the son of the promise. The son that he had been waiting 25 years for, the son that was promised by God The son through whom God would be fulfilling all of his promises to Abraham He rose early in the morning. He is performing all of those tasks necessary to sacrifice his son, knowing that each of these implements, the wood being split, the fire being taken, the donkey being loaded would be used to sacrifice his son. And then on the third day he lifts his eyes, he sees the place afar off. And he knows this is the place where I am to sacrifice my son. And he speaks to his young men. He tells them what they're to do. Well, he takes his son to sacrifice him. And then the question even from his son, where's the sacrifice? The love of a father for a son, knowing that he was about to slay him. in order to obey God. Well that's just Abraham. What about God the Father? What about his love for his divine son? The one that he's been in union and communion with forever God the Father called his only son, whom he loved. To die a death that he did not deserve, and to die a death that was so wretched Yet he willingly separated himself from his son, that his son would be able to do this work of love. He gave up his only son because of his love for you. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son. And whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. This is love. This is the basis for our hope. The cross defines love As one commentator puts it, love is the voluntary placing of the welfare of others ahead of one's own. But here, as God gives his only son, it it takes on an even greater and higher meaning. than that. This is the basis for our whole this love, which is unlike any other Why do I say that? Well, because of who God is, because of who his son is, but also because of the timing. God's love was amazing and certainly a solid basis, the solid basis for our hope, but the basis doesn't end there. Verse 6, for when we were still without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. Here we're told of the depth, the width, the strength, the powerful love of God. For his love overcame our ungodliness. But God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. The magnitude of God's love is beyond our ability to put it into a concept, our ability to truly understand. You know, we tend to have an easy time serving those who love us. We tend to have an easy time serving those who are like us, who have done good things for us. That's easy sometimes inconvenient. But when do we go out of our way to help those who dislike us? who throw darts and arrows at us, who are unlovely We tend to walk around them, don't we? But God, when we hated him When we spat in the face of Jesus, when we yelled out, crucify him, when we nailed him to the cross, that's when God loved us. And that's the basis of hope. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Romans 8, 31 and 32 Mounts a commentator writes, God did not wait. until we had performed well enough to merit his love, which of course no one ever could. Before he acted in love on our behalf, Christ died for us while we were still alienated from him and cared nothing for his attention or affection. Yes, while we were helpless, feeble, weak, spiritually, spiritually hopeless. Ungodly. I'm quoting now from Lexicons. Destitute of reverential Awe toward God, impious, sinners, guilty, those who were in opposition to the divine will Getting the picture. I believe that Murray is the one who wrote this. We're totally the reason why this hope is well-grounded and secure. You see, that's the point. It's not a leap in the dark. This is one of the most condensed statements in the epistle. It is a striking example of the combination in a few words of the objective grounds and the subjective certainty. of the believer's hope. Yes, the love of God But secondly, then poured into our hearts. It's one thing for us to have that objective knowledge of this basis To look upon it, to know that it's there, and that it forms the foundation of our hope but then it's a completely other thing for to for God to pour that into us so much so that it becomes part of us And that really speaks very directly in opposition to the accusation that faith is at least Or our hope is a leap in the dark. This love here, as Calvin writes, is not to be taken in an active sense, but in a passive sense. It's God's love. And that we have not been slightly touched with this conviction, but our souls are thoroughly imbued with it. I don't use that word very much. In fact I don't think I use it at all. Imbute. But it means to be drenched or steeped in it. That it permeates us and it influences us. as if by dying, meaning like tie-dye shirts. That's the idea. That God's love so permeates our very soul, our very being. that this hope springs out of it. Murray writes But this love of God is a love that has no fluctuation or reverse. It doesn't change. But it must come within our apprehension. What Murray means is it must come within our very being, our heart. if it's to be the ground of assurance and evoke is confident glorying. It must be poured into us. And the Spirit has done that for every single person who confesses Christ as Lord and Savior. Hope is certain. And the basis of that hope is the love of God which has been poured into our hearts. And finally, the depth of hope. Consider that Paul uses this phrase much more than in verse nine and much more in verse ten In verse 6, he states that Christ died for the ungodly, and there we have the idea, the truth that our justification comes in part from the death of Christ, where He atones for our sin, where He is the one who takes the punishment, the wrath of God upon Himself. who stands in our place so that we are not the ones who suffer the eternal wrath of God on the day of judgment. Christ died for the ungodly. And therefore, we're not subject, we who trust in Jesus. We're not subject To drinking the cup of God's wrath. Ever. Not even a drop And so by and through that we've been granted life. But that's not where this idea of justification stops. And that's the point that Paul is making, is he uses those words much more than, verse 9, having now been justified by his blood. Okay, see, understand that justified by his death, because he's now taken the punishment. He has shed his blood in our place. That's the blood that should have been ours. It was Jesus's. He's taken that eternal wrath, that eternal punishment that was due us, much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him But look at verse 10. Having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. There is more. We will not suffer the eternal death that he suffered, because he suffered it in his place. But much more we will enjoy the life that he has earned by and through his resurrection and ascension We might ask, what could be beyond this salvation, this justification? What more could be included? And here it is. We've been reconciled. We've received the reconciliation. No longer enemies made friends and more than friends, sons and daughters brought now into the house of God. It's the idea. To be reconciled. As one lexicon puts it, to be changed from enmity to friendship That God does not impute to us our trespasses. That he's restored his favor to us. Saved by his life. Jesus said, I'm the way and the truth and the life. John 14, 6. He is able also to save forever those who draw near to God through him, since he always lives to make intercession for them. Hebrews 7, 25. The life of Christ referred to here is is not what we think of as the life of Christ or his sojourning in the world in his days of flesh. This is again written by John Murray. He writes that it's the resurrection life of Christ. Paul does not say that we shall be saved by his resurrection, but by his life. And therefore, Murray takes the position that this must be the exalted life of Jesus that Paul is referring to. We should be saved by his life reconciled by it, brought into that union and communion, eternal life with God Himself. Spirol writes that reconciliation is not something that's going to happen in the future. In the future, we'll receive our glorification, we'll be made perfect, but in the meantime, we're still mortal, we're still imperfect, we're still weak. We still fail from time to time. Nevertheless, we have reconciliation. We received it when we believed in Christ. Much more than having now been justified by his blood Having been reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. As I said this morning during communion, as we take the Lord's Supper, we are certainly proclaiming his death. But we're proclaiming along with it all aspects of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ in redeeming us. which would include his resurrection, which will include his ascension, which will include his return for the church. Christ is living today. And he's living because of his righteous life. He's living because he completely obeyed the will of God, certainly to the cross and keeping all of the commandments perfectly. We're saved by that. We're saved by his life today that he lives, constantly making intercession for us. That's happening even now as we speak. And as we're taken up into glory will enjoy that life that he has earned, indeed that he has saved us by. Brothers and sisters, this is just a short cursory view of just the practical aspects of justification. What does it mean for us today If it means nothing else, it means that we have been reconciled, that we stand today as we trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, we stand as reconciled sons and daughters of God most high. That do have life, that have the life of Jesus Christ, because we've died and we live in Christ now and in him alone. That's the idea of justification. It's very practical. It's very everyday. We should be thanking God. for it, rejoicing in the glory of God that is on display through this doctrine. Praise be to God. Amen.