And now for the reading of God's Word from Acts chapter 7 this morning, the sermon passage comes to us from verses 17 through 41. You know, here we are in the midst of this speech on the part of Stephen in Acts chapter 7. You know, he's being um threatened with these false charges. And he answers before the council by, you know, telling this this history, this history of God's people, this history of how there have been um leaders down through the history of God's people who have been rejected, who have been, you know, resented, and you know, um leaders who who served God's people, who brought blessing to God's people, but who have been rejected and You know, it happened in the case of Joseph, where Joseph was used to spare the people of Israel, even though in order to do so he got sold into slavery and suffered quite a bit of humiliation. along the way. Well now we'll hear the same thing um concerning Moses. Moses, this next great leader among the people of God, Israel. Um Moses, you know, how did they treat Moses? Well, in Acts chapter seven we will see Um Stephen's making this point for the for the Jewish council so that they do not overlook the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, he too was mistreated, but he too was a source of great blessing. So also was Moses as as Stephen will tell us in this portion of God's Word. So here we are. The reading is Acts chapter 7, verses 17 through 41, and it is continuing the speech of Stephen, the part that is focused on Moses. This is God's word. Give your attention to it as it is read this day. But as the time of the promise drew near, which God had granted to Abraham, the people increased and multiplied in Egypt. Until there arose over Egypt another king who did not know Joseph. He dealt shrewdly with our race and forced our fathers to expose their infants. so that they would not be kept alive. At this time Moses was born, and he was beautiful in God's sight, and he was brought up for three months in his father's house. And when he was exposed, Pharaoh's daughter adopted him and brought him up as her own son. And Moses was instructed in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and he was mighty in his words and deeds. When he was forty years old it came into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel, and seeing one of them being wronged, he defended the oppressed man and avenged him by striking down the Egyptian He supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand. But they did not understand. And on the following day he appeared to them as they were quarreling and tried to reconcile them, saying, Man, you are brothers. Why do you wrong each other? But the man who was wronging his neighbor thrust him aside, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge over us? Do you want to kill me as you killed the Egyptian yesterday? At this retort, Moses fled and became an exile in the land of Midian, where he became the father of two sons. Now, when forty years had passed, an angel appeared to him in the wilderness of Mount Sinai, in a flame of fire, in a bush. When Moses saw it, he was amazed at the sight And as he drew near to look, there came the voice of the Lord, I am the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob. And Moses trembled and did not dare to look. Then the Lord said to him, Take off the sandals from your feet, for the place where you are standing is holy ground. I have surely seen the affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their groaning, and I have come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send you to Egypt. This Moses, whom they rejected, saying, Who made you a ruler and a judge? This man God sent as both ruler and redeemer by the hand of the angel who appeared to him in the bush This man led them out, performing wonders and signs in Egypt, and at the Red Sea and in the wilderness for forty years This is the Moses who said to the Israelites, God will raise up for you a prophet like me from your brothers. This is the one who was in the congregation in the wilderness with the angel who spoke to him at Mount Sinai and with our fathers. He received living oracles to give to us. Our fathers refused to obey him, but thrust him aside, and in their hearts they turned to Egypt. Saying to Aaron, Make for us gods who will go before us. As for this Moses who led us out from the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. And they made a calf in those days and offered a sacrifice to the idol and were rejoicing in the works of their hands. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it and to its preaching in our midst this Lord's Day Well, once again in Stephen's speech here, he is bringing up another leader among God's people, and this time Moses, one of those leaders sent to God's people. One of those leaders who doesn't get the honor that you would think that he should be worthy of. You know, I mentioned earlier, Joseph was another example of that. Joseph Used by God to spare the people of God during the years of famine. And yet, what did it take for Joseph to get there? Joseph had to suffer Great humiliation he had to be sold as a slave. Well he mentioned Joseph already. Well now he makes the same point regarding the man Moses Yet another leader sent by God to his people, who does not receive from the people of God the honor that you would think he ought to get based on how he was being used. Now remember who this Moses was. This is the Moses who was raised in the Pharaoh's court, who got this special childhood of special privilege, living in the royal household. Being adopted by the very daughter of the Pharaoh so that he was able to live as though he were even the son of the Pharaoh's daughter. Now that's a long way from where his brothers are living. during those same days. After all, the rest of his Hebrew brothers are experiencing the harsh lifestyle of slavery in Egypt, being under the bondage of slavery under the Pharaoh who is a cruel taskmaster. And so they're out there, you know, living this difficult life of slavery. Moses grows up. As a son of privilege. Special privilege. Living in the royal household. Living as though he's a son of The Pharaoh's daughter. What does he do with that childhood of privilege? It is a special privilege, you know. He doesn't have to be out there sweating. You know, doing the same work that his Hebrew brothers are doing at this time. But what does he do with that childhood of privilege? He doesn't just use those benefits for his own sake. Coming from that place of privilege, what does he do? It seems like he's resolved to use it for the benefit of his brothers who are out there struggling and suffering the realities of slavery in Egypt. For as we see in verse 23, it comes into his heart to visit his brothers, the children of Israel. We see that he has in his heart A desire to use what he's been given for the benefit of the people of God, to use what he's been given for the benefit of his Hebrew brothers. Now we read of this instance in verse 24 where he comes to the aid of this Hebrew slave. You know, he's being this Hebrew slave is being wronged by an Egyptian. The Egyptian is mistreating him. And Moses comes to his aid and saves him from the Egyptian. He intervenes in this is recorded also in Exodus 2, verse 11. But we also see in our passage, what did Moses mean by this act? Moses meant to step in and stop the mistreatment of his Hebrew brother. He meant for that to be a sign to his brothers that he was ready to step in and be the one who would lead them to salvation, the salvation that God had for them. Notice what he says in verse 25 concerning Moses. What does Stephen say? So as Moses had stepped in to intervene on behalf of the Hebrew man being mistreated. Here's what Moses thought he was doing in verse 25. Moses supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand. Here comes the son, the one, you know, raised as if the son of the Pharaoh's daughter, living in the royal househood. He steps in to intervene on behalf of the Hebrew people. He who lived on the privileges of Egypt stands against one who belongs to Egypt and stands on the side of those who are being oppressed by Egypt But how do the Israelites respond to Moses' intervention? Moses' attempts to signal to them that he's ready to lead them into the salvation that God has for them. Well, these Hebrews who witness his act essentially reject his good intentions. Basically, they tell him they don't need his help You know, verse 27 uses this language. The Hebrew man is described as thrusting Moses aside. Thrusting him aside. You know, that language is repeated a couple times in our passage. Moses is thrust aside. He's tossed out. You know, he had these these seemingly grand plans to come in and be the savior of God's people. You know, he was chosen for it. It seemed like he was providentially chosen for it and prepared for it. You know, uh verse 22 mentions all the great wisdom that he received. Um being trained in the wisdom of the Egyptians in verse 22 of our text. You know, so he was trained in, you know, uh understanding. He was probably trained in the ability to lead. Moses is someone who was specially chosen by God's providence as well. Here he was described in verse 21. Being spared from death at the moment of his birth. At a moment when Pharaoh was trying to kill all Hebrew babies Moses in this amazing, miraculous way gets saved from the Pharaoh's wrath. Not only gets saved from the Pharaoh's wrath, just to live and continue to live. But in order to be brought again into this special position of privilege, the unique um situation in which he's able to grow up in the royal household. So again This is one someone who seems like he's been, you know, prepared over long years. Um, you know, the fullness of his childhood You know, his first 40 years of life, God has set him apart. God has placed him in on this special track that is, you know, providentially a very unique situation for him. And again, what does he do with that? He doesn't abuse that privilege. He doesn't use that privilege as a way just to escape from the sufferings of his people. No. Forty years in, it enters into his heart to step in, to help God's people, to help those who are his brothers, to be used to bless them. But again, what happens in the case of this leader, Moses? Yet another leader of God's people, ready to step in and bless God's people. How do God's people respond? Again, what did the Hebrew man say? Again, we read that he thrust him aside. He essentially looks at him as nothing. Even though Moses had stepped in with the right intentions Even though he truly was the man appointed by God to save the people of God in this situation. It doesn't mean the people of God recognize that, and it doesn't mean that the people of God have shown him the honor that he is worthy of. Once again he's basically rejected. He steps in to signal that salvation is at hand The question gets asked by a particular Hebrew slave in verse 27, who made you a ruler and judge over us? Moses, who do you think you are? Moses is coming to bless. The desire to bless is met with skepticism. It's met with rejection. Not only does the man reject Moses' attempts to lead into blessing, the man also, furthermore, shows that he doesn't care if Moses lives or dies. He makes this very casual mention of this deed that Moses just committed, where, you know, Moses ended up killing the Egyptian man in order to avenge the Hebrew man. Yet that casual mention of the thing that Moses did is something that if it made its way back to the Pharaoh Would cause the Pharaoh to want to put Moses to death. And in fact, this is what actually happens in Exodus chapter 2, verse 15. The Pharaoh finds out what Moses has done. The son of the royal Egyptian court has turned against one of Egypt's own, on behalf of those who are the slaves of Egypt. Pharaoh is angered by this. Pharaoh wants to put Moses to death. So now the one who once was the privileged son of the royal household is now the fugitive from the royal household Moses' life is in danger. He flees the scene just to save his own life. Has to go live out in the wilderness. In isolation for another 40 years. Here is the thanks that Moses gets. Moses steps out of his life of privilege. In the royal court, trying to save the life of one of his own brothers, taking this very risky step, this very bold risky step, stepping, standing against Um, you know, uh an Egyptian on behalf of a Hebrew slave. What is the thanks he gets? The Hebrew man rejects him. The Hebrews reject him. The Hebrews resent his attempt. And then show they have no regard for his life. The man has to flee for his life, and he's thrown casually into danger. It truly is, just as we read in verse 25 of our text, then, he, Moses, supposed that his brothers would understand that God was giving them salvation by his hand. But then what's the outcome we read at the end of verse 25? But they did not understand Again, isn't that true what we're seeing here in this text? We're seeing the ways that God raises up this leader for blessing, and yet the leader who's raised up for blessing ends up getting mistreated. By the very people of God, those whom he actually would come to save. Again, it's no accident that Stephen is highlighting this, emphasizing this. Who's he pointing to? He's pointing to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's pointing to Christ who came to bless the people of God, and yet when it came down to it, the leaders of God's people, the religious authorities rejected Jesus Christ. Even sought his death. But Stephen's point is that this is what they've always done. Going back to the days of Moses, they have done this. Going back to the days of Joseph, this is how it's been. God sends someone to bless his people, but God's people oftentimes don't receive. Don't receive in the way that they should, and in fact, sometimes, you know, oftentimes end up mistreating those who come to bless God's people. We see the same thing. It it only continues Even though Moses actually does come and lead Israel out of Egypt and actually does do these amazing things for Israel to witness. We see that they just as quickly, just as easily thrust him aside, even after all of the things he does. You know, many of the things are really summed up in Around verse 36 to 38, where Moses does go and lead the people out of Egypt, out of slavery. He does lead them through the Red Sea by God's powerful work of salvation. Moses does perform these wonders and signs in the wilderness, these amazing deeds by which God's people are spared, by which their lives are preserved. by which the Pharaoh and his forces and his authority and his armies are overcome. You know, God does these remarkable acts of salvation through Moses. Moses goes up onto Mount Sinai, receives words from God, living oracles, mentioned in verse 38. And all of these deeds that are done All these amazing things you would think, you know, ought to be testimony to the people of Israel of who Moses is and that they should listen to him. And that they should seek to even submit to him. You know, he's described in very great terms in verse 35: a ruler and redeemer. He's a ruler and redeemer by God's appointment. for the people of Israel. And yet, even after they see all this, what is their attitude towards Moses? Well we see towards the end of our text, basically again, the very same response. Verse 39 describes the actual act. It describes the act of serving the gods, uh, you know, you know, serving this calf or this this false god that is made by Aaron. But in verse 39 we see that you know part of the root of what they were doing there, it wasn't an act against God, it was a sin against the Lord, but what they were also doing is they were actively rejecting and rebelling against Moses' leadership. Verse 39 describes, our fathers refuse to obey him, but thrust him aside The act of making the golden calf, the act of worshiping a golden half cat the golden calf, it was a rejection of the Lord. It was also a rejection of Moses. You know, what was Moses doing? He was up there on top of Mount Sinai doing what he was supposed to be doing. He was listening to God on behalf of the people You know, they weren't happy with his timetable. They weren't happy with what he was doing. They thought they had more important things for him to do than the things that he was doing. And yet, again, Stephen's point here is to say that this is how it's always been with the people of God. It's been the same way, you know, the same way it was with Moses before. So also it's the same way with Moses yet again. And notice the outcome in verse 39. They are essentially turning back to Egypt in their hearts. They're basically rejecting the work that God did. If God did this work to deliver them from Egypt, they basically reject that work and wish that it had never happened. It's a rejection of God. It's also a rejection of Moses' leadership. But at the same time, in verse 39, rejecting the work of God and saving them from Egypt, what else were they doing in verse 39? Once again in verse 39, that same phrase, that same phrase mentioned earlier. Our fathers refused to obey him, but what did they do? They thrust him aside. Basically, they threw him away. They threw it they cast him out as insignificant. Yes. See Moses does all these amazing things. You know? It was one thing for them to reject him when he was You know, not really anyone too special, you know, earlier on in his life. But here now, after the deliverance from Egypt, the deliverance through the Red Sea. You know, they've seen so much testimony of what God has done through Moses. You think it ought to be enough for them to begin following Moses, listening to him? receiving him but at the end of the day we see it also is not. We see the same response both times. They thrust him aside before. They thrust him aside even after the end of all the amazing works of salvation that God does through the man Moses. Now again, what's the larger point of this narrative? You know, um And I'm basically just retelling the story in many ways and and bringing out the the the main theme that that Stephen is pointing us to, you know. What's the main point though? This point of this pattern in of this history in which the people of God are often prone to thrust aside and disregard the leaders that God uses to bless them. You know, again, that was the pattern in the case of Joseph. It's very much the pattern in the case of Moses. The whole point of the whole speech is to show us this pattern in connection with the Lord Jesus Christ. If Moses was thrust aside while bringing blessing to the people of God, Jesus Christ too was thrust aside while bringing blessing to To God's people. And of course, that's the real point that Stephen is making here. These Jewish leaders, this Jewish council, they have thrust aside Jesus Christ. They put him to death. They persecuted him They also persecuted his servant, his servant Stephen. But in doing so, they are falling into the very same pattern of rebellion. The very same pattern of sin that God's people unfortunately have all too often fallen into. And again, that's very much the the main point of this speech. This pattern in which God sends people to bless his people. But how do the people respond? Oftentimes they respond with refusal, rebellion. They refuse to receive those who are brought to them in blessings. And again, what's the point? The point is so that we see Jesus Christ. We see that that this is true of Jesus Christ. And we understand that just because he is someone who suffers doesn't mean we should write him off. Doesn't mean we should write him off as someone worthy of no regard. Doesn't mean that we too should thrust him aside, even as the people of God were too prone. to do all the way down through the history. Well if you consider this pattern and you see the pattern that you see in X seven You know, you might start to wonder what is the point of serving God? What glory is there? What benefit is there to serving God for someone like Moses? What benefit is there for any one of us to serve the Lord in the ways that Moses did? You know, Moses steps out and serves God in these very remarkable ways. And what does he end up getting for it? He has to live through rejection, he has to live through resentment, he has to live through the mistreatment that comes to him. From the people of God. Now he does get to bless God's people. And so he does get to truly bring true blessing to the people of God. And there is something glorious about doing that But if the only reward for doing that at the end of the day is being mistreated, then what is the point? Is there a point? Well, it is important for us to see here in this passage that there is a glory in what Moses is doing. There is even a glory in what Moses is suffering. And the glory that's present in what Moses is doing and in what Moses is suffering, that glory all stems from the ways that he pictures the Lord Jesus Christ. See, Moses is just not just another individual. Moses is someone who is used in the Holy Scriptures as a type of Jesus Christ. Somebody who pictures in advance the glory of the Christ who was to come. Moses suffering the rejection of God's people. becomes someone who by his life and his suffering points to the glory of the Christ who was to come. The Christ who was also to reject. the rejection, or was also to suffer the rejection of God's people. Moses' life and suffering pictures Christ. And there's real glory in that Because as Moses' life points to Christ, Moses' life is used to save people. People are brought to faith in Christ. Through Moses' suffering. Because Moses' sufferings reflect Christ's suffering. And so as Moses pictures Christ, he brings people to salvation. God brings people to salvation through Him. Moses' life and suffering is used in the scriptures in Exodus. It's also used here in Acts chapter 7. And in both places it's used to point us to the Lord Jesus Christ. Did you know that it's possible that God may also use our sufferings in a similar way? I mean, we do we know that we're not like Moses in the sense that we are not types of Jesus Christ. Our lives are not written in the pages of Scripture in the same way that Moses Moses' life was. But you know that g God may also use our lives and our sufferings to point people to Jesus Christ. Christ. The way in which we live, even the way in which we suffer, can point people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe even just in some small way. You know, sometimes it's hard to figure it out when you're in the midst of suffering or you're in the midst of a trial. It's hard for you to figure out what is the redeeming value of this trial? What is this the redeeming value of this thing that I am going through? Just keep your heart focused on Christ and leave it to God, how He will use your life and your suffering. And you will do the same thing that Moses is doing. Again, we share with Moses the same Savior. We also should share with him that our lives and our sufferings also point to the very same Savior whom he trusts. And as we do so, let's continue to trust in Jesus Christ. Continue to look to the same Savior whom Moses looked to in all our sufferings.