Return your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's Gospel. As we continue our study there, we're in chapter 26. I think that's on page 989 of your Pew Bibles. And from your bulletins, you see there's a rather large section that we're trying to cover today, and the the truth is we're not going to cover it all. And I don't even think I'm going to read it all. This section will be broken up into multiple sermons, but right now I want us to get an overview of this passage. And so I'm going to read portions of it. We'll be focused on the denial of Peter this morning. So let's go to Matthew chapter 26 and I'll begin reading at verse 31. This is the very word of God. And when they had sung a hymn, they went out to the Mount of Olives. Then Jesus said to them, You will all fall away because of me this night. For it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered. But after I am raised up, I will go before you to Galilee. Peter answered him, Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Jesus said to him, Truly I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. Peter said to him, Even if I must die with you. I will not deny you. And all the disciples said the same. I'm going to jump down to verse 57. After Jesus prays in Gethsemane, he's been betrayed and now arrested, and we come to this at verse 57. Then those who had seized Jesus led him to Caiaphas the High Priest, where the scribes and the elders had gathered. And Peter was following him at a distance as far as the courtyard of the high priest, and going inside he sat with the guards to see the end. Now the chief priests and the whole council were seeking false testimony against Jesus that they might put him to death, but they found none. So many false witnesses came forward. At last two came forward and said, This man said, I am able to destroy the temple of God and to rebuild it in three days. And the high priest stood up and said, Have you no answer to make? What is this that these men testify against you? But Jesus remained silent. And the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us if you are the Christ, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You have said so. But I tell you, from now on you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. What further witness do we need? You have now heard his blasphemy. What is your judgment? And they answered, He deserves death. Then they spit in his face and struck him, and some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is that that struck you? Now Peter was sitting outside in the courtyard The servant girl came up to him and said, You also were with Jesus the Galilean, but he denied it before them. before them all, saying, I do not know what you mean. And when he went out to the entrance, another servant girl saw him, and she said to the bystanders, This man was with Jesus of Nazareth, then again he denied it with an oath. I do not know the man. And after a little while the bystanders came up and said to Peter, certainly you too are one of them, for your accent betrays you. Then he began to invoke a curse on himself and to swear, I do not know the man. And immediately the rooster crowed And Peter remembered the saying of Jesus, before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. And he went out and wept bitterly. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. And you pray with them. Our Father, we thank you for this passage. It's difficult to read. And it's difficult because it gives us a glimpse into our hard hearts And so we ask now, Lord God, that you would comfort us Comfort us with knowing more of Jesus this morning through this passage, that you would open this passage up to us in such a way that we would know more of our Savior and Lord. Help us. Guide us in this, Father. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, where is your confidence this morning? It's a significant question. And I think it applies directly to our passage before us this morning. Where is your confidence? As Jesus began teaching his disciples, as you remember, he used parables, and one of the parables, one of the first parables that he used was the parable of the four soils or the parable of the sower. And if you remember that parable, the parable starts off by the sower goes out to sow his seeds. And he So some here and there, four different kinds of soils on which the seed falls, and one of those uh soils was rocky ground. where there wasn't much soil. And the seed immediately springs up because but because there was not much Soil, as the sun comes out, it scorches that seedling, and since it had no root, it withered away. Now the disciples left Jesus after that parable not really understanding what he was talking about, and so now he gives an express interpretation or an understanding of the parable that he just taught. And with regard to the rocky soil, he says this For what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy, yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when the tribulation or persecution arises On account of the word, immediately he falls away. Now, Matthew has organize his gospel in such a way that he'll put things before us early on and then later on he opens that up even more. It seems to be exactly what he's doing here for us in this passage we have. He might say about Peter, but it's really all about Jesus. Peter seems to be that kind of rocky ground soil at this point, where he did immediately receive the Word of God with joy. And as his persecution arises, he withers. Well, we know Jesus has left the temple. We know Jesus is on his way. to the cross. We know that he has prepared his disciples, so to speak, and in calling them to prepare for his return. Calling them to be ready, like the five virgins, with the oil, not knowing when their master would return, calling them to use the talents given to them while he's gone. And when he returns that that his wealth, so to speak, would only be increased. That teaching is over. And now the crucifix is really close. It's looming. Indeed, in this passage, while we didn't read it, Jesus has prayed In Gethsemane. He's asked the father to take the cup away from him, but he's submitted himself to the will of his father. He has now been betrayed by Judas. The disciples have fled from Jesus, and now he is undergoing a trial. He's before the chief priest, he's before the high priest, he's before the council. They're bringing false witnesses against him He has now revealed himself to be the Christ. They've charged him with blasphemy. And while Peter has explained that he would never deny Jesus Christ, while the trial is going on. Peter denies him three times. That's our text this morning. That's what's happening. And if we were to sum this up in one sentence, we might put it this way: that the confidence of Jesus is founded in the Word of God. The love of his Father and the abiding of the Spirit. The confidence of Jesus is founded in the Word of God, the love of His Father, and the abiding of the Spirit. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, confidence in Christ is part of faith. Secondly, confidence in self is part of demise. And finally, confidence in the triune God is part of salvation. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking that question to yourself, where is my confidence this morning? Well, confidence in Christ is part of faith. Peter was clearly exemplifying much confidence. As Jesus begins this Passage of Scripture he quotes from Zechariah, that passage that we read from earlier this morning You will all fall away because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock will be scattered Now clearly the disciples knew what Jesus was speaking about because Peter answers Knowing what that passage was saying, that Jesus was about to be smitten, stricken down, and as a result, his followers would flee from him. And so Peter's response to this appears to be immediate, as Matthew records it, even like a knee-jerk reaction. And he answers, though they all fall away. I think meaning all of his disciple brothers. Though they all fall away because of you, I will never fall away. Peter seems to isolate himself. He seems to exalt himself. He is confident. But Jesus didn't leave that bold, that brash, confident statement alone. But now he prophesies. Truly I tell you, this very night before the rooster crows, you will deny me three times. But not to be deterred, Peter's confidence seems to increase. Even if I must die with you, I will not fall away. Excuse me, even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. Peter exudes confidence Matthew notes no wavering in Peter's voice, in the tone of the speech, in the words that he uses. Even if I must die with you, I will not deny you. There were no maybes in Peter's speech. No maybe I, no. There were no conditionals in Peter's speech. If this, then I will do that. Peter's confidence was what we might say off the charts. There was really no measuring it. And I think we would all agree that confidence is a good thing. Webster's 1828 defines confidence, at least the first portion of their definition. A trusting reliance An assurance of mind or firm belief in the integrity, stability, or veracity of another That's interesting. A reliance in the integrity, stability, veracity of another, not in self. Scripture agrees, Though an army encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though a war arise against me, yet I will be confident. Psalm twenty-seven. Or Paul. As he writes to those at Philippi And most of the brothers having become confident in the Lord by my imprisonment are much more bold to speak the word without fear It's a good thing to be sure. It's a good thing to be confident. It's comforting to be confident in another or in truth. And carry that with you as you enter into affliction, such as the war arising in Psalm 23, or to become confident in the Lord. as a result of seeing his providential hand in putting Paul in prison, being so confident that you now you take the word out Confidence in this sense is necessary and admirable. But there's a second kind of confidence Webster's definition continues. Number two, trust reliance applied to one's own abilities. See the difference? Confidence in the abilities of another. Secondly, reliance Or trust in your own abilities. Belief in your own competence The world would proclaim that confidence in self is also a good thing to be sought after and revered. We see it in most sporting events. You just need to turn on the television on Saturday afternoon and watch football games and See, the excitement when somebody scores a touchdown and the confidence that they exude in themselves is again off the charts. That was Peter's confidence. Peter was confident in his own abilities, in his own competency. He was confident in himself. He was confident in his own strength. The confidence of Peter was in what he thought he had within himself. Meaning his strength and his power over his will. Alongside What he thought he had of an abiding and unending love for Jesus Peter's confidence was in what he what he thought he had acquired or obtained by this time in abiding faith, a trust and love for this one whom he knew as his teacher, and who he assumed would be his king in in a short moment or two You question that? You question that Peter's confidence was in himself? Just look at how Peter spoke. Look at how he used the first person pronoun. In these short two sentences, Peter uses I three times. I will never fall away. Even if I must die, I will not deny you. He was fixed upon himself. We'll see that even more clearly as the chapter unfolds, but it starts here in his confession. It was not confidence in Jesus, it was not confidence in the triune God. It was confidence in himself. Peter was fixed and focused upon himself. We don't want to leave out the other disciples because all the disciples said the same. As usual, Peter was merely the spokesman. You see that all the disciples had the same confidence that Peter espoused. They all had the same kind of misplaced confidence together You see, none had confidence in Jesus. How do we know? Because none expressed confidence in Jesus' words. Remember, this begins by Jesus quoting from Scripture, telling them, you will all fall away. Because of me this night, for it is written, I will strike the shepherd and the sheep, or the flock will be scattered. None had confidence. That scripture passage would apply to them that day. Jesus had just told them that it would. He just described to them what was going to happen based upon the scriptures. He just prophesied how each of them would respond when he was stricken. He told each one of them that they would flee from him. Not a single man would remain with Jesus. But not a single disciple had confidence or trusted or believed the very word of Jesus. You see how telling that is of the condition of their hearts at that very moment. Each of the disciples, led by their spokesman Peter, considered their emotions, their feelings, their human worldly thoughts. maybe even their desires, to be greater, more significant, more truthful than the Word of God applied to their hearts that moment. Jesus was quoting from Zechariah. Jesus was saying, this is what the prophet said And he wrote it for this day, for this time, for you And the disciples to a man said to Jesus, No, you're wrong. For their confidence was in themselves. Their focus was in themselves so great. that the word of God would not penetrate their hearts at that moment. Does that happen to you? And the Word of God is so clear. Do not commit adultery. Do not lust after a woman. So clear. And yet you open up the page of pornography. God has told you, this is what you should not be doing. And you just say, No, Lord. No, I've got confidence in myself. This won't lead me astray. See, faith includes confidence in Jesus Christ. That which the disciples were not evidencing that day. You say, well, where is that in the scriptures? Where is that in the catechism? Where do I read that? Shorter catechism reads this way: What is faith in Jesus Christ? The answer is faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon him alone for salvation. There it is. It's right there. Rest upon him. That resting is confidence in the person and work of Jesus Christ. That He, His person, and His works are sufficient to save you. That you are resting or confident And the purity of his blood. Yes, faith includes confidence in Jesus Is that where your confidence lies? That brings us to our second head. Confidence in self is part of demise. As we're coming to the end of this chapter, we've skipped some things to bring together Peter's confession and Peter's denial. But let's just update ourselves for a moment. Judas has betrayed Jesus, and Jesus has now been arrested by that great crowd with swords and clubs from the chief priests and the elders of the people. And as Jesus prophesied, then all the disciples left him and fled. That's the scene. Now Jesus is before the high priest, the chief priest, the scribes, the elders, the whole council. They're all seeking false testimony from him, the chief priest and the whole council seeking that false testimony that they might put Jesus to death. The high priest has adjured Jesus to tell everyone if he's the Christ, and indeed he does. And so the high priest calls out blasphemy. Jesus is spit in the face, he's struck, he's slapped And obviously he's blasphemed. That's the scene. And now Matthew shifts focus from that which is going on in the council now to what's going on outside. And specifically to Peter. It seems that Matthew abruptly cuts back to Peter. But in essence, I think what Matthew is doing is saying, you know, to know more about Jesus. You need to know more about yourself. And so he's showing us more about ourselves. As he shows us a little bit about Peter, so we can know more of Jesus. So we have this astounding scene, Jesus being questioned, false evidence being sought, he's being condemned to death, and at the very same same time, Peter denies him. And it's all at the backdrop of Jesus telling his disciples that they would fall away. It's all with the backdrop of Peter saying, I will not fall away, I will not deny you. But the prophecy of Jesus comes to pass. Jesus indicated that Peter's denial would come in that very day that he prophesied of it. How many times do we see prophecy coming to Coming to pass in the same day. It's not often. But here it is. And so Peter's denials are vehement. You might even say in a very bad way Peter's denials are enthusiastic. Webster defines enthusiasm as violent passion or excitement of mind in pursuit of some object, and that is exactly what Peter's doing. He's violent in his mind. He's in pursuit of some object, and that object is himself. And so we see a progression. As he's first questioned, being with Jesus the Galilean, he responds in a somewhat nonspecific way, I do not know what you mean. But then his denials just increase. As pressure mounts, he's questioned a second time and he denies knowing Jesus with an oath. Like the oath goes along with his statements that make sure that his statement is true. But that wasn't enough. Then the third and final denial is proclaimed. Peter's words are set in the midst of a curse. What does that mean? It means Peter was calling down a curse upon himself if what he was saying wasn't true. God curse me if what I'm saying is not true. That's what Peter was doing. It was enthusiastic in a very bad way. I do not know the man Peterson Niles are a bit like a child entering a swimming pool who doesn't know how to swim. Child first gets into the pool at the shallow end with the stairs, and that's Peter's first denial. Dangerous, but the steps are right behind you. You can reverse your course at this point and get out. But then as the non-swimming child moves toward the middle part of the pool of the water, the depth of the water increases, and now he's up to his neck. This is Peter as he denies with an oath. Deeper water, more danger, harder to get back to the steps, the exit ramp of his dangerous path. And finally, as the child moves into deep water, wants to get into the deep end to boast before his friends, he takes the last possible steps and Enters into that deep end. Now he's completely underwater, struggling for air. This is Peter as he denies Jesus by bringing a curse upon himself. He has submerged himself in his denial of Jesus Christ. There's no part of Peter who professes to know this one who was at the very moment suffering in his place. Why this denial? It seems rather obvious. Peter knew Jesus was in trouble as Jesus had been arrested and taken away to the chief priests and the scribes, the elders, the high priests, and the council was at that very moment being questioned that they might find grounds to kill him. And so Peter wanted nothing to do with the man. He wanted nothing to do with the trouble from an earthly perspective that Jesus now found himself in. It would seem obvious that G Peter knew where this was headed, and so he thought sought to distance himself, his life, his very breath, the beating of his heart from Jesus in a sense. Peter couldn't run fast enough away from Jesus. He couldn't put enough distance between himself and Christ. You see, it was all about Peter. That's how we started. As Peter exclaimed, I will not fall away. I, even if I must die, I will not deny you. It was all about Peter. He was so confident in himself. Peter's focus, his vision, his eyes were not upon Jesus, but upon himself. And as we come to the end of this account That becomes even more sure, more truthful. For all of his thoughts are upon himself, upon his life, upon saving his breath You see the problem with that? The problem is he had no power to save himself. The text has shown that this always was about me. The strong inclination to protect one's self arises and overcomes or chokes. The desire to confess Jesus. I think that's significant I think we all would agree that's significant. Peter's already been told by Jesus that if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me for whoever say would save his life. We'll lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Peter was trying to save his life. And Jesus had already told him, if you do that, you will definitely lose it. Must As the rooster crows, he remembers the saying of Jesus before the rooster crows, he will deny me three times. He goes out and he weeps bitterly That certainly was a downfall. That downfall could have d turned into his demise Peter was already told along with the disciples to everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But Whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. See, unless Jesus restored Peter, which he does, we haven't gotten there yet. This would have been Peter's demise. This would have been the end of his life, spiritually speaking. But even here, before the restoration, we see an element of repentance as Peter weeps bitterly. As he remembers the words of Jesus. That's significant. As he remembers the words of Jesus. Not as he hears the crow. Not as he hears the rooster, but as he remembers the saying of Jesus. That's what he was denying when he began. That's what they were all denying. That's what none of them had confidence in. And now, here at the end, what Matthew is telling you, now Peter is turned. He's remembering the words of Jesus Christ. He has now confidence in the words of Jesus Christ, and it brings him to weep. Because he knows how he's offended his Lord and Savior. Brothers and sisters I just want you to consider your besetting sins right now. Maybe you just have one. Maybe it's coveting. Maybe it's lusting. Maybe it's failure to love your neighbor. You know your history, you know your struggle. And this week, when you come to another opportunity, to either turn from it, Or fall back into it. Where is your confidence as this next opportunity comes to you? Will you think I I am strong enough You see, it's easy to say, even if I must die with you. It's actually so very difficult to give up that which we hold dear. Our lives. But that's exactly what Jesus calls you to do. The question is, how will you do it? Where will your confidence be? If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? You see, you see what Jesus calls you to first? Let him deny himself See, that's exactly what Peter was unwilling and unable to do that day, deny himself. For everything was about himself. It was not about Jesus. And so as that next opportunity comes, a besetting sin set right before you Your confidence must be in Jesus. Because brothers and sisters, if you're anything like me, and I think all of you are, you're not strong enough Your confidence is misplaced. If you say I You must say, Jesus, help me. Holy Spirit, help me. I'm so weak. I'm so frail. Help me. Lead me. Give me the exit ramp. Take me away. The confidence must be in Jesus. Brothers and sisters, I've got one more point, but I've run out of time. This is odd. I think what I will do is finish this tonight. So if you'll bear with me. Let me recap for us. Yes, the confidence of Jesus is founded. In the Word of God, in the love of His Father, in the body of the Spirit. And that will make sense to you if you come back tonight to hear this third point. Yes, Peter really gives an example of that rocky soil. But the good news is that Jesus has the ability to transform that rocky soil into the good soil with much depth. You cause that seed to grow, to grow in grace. Just like Peter did. He does that for you as well. As long as your confidence Is in Christ, not in yourself. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you, Lord. We thank you for loving us so much that you would send your son, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for his confidence in you. And we ask, Lord God, that you would continue to work our confidence, increase our confidence. in Christ. As we come to the next trial, the next tribulation, the next affliction, the next temptation. That you would have us not to say I, but to proclaim Christ, to call out to you. Crying for help, crying for the strength of Jesus Christ, and for His alone. Guide and direct us now, we ask all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.