If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, once again, the page number in the bulletin is wrong. That's been pointed out to me. It should be page 970, Matthew 12. And once again, we'll be reading verses 1 through 14, but as this is the second part in a two-part sermon The preaching of the Word tonight will be focused on verses 9 through 13. So let's once again give attention to the reading of God's Holy Word, Matthew. chapter twelve, beginning at verse one. At that time Jesus went through the grain fields on the Sabbath. His disciples were hungry, and they began to pluck heads of grain and eat. But when the Pharisees saw it, they said to him, Look Your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. He said to them, Have you not read what David did when he was hungry and those who were with him? How he entered the house of God and ate the bread of the presence, which it was not lawful for him to eat, nor for those who were with him, but only for the priests. Or have you not read in the law how on the Sabbath the priests in the temple profane the Sabbath and are guiltless? I tell you, something greater than the temple is here. And if you had known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would not have condemned the guiltless. For the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. He went on from there and entered their synagogue. And a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? so that they might accuse him. He said to them, Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value is a man than a sheep. So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy, like the other. But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him how to destroy him. Thus far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask now that you would once again guide us by your Spirit. Father, we are weary, we're frail. Tired We ask, Lord God, that you would give us the energy we need, the strength, the attention, Father, the attentiveness. To your word. That you would open it up, that you would give us ears to hear and eyes to see. And that you would allow us, Father, by your Spirit, to bring out all the goodness From this text. That you'd help us to understand it. That you'd help us then to apply it to our own lives. That Father, we would be convicted of sin and then, Father, reminded of all the promises in Christ. Help us now. Guide us in your truth. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember in Genesis there is an account of a great flood. And if you remember at the end of that account, what happens? The waters recede, and those who were in the ark. We're spared. Everyone else on the face of the earth had been destroyed by the flood. But Noah and his family were spared because they were in the ark that God had provided, that God had called them to construct. And so as the flood is over, as the waters recede, as they're gone And Noah and his family come out from the ark. Do you recall what Noah did? The first thing that Noah does After the flood is over and he's out of the ark with his family, he's been spared. The Lord has been merciful to them. Scripture records for us then Noah built an altar to the Lord and took some of every clean animal and some of every clean bird and offered burnt offerings on the altar In a sense, it's a parallel account to the seventh day Where Adam and Eve likely worshipped the Lord after they were made and made very good. Here, after the flood, a recreation had occurred, in a sense And while man was yet sinful, immediately after the flood, after this washing, after this cleansing of the entire earth, There were no barriers. No man made obstacles to worship, except the corrupt heart that yet remained in Noah. And so he worships. No barriers. Having been setting foot now and they recreated, so to speak, earth. That brings us to our passage tonight as the Lord smelled that sweet aroma of the burnt offerings from Noah. We are led tonight in worship as Jesus teaches once again on the Sabbath. As this morning we recalled where we've been in the Gospel of Matthew, that Jesus has called his disciples, that the Pharisees have already interacted with Jesus, asking Why he ate with tax collectors and sinners, and receiving that response, and those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. Even then, Jesus tells them to learn, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. Jesus continues his ministry by gathering the disciples, sending his disciples out in the harvest which is plentiful. They've now come back because they're with Jesus. As they walk through the grain fields, and as Jesus has just proclaimed And called all to come to him, and he would give them rest. Tonight, as we look at this second portion, Of this passage on the Sabbath and Jesus being the Lord of the Sabbath, I'd like us to see that Jesus, as the Lord of the Sabbath, destroys barriers and pours out mercy on the children of God in worship. Jesus as the Lord of the Sabbath destroys barriers and pours out mercy on the children of God in worship. The same three points that we had this morning are the same three points that we will have this evening. Erecting fences, leaping barriers, and blessing worship. And why listen tonight? You've already heard a portion of this. Brothers and sisters, there's so much blessing. In the worship of God, as we're led by the Lord of the Sabbath, that we can't spend enough time considering and meditating upon the Sabbath. So let's do that tonight once again. Beginning once again with erecting fences. Well, we've already seen in the first of these two interactions between Jesus and the Pharisees that they've been complaining They first complained about the disciples of Jesus taking those heads of grain, plucking them, and then rubbing them Pharisees said as the disciples and Jesus were walking through the grain fields on the Sabbath, look, your disciples are doing what is not lawful to do on the Sabbath. We dealt with that this morning. We saw that there was the idea of necessity, what was necessary for those men to sustain themselves so that they could, in fact, worship. Worship rightly. And that was the lesson we had this morning. But now we have the second interaction as they've made it through the grain fields and now they have entered into the synagogue. on the Sabbath. We have a shift in scene, but but really not a shift in the subject matter at all. Look at verse nine. He went on from there, meaning in the grain fields And entered there, meaning the Pharisees' synagogue. Appears to be the same day, indeed, the Sabbath. And as they walk through the grain fields, they may have been on their way to the synagogue as they're stopped, in a sense, by the Pharisees who are watching. And notice where he goes. He goes to their synagogue. He goes to the Pharisees' place of teaching. He goes to their place of hearing about God and his word. He goes to their place of worship. Jesus was keeping the Sabbath as he was attending upon worship in and at their synagogue. Now the Pharisees ask that question. Just think of the uh the image of all being in this place. We don't know what it looked like. But it was likely some sort of building which they had entered into, which they had assembled at, and people now were waiting for the teaching. It seems to be what's going on. And so the Pharisees begin and ask that question of Jesus, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? Now, we know that there's a man with a withered hand in the assembly. And so they asked this question And we see this and we take it as another complaint, a protest, actually issued by the Pharisees. They put it in the form of a question, is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? And it sounds like an easy question to answer In fact, it sounds like a foolish question to even ask, because the answer seems so obvious to us this evening. And yet for the Pharisees, the answer was also obvious, but for a very different Reason, as their question was an attempt again to find reason to accuse Jesus of false teaching. And so the question was asked. The purpose for the question was not truly to learn. They really weren't seeking wisdom from Jesus. It was asked so that they might accuse him. Verse 10. This word translated accused means to bring charges in a court. That's the idea. To find uh a basis for bringing a charge against Jesus. They want to be able to accuse him to Charge him with a crime of false teaching, and they thought that they had trapped him because this man with a withered hand was in the assembly. They weren't truly looking for an answer from Jesus because they thought they already had one. Supposedly, their concern was centered on a violation of the Sabbath. And as we heard this morning, we remembered this morning that the fourth commandment tells us That were to remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy, six days you shall labor, do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work. And so somehow the Pharisees considered healing to be a work, an activity involving healing of one who needed healing to be some sort of work. But how? Once again, I turn to commentator Hendrickson, who notes that there were some difference of opinions among rabbis. But all widely endorsed, well, I can't say all, but widely endorsed was this idea That only in such cases in which a man's life was actually in danger would it be permissible to heal him on the Sabbath. That seems to be the the general idea, the general tradition. Not everyone agreed, but according to Hendrickson, that was widely endorsed. Only if a man's life was in danger would one be able to seek to heal him So once again, the Pharisees seem to be referring to this oral tradition of their rabbis. Which had been laid upon, on top of, over the fourth commandment. It had been superimposed on the Sabbath day. It is this superbarrier now to worship, actually The rabbis, whom the Pharisees were revering, had gone so much further. And as we said this morning, they had lost the purpose. Now we might think Well, the Pharisees were just focusing on keeping God's law. They were extreme in keeping God's law. And we have to admit that there's no such thing as keeping the law of God too closely. That's exactly what Jesus did. He kept the law not just closely, but perfectly. Not a jot or a tittle was left out of Jesus' keeping of the law of God. He kept the very law of God perfectly in thought, in word, and in deed. But the Pharisees weren't really complaining about the keeping of God's law, were they? They were complaining about the tradition, the rabbinical rules. that had been orally established at the time. And so their focus was fixed, not upon God's law, not upon God's purpose. Not upon truly what the Sabbath was all about, but upon keeping the tradition. And so these Pharisees would condemn Jesus' act. of supernatural mercy. They had erected and adhered to offense Which had been superimposed upon God's word, a man-made barrier to worship. But the highest fence that they had erected appears in verse 14. That the Pharisees went out and conspired against him. How to destroy him. Just consider that for a moment. Jesus had just healed this man's withered hand. They considered it to be a violation of the rabbinical oral tradition, limiting healing on the Sabbath to those who were in danger of losing their lives and dying. And their response. Is a conspiracy to murder Jesus. He is the one who was pouring out, who is exuding mercy. And the response is to conspire together to destroy him. This is the highest fence, the most significant barrier that the Pharisees have erected. to worship. This barrier was not outside of them, but within themselves. This fence that they had erected within their hearts to true worship or communion with the living God was their hardness of heart. This fence which they had erected would not be torn down nor removed because of their hatred for God. And it was exposed and displayed in their contempt for and disdain of the Lord Jesus, the only Son of God who had come to save sinners. And even this display, this mercy, was a precursor. to his salvation of sinners. He said this morning that we can erect our own barriers to worship, that we don't need the Pharisees, the rabbis, and we can and do erect them ourselves. Indeed, just like the Pharisees, our hearts can and do erect fences or barriers to keeping the Sabbath on the Lord's day. And it happens as our corrupt hearts, as the old man speaks, as Satan tempts, telling you that there's something better than worshiping God. When you're persuaded that another activity, another event, another task is better, is more pleasing, it's more necessary, it's more important than worship. Satan will attempt anything and everything to persuade you. Just consider for a moment physical weariness. How good it sounds to stay home and rest at times. I'm tired. It's been a long week. The Lord has said that this is a day of rest, and I need rest. You've just erected a barrier to coming and joining in the assembly. of the worship of God. Physical rest now has become more important, more timely. It's become better than spiritual rest. Brothers and sisters, we all need physical rest. But as you come to worship, as you participate in the congregational worship Of the triune God. He's going to provide you with all that you need. You may still be tired when you leave, physically. Spiritually, you're gonna be built up and fed and nourished. Yes, we can erect barriers. But the call tonight is to pray that the Spirit would be working powerfully in each of our hearts. That we would recognize those barriers as we begin to erect them, and that by and through the power and strength of the Spirit, He would be knocking them down, destroying them, and renewing Within us, a desire, that longing to be with God's people on the Lord's day And enter into that sweet time of communion and worship through the Lord Jesus Christ. It brings us to our second point. Once again, leaping barriers. Now Jesus responds to that question, is it right to heal on the Sabbath? This man Have been waiting. Notice the first mention of this man is immediately after Matthew notes that Jesus entered the synagogue. And a man was there with a withered hand. Kind of surprised. Jesus enters the synagogue and Matthew then records, Oh, there's a guy there with a withered hand. Okay, so what? Well, he becomes the object lesson, doesn't he? How long had his hand been withered? We don't know. How long had he not had use of it, full use of it? How had this affected his ability to live and how had this affected his worship? It was a Sabbath, and the man was with the withered hand, he was present, but what effect did his withered hand have on his ability to worship? Was he fully alert? Was he fully engaged? Was he fully participating? Maybe. Having a physical disability does not necessarily mean that worship for that one was severely or even affected at all. But it may have taken away from his full enjoyment. Consider this. This man's hand was withered because of sin. Isn't that what happens? Isn't that what happens to each of us in our physical maladies? They can all be drawn back to sin. Our bodies are returning to dust as a result of our sin. And so healing this man. was representative of removing his sin. And it's only through the removal of sin that one is able to worship the living God. Do you see the connection? Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. Only those. Only through cleansing offered by the Lord Jesus Christ. So Jesus turns this into an object lesson How could Jesus serve his Father that day and not have mercy on this man, part of the Father's creation? How could Jesus profess to walk in accordance with the very law of God, to love him and to love his neighbor, and not heal this man now? How could Jesus reflect the radiance and goodness and mercy of God to all those who were watching in the synagogue, including the rebellious Pharisees, and not pour out mercy on this man? And so, in a sense, Jesus heals the withered hand of this man. As he does so, he gives the Pharisees exactly that which they desired. Jesus had broken their tradition. By healing on the Sabbath. But not before explaining, reasoning with them, using the wisdom of God as to how this healing was most certainly in accordance with the very word of God. And so he responds, Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? All of them. There's a sense in which this is a reference back to Exodus and Deuteronomy. In Deuteronomy, Moses writes, You shall not see your brother's ox or his sheep going astray and ignore them. You shall take them back to your brother. You shall restore it to him. And you shall do the same with his donkey or with his garment or with any lost thing that is your brother's. You may not ignore it. You shall not see your brother's donkey or his ox fallen down by the way and ignore them. Or an Exodus. If you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey going astray, you shall bring it back to him. You shall rescue it with him. In both of these, there's no mention, but if it's the Sabbath, leave the animal and go about your day. No, the command here was to restore the animal to your brother or even to your enemy. The command was to love your neighbor in this way. Save the animal. The command was to have mercy even when dealing with an enemy. And then Jesus states the obvious, of how much more value is a man than a sheep. Pharisee, if you're going to rescue your sheep, how much more valuable is the one who's made in the image of God? How much more does God care for men, women, and children than he does For the birds of the air. They neither sow nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not of more value than they Do you see how Jesus gets to mercy? He's using the wisdom of God. But in a sense, he's also using the very Word of God. He doesn't respond in defense of himself as we saw this morning. He goes immediately directly to the principles set forth in the Word of God to respond to the false teachings and claims of the Pharisees who would have left this man in his misery. They would have withheld mercy as they sought to uphold their false dichotomy. Either keep the Sabbath or show mercy. You can't do both. So Jesus opens up the absolute truth of God's word to show, to teach that keeping of the Sabbath and dispensing mercy are not opposites, but go hand in hand. See, part of the Sabbath or the Lord's Day is encouraging one another. Isn't that not the case? Isn't that what was happening even in the synagogue on that day? As this man's withered hand was finally healed, as others attending upon the worship in the synagogue were blessed. To witness this supernatural healing and outpouring of God's mercy, was there not great encouragement? Think of the joy. Think of how his friends and family members joined him in rejoicing over the mercy that was shown to him. Consider the praise for God that may have occurred. This one was the recipient of God's mercy. Isn't that what the writer to the Hebrews was writing about when he wrote, Let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works. Not neglecting to meet together as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another, and all the more as you see the day drawing near. That's what Christ was doing. He was encouraging all those in the synagogue that day in their worship. Purging sin through this representative healing of this man's hand and allowing him to engage more fully, more completely More joyfully, in a sense, in his worship. What a great encouragement to all those there that day. And even here today is to think upon that, to meditate upon what Jesus did and pouring out mercy. It leads us in worship, doesn't it? It should. That brings us to our third point: blessing worship And once again we have to ask that question as we did this morning. How does Jesus being Lord of the Sabbath lead to a blessing? We found it this morning, wondering whether we can find it again tonight. In a sense, that's already been answered as as Jesus has healed this man's withered hand. Now, any distraction that this physical malady, this disability may have caused in worship was removed immediately, fully restored. The sin which the withered hand represented was gone. There was peace. Where there once had been turmoil and tribulation This is what Jesus does as Lord of the Sabbath. He provides that peace, peace of conscience. Do you see, as he rules and reigns as Lord of the Sabbath, one thing that he is doing, one great thing that he's doing is he's removing that guilt from your heart. Your soul is resting in Christ. Just as he promised, come to me all who are weary and heavy lading, and I will give you rest. The guilt of sin has been removed, wiped out, cleaned. clean, fresh in Christ. His atoning sacrifice. Jesus has fully and completely satisfied the just Wrath of his father for your sins tonight if you're trusting in Jesus. Like the healing of the withered hand. Jesus has removed discourage from your soul. The guilt is gone. You've been restored. And now your soul, your spiritual being is being made whole in Christ. Just like the man who's now able to use both of his hands. You've been made whole. You're able now to serve without any disability. Do you see how he blesses through his lordship of the Sabbath But that's not where it stops. There's a sense in which we skipped over verses six and seven this morning and haven't gotten to it tonight yet. He tells the Pharisees, something greater than the temple is here. You see, they were looking at the ex The Pharisees were looking at the traditions. They were looking just like Saul. who sought to keep the best animals for sacrifice, thinking in his own mind, not in God's That that was more pleasing to God than keeping what God had called him to do and wiping out all the animals. And so Saul had replaced God's word, his command, with Saul's own reason, Saul's own thinking, his own law, just like the Pharisees. But Jesus says something greater than the temple is here. The Pharisees loved the temple. They loved the external. They loved the praises that they received. From the people. Just like the temple. Everything external. Nothing internal going on in their hearts As they had hardened them against God. And now Jesus says, something greater than the temple is here. He's talking about himself. He's talking about his work. He's talking about his being the Lord of the Sabbath. And then he goes on to say, if you'd known what this means, I desire mercy and not sacrifice, you would have not condemned the guiltless. You see Jesus is so merciful. He is the compassionate God who has drawn you to himself even to be here tonight. That's mercy. So many other things you could be doing tonight, but he's laid upon your heart the desire to be here, to love him, to serve him, to worship him. That is mercy And he's called you to see how God's law is above everything. And you love it. That's the blessing of Jesus being Lord of the Sabbath. And through it, he's brought you into intimate personal communion with your Creator God. Which gives you joy. Do you see? There's so much more we could talk about tonight in terms of the Lord Jesus being Lord of the Sabbath. But that's the center of it. He's brought you into intimate personal communion with the one who's made you By and through his perfect work on the cross, by and through his powerful resurrection, by and through his intercession tonight. On the throne of grace. That's what he does as the Lord of the Sabbath. Praise be Be to God. Jesus, as the Lord of the Sabbath, destroys barriers and pours out mercy on the children of God in worship. Noah's worship wasn't pure. But there were no man-made obstacles yet to it. And it points us once again to Christ The Lord of the Sabbath, who is knocking down all of those barriers that we create within our own hearts and drawing us ever closer into that personal, intimate communion. With the triune living God. Praise be to him. Amen. Father in heaven. We could spend all week here dwelling, meditating upon Jesus as Lord of the Sabbath. Pulling out different ways in which we are blessed by His rule, by His Lordship. And by this blessing that we call the Sabbath of the Lord's Day. We thank you for it, Father. We thank you for bringing us together this evening. We thank you for worship. Father, we pray that you would continue to work in our hearts. giving us an even stronger desire to be in your presence through Christ. We look forward to that day when Indeed, all barriers will be knocked down forever, and worship will be pure and undefiled And joyful. Oh Father, we thank you for the joy that we've experienced even today, even this evening. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for His Lordship. We pray, Father, that you'd help us to be those who consistently and constantly submit to that lordship. And this day, the days to come until He returns. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.