Amen. If you'd open your copy of God's word now to the Gospel of Matthew. We'll continue our study there this morning in chapter fifteen. I think you'll find it on page 976 of your Pew Bibles. We'll be at the end of the chapter. Beginning at verse twenty-nine Let's give attention to God's word. Jesus went on from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee, and he went up on the mountain and sat down there. And great crowds came to him, bringing with them the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and many others. And they put them at his feet, and he healed them So that the crowd wondered when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled healthy, the lame walking, and the blind seeing, and they glorified the God of Israel. Then Jesus called his disciples to him and said, I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days and have nothing to eat. And I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way. And the disciples said to him, Where are we to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd? And Jesus said to them, How many loaves do you have? They said, Seven, and a few small fish. And directing the crowd to sit down on the ground, he took the seven loaves and the fish. And having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to the disciples. And the disciples gave them to the crowds. And they all ate and were satisfied. And they took up seven baskets full of the broken pieces left over. Those who ate were four thousand men, besides women and children. And after sending away the crowds, he got into the boat and went to the region of Megadon. It's fine that Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we have now read your word once again. We ask for your blessing upon it. And we ask for your blessing upon our hearing now. That we would hear Christ. That he would speak to us. By and through the work of your Spirit, Father, you would help us hear the very words of Christ. We ask this now in his precious name. Amen. If you're familiar with the account in Exodus where the people have been freed from Egypt, God has delivered them through the Red Sea. And now they're on the way to the promised land. They have not made it yet. And they are in the wilderness. And there's nothing to eat. And the people grumble. And the Lord said to Moses, I've heard the grumbling of the people of Israel. Then the Lord rains down bread from heaven. And he tells them that there will be enough for you all to eat. And the people of Israel go out and gather the manna, that which is fallen, that which is on the ground. And they gathered some more, some less. And verse 18 of chapter 16 of Exodus tells us, but when they measured it with an omer, whoever gathered much had nothing left over. And whoever gathered little had no lack, each of them gathered as much as he could eat. The Lord provided for each one exactly what each one needed So that they would be satisfied, so that they would not faint on the way to the promised land. If you know the account, they were provided with this manna until the day that they entered into the promised land In the sense that leads us to our passage this morning in Matthew's Gospel. Jesus now Has fed five thousand in chapter fourteen. He has walked on water He has told his disciples what it is that defiles a person as opposed to what the Pharisees were thinking and teaching. And he's healed the daughter of the Canaanite woman who came to him in faith. This morning, as Jesus continues to reveal who he is to his disciples and all those who would be Sitting at his feet, I want us to see that the compassion of Jesus Christ satisfies his followers all the way home to glory. With the compassion of Jesus Christ satisfies his followers all the way home to glory. We might be asking ourselves this morning, wh why is this passage here? We've already had the feeding of the five thousand, and if you compare This passage that we have the feeding of the 4,000 with the feeding of the 5,000, you say this is almost an exact parallel. There are some differences, but there are so many similarities. Why does Matthew include this second mass feeding, the second supernatural banquet here? What was the Spirit doing as he moved Matthew to include this in? his gospel. More importantly, why was it necessary for Jesus to provide this second lesson, which paralleled the first to the disciples? What was going on? If we open up this passage this morning, I hope that we'll be able to see and answer this question. Well, first, the transformative power. The transformative power. And we see here that Jesus has now left the district of Tyre and Sidon, that district of Gentiles, and now he's moving back toward Jerusalem. He is gone from there and walked beside the Sea of Galilee, and he went up on a mountain and sat down there. That mountain would be an indicator of a gr a placing of a place of great teaching. And that's exactly what we think is going on in this place. The great crowds came to him, verse 30. Somehow the people know. Matthew doesn't reveal that to us. He's silent on how it is the people know that he's now traveled a great distance from Tyre and Sidon and gone by the Sea of Galilee, and now he's up on the mountain, and they come to him. Somehow they know. And not more not only that, they bring to him all those who need healing. Did you see the list? Great crowds came to him bringing the lame, the blind, the crippled, the mute, and in that category, many others. They know that he's there somehow. They're drawn to him, and they bring all those who need healing. Now you might think that Matthew would have an explanation of how he healed the mute, how he healed the blind person, how he heals the lame, but he doesn't. Look at verse thirty. It's very short. And he healed them. That's it. That's all that Matthew records. Jesus was not calling upon the people to see him at that moment. He was not seeking attention. He was not promoting himself. He was not calling the people to praise him. Matthew records this as very short in what we have in our English versions as four words, and he healed them. It reminds us of the humility of Christ, the contriteness of his heart. There was no desire to glorify himself, even though he was and is the God-man, the only Son of God. No glory was reserved for the Father. who though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. And he healed them. So much so that the crowds wondered. They marveled when they saw the mute speaking, the crippled, healthy, the lame walking and the blind seeing. Just think of that for a moment. The human body is so wonderfully made. We have all kinds of medical professionals. And they're all specialists. We have ear, nose, and throat doctors, we have foot doctors, we have eye doctors. But Jesus healed them all. Everyone was healed. No one who came to him in their affliction, whatever it was, no one left without receiving healing. No affliction was too great that Jesus could not heal. Those who are mute, now speaking, those who were unable to walk, now walking, those who were blind, now seeing, those who were in the category of many others. All healed. Exactly the way that they needed healing. And so the crowd wondered. They marveled. The Greek lexicon says to be extraordinarily impressed. That's what happened. How could they not? Because of the person and the work of Jesus Christ, verse 31, they glorified the God of Israel. You see the transformative power of the Lord Jesus Christ once again on display? This passage certainly does display compassion, doesn't it? And it displays the transforming power of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he has the ability to display, to reflect, to radiate the love of the Father for His people. Nothing was left undone because he didn't have the power. Nothing was not accomplished due to a power failure or insufficient sovereignty or due to a lack of knowledge. No. No, Jesus Christ possesses transforming knowledge and power. He knew each of those within the crowd who were afflicted, who came to him. He knew how to heal each one of them in a way that they needed healing. The mute, who is different than the blind, who is different than the lame who differed from the crippled. Each one had his or her own malady. And Jesus had knowledge and wisdom about their individual sufferings. They're individual afflictions. He knew each one and how each one needed to be restored to be transformed. And his wisdom and his power. Jesus transformed them. He changed them from being afflicted. to being healed, each one was made whole again. In his compassion. Jesus healed and and changed each one who came to him. They came to Jesus for that healing. The mute was left speaking, the blind was left seeing, the lame was left walking, each one received exactly What in Jesus' wisdom they needed, each one was satisfied. Have you been transformed this morning? If not, it may be because you haven't recognized your affliction. Each of these who came to Jesus knew of their affliction. They knew of their blindness, their lameness, their speechlessness. It was obvious. It was apparent to each one of them. But what about you? Do you know of your sin? Do you know that you've broken the law, God's law? Do you know that you offended a holy God? Do you know that the punishment that awaits you is eternal death in the fires of hell? That is your affliction this morning. It bears upon you. It weighs upon you. It's a great burden. Do you know it? Do you feel it? Of course you do. We all do. Then you need healing. You need transformation from the one who bears this burden to the one who has had this burden relieved. And Jesus Christ was the only one that these crowds went to. And you can go too. You can be transformed by his saving compassion. Just as these were individually healed, as Jesus knew their afflictions, like a wise doctor, he transformed each of them just as they needed, you can be transformed as well, from one who loves to sin to one who loves righteousness. The righteousness of Christ. He knows how to heal you. He knows how to transform you. Cry out to him this morning. The one who says, Incline your ear and come to me here that your soul may live. Cry out to this one. Brings us to our second point. Willing Compassion. We've seen the transformative power, but I also want us to see this morning the willing compassion. Well the scene is the four thousand, these are just men. I didn't count the women and the children. So we can figure at least eight thousand, maybe approaching ten. 4,000 man crowd had come to Jesus. They have been with him now three days. Three days on the mountain. Three days at Jesus' feet. What was happening during those three days? We don't have a complete record here of everything We know that there was healing. Just think of the doctor's office that you go to and how many people can cycle through the doctor's office in one day. Jesus healed all of them in three days. Eight, ten thousand people. How many were afflicted? We don't know. But we also know that he was preaching and teaching, because that's why he came, as recorded in Matthew's Gospel. That is what I came for. And that's the reason for Jesus' compassion, as Matthew states it. I have compassion on the crowd because they have been with me now three days. And have nothing to eat. And then he speaks his will. Did you see that? I am unwilling to send them away hungry, lest they faint on the way. See, Jesus knew of their hunger. He knew of their need for bread. He knew that these were completely dependent upon the hand of his heavenly father. Psalm 145 tells us the eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due season. Everyone looks to the Lord and He satisfies them. You satisfy the desire of every living thing. Jesus knew the propensity of humans to faint due to hunger. He knew that these might not make it home. The journey likely was far and by foot. He knew the human condition. And how did the disciples respond? Because remember, he's calling his disciples to him. Now the crowds came to Jesus, and now he's calling his disciples to him to minister to these crowds. And they said, Where are we able to get enough bread in such a desolate place to feed so great a crowd? This is the third time The third time that his disciples have basically said, No. No. The first time was within the 5,000. Again, this is a desolate place. The day is now over. Send the crowds away. With the Canaanite woman who is crying out for her daughter. Send her away. She's crying out after us. And now, with the 4,000, plus women and children, where are we to get enough bread? But the Lord would not be stopped. Think of the Israelites. So we read in Psalm 107 this morning, the psalmist recounting the Israelites' journey. Think of how the Lord provided. As they set out from Elim, all the congregation of the people of Israel came to the wilderness where there was no bread. As they grumble, and as they say to Moses, Have you brought us out into this wilderness to kill this whole assembly with hunger? And the Lord responds, No, no, no. No. I'm going to rain down bread from heaven. This was the only way for the Israelites not to faint in the wilderness. Remember, ultimately they traveled throughout the wilderness for forty years. Where were they going? To the promised land. They were headed home. They were seeking a city to dwell in where the Lord would be their God. And he provided for them on the way that they would make it to their home. And Jesus desires now that the people make it home, that each of them would make it to their homes without fainting, without expiring on the way. Have you experienced this kind of compassion? This compassion of Jesus? Maybe you're here this morning, maybe you're listening this morning, or hearing a recording, you're saying, you're thinking to yourself, No, I I haven't. This is your thought this morning. Let me help you. For that was the thought of the Israelites. Even as God provided all things for them. Even as they enter the promised land And were showered with milk and honey and all the all the abundance of the land that it had to give And Hosea the prophet records for us, she did not know that it was I who gave her the grain, the wine, the oil, who lavished on her the silver and gold which they used for Baal. They'd made it to the promised land. They'd made it all the way to their new homes, dwelling with God. They received the produce of the land. They received the grain, the wine, the oil, the silver, all the good things that the promised land had for them, and they assigned Described it to one other than God. They were not thankful. They did not recognize that God had provided for them abundantly out of his love, out of his compassion. Does that describe you this morning? Everything that you have, all that you've been given, is not of your own doing, just as it wasn't of the Israelites' doing. Have you received an abundance of food, of shelter, of clothing, of good health? This is only the compassion of Jesus. Beloved in the Lord Jesus, there ought to be a sense in you That the compassion of Christ is on display every day Now you may be thinking that I'm speaking of his provision for you, your refrigerator being full of food, the roof which does not leak, the clothing which has not worn out That should not be neglected. You should be giving thanks for all of those things because Jesus does provide them, but you need to ask yourselves the question now, why? Why? Why does Jesus provide for you? Why does He care for your body? Maybe he does so that so that you will experience forgiveness. Have you thought of that? Remember the words of Jesus in this passage. I am unwilling to send them away hungry lest they faint on the way. What was the way? Of course it was the way to their home, their dwelling place, but their ultimate dwelling place, for some, it would be glory. And so what was the way? It was repentance, wasn't it? It was faith and repentance Isn't that what Peter writes? The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not willing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. So then the greatest experience of the compassion of Jesus Christ is the experience of forgiveness, isn't it? Which leads you to repentance. Isn't that the way? As we sin, our consciences are burdened with guilt, eternal weight of knowing we have offended all holy God bears upon our soul. If your heart has been made tender this morning to the things of the Lord, and you go to the Lord Jesus Christ, just as those did go with physical afflictions And you go to him with this weight of your filthy sin because you need to experience his compassion Just as he washed the feet of his disciples, you need to experience the cleansing of Christ, the forgiveness of Christ. For sin is coming. It will happen. I'm not a prophet of the Old Testament sense, but I can tell you that you will sin. We all do. And then as you cry out to Jesus for forgiveness and he brings to mind his atonement, his work on the cross at Calvary, his blood shed for you. that washed away your sin and thus your guilt, then you will experience once again the relief, the removal of that weight of guilt. Sweet forgiveness. Guilt of sin will be gone forever. That, brothers and sisters, is compassion. Ensuring that you will not faint on the way to glory, your eternal home, that you will continue to experience a cleansed conscience and be led in your repentance. This is great compassion. Have you experienced it? And brothers and sisters, it is not just your own personal experience. It's it's because you're part of the body of Christ that you experience this compassion of Christ Being part of the member of the body is a privilege, the ability, the opportunity to see the compassion of Jesus poured out upon your brothers and sisters. That's another way by which you experience the compassion of Jesus. Sometimes we think our experiences are personal only. That's not the case. We're told to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. We're part of a body. And so as a part of the body, we experience the compassion of Jesus as we watch his compassion being poured out upon one another. Even as you hear people coming from membership here and vowing Answering yes to those five questions, aren't you seeing the compassion of Jesus as he has transformed their hearts? Aren't you overwhelmed with the compassion of Christ? This text causes us to ask, I think, all of us, will I make it? Will I faint on the way to my ultimate dwelling place, my eternal home, or will I make it? And if so, how? On what basis? I think this passage answers that question for us. It's on the basis of the compassion of Christ, that you won't. Faint. He is the one who continues to pour out his compassion on you. To uplift you and make sure that there will be no fainting on the way to glory for you as you trust in Christ. Brings us to our third point this morning entire satisfaction Well we remember the question of the disciples here is they're presented with the call by Jesus to provide bread for the people. Where are we to get enough bread? Where would we get so many loaves in this desolate place to satisfy such a large crowd? That's how the New American Standard translates it. To satisfy. For the New King James to fill so great a multitude. Did you notice the disciples asked the question, where are we? Where are we to get enough bread? How shall we satisfy this crowd? How shall we fill their stomachs? How will we send them home in such a way that they won't faint or expire along the way? Was this their failure just to remember the 5,000? And the fact that they were the ones who distributed the food that Jesus gave them by his hand? Was that it? Yes, of course. But it was more than mere forgetfulness At his foundation was their unbelief. How could Jesus through them satisfy these four thousand, plus women, plus children? such that none of them would faint along their way, such that none would expire, so that they would be able to complete the apparently long journey home. The disciples did not believe that they could do this And yet we read the result. And they all ate and were satisfied. Did you notice once again how it was that the crowd, the multitudes were satisfied? Jesus took the seven loaves and the fish, and having given thanks, he broke them and gave them to the disciples. And the disciples gave them to the crowd. Yes, it was a supernatural act of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, now who has transformed seven loaves and a few small, not even large, fish. To feed the four thousand, plus women and children. They were fed by a supernatural transformation, a multiplication, demonstrating along with the healings that began this passage the unbounded power of the Lord Jesus Christ to transform, to use all things to accomplish the will of his Father. That was the first step. But did you notice the second step? The disciples, the unbelievers, so to speak. They were the ones through whom the people, the great crowd, received the bread and the fish. The disciples gave them to the crowds. It was through the disciples, after the supernatural act of the Lord Jesus Christ. That the crowd ate and were satisfied. Jesus used doubting disciples. Ones of little faith to satisfy Isn't that what he does today? Through weak, frail, feeble, sinful men. He's using to satisfy you to the preaching of his word. This passage is obviously about Jesus Christ. It's obviously about his compassion. But I hope you're also seeing it is also about Jesus the satisfier. The second time now that great crowds have been satisfied. Through his power, through his supernatural act And it causes us to ask one more question this morning. Have you been satisfied by Jesus? Better question probably is Jesus your satisfaction? Now I'm not asking here, have you evaluated Jesus and are satisfied with his ministry? No That's not the question. Paul puts it this way. If you've been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above. This is from Colossians chapter three. He ends that portion of his letter saying this Christ is all and in all. That's satisfaction. So much so that Paul wants to know nothing but Christ. Indeed, I've counted everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. That's satisfaction. And so as we see these two ideas, these truths con coming together, compassion of Jesus and the satisfaction of Jesus, you must see that connection this morning. He is the one who satisfies. He is the one who fills so much so that you have no unmet needs or wants because of his compassion. He satisfies as he meets your needs and wants through his compassion. You are satisfied because of Jesus' compassion. Have you experienced that? Are you full this morning? And so as we go back to the question of your experiencing the compassion of Jesus Christ, have you Because that's the ultimate question, isn't it? Are you satisfied? Is he your satisfier through and by his compassion? Because if not, if not, friend, you'll always be looking for that one thing, that one person who you think will satisfy But there is no other. Jesus is the only satisfier, and he does it through his compassion. What a Savior we have in Jesus Christ, who satisfies us to the full by and through his compassion. Yes. Yes, the compassion of Jesus Christ satisfies his followers all the way home to glory. We began by asking that question, what was going on here? And the answer that we've been given through the text. So Jesus was teaching his disciples how they, by and through his ministry, Would pour out his compassion and satisfy every children, every child of God. All the way to glory. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we are such a blessed people as you uncover, as you reveal your mysteries in Christ to us. We're such a thankful people. Because you have sent the Lord Jesus Christ, the compassionate one. And the one who satisfies all of our needs and wants, so much so that we will be sustained, lifted up all the way to heaven. Oh Lord, we thank you for the truths that are contained within this passage. We thank you, Lord God, for bringing them to us this morning. We thank you so much for Jesus. Help us, Lord. Help us to be those who experience the compassion of Christ, who know of his satisfaction. Lead us, lead us on the way. Father, we are so longing to enter glory. But we know you have more for us here. And so we ask, feed us with the bread of Christ. Even now, as we think upon the Lord's Supper, we ask all these things