If you would turn in your copy of God's word now to the Gospel of Matthew once again, we're in chapter 18. I think you'll find that on page nine hundred and seventy-nine of your pew Bibles, Matthew eighteen. And we'll be at verse fifteen this morning. Let's give attention to the Word of God. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault. Between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. But if he does not listen, take one or two others along with you, that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, tell it to the church. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, It will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there am I among them. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father in Heaven, we come to a passage which may be misunderstood as mere procedure or policy. Help us to know, Lord God, that there is much more here than a process. And guide and direct our hearts this morning to Christ to see whether this is a picture of his work. Help us now, Holy Spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How much do you love your brothers and sisters here? It's an important question, one that we may not think of or even ask ourselves. Think of Nathan the prophet just for a moment. If you remember, Nathan the prophet went to David as he had sinned, sinned with Bathsheba. And then against Bathsheba's husband, Uriah the Hittite, by sending him off to battle, ensuring that he would be killed. And remember that David remained in his sin without confession, without repentance. And the Lord sent Nathan to David and had Nathan give David a particular scenario of a rich man who took a poor man's sheep to feed to a visitor. The only lamb that the poor man had. And David was outraged and said that this man deserves to die. And must restore the Lamb fourfold. And then Nathan said to David, You are the man. Who was Nathan before the king? Consider what he was bringing to the king. It wasn't good news At least on his face it wasn't good news. He was bringing the word of God, he was bringing the judgment of God. He was bringing a warning to David, a dire warning to repent. How much did Nathan love God? How much did Nathan love David that he would do such a thing? To come to his king with such a difficult report calling him to repent. It's a bit of what we have this morning in this passage in Matthew chapter 18. As we've been studying Matthew 18, we've seen the disciples come to Jesus Christ asking him about who is the greatest in the kingdom. And Jesus then points them to the children, that they must become like children, that they must turn. He calls them to cut off temptation. As we saw last time we were in this book. He called them to active work against that which tempted them into sin. He explained to them that those in heaven rejoice At straying sheep who are returned to the fold. And it seems to be that the focal point of this whole passage Is Jesus' statement that the will of his father is that not one of these little ones should perish? Brings us to our passage today, if your brother sins against you. There's a process here of calling a sinner to repentance. Some passages in the scripture are difficult to understand, to grasp. They're complicated. They might be a bit confusing, but this is not one of them. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. It's significant. But it's straightforward. It may be difficult to actually do, but it's not difficult to actually grasp the process. Go and tell him. Jesus merely states to go to the one that you believe to have sinned against you and speak with him or her privately about the offense. And then if that doesn't work, that doesn't bring one to repentance and confession and take another with you, or maybe even two. And go through the process again with those present. Establish the evidence of sin with the offending brother and the others who you brought with you. And if that doesn't work, if that doesn't bring the one to confession and repentance, now take it to the church. If these two prior attempts are unsuccessful at confession, repentance And reconciliation in the matter is to be brought to the church. The governing body, the elders, the spiritual leaders of the church, to hear the matter and determine whether the brother is indeed in sin. And the elders hear the matter, and if convicted that sin has occurred, now call this one to confess and repent. And if he refuses, then treat him as a tax collector and a gentile. Meaning, if at the end of this third process this one still will not confess and repent, then he's to be removed from the church as an unrepentant sinner. That's what it means to be treated as a Gentile or a tax collector, one who's not in the church. Matthew records Jesus ending this passage by assuring his disciples that these actions by the church, by the elders of the church, the under-shepherds, meaning Those that the Lord Jesus Christ is placed in these positions That their actions will be effective. I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. Now there's a caveat here that they're acting according to the will of Christ. For where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them. Jesus is saying that as long as they're acting according to my will, because I'm among them, then whatever they do here on earth Will be that which is done in heaven. Their work is effective, so to speak, as long as it's done according to the will of the Father. That seems to be the process. That seems to be exactly what Jesus is teaching. Very simple, very straightforward. Another way to think of this is to consider that our God is a God of order. And hope. We see this process or this procedure for Christians, for believers to follow if they believe that they've been sinned against by a brother or sister in the church. See, the Lord doesn't leave his children without any means to address the offense that has been afflicted. He doesn't leave his children without a means, a way of addressing offenses. And so we see very simply in this passage a straightforward and orderly way, a step-by-step divine way. for individuals and the church to call a brother to confession and repentance. A God is a God of order. who has given his children an orderly, God-glorifying way in which to bring sins to light, to confront offending brothers and sisters, and ultimately to purify the church. We might sum up the teaching here this way, that Jesus calls the entire church to pursue straying sheep. Jesus calls the entire church to pursue straying sheep. And we might see that there are three doctrines, at least three doctrines here that we can open up. First, some sinners may be turned. Turned back. Secondly, some sinners may be reconciled, and finally, some sinners may be cast out. As we go through this passage and open up these doctrines and apply them to our hearts, I want you to be asking yourself, how much How much do I really love my brothers and sisters here? Well, first, some sinners may be turned back. This passage certainly sets forth a procedure, a process, but it's a passage of hope. If your brother sins against you, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. It's a passage of hope. This passage begins with the sense, the truth, the reality, certainly the hope that some sinners can and will be brought back. They'll be turned away from their sins and back to Christ. That's the unspoken backdrop to this passage. And if you understand that, then you must also understand that if some sinners are not confronted with their sins by the one that they have offended, it's possible that they will remain in unconfessed and unrepentant sin That this sin has been committed and it will lie dormant in their heart, in the heart of the offender. It will be unaddressed, unresolved, and will fester. At least that's the possibility, isn't it? Like an infection that exists beneath the surface of the skin. It can't be seen. And yet it's eating away at the body. And so the call is to go with hope, to speak, not to remain silent, to bear up under an offense. But to bring it to the surface, coming to the conscience of the offender. And you do that with not a promise, but with a hope that the offender, the straying sheep, will return to the fold. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. There's hope in this process. Gaining back the straying sinner. With man, this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. Now, I don't believe that Jesus is saying that every single sin, every single offense is to be addressed this way. There are certainly some sins, some offenses which are experienced by you by Christians, which are to be left unattended, so to speak. Jesus clearly taught in the Sermon on the Mount, if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. If anyone would sue, take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. Matthew Henry commenting on that passage States that instead of avenging the injury, prepare for another and bear it patiently. Leave recompense in the hands of God. It will not justify us in hurting our brother to say that he began it. For it is the second blow that makes the quarrel. Paul speaks of this in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. When Paul is is writing to them about their disputes that they're having and they're going to the courtroom, to the unbelievers. Brother goes to brother against brother. Brother goes to law against brother. And that's before unbelievers to have lawsuits. with one another is already a defeat for you. Why not rather suffer wrong? Why not rather be defrauded? Paul saying that there are some sins which you just receive, some offenses which you should just suffer. Jonathan Edwards writes in one of his sermons, you who think you have met with many abuses and much ill-treatment from others, care not for it. Do not hate them for it. But set your heart in heaven. There are some sins that we don't take to the offender. It seems that the dividing line here may well relate to the well-being of the offender. If the sin is such that, like an infection, would continue to harm the one who is the offender, then it should not Then it must be indeed brought to the offender's attention If it is a sin which is going to draw this one away from Christ, if it's a sin which is going to lead this one into serious backsliding, And it must be broad. The emphasis here in this passage must be on the offender. And so this passage, this application is fairly simple to understand, isn't it? You need to go If your brother sins against you, go. Tell him his fault. That word means to be on the move. To take action, to go in a certain direction. This is how the Greek lexicon explains it. In a certain direction, go with a certain purpose to your brother. The problem is that we're hesitant, aren't we? We have a tendency as Christians to stay at home, so to speak. But the call here is to go. The call by Jesus is to go to your brother and speak to him, to bring to your brother's attention the way in which he has offended you, the way in which he has sinned against you, the way in which he has sinned against the holy God. Think of what Joseph said as Potiphar's wife sought to lure him into sin. How can I do this great wickedness and sin against God? That's exactly what the sinner is doing. And yet we don't go. We understand that not all offenses, not all sins, are to be addressed in this way. But for the good of your brother and for the peace of the church, there's a call to go, and yet we're reluctant. I think I can apply that to everyone here. Well there may be some who are ready at the drop of a hat to go and call others to repentance, and Jesus speaks of those in the Sermon on the Mount. You hypocrite, first take the log out of your own eye, then you will see clearly to take the speck out of your brothers. But most, even after removing the log, are reluctant or hesitant to speak of such things to our dear brothers and sisters. Most would rather not say anything and remain silent. So the first application here is go. This passage would indicate to us that silence in and of itself is a sin when Jesus has called you to go. And so the second application is related to the first. As a part of going, do not store up instances of sin or offenses against you. The call here is not to create a diary, to record, write down, keep in detail the way you've been offended by this brother, this sister. The call is not to write them down. The call is not to hold on to offenses, but to go and speak to the one who has done the offending. This truth, this doctrine, this command then is to speak, to reveal, to uncover, to explain, to divulge, to report. What keeps you from going? Yes, it's our concern. A concern that will create a divide, isn't it? It may also be our concern that it's not going to do any good. But you see, to be an obedient servant of Jesus Christ, you're called to go and speak to your brother for his good. Isn't that what Paul writes? We know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. What keeps you from going? Is it possibly a lack of love for your brother or sister? That brings us to our second point. Some sinners may be reconciled. This passage is not just about the offender, although I think the emphasis is on the offender. There seems to be much about the offender here, but there is another involved. The offender and the one offended. The offense has created a schism. It's created a gap, a divide, a relationship break, hasn't it? A relationship which needs to be mended, reconciled. Reconciliation is needed. That's part of what this is all about The two need to be brought back together again. The break, the breach needs to be repaired, because the sin has actually created two wounds. The one in the sinner. And the one who has been sinned against, both require bandages, both need a bomb. Trust has been damaged. The heart is hurting. The other heart is becoming callous. And this is why Jesus was anointed. He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. See, the two must be brought back together, and this can only be done through Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ is the one saying, go and tell, go and speak. It's the only way the relationship can be restored and reconciled. And so reconciliation is certainly a goal of each step in this process, but as we get to the second step, it seems to be even more evident in this second step. If he doesn't listen, take One or two others along with you that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. Here he's not listening. The sin is festering The wound inflicted has not been attended to in either party. One is bleeding, and the other is sick and doesn't know it or will not admit it, and so you're called to take one or two with you. You see, bridges are more easily built when there are others to help. In a conflict between two. It's difficult to bridge the divide when the offender may not have ears to hear or motivation to reconcile, but when others are brought Outside of the conflict, outside of the offense, outside of the offending words or actions, and they're present and they're listening and they're confirming, as the evidence is established. As the evidence is brought, as the one or two who are brought along will either confirm that the brother is in sin or not. And as the witnesses speak and testify, and if sin is confirmed, then the press is on the offender. To reconcile. The call to reconcile is more likely to be heard For if this offender is a true brother, a sincere believer who's who's been converted and given a new heart Then he needs to have his ears unstopped. He needs to have his eyes opened. He needs to have his pride crushed. And the added weight of these additional persons coming with you, the added weight of repeated evidence, the added weight of consistent and additional testimony may have the effect of bringing down the wall that the offender has erected to keep out his own confession. Reconciliation. The possibility of reconciliation, the hope of reconciliation increases as more are brought. The question is, are you willing to go? Because see, now this includes more than the one who is offended. The one who is offended now is asking one or two others, presumably from the church, now, can you go with me? Please, are you willing to go? It will be uncomfortable. It will be awkward. It may be contentious. Are you willing to go? Let me put it another way. How much do you love your brother? Your love for your brother is an indication of your love for Christ. Isn't that what John writes in his first epistle? Brother, let us beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God, and anyone who does not love Does not know God, because God is love. John also wrote in that same letter, by this we know love. That he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. You see, going in this context is one way that you lay down your life. For your brother. That you set aside your concerns as to how I may feel Because you love your brother. And you want to bring this matter to the forefront. And so you lay down your life for your brother. That brings us to our third doctrine or point. Some sinners may be cast out. Now there's a third try, so to speak, a third process, a third procedure. Here, if he refuses to listen to them, we'll tell it to the church. Now a formal charge, so to speak, is brought to the governing body of the church, the spiritual courthouse. Justice disputes were brought to Moses, and the judges that he appointed. Now Jesus is teaching the same. The one who is offended now brings the matter formally to the elders of the local church where the offending brother has his membership. Notice that the offended one is still involved, and the one offended is still seeking to bring this brother to recognize, to admit, to confess to his transgression now before the church, the body to which he belongs. And those who have been ordained, appointed, set apart by God to rule, to listen to the evidence, the witnesses, and using the witness the Wisdom granted to them by the Lord Jesus Christ, they now decide. They decide the matter. Is this one in sin? And if so, calling him to repentance, calling him to confession. Consider this. What other organizations on the face of the earth spreads out its dirty laundry for all to see. See that which was initially hidden, first hidden in the heart of the sinner. And then secondly, it was hidden in the one-on-one meeting between the offended and the offender. It was even hidden from public view when one or two were brought along when evidence was established, again seemingly a public or private meeting. But now, now at the church everything is open. Now the public is able to see and to hear the sin of those in the church. And the public knows that there are sinners. There are sinners in the church. And it knows that the church cares. Not only does the church recognize that it is made up of sinners, cares and seeks to restore unrepentant sinners to the sheepfold. And the community, the public is watching. We see that. We know that the public watches the church. We see it in Acts chapter 2. As everybody was in the temple together, breaking bread, selling their goods, giving to those in need, praising God. They were having favor with all the people. See those outside the church were watching. What's going on in the church? Oh, they're selling everything that they have and they're giving it to others as they have need. They're in fellowship together. They're breaking bread. They're worshiping. They're praising God. And they were having favor with all the people. The community watches. And thus as discipline proceeds, the community sees what the church is less concerned about what those outside see, see the dirty laundry, and is more concerned about cleaning it up. And so as this process has used, the community sees that the church is not hypocritical. It's true to the Word of Christ, that the church opens itself to true cleansing and restoration and reconciliation and purification. Yeah, some will be cast out. There is a solemn and sober warning here. In one significant sense, there is an end, there is an end point in the process of seeking to bring one to confession and repentance. We see it here. If he refuses To listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and a tax collector. The one who is found to be in sin and refuses even this third time to confess and repent before the church is now removed from the church. So let me now speak to those who are in unrepentant sin. If you cling to sin, If you hold on to sin, you will be removed from the church. Whether the church fulfills its duty or not, you will be removed. Think of Paul's letter again to the Corinthians in chapter 5, for there was one who was present in the church, who had taken his father's wife, and the church hadn't done anything about it. And Paul said, I've already pronounced judgment on the one who did such a thing. Even though the church hadn't pronounced judgment, Paul had, the ambassador of Christ. Moses writes in Numbers, your sin will find you out. You see, this is a type. This process is a type. There will come a day when confession and repentance will no longer be available to you. Justice in this formal process. There comes a day when no one will be asking you to confess and repent anymore. After this third meeting, if you remain in your unconfessed and unrepentant sin, no one will be coming to seek you out. This doesn't mean that the church won't be praying. But there's no more process. There's no more asking you to repent. It's a picture of the day when the Lord Jesus Christ returns, isn't it? When he returns, each of us will give an account of himself to God, to Christ. The day for repentance and confession is over. Now it's a day of accounting. He will repay each person according to what he has done. The day for repentance is over. You see, Jesus is returning only for his bride, the church, and if you cling to your sins You will not be part of the church. You will not be part of the Bride of Christ. You will remain outside, outside the wedding hall. You won't be dressed. You will have your sin, but you will not have Christ, the only Redeemer of God's elect. So here the call. This call today is a call to confess. It's a persistent call to open your heart, to see your own sin, and run to Christ, for Jesus is the only one the only one who can plead for your forgiveness. And do not make a mistake that this three-part process calls you to just wait for more time. That is not what this is. No, the call is immediate. As you remain in your sin, your heart becomes more and more callous, and you remain less and less likely to come to Christ. Hear the love of your friends to repent. Hear the call of those who care for your eternal soul to confess and run to Christ. Let me speak to those now who who are on the other side, so to speak, who are the offended. Well, it's possible to see this passage as something akin to or like a policy manual, an operating manual for the church. Please do not miss The overriding and the emphatic call to pursue the straying sheep. That's what this is. That's the context where we find it. I've already mentioned the call to go and to speak, and we've discussed the pursuit of reconciliation. But God is a God who Desires that not one of these little ones should perish. None of his true sheep will ever be lost. And we know that he's a patient God, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. In fact, none will. None of his elect, none of his chosen. will be ever cast out by the Lord Jesus Christ. He will lose none of them. All that he has been given will be raised up on the last day by Jesus Christ himself. And so we see the call here in this passage. The desire of the Lord Jesus Christ to use his people, to use his congregation, to use his bride, to pursue those individual sheep who are straying. To continually go after them. When the first encounter doesn't end in the hoped goal for confession or repentance, the call is not to stop. But to continue to pursue, to continue to seek, to continue to find, to continue to bring back And the second encounter doesn't result in finding the lost sheep or in restoring the lost sheep. Go to the third. And even after the third ends without the result that you were hoping for, Pray, pray that this one will be brought back You must see that this is not merely a matter for the ordained officers of the church. They're certainly involved, must be involved. But this work of seeking after straying sheep devolves upon the individual members of the body of Christ, and we see it here so plainly. All are to be involved. Zealously involved in that dirty work of seeking after the straying sheep. So how much do you love your brothers? Every single part, every single member. Every single arm, leg, nose, ear is to be engaged. Because we're all called to love our brothers and sisters. And Jesus Christ has given us a way to demonstrate that love. Yes, Jesus calls the entire church to pursue straying sheep. Nathan must have loved David a lot. In order to bring him the message that he was the man. Now Christ calls us. To be those who love our brethren so much that we will not hesitate to go. And seek after the straying sheep of our fold. Amen. Father, this is in a sense a difficult passage not to understand. But for us to actually live out. And so we ask, Lord God, by your Holy Spirit, that you'd give us the strength that we need, even in a small body like ours. To be those who are ready and willing and able and desirous and zealous of going. Father, we love our brothers, we love our sisters. Help us. Help us, Father, in the appropriate times, in the appropriate places, in the appropriate circumstances. For us to go and speak that we might bring back those who are straying. We ask all