And you turn in your copy of God's word now once again to Psalm forty six. We'll continue our study there tonight. I'll read the Psalm once again. We'll focus our minds and hearts upon verses 8 and 9 tonight. Let's once again give our attention to the very Word of God, Psalm forty-six. To the choir master of the sons of Korah, according to Alamath a song, God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling There's a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms taught her. He utters his voice. The earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come. Behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still, and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Amen. Please be seated. Let's pray. Father and our God, we come once again to this psalm. And there's a sense that we will never uncover its depths. But we ask even now, tonight, Lord God, by and through your Spirit, that you lead us, to guide us, that you give us ears to hear and eyes to see. That you'd allow us to behold your works. Father, that you'd guide us by your Spirit. And that we would be able to receive all that you have for us tonight. Convict us, Lord God, of sin, and remind us once again of all the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. We ask this in his name. Amen. Well, how do you react when you are surrounded by trouble? When there are threats Against you. And there are those who are seeking indeed your very life. In 2 Kings, there is an account of the king of Syria who sought the head, the life of Elisha. Or Elisha. And he sends his army. And Elisha's servant, as he wakes in the morning, sees the army of the king of Syria amassed. Around them. And he fears. And Elisha says to his servant, Do not be afraid. For those who are with us are more than those who are with them. Elisha then prayed and asked that the Lord would open the eyes of his servant, which he did, and the young man saw and beheld. That the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire. He was given eyes to see. He saw the works of the Lord. He was able to behold those who are wisdom. In a sense, that's exactly what we have tonight in this Psalm 46 as we drill down into the midst of it. In verses 8 and 9. Again, we know that this psalm was penned by inspired sons of Korah. It was written to be a song. And again we don't know much more about the background, the backdrop of this psalm, even when it was written or why it was written. The Spirit will have to see to that in our hearts tonight as we seek to unfold it. Tonight I want us to see that the Scriptures set forth the works of the Lord so that you May set down your weapons of opposition, repent, and believe. The scriptures set forth the works of the Lord. So that you may set down your weapons of opposition, repent, and believe. We see that tonight in three Simple points, first beholding the works, secondly banishing the weapons, and finally believing the victory Well let's begin then with our first point, beholding the works This psalm is full of truths, doctrinal truths. The psalmist says, packed full this psalm with doctrine. First verse, God is our refuge and strength, the very present help and trouble. That's a truth, that's a doctrinal truth that He set forth. Verse 2, therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way. As a result of God being our refuge and strength, the The idea is that the people of God will not fear as they take refuge in him. Verse 4, there is a river whose streams make glad the city of God, the holy habitation of the Most High. God does dwell. In a particular location, and there's a river which runs through it. Verse 5, God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God's city is that place which is immovable because of his presence. God will help her when morning dawns. Another doctrinal truth. Verse 6, the nations rage, the kingdoms totter, he utters his voice, the earth melts, describing the true, the real tribulation of the world, of the world in which we live. And the power of God's voice. And verse seven, the Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. It's packed full of truth in the first seven verses. Well, how does the Lord convict of those truths? How do you know that they're true? Well, the first answer to that question would be by the Spirit. That's why the Spirit was sent, at least in part. That's what Jesus tells his disciples at the end of the Sermon on the Mount excuse me, at the end of the upper room discourse in chapter 16 of John's Gospel, as he's wrapping up his teaching to his disciples. He's telling his disciples that it's to their advantage that he leave them, for if he did not go away that the helper, the Spirit would not come, but if he does go, that the Spirit will be sent, and when he comes Verse 8, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. That is part of the work of the Spirit. We saw another part this morning. He will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. How else does the Lord convict? First is the Spirit, but it's also by experience, isn't it? Isn't that how the Lord works in your heart? By experience? Didn't we see that in Psalm 34? Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Psalmist recognizes that it's by experience that you know God, that you trust in God, that you know Jesus Christ did go to the cross for you. It's by experience that he's cleansed your conscience. You feel the weight of your sin being lifted off of you. It's by experience. Yes, you need to know the truth of your sin. You need to know that there is only one Savior, that is the Lord Jesus Christ. You need to know the work of his salvation. But you need to be convicted that this has been done for you. You need to experience the love of God through Christ. It's by our experience, in addition to the work of the Spirit, that we're convicted of these truths. The psalmist seems to recognize that as he pens verse 8. Come, behold the works of the Lord. That's the call. That's the headline to this particular two verses. Behold the works He's already set forth God's work of refuge, of his work of help. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Psalmist has already set forth God's work of protection, of preservation, of providing refuge, of providing strength, of being your present help. Now the psalmist is calling his readers, the singers, to behold the works of God, not in defense, and you think of that fortress as being a defensive fortress, that you can run into it As he's defending you against the attacks. But now it seems as though he's setting forth the offensive work of God. The active work of destructing all that which opposes him and his plan of salvation. Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he's brought desolations On the earth. See, it's a call to believe, isn't it? It's a call to see and believe. It's a call to look upon that which the Lord has done. And be certain of his proclaimed truths, of what he's told you that is coming. We know that faith is not by sight. But we also know that the Lord uses means to bring people to faith and to keep them in that faith. And one means Of confirming his truth in the eyes of men is to behold his works. Was that that why, in part The disciples were given the privilege to see Jesus walking on water. As Jesus pulls Peter out of the water and continues to walk on the water to get to the boat, what happens? When they got into the boat, the wind ceased, and those in the boat worshiped him, saying Truly you're the Son of God. Why? Because they beheld the supernatural work of Jesus Christ. Was that not why the apostles were given the ability to perform supernatural acts? Peter said to the lame man who was begging, I had no silver or gold But what I do have, I give you in the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And as he does so, all the people who saw him walking and praising God, recognizing who he was, were filled with wonder. And amazement at what had happened to him. They saw, they beheld And so now the psalmist is calling his readers to believe, to be convicted, as they are called to behold. Behold. Behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. You might be thinking to yourself right now, what uh what desolations Well the psalmist doesn't say exactly, but we can think maybe the flood. Maybe the psalmist was calling the singers, those who read this psalm, to consider the flood. That all flesh died, that moved on the earth, birds, livestock, beasts, all swarming creatures, and all mankind. That God blotted out every living creature that was on the face of the ground, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, they were blotted out from the earth. That is desolation. Wrought by God. Think about the Tower of Babel, which follows the flood. As the people gathered together, they wanted to build themselves a city, a tower with its top to the heavens, to make a name for themselves. And what does God do? He comes down. He confuses their speech and he disperses them over the face of all the earth. And they left off building the city. You can imagine that the city was just left to decay, a desolation. No longer actively pursuing their sinful work, God disperses and makes desolate, in a sense, the Tower of Babel. Consider Egypt. Consider the nine plagues that were brought by God upon that nation, as Pharaoh would not let the people of God go. And then the tenth. At midnight, the Lord struck down all the firstborn of the land of Egypt. From the firstborn of Pharaoh, who sat on the throne, to the firstborn of the captive who was in the dungeon. And there was a great cry in Egypt, but there was not a house where someone was not dead. A firstborn, the very strength. Of a father, the future strength of a nation, left desolate by the hand of God. Think of think of the promised land as the Israelites went in. We're not quite sure if that's what the psalmist was actually referring to, because we don't know the date that the psalmist wrote this, but we can think of it. And as we think of it, we know that the occupants which were in the promised land were removed by the Israelites. 1 Chronicles 18 brings together David's victories. Defeated the Philistines, subdued them. He defeated Moab, and the Moabites became servants. He defeated Hadadazir, the king of Zoab Hamath. David took from him 1,000 chariots, 7,000 horsemen, 20,000 foot soldiers, and the list goes on. The people who occupied the promised land were left desolate. And then maybe the greatest account of desolations brought by the Lord would be the exile. It would be Jerusalem. As Jeremiah laments over the desolation of Jerusalem. He writes, how lonely sits the city that was full of people, how like a widow she has become. The road to Zion mourn, for none come to the festival. All her gates are desolate. Her foes have become the head, her enemies prosper, because the Lord has afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions. The Lord has swallowed up without mercy all the inhabitants of Jacob. In wrath he's broken down the strongholds of the daughter of Judah. The works of the Lord. He has brought desolations on the earth. What do all those have in common? The Lord was building his kingdom by bringing desolations upon those who opposed him. In each instance, those who were acting in opposition to the Lord were brought to nothing. In each of these biblical examples, the people were acting contrary to their Maker. And in a positive action, the God of creation brings to these peoples, to their lands or to their plans, desolation And the psalmist is saying, Behold, look at what the Lord has done. And be convinced, be convicted that the Lord is able to bring about His kingdom. Isn't that the covenant? Isn't that what God has promised? Isn't that what He promised Abraham? I will make you exceedingly fruitful. I will make you into nations, and kings shall come from you. I'll establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be God to you and your offspring after you. God was promising a kingdom where he would dwell with his people. And it seems as though the psalmist is answering that question. Is the Lord able to bring this to pass? Can you really trust him to do it? You may have experienced refuge, but is the living God able to actively defeat his enemies such that his kingdom described in the covenant Will survive. In other words, will you survive until Jesus returns? And when Jesus returns, will he be victorious? There's a call to behold here To look and see the desolations that God Himself has brought across the globe. And to fix your eye upon those in order that you would be convicted that He is able to bring about that which He has promised. Brings us to our next point, point two, banishing the weapons. Remember how the psalm uh the song begins. God is our refuge and strength, the very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear, though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though the waters roam and foam foam and roar. So the mountains tremble at its swelling. Now, in addition to the earth giving way, we have the trouble of men. Part of the works of the Lord to behold then, verse 9, is that he makes wars cease to the end of the earth. Seems to be a connection between the desolations wrought by God and here with this verse nine, he makes wars cease. I think that they call the behold The behold, the works of the Lord is now applied to both of these. He's brought desolations. Behold that. And behold, that he makes wars to cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, he shatters the spear, he burns the chariots with fire. Behold them both. Behold these two works of the Lord. We've already discussed the first, the desolations on the earth. Now the second kind or type of a work of the Lord would appear to be related to the way in which God subdues the rebellion of men. Yes, he's brought desolations, but how does he subdue The rebellion of men. He makes wars cease to the ends of the earth. The only people that are warring are are human beings. The culmination of his creation, the moral creatures that he's made, those made in his image, those are the only species, that's the only race that's warring And so now there's this broad brush statement of how God works, and you're called to behold that. Every opposition will be defeated. He's calling you to look look upon the past desolations. Now he's calling you to the remaining questions. Is God able to do the same in the future? Will the Lord be strong enough to to put down, to defeat all those who are warring against the gates of his kingdom, who are bringing who are bringing warfare to the gates of God's kingdom? Kingdom. Will Jesus really be able to bring you into the kingdom, or will those who oppose God prevail? And so the psalmist provides this. He makes war cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, shatters the spear, he burns chariots with fire. The senses that God has already taken away all the weapons that his enemies use such that they have nothing. to fight with. You may be thinking at this moment, I'm not seeing that I'm not seeing the end of wars. In fact, I'm seeing even more and more wars take place on the face of this planet. I'm not seeing God's work in disarming the armies of this world. In fact, I'm seeing just the opposite. I'm seeing nations arming themselves with more and more weaponry. And all the weapons seem to be more and more powerful. I'm not seeing the destruction of chariots, so to speak, but the construction of weapons that are designed to bring about a destruction and death to masses of people How can I believe that God is at work bringing wars to an end? In the sense that we should not be surprised. That nations continue to wage war against other nations. It's exactly what Daniel's prophecy would tell us as I looked, his horn made war. This horn made war with the saints and prevailed over them. Daniel chapter 7. In his vision, in his dream, the horn made war with the saints and prevailed until the ancient of days came. And judgment was given for the saints of the Most High. Daniel is saying, his prophecy is telling us that there will be war until Christ returns. This is exactly what Jesus said. You will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed, for this must take place. But the end is not yet. So if that's the case, then that is the case, that wars will continue until Jesus returns, then Psalm 46 cannot be saying that before Jesus returns, physical armies would stop waging war against one another. Now these will continue until Jesus returns. So what then does the Psalmist mean? He makes war cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow, shatters the spear, he burns the chariots of the fire. What is he telling us? And ultimately God will bring about the end of wars and strife between peoples and between nations. Yes, absolutely he's telling us that And God will bring these things to an end on the last day. For God will bring sin to an end. And we know that wars are the result of our sin and so this seems to be a looking ahead in part. At least in part. The psalmist is looking ahead. He is He's telling us as if it happened this day, as if it happened the day that he wrote and penned this psalm. He is so confident that God will bring this about. He puts it in the present tense. But on one account it's a statement of what's yet to come. We read it tonight in Revelation. The beast was captured, and with it the false prophet who in his presence had done the signs by which he deceived those who had received the mark of the beast and those who worshipped its image. These two were thrown alive into the lake of fire that burns with sulphur. And the rest were slain by the sword that came from the mouth of him who was sitting on the horse. Jesus Christ. Revelation 19 is a description of every weapon of opposition to the Lord being shattered and burned. As the God of creation wipes away sin and misery and death So looking forward, but being so confident that God's promise would come to pass, the psalmist Puts it in the present tense. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth, breaks the bow, shatters the spear, burns the chariots with fire. That brings us to our third point, believing the victory Well if that's the case, if the psalmist in a sense was looking forward How and what is the practical fulfillment of this psalm today Until Jesus Christ returns, how can we use this psalm? How can we understand these verses to help us today And if we think of this in spiritual terms, which I think we must We have to be reminded, and I think the psalmist is reminding us that God has caused reconciliation to happen. But this verse is referring to, ultimately referring to the fact that Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the head of the church, has brought about an end to the war. to the conflict, to the battle between God and his children. Ultimately that's what the psalmist refers to. That the warfare has come to an end, that the children of God are no longer the children of wrath. That the children of God, who were once enemies of God, have now been brought into his family. That each one has been adopted as a son or a daughter. That there is no longer a battle going on. There's no longer war. But the Lord has removed your opposition to him. He has burned your former chariots. And simultaneously, that God has laid down his weaponry against each and every child of his. All because of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Behold. Behold. That's what the psalmist wants us to do. Behold the works of the Lord. How he's brought desolation on the earth. Isn't that what Jesus Christ has done? As he went to the cross, didn't Jesus Christ then bring desolation on the earth? Did he not destroy all those who were in opposition to his father? Isn't that not why he was sent to destroy the works of Satan? Isn't that ultimately what the psalmist wants us to behold? That through Jesus Christ, through his person, through his work, he has made wars to cease. With each and every child of God As the Lord announced his covenant in the garden, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. He was telling us that Jesus Christ would come and bring desolation on the earth. He would make wars to cease to the end of the earth. He broke the bow. He shattered the spear of Satan. Indeed, he burned his chariots with fire. He's plundered his house. And Jesus said to his disciples, I've said these things to you, all of his doctrine, all of his truth, that you may in me have peace. That's what he's ushered in. Peace. He's overcome the world by bringing desolation upon Satan. By bringing desolation upon our sin, by bringing desolation upon death itself. That's who Jesus is. That's what he's done. That's why he was able to say on the cross as he took his last breath. It is finished. So what are you to do? What do you do tonight? What is the psalmist urging you to do tonight? To see, to behold Jesus Christ The one who was nailed to the cross, the one who defeated death and sin in the tomb, the one who is now risen and ascended. And seated at God's right hand, ready to return. In God's good timing, see, behold, and believe. That's the message here in this psalm. It doesn't look like it, but he's calling you to behold the desolations that Jesus has brought about through his own death. He's reconciled you to his father. The war is over. He's given you peace. And that's why, as Peter preaches, as he's told those listening what has happened to the Son of God. And those listening were cut to the quick. They were asking, what should we do? The answer is, repent, therefore, and turn back, that your sins may be blotted out, that times of refreshing may come from the presence of the Lord, that he may send the Christ appointed for you, Jesus. He was calling them to behold, to look on Christ. To know that the war was over. That their weapons of opposition had been taken away, that they've been replaced now With weapons of righteousness. Yes, indeed, the scriptures set forth the works of the Lord. So that you may set down your weapons of opposition, repent, and believe. Elisha knew the reality even before he prayed that his servant would be able to see the chariots of fire. The fear was gone. And they knew the reality as they beheld that God was with them. Brothers and sisters, that's exactly what the psalmist is asking us to do tonight. Come. Behold the works of the Lord. All wrought in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Repent and believe. Father and our God, there is so much so much in this song. I thank you, Father, for directing and guiding our hearts tonight by your Spirit. Help us, help each one of us here tonight to behold the works of Christ. To know that he has wrought desolation upon this earth by destroying the works of Satan, that he's taken away the weapons of opposition such that they will have absolutely no force or power upon him. Oh Father, we ask even now for Jesus to come and to come quickly. But until he does, Father, help us to behold Christ, our risen Savior, and all of his works. We ask all this in Jesus' name