You send me a copy of God's road now to Luke. If you find it on page 156. We've been reading the loop and tapped the technology contact. And he was more and more greater from the Greek time of the member of the council, good and written, who had not consented to the deposit And ask them who is looking for the kingdom of God? No wants to tie it and ask for the body of Jesus. And took a dance Rapted in a young guide and laying in cut insanity. No one had ever yet been laid. It was a day of population. And the problem was again. The woman would come at Lucan from Diarie Sarah and started coming in her. hand and towards spaces and anything. And sad if they lasted according to the commandment. But on a full floor of the leaves of falling down, they went to the plane so they can expose it. very bad secure. And they found the same world away from the tent. But when they went in, they did not find the body of the Louis Panzer. Why they were perfect about this because two men stood by them and battled them. Why they were frightened and bagged their faces to the ground and Why do you preach the living among God? Do God will, but as Laden. Remember how he said But the son of man must be delivered into the hands of peaceful men and be crucified and on a fair day round. And they remember the And they turn from the tomb, they'll pay all these things to be a love and then see all the right. I ignore my But these were cleaned to them an elderly. not believe them. But single wise and one of the clouds, each and looking on, each other lemon clouds by themselves The one and marble the world. I mean please, really. Father's reading to the top with the actual direction and the reading of the roll and the ask for It's clearly leader to me. The time is maybe those canon as the general mention. Sorry, we followed the cut of the world. The ultimate I want to have to act in the reason for this Oh yeah. about the part of the sand. You may remember he took the wealth that his father had given to him divided between and so I can put a better and took it to And he's something I'm least living. He thinted on his thing. And as we Curve and go as the money runs out into twenty eight centers. Super causes that he realizes what he says. He realizes that he was living in hand. And as well as that, he has done. In some things that Realization that he had offended his father and his gay banner. Maybe Bana. uh we take care of it we have it's me and make it kind of around we might that was not quickly many of them just included the overlap thing. We didn't read them there. They know that Jesus was brought before conscious fire by the religious rulers of the day, accused and put in bonds with divine You know that the religious leaders of the day wanted to rid themselves of this one. You know the priest as he picked Jesus and twice common within him. Maybe the grievous night. Maybe it's the card paradise. Maybe night. Please be second. And annoying the power pretend to the General Man. Unbelievable to I can know that I'm attacked is beautiful. Very to his friend. Ask him for forgiveness. that it was used to graves have the own clue and flag. We know that graves also be even dead with men place to bow down and lay this and know that they're women lost and get hold from At Ben Death, Red Passing 5 million is the tribe the right direction of the road speakers. Because now I want to see the very sequel in Jesus, no advocacy, and a power that was in. very stupid music. No addition of the two other together and two points to me and both And question better. And require the bones with these women who had prepared Cicers and You know this is not what we do today, but the same way is it We fight with his ointment would be used to health and the batteries to puddle over the early the twins. as the colour. So as these women had walked, Jesus took the body and blow it and they're seen as they were turning by. As they compare these spaces and land something that they would go, as we lost it on a sabbatical and then in a fish So it is the take up a constant very go to the pen. Totally goes out to tell A we were over death. And they were touching the consciousness and sin. They are suffering the colour If they were headed with a parents team, the first thing in the morning, the day after the Sabbath, they were expecting a dead name. We're expecting the older team. I've already begun. The second level physical that discovered that it's a new is the emulating and the women need it from experience. Very not experience But they're like we had read the scriptures or had the scriptures read the trees. Himself had lived 105 years inside of EMS. In that living after who fought against eight hundred and seven years and had other sons and daughters thus all the days of death were nine hundred and five years in the time. And that's the title danger to own the benefits. We both will And he died. And he died. And he died. Martha and Low were weapon over the back of Lazarus. Remember what NASA carry is the teeth. For the time to be rolled away from the time to be there be a span. Oh new. Enutin of feeling that as a body decays, as one is waving its tongue, it will be always homemade conduct one The word called Adam by the third of your verse he says, Lord called you return to the ground, for out of it you report your death and to death, he said If Adam had kept the law which God had given to him in his mercy, there would have been no declares. for race things. So women to these women mean not only by experience but who's in those bodies right being And then and then maybe they go down and And this order even worse disbelieved the words and breeze. He himself had thought he'd begun to spoil his culture as north and he pointed in chapter 15 And be called and on a third go. It didn't say that just women. There are several occasions in which he influenced the title as advocate and eat women would have known that in fact. I mean they disbelief or misunderstanding or doubting it's an employee of suffering a badness. A touch in the power expression is something that female effort over the property of some for you will not abandon my store to fear. So let the very So yeah. And he's really messed with nothing between. of heaven or the kingdom of God. Remember how Jesus had sent his disciples out, how Jesus himself had seen the claim as he goes, you came out of heaven, he said, Hello How is it if it will go with me? A fucking tall and more and out of the Jesus had proclaimed the kingdom of heaven with us. Sometimes we don't expect those things to say. Sometimes we we do God's will. And what you look at the circumstances around us. And he Even this thing from this understanding, or even this free. I think we really don't know these things. Manuel. But have to remember the words of God and the instant of the one of them. And even in the case of circumstances, we suppose we have to do dial. Believe the will of God. And who will be There were very two propositions in mind now that they had preconceived would be happening within the plan of earth. In hand will allow me. You can be standing Way away from him. Now remember these women were off in the distance, but watched them better's face As the world grew to the old. And and what it happens, the fear of the team, that the outable saw the same word because I might be killed. We were wondering, they were trying to run another animal water between the fighting, who will roll away with guns from And you've got to get inside. You've got to put this back in But I mean the body, how are you going to do that? Okay, I have body as well. They're tired of coming. Do anything. Maybe they'll be good in. Maybe they'll be good. This could be a take for tin and window. We need it only take both bills much higher. Even reduced the number of women can read a further advance the urban to do it in time Because we're now at the time and you see the tone goes right into this. So it's kind of kind of the bottom of the tiny. Respect to the attracts. And now they're feeling the answer. It's in the remnant at the bottom. They see there and war join their fine, the same way the way from the crane, but when they won them we did not find the body of a word Jesus Well once we didn't recognize it immediately, they were absorbing the asylum spiral of the palian battles. We see the first evidence of the great fire that had taken place that those barres had been going in I'm not going to be women. Because what they are there had been war for us within the time. There goes the car that stands with a present on things, all objects The body of Jesus was then removed, it had been read away. It started to own eyes, it had been closed, but now it was open. The impotent adresse exit and to entry nothing by the power of God is under through the eyes, the wind of the bow. The full with no existence is only the Lord's Jesus. The Lord you Museum begins to vary the body, beginning to the If the women can criminal, if they'll enter the criminal therapy found the dead body of the the recurring body of the Lord Jesus said instead of bowing in the recurring body of the touch terror sound nothing they of the Lord. While they were professed about this when they were they were inside the team, they don't find the body, but heard two men stood by them in diverging appearance. He will descend from heaven. But that the divering of hair is meant to pair it. Since I got him tracked to these women to inform them of what had taken place. To give them a Attacks of the diet. Can we imagine if that feels called? These women are delivering to be some God. So and where do you go in now? from God, speaking to them with the power of God in their words. Not only they're eyes, but I said to their human late hands. All the evidence is bad evidence to employ is we require The results of the world. Why do you think delivering them in the dog? A clean one in your heart. He can do it. He's wrong. Remember how he told me. How he's killing them. I don't think I need to believe it like I think I'm gonna be two. We expected them but they felt bad. I defeated that we have a bad They needed women. They needed to decide. They needed to believe. Segunda, be cast act. Yes, they are. Men descending from Adam by ordinary generation will be carried. It's easy to manage them. And say they remember the drill for the court. Okay. Well if he's touching this and if these women are doing sometimes they're feeling the very words of God. Okay, we can do something it could be done now to really work about the time. The fewer words would be kind of what did they see? They see the data to me. Let's see what I think about. They want to find the dead body of the Lord Jews within the mob and found that he's risen. What did they see? They see their sins that they use a lot The dead body alone is bad. That's good. It is clean and darkness. The whip is broken forever cattle And yet the only evidence of the battle is the little set lying by themselves, contact set aside, no longer should be known by which once you live. And then bad and declining. Now, as the wind lift about the clean, we just bow it with The next feather is the power of the eyes God with overwhelming, their body, their things, nothing even remotely in the cleaner than the presence of the Savior, the Constantine, and Lord of The temple adopted lamp them up and load them out. It's not still. That is it. There's no other evidence of a Sadhir, no other evidence of a darah, no blood, no So not for me, just a blessing. And one of the Where the lift people. The arm and the retirement of the time in God, please, take things in God and they're single The resurrection of this one to a death undergone who had suffered to the eternal life of his father. Among the mighty spirits. If they look in there like a treated. What did we make? Don't forget this whole discussion in the garden. He says, Madam, we saw this. Don't forget This will do it and it's bad by words and The series removed understanding when the power is done. I think it's okay from the speaker. and Jesus Christ. Remember the children the master the Rabbah they teach it for twenty three years with not dead to them. The one of their hope would bring about the revival of the nation of Israel. The one of their hope would bring them victory over the Roman rule of the Christian of their land. David Power is Emanuel. The host control. They had no help out their sin. Christ would love them, you'd pass them, you'd give them help, he sent them out to pretend the good name to detective, and now he would And why are kids? It can come and ship the friend. And it supports him and loves him as he was love us to start and I think it's for the time the link. Not only will there be that Bird West and the Western. They're the Lebra. Nothing said given who are there. the two things for a thing. We will feel when you call myself Just like you, it's me. And thank you to Bible because just like you and me, we certainly don't have to live in that That's a part of the thing. We've been dressed with him. We've not loved him as we are. We're not a part of You need to be wrong. You need to be for good things. And do you need the forgiveness of penny of the block that you have had to increase the cloud of We need to type it hurting light, we need to put it over light from light. And just to type it right away in the head. And That man after the comes, after breed it is that in bed. We need that thing. And so what do the women do? They bend to the turn, they turn the bat after you've they've been reminded of the words of Jesus that this comic. And now they take all of this information to the disciples, to the decision. But it comes from the literature of the Lord Jesus Christ. What is that one? With the bad thing. When are they providing? That we and running to the coming. And this is interesting because other doctors called to not accept Peter, but Peter and And it doesn't say you may not have done it, so you can't answer. End of feel. We feel a loaded land. We really needed Like we forgive me, he was the one who had denied Jesus And we need that relationship. We need that inspiration. And for two minutes. Lucy, When all the disciples had been blessed with Jesus and Jesus feels the mind from a reasonable eyes. We would think that we run. If we remember the world to do this, so then we would rise from the dead, we don't rise. But we do know the clear warning. We do know the key crap. Without Jesus Peter had no hope of life and faith to rhyme. And then we said And put me out. I mean, we were saying, I feel good. I really And you acknowledge them that you've offended an infinite being Your to your question, I would like to do that you would be unclear to anyone. We need to run. We need to see from the same father to that same age into the pediatrics and cared the touchdowns of the women. And put it a moment and yet because we got a glimmer of hope If we don't know how to make sense, we can't just expand and see why two. to construct these things and to learn to groove the assembly that has given the new blood and everlasting love in his everyone It's a good name. China started right to use this agent's food, but people have defined Jesus to know Jesus It is not a different thing. It is yemen to be honest, yummy. But we've got to make male itself. And if you speak and diligently for what I'm sitting and seeking to know more of him and he's got a matter of truth resurrection, isn't that his only way to persecute him The group says I suffer the loss of all things and confidence we have in a way that I know very things. That we cause converted loss Is it minimalist feeling? Is it not like feeling the similarity one? If you feel good in the new movie, if we wanna. So And the power and two babies. Power this time. Really with my time and life. But it was the manager with a theme, the blow thing, bad. I would demand the love of creation. What we can do. The world and the world. Yeah, I think about words this morning. LinkedIn battles things. Uh from the fact that the text friends from the left can be covered. Make the very time to all last anyway. It takes it and all very The out of these fellows without burying me to be reunited with a savior of life but title of we If we won't have the screen, I think I think later. It keeps out the child from a more advice from a more This would be our length to this. Let's just