Please remain standing and please now turn with me in God's Holy Word to the Gospel of Luke. This morning we're going to be looking at Luke chapter 19, verses 1 through 10, but I'd like to begin reading at Luke eighteen thirty-five. In your pew Bibles, you may find this on page ten forty-three Let us hear God's holy word. Starting again with 1835. As he drew near to Jericho, a blind man was sitting by the roadside begging. And hearing the crowd going by, he inquired what this meant. They told him, Jesus of Nazareth is passing by. And he cried out, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. And those who were in front rebuked him, telling him to be silent. But he cried out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me! And Jesus stopped and commanded him to be brought to him. And when he came near, he asked him, What do you want me to do for you? And he said, Lord, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said to him, Recover your sight. Your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight and followed him, glorifying God. And all the people, when they saw it, gave praise to God. He entered Jericho and was passing through, and behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus. He was a chief tax collector and was rich, and he was seeking to see who Jesus was, but on account of the crowd he could not because he was small in stature. So he ran on ahead and climbed up into a sycamore tree to see him, for he was about to pass that way. And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up and said to him, Zacchaeus, hurry and come down, for I must stay at your house today. So he hurried and came down and received him joyfully. And when they saw it, They all grumbled. He has gone in to be the guest of a man who is a sinner. And Zacchaeus stood and said to the Lord, Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor, and if I have defrauded anyone of anything, I restore it fourfold. And Jesus said to him, Today salvation has come to this house, since he also is a son of Abraham, for the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. Please be seated. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank and praise you for your word. We know that it is life, it is light, it is salvation. To those in whom you work by your Holy Spirit to apply it. And therefore, Father, we pray that you would apply this your word. to our hearts and minds so that we would be built up in our faith and knowledge of Jesus Christ. We pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen. I'm very thankful to be with you again on this Lord's Day. It's been some time. Here at the end of Luke chapter 18. Where I began reading prior to the passage we're looking at this morning, we are told of a blind man's cry of Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. As Jesus passed through the gate of Jericho. It isn't just the procession of Jesus on his way to Jerusalem that is slowed down. Actually, we're all slowed down. We're slowed down to see how the events of Israel's history in the past are brought into sharp focus, pointing forward to what is about to happen as Jesus goes up to Jerusalem. Luke's mention of the location of Jericho after not mentioning any location for nine chapters makes us look at what is happening in a different way. Here, Jesus, we are told, is before, he's in front of, about to enter the city of Jericho. Now, if you know what it says in Matthew and you know what it says in Mark, then you know that this is different Luke's description is different than those two gospels description of this same event. Because Luke is inspired to describe this event from a different perspective. In Matthew and Mark, the Spirit inspires them to describe this event as Jesus is departing. from the older Jewish rebuilt city of Jericho. It was rebuilt in the days of King Ahab according to 1 Kings chapter 16 verse 34 Luke, on the other hand, is inspired to describe this event as Jesus is entering The new city of Jericho. You see, there's an old city of Jericho that was built on the ruins of the one destroyed by Joshua. And now there is a new Jericho that had been built by King Herod Antipas for a winter palace. So we have an old city and a new city. Matthew and Mark look at the event as Jesus is leaving the old city. Luke is inspired to show us the event as Jesus is entering the new city. And the significant difference is this. The older city had been rebuilt by Israelites. The new city has been built by a Gentile king. just like that old Jericho, that before whose gates Joshua and the Israelites had stood in the past. The healing of the blind man therefore takes place between the old and the new city. Like Israel's approach to the Gentile built city of Jericho in the day of Joshua. Jesus is here approaching a city built by a Gentile king. Therefore, just as the Old Testament Joshua stood with the army of Israel in front Of a Gentile-built Jericho, Jesus and his disciples are also standing before the gate of a Gentile-built city of Jericho. On the way, this Joshua, you know that Jesus and Joshua are the same name, Yhoshua. On the way, this Joshua, this Jesus, is cried out to by a man who has never seen any Anything that Jesus has done because of his blindness. Yet in spite of his blindness, he believes This blind man's faith, therefore, like the faith of Rahab the harlot in the ancient Jericho so long before, is based purely on what he has heard and not on what he has seen. And like Rahab's faith, this blind man's faith has come to firm conclusions because of all that she had heard Rahab believed that the God of Israel is the God of heaven and earth who would give Jericho along with the whole land of Canaan into the hands of the Israelite people. Because of what he has heard. This man believes that Jesus is the Messiah, the son of David, who has come to save his people. This man didn't believe just that Jesus that was able to heal him. This man cries out something that has not been said in public in any of the Gospels. He calls Jesus not just Lord, but publicly declares that Jesus is the son of David. He is calling Jesus the Davidic king. And that brings us to another converging of the ages here. It was here on the very plains of Jericho that the last king of Israel, descended from David, was captured by the Babylonian army a little more than 600 years before. four. That's in 2 Kings 25. That son of David, Zedekiah, had broken through the wall of the city of Jerusalem and fled to the plain of Jericho, where he was captured by the Babylonian army. He was taken to the city of Riblah, and he was blinded. How amazing then that after six hundred years another blind man on the plain of Jericho recognizes and shouts that a true son of David has once more come to the plain of Jericho. He shouts what no other person has been willing to publicly acknowledge. And Jesus' response to heal him results in praise. Those who shortly before tried to silence the man are now compelled to join him in praising God. The other two gospels go straight from the record of the healing of the blind man in Matthew. Two blind men, so it's blind men in blue in Mark, it's one. They go straight from the healing of the blind man right up to Jesus. Traveling to Bethany and his entrance into Jerusalem. Why? Because they are inspired to link the words of the blind man, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. To those who are about to shout on Jesus' triumphal entry, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Blessed is the King of Israel See, so they're inspired to link this man's words together with what is going to be shouted as Jesus goes into Jerusalem. Luke, on the other hand, is inspired to tell us about three things that happen in between the timing of the blind man's healing and Jesus' entrance into Jerusalem Luke is inspired to tell us about this incident with Zacchaeus, followed by the parable of the ten Minas. And then Jesus weeping over the city of Jerusalem because he knows what is going to happen to it. And Luke is inspired to do that so that we don't get swept up in the same excitement that has captured the hearts of the disciples. You see. By linking together the shout of the blind man together with Jesus' triumphal entry, we are caused to see what the disciples expect to happen when Jesus gets to Jerusalem. They expect that the Roman Empire is going to be overthrown and that Israel is going to be made the chief nation on the face of the earth to rule everyone else. That's what they expect. Victory, deliverance for Israel, and the conquest of all the other nations. Luke is inspired to tell us about these three incidents because rather than allowing us to be swept up in that false excitement, He wants us to be reminded at the end of Jesus' public ministry that his purpose for coming at the end is the same purpose for his coming at the beginning of his ministry. And these verses we're reminded of the true purpose for which the Son of David has come. In Luke 19, 1 through 10, I would like us to see seeking and saving. In Jericho, on the way to Jerusalem, we are reminded that the conquest that ushers in the kingdom is not the bringing down of walls around cities or the toppling of governments and the slaying of people. The conquest that ushers in the kingdom is Jesus' conquest of sin. His is a victory, the effects of which are spread by the preaching of the gospel, the pe and people's faith in the good news of the kingdom of God. It is faith and hope in the true son of David. It is the toppling of unbelief and the transformation of lives. Here in this passage, we are brought to focus on the fact that the purpose for the coming of Jesus is the seeking and saving of those who are lost. Seeking. Verses 1 through 7. Having gone from the healing of the blind man to enter the new Jericho built by King Herod, we find that Jesus has something Very important to do before he goes up to enter Jerusalem. We are told that there was a man there whose name was Zacchaeus He's called a chief tax collector and we're told that he's wealthy. Now, honestly, we don't really know what it means for him to be a chief tax collector. That's really not a uh an office that described any place. We assume that what it means is that he had the contract For tax collections in this area. And because Jericho was on a major east-west route, he got very wealthy by collecting taxes. We can understand then why he was wealthy. But we are also told some other things about him. One thing we are told is that he wanted to see Jesus. We aren't told why he wanted to see Jesus, but He wanted to see him. However, he was short. That's another thing we're told about him. Unable to see over the crowd. If he waited on the street where he was, this crowd would come along and he'd never be able to see Jesus because he was just too short And so, seeing the path Jesus is going to take through Jericho, he runs ahead, climbs up into a sycamore fig tree, and from there he was going to watch Jesus as he came by. Now this was a tree that was easy to climb, had really low branches before you get up to higher. As many have pointed out, there's something to note about this man's determination. Whether it was simply driven by curiosity or something far deeper, we should see that his interest, his desire to see Jesus was pretty significant. This is no young boy Ready to climb the first tree that he sees for the thrill of it. This is an older man, a man with position, a wealthy man, probably wearing the clothes of a wealthy man A chief tax collector working for the Roman Empire. This was a man with probably very few friends. He would have been despised by the Romans for being a Jew. We know that in their writings. They didn't like the Jews. And he was probably despised by the Jews because he worked for the Romans. So he wouldn't have had friends on either side. And here he was climbing a tree by the side of the road. But no matter how surprised we might be at what Zacchaeus did, it is nothing compared to what Jesus did when he got to that tree. When Jesus reached the spot where the Fycamore fig tree stood, instead of passing on, he stopped, looked up, and spoke to Zacchaeus by name Zacchaeus had been driven by curiosity to see the man whom he didn't know. Jesus, on the other hand, we are told, is driven by necessity to speak to the man whom he knows by name. Now there are many important things about this to consider as we look at what Jesus says. First of all, he calls the man by name. It's no surprise that Zacchaeus would know who Jesus was. After all, a blind man had heard about Jesus' reputation and knew who he was when he was passing by. But it's incredible that Jesus knew who Zacchaeus was. Second, it's amazing that Jesus tells him to come down immediately. Because Jesus must stay at Zacchaeus' house. Do you know which occasions it is when the word must is used in the Gospel of Luke concerning Jesus' purposes? Well, the first one's in chapter 249, when Mary and Joseph come looking for Jesus because he's been missing for three days. And he expresses, why are you surprised? Didn't they know that he must be about his father's business? Again in chapter 443, when the people of Capernaum tried to keep him from leaving their city, he told them that he must also preach the kingdom of God in other towns. In 922, he told his disciples, the Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected by the religious leaders, and must be killed and raised on the third day. In 1316, in a very significant declaration, he says that a woman who has been bound by Satan must be delivered. On the Sabbath day. In 1725, Jesus tells his disciples again that he must suffer. He must be rejected. And now he tells Zacchaeus that he must. Stay at his house this day. It's amazing. By such a declaration, Jesus places the necessity of staying at Zacchaeus' house. On the same level as his other purposes and tasks in this world as the Messiah He placed the necessity of staying at this man's house on this day, not only on the same level as loosing a woman bound by Satan on the Sabbath, he places this on the same level as Doing his father's business. Being rejected, crucified, and raised from the dead Further, this isn't a necessity that is general with regard to the saving of any lost man or any lost woman, but specific with regard to the saving of this man at his house on this day. No doubt Zacchaeus didn't know any of those things. But he did understand that this Jesus whom he had been so anxious to see was telling him to come down immediately because he must stay at his house. And in Zacchaeus' response, we get nothing less than the picture of pure joy and eagerness to do just what Jesus wanted him to do. He came down immediately, and we're told, gladly, welcomed him into his house. But we also see that the reaction of Zacchaeus is at odds with the reaction of everybody else, and we are told that because of Luke's use of the word all. They all grumbled. They all grumbled because Jesus had chosen to be the guest of a sinner. That means it's not just the other random disciples, but the apostles themselves. They all grumbled As with the blind man on the road, the contrast between Jesus' purpose and the purpose of those with him imagined for him are brought into sharp contrast. Earlier, those leading the way at the end of chapter 18 tried to silence the blind man. Now, do you think that they had a problem with a blind guy being healed? Probably not. Some of them had probably been healed. But as far as they were concerned Things far too important were happening to be delayed by a blind man. But Jesus stopped and healed the man. Now once more Jesus has stopped and not only stopped, but just But said that he must stay at this man's house on this day. This is not at all with those with him, think that he should be doing. It isn't what the crowd thinks he should be doing, and by the use of the word all, as I've already said, it's not what his disciples thought that he should be doing. If you thought that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem and you were with him and you thought at the beginning of this day we're down by now, Jericho's is really low compared to Jerusalem, so we got a long hill we got to climb. We're down by the River Jordan. We've and so now we've got to get up to Jerusalem. If you thought that by the end of this day that Jesus was going to overthrow the Roman Empire, And raise up Israel to be the greatest nation on the face of the earth, would you want anything to slow down Jesus' progress? Anything. This is worse than the kids kicking the backseat of the car and saying, When are we gonna get there? When are we gonna get there? This is way worse than that. These guys, everything, three years they've been following Jesus, it's all been building up to this. This is what they've been longing for, not just the healing of people, not just the deliverance of people from demons, but the overthrowing of the Roman Empire. Deliverance from foreign oppression. This is what they've been hoping for. And first you got a blind man slowing it down. Well, we can get past that because you know he got healed and now we're moving on. But now Jesus says, I must stay at your house. You know, some of you are way too young. I can remember traveling to meetings of the General Assembly of the OPC and traveling with couples older than me. And you know what? We didn't stop at McDonald's on the way. We didn't stop at Wendy's. You know where we stopped? We stopped at the roadside picnic stands on the way. And the woman of the house brought out the picnic basket. We put out the whole thing and we ate right there. Okay? That seems like a big delay when you want to move on. This guy says, I must stay. Jesus says, I must stay at your house today. Like those with Jesus that day, we often imagine that we know what Jesus should be doing. We know who he should heal. We know whom he should save. We know what he should do to expand his kingdom. We know what sorts of governments he should use. We know what sort of people he should bless. We know the proof. he should answer. We know that his agenda should be the agenda that we imagine for him. We not only know who and what, we know when he should do all these things. We may mutter against his purposes, however. But I assure you that his purposes are far better than ours. By his grace he calls savingly to himself not just any people. but all those whom he knows by name. Praise God that they will be saved, not by accident, not by chance, but because they must be saved. Saving, verses 8 through 10. The fact that all grumbled because Jesus had gone to be the guest of a sinner causes us to presume that when Jesus is said to stand up here. And speak to Jesus that Jesus has already arrived at the man's house. In other words, there's a time gap between verses 7 and 8. Unlike the other occasions when Jesus ate at someone's house where some story or parable told by Jesus is recorded, here we know nothing of what Jesus said at first. What's introduced to us immediately is Zacchaeus' response to the presence in the words of Jesus. It was profound. He stood and declared in effect that right then and right there He would give half of all of his possessions to the poor. Furthermore, out of the remainder of his money, if he had defrauded anyone, he would pay back four times as much as he took Now that is significant repentance. Because that is the thankful expression of gratitude of a man who is thankful for what the Lord has done for him. The impact of the kingdom on his life was not limited to a change in his heart. It affected the whole way he was about to live. His declaration here isn't just the response of one who is penitent concerning his sins. His declaration is also expression of his new faith. You see, in the Gospel of Luke, unlike some of the other Gospels So don't don't look for the same thing, for instance, in John. But in Luke, we always know who's a real disciple Because you see, if a person's not a real disciple, not a real believer, they always address Jesus as rabbi, as teacher. If they address Jesus as Lord, that means that they're a disciple. And that is the word that Zacchaeus uses here to just to address Jesus. And Jesus' response confirms this. Jesus tells Zacchaeus that salvation has come to this house. And that word salvation is another significant thing in this passage because that word is only used six times in the Gospel of Luke, and the first five times are early in the Gospel And none of them are by Jesus. This is the first time Jesus, the first and last time that Jesus uses the word salvation in the Gospel of Luke. We read about this word being used three times in Zechariah's song of praise when his mouth was opened after the birth of John the Baptist. In 169, for instance, he said concerning God in connection with the birth of his son, he has raised up a horn of salvation for us. in the house of his servant David. In 171 he said that this salvation is from their enemies. And in verse 77 he said that God would use his child Meaning John the Baptist to give the people a knowledge of salvation through the forgiveness of their sins. In Luke 2. 30, the righteous man Simeon praised God when he saw the baby Jesus and declared that he could now die. Because his eyes had seen God's salvation. And in 3. 6, Isaiah 40, verse 5 is used. To declare that all mankind will see God's salvation in reference to John the Baptist. Now, here, near the end of the Gospel of Luke, that word is used one last time and it is used by Jesus Himself. To tell Zacchaeus that salvation has come to his house because he too is a son of Abraham. No matter what Other people thought of this man. And I told you, he was probably hated by the Romans and hated by the Jews. No matter what this man had come to think about himself. And how to view himself. As one who believed God like Abraham, this man proved that he was a son of Abraham. But Jesus' words to Zacchaeus are not done. And here, after telling Zacchaeus of the full significance of what has happened to him and the salvation he has received from the Lord, Jesus disclosed why he had to, why he must stay at this house this day The reason lay in the very design and purpose for the Son of Man coming into the world. It is because the Son of Man came to seek and to save the lost. The expectations of the disciples and other followers of Jesus concerning the purpose for Jesus' coming and what he will do when he arrives in Jerusalem is very different. Very, very different from what Jesus describes here. As his purpose for coming and what he will do in Jerusalem. You see, I've already said it. Everybody else is looking for the overthrow of the Roman Empire. They think That Daniel chapter 7 verses 13 and 14 are about to be fulfilled. They think That in that in that passage we read, one he saw one like the Son of Man coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ancient of days and was led into his presence. He was given authority, glory, and sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every Every language worship him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, will not pass away, and his kingdom is one that will not be destroyed. They believe that judgment day has arrived. Judgment on the nations and salvation for Israel But lest we get sidetracked like those disciples of that day, and also think that that's why the Son of Man came. Jesus puts us all straight before he goes up to Jerusalem. He has come to bring the salvation that Isaiah the prophet Zechariah the priest and Simeon spoke about that are spoken of in the opening chapters of the Gospel of Luke. He did not come to save Israel from its national enemies. He came to save his people from the enemies of sin and death. The problem then like our problem now isn't bad rulers and bad governments Our problem is that we are lost and we have wandered far from the Lord. The problem is sin, the sin and the rebellion that's in us. Not in everybody else, but in us. Jesus' purpose for coming didn't evolve over the course of his ministry. His purpose for coming didn't change. He called a tax collector to follow him at the beginning of his public ministry in Galilee, and he made that man an apostle. Now here, right at the End of his ministry on his way to Jerusalem, he must stay at the home of another tax collector because he came to seek and to save the lost. His purpose for his coming didn't change. The preaching of the gospel for the forgiveness of sins and the promise of eternal life wasn't just preparation for something bigger and better. It's why he came. He came not only to secure a future salvation at the full manifestation of the coming of the kingdom of God. He came to bring a present salvation. He came to seek and to save right now, so that those who are lost can be found and forgiven and saved for that day when the Son of Man does come in his glory. We make a terrible mistake when we think and act as if the purpose for his coming now is for the enrichment of our lives. in this world. We make a terrible mistake when we forget that his continuing purpose until his coming in glory is for the seeking and saving of those who are lost. It is why he came. Long before the events of these verses. When the Lord directed Joshua and the nation of Israel to conquer the ancient Canaanite city of Jericho. It was with the instruction that everything in it was to be devoted to the Lord. Do you know what that means? It means that every man, woman, and child, every animal were to be killed. It means that everything was to be passed through fire, and only the things that didn't burn Like gold and silver were to be brought out, and they were to be put into the tabernacle of the Lord. The whole city was condemned All the people and animals to be killed, everything in it to be burned. One man by the name of Achan found a beautiful garment from Babylon. He found two hundred shekels of silver and a wedge of gold that weighed fifty shekels. He coveted them He took them for himself, he hid them in his tent, and for his sin, he and his entire household were killed. They were all killed by the judgment of God because they had taken what belonged only to the Lord. Achan coveted and stole the things of this world, and for his sin He and his household died. Now, here 1400 years later, in another Jericho, Zacchaeus comes face to face with Jesus and finds in him not only one who would enter his house, but one who would enter his heart. And in response, Zacchaeus is driven away to give away everything he had coveted in this world and he had stolen. And on account of his faith, Jesus tells him that salvation, deliverance from death, has come to his house. Do you see? This is the reversal of what happened to Achan. Achan and his house were killed for their coveting and stealing. Zacchaeus and his house are saved because of their repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. Here is more than all that Zacchaeus needed or wanted. Here is the one who despised Places the other gods of his heart. Here is the one who sought him by name and saved him. Here is Zacchaeus' Savior and Lord. Jesus is once more going to come to this earth. The next time in glory. This time he will bring judgment. When he returns, it will be too late to repent. It will be the day of salvation. For those who believe. Today He is calling you. He is seeking you in order to save you. He is holding out before you the forgiveness for your sins and salvation from the judgment you deserve. Today he is calling you to repent. Today he is calling you to believe. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank and praise you for Jesus. Who by your grace calls us by name to repent and put our faith And hope in him and him alone. We thank you for Jesus. Who looks for us and finds us. Father, we pray that your Spirit would work through your word as it speaks to us right now. That it wouldn't be just a confession in our heart that would be made, but our entire lives that would be transformed and changed. We pray, Father, that by your grace. That Jesus Christ would displace every other God and desire of our hearts and lives. And that He alone Would be seen by us to be our God and our Savior. We thank you for Jesus, in whose name we pray. Amen.