Open up your copy of God's Word once again to Proverbs. Begin our study of Proverbs 2 tonight. We have gone through Proverbs 1. Good foundation to bring us To Proverbs chapter two. Let's give our attention now to the reading of God's Word. I'll read the first five verses. Of Proverbs chapter 2. My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you Making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understand. Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver And search for it as hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Well, Father, we come to an important passage of Scripture tonight Indeed, seemingly critical to our lives as Christians And so now we ask, Lord, that you would take this, your word, and lay it up in our hearts. That you would help us to see, Father, where we have fallen short. That you would cause us to lean and depend upon the Spirit and upon Him only. And that you would move us tonight to be good students of your word We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. As Jesus proclaimed his parables A couple of them stick out tonight as we are considering this first portion of Proverbs chapter 2. In Matthew chapter thirteen, Jesus speaks of the kingdom of heaven, first as being like treasure hidden in a field. Then he also likens the kingdom of heaven to a merchant in search of fine pearls. In both of these parables, Jesus was not asking his hearers to fix their minds Upon the search, but upon the great treasure that had been found. The man who found the treasure in a field in joy went and sold everything that he could buy the field which contained the great treasure. And the one who searched for fine pearls finally found that one of great value. That both of them were picturing the great value of the kingdom of heaven. And you must ask yourselves as you consider these parables: well, what is it that makes the kingdom of heaven of such great surpassing value? Is it not God Himself? Is it not the presence of God that makes the kingdom so precious? Even Jesus Christ Tonight, we are given the opportunity to consider the great value of the kingdom of heaven through God's word. Solomon, as he's opened up the Proverbs, has taught that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And now the rest of the Proverbs are seemingly opening up. that headline. He's written that wisdom is present and calling out, crying out in the streets. And then in verse 33 of Proverbs 1, he calls his readers to listen to wisdom, as she calls out. But he doesn't really answer that question of how. How are we to listen? How are we to learn of the kingdom of heaven? How are we to learn of God, who inhabits the kingdom and thereby gives it its great value? Indeed, how does one pursue wisdom? How do we know when we've found that hidden treasure? Tonight, King Solomon now opens up the answer to that question of how in all of Proverbs 2. We're going to split up Proverbs 2 into two sermons, Lord willing, first tonight on the first five verses, and then Lord willing, next Sunday, we will seek to open up the remainder of Proverbs 2. Both of these parts really deal with one thing, and that is the treasure of true wisdom. The treasure of true wisdom. Tonight we'll discuss the pursuit of that. Lord willing, next week we'll discuss the gift of true wisdom. Tonight, the pursuit of true wisdom results in the discernment of the fear of the Lord and the knowledge of God. The pursuit of true wisdom results in the discernment of the fear of the Lord and the knowledge of God. And we'll see this in four points. It's not what you have in your bulletins tonight. I apologize. Four points tonight: desiring wisdom, secondly, calling for wisdom, thirdly, seeking wisdom, and then finally knowing God. As I said, as we open this up, these verses are critical to our walk with Christ, our Christian lives. So we would all do well to give strict attention to God's word tonight First, desire and wisdom. To understand these first five verses, we need to understand a bit of the structure of them. We need to understand that these first five verses form a conditional statement. Solomon uses three ifs. In these verses. And if the ifs, the conditions are met, are then they're satisfied, then the result Is the outcome. If one receives and treasures, if one calls or cries out, if one seeks wisdom, then in general Then the labors of the child of God, which are described here, then one will gain understanding. One will find the knowledge of God. That's the idea. If if if then it's rather plain and ordinary Yet it's a full description of what it is to be a child of God, what it means to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, as we open this up, we must give attention to the way in which Solomon is addressing his reader. He addresses his reader as my son. We saw that in Proverbs 1. And he continues in that fashion, my son. He addresses the reader as a wise, as a mature, as a tender, loving father figure, my son. He's encouraging, he's spurring the reader on, us on, he's appealing to us, and he's hopeful. That the one who reads this is son, so to speak, that all who read this will be moved to diligently pursue wisdom. And so the king, as our fatherly figure, sets forth this great treasure of wisdom that should be sought out and diligently pursued. My son, listen to me. Indeed, the first part of wisdom is to pursue wisdom, to spend your time, your effort, your youthful energy on seeking and searching it out. That's the idea, even as he begins with this address, my son. Well, the first two verses in this passage really go together. My son, if you receive my words and treasure my commandments within you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understand As we break this down, as we look at these different verbs that are used, it's important that we understand first what the object is. The object of receiving, the object of treasuring up, the object of being attentive, the object of inclining your heart. Now, Solomon uses different words here, different objects. Receive my words, treasure up my commandments, make your ear attentive to wisdom, inclining your heart to understand. Four different words. And each one of them contains a different idea, but yet in this context they seem to be all similar or similarly pointing to one thing, the Word of God My words, my commandments, wisdom, understanding, all seemingly pointing to God's very words, the word of a king. God's word contains his commandments. God's word is wisdom, and God's word explains who he is. Indeed, John's gospel tells us that no one has seen God at any time. The only begotten God who is in the bosom of the Father, he has explained him Understanding. That's what Jesus Christ gives us. So all of these words, my words, my commandments, wisdom, understanding, seem to point us solely to the Word of God. That's the thing that's being offered up. The word, the commands, wisdom, understanding, they're all available. The word of God is available. And that's what Solomon is offering, is as if he is the waiter bringing out this plate to those who are seated, ready to dine. And it's it's a wonderful feast that he's bringing, and he's offering it freely without cost. Wisdom cries aloud in the street. He's already written that to us. He's already told that to us. It's free. I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. This is what he's offering. It's the same thing that the prophet Isaiah writes in Isaiah 55. Come, everyone who thirsts. Come buy wine and milk without money, without price. Incline your ear. Come to me and hear that you may live. A free offer. It's not for a select few. Here the urging is for all. Here it is And so that still begs the question, how does one acquire this wisdom? While the word, the commandments, wisdom, understanding seem generally to point to the very same thing, the Word of God, the verbs used by Solomon give us a sense of an increased action by the one who is to receive. First, receive it. Secondly, treasure it up. Thirdly, make your ear attentive, and then finally or fourthly, incline your heart. I don't think that the verbs used are suggesting the same kind of activity. There seems to be an increase as Solomon goes through these first two verses. Well, first receive. The wisdom is to be received. The word of God is to be received. My son, if you receive my words, to take them up. As Webster says, to accept that which is being offered. The idea here seems to be to open the door. The instructor is knocking. His words have been presented, they've been offered to you, and the only question is, will you accept them? Letting in what is being freely offered. The first step in the pursuit of wisdom, of understanding, of the pursuit of God's word. The words of God, the divine instructor, must be first received The door to your heart must be opened. The message, the words, the commands must be allowed to enter and to stay. To be received is to be welcomed, to desire them, to know that the words are necessary, that they're needed, that the free gift Should be accepted and welcomed with joy and rejoicing. Receive. Secondly, to treasure up, and treasure up my commandments within you. Receiving is one thing, but treasuring is certainly something a bit different The word treasure here used in verse 1 is the same word in Hebrew that we find in verse 7, which is translated: he stores up sound wisdom for the upright. There's a sense of a storehouse. Receiving and then storing. Not just receiving, but holding on to them, keeping that which is valuable close. Holding them within, storing them up to be called upon or used and brought out when needed. A bit like the fool who had so much grain that he knocked down his silos and built new ones to store up all the abundance that the Lord was giving him, but in a good way. Storing up, treasuring the commandments of God, to be called out and drawn upon as needed. There's an idea of protection here Psalm 27, verse 5: For in the day of trouble he will conceal me in his tabernacle in the secret place of his tent. He will hide me, he will lift me up on a rock. Storing up the commandments of God for protection. As one battles against sin in the day of trouble, calling upon These words, the commandments to be brought forth in the heart and mind as you are tempted. Yes, the idea of prevention is included Psalm 119, verse 11 reads this way: Your word I have treasured in my heart that I may not sin against you. Stored up, treasured. When Satan comes calling and he will and does. You've got the storehouse, a treasury. And thus ultimately the idea is of use. That the words, the commands are not treasured up for non-use, but treasured up, stored up for powerful use. Thirdly, and again we see an increase, I believe, making your ear attentive to wisdom. This is kind of that use part. That you're not merely receiving and storing up. Now the encouragement is to focus upon that which has been received. Make your ear attentive. Solomon knows, Solomon knew, as a sinner himself, that the heart of Fallen man was not attentive to God's word. He knew that The sinner's ear is not attentive to wisdom. It's not naturally inclined. It does not lean. It does not seek that understanding naturally. It's not that our ears are not attentive, they are. The question is to what is our attention given? Our ears want to be tickled by praises of men. We long to hear gossip. We want to hear the things that build us up. We want to hear how good we are. And Adam were inclined away from hearing God's words. Our heart is not naturally inclined to the things of God, but to the things of this world. And thus the encouragement to be attentive. To that which is freely offered, that which we have received, that which has been stored up and treasured now. Give your attention to it and then incline your heart The king, the elder father, the counsels, advises, and encourages now not only to fix your heart, make your ears attentive to that. But now make the word of God your heartfelt desire. Incline. Lean toward God's word That that would be your preference. Rather than taking out any other book, so to speak. This This word of God would be that which you so desire, you long for, you want to immerse yourself in. You can't get enough of it. Incline your heart This is a tall order for anyone, young or old. As we learned this morning, each of us Are weak, we're frail, we inherited a sinful disposition, a heart set upon ourselves and upon the creation. So how do we do this? How do we pursue this? How do we receive and treasure up? How do we make our ear attentive? How do we incline our hearts? It cannot be by trying harder. Tonight the message is not leave here and just try harder. You don't have enough spiritual strength. The answer is given to us in the next verse. And that brings us to our second point, calling or crying for wisdom. There first must be that desire to receive, and that desire can only be put there by the work of the Spirit We all acknowledge that, we all understand that, we grasp that. And once the Spirit works and you now have that desire to receive, to accept. Now you're giving attention to your heart is now inclined toward it. Now you have to cry out. You have to cry out for insight. You have to raise your voice for understanding. You received that treasury. Now what are you going to do with it? How does it how does it really take root? Brothers and sisters, the solution, the answer to that tall order is crying out for it Not trying harder. Pleading with God. As we read tonight from James, if any of you wax wisdom, let him ask of God. who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him, but you have to do it in faith Here then is the crux. We must plead for wisdom, for discernment, for understanding, even after regeneration. Sometimes we think that, well, I've been saved. That's it. Brothers and sisters, no. That's just the beginning. Even after one has been given a new heart, tender now to the word, sin still remains. Bondage to sin has been severed, it's been broken, yet corruption remains within us. The old man is fighting against seeking wisdom, the storing up of commandments. Every man, woman, child who's been saved, who trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ for His or her salvation is yet battling with sin, battling the old man, for out of the heart comes evil thoughts, fornications, thefts, murders, adulteries, pride and foolishness. And so even in your regenerate state, wisdom, understanding, discernment is not that which naturally dwells within. A storehouse of wisdom. Doesn't remain. It continues to leak out. As the old man continues to battle. And push it away. But brothers and sisters, this is part of our sanctification. Being renewed in the whole man after the image of God. That the Spirit is stirring up graces and increasing and strengthening our faith so that we more and more die into sin and rise to newness of life. That's sanctification, and that's what King Solomon is speaking of tonight, and that's what makes prayer so necessary for us. That we must plead before God that He might continue to grant that which we lack. Yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding. Lifting your voice. Remember, wisdom shouts in the street, and we are called to do the same with God. Plead with Him for wisdom. It's not a timid or a quiet or a mindless or a merely passing thought or prayer. It's a strong, a purposeful plea in faith. That the Lord would grant this understanding. You remember Elijah? He called upon the name of the Lord to consume the sacrifice that he was offering. After water had been poured all over it, gallons and gallons of water, and yet, as he calls on the name of the Lord, the God who answers by fire. It's the same God that we plead with, it's the same God that we call upon, and we're asking for wisdom. Think of that. The God who answers by fire will give you what you desire. And you ask Ask by faith. That brings us to our third point, seek seeking wisdom As one receives, that's what which is offered, as it's treasured up in the heart. As the heart is inclined to it, as you now have pleaded with God, as you cried out Those first two ifs, being satisfied now, the third if, if you seek it like silver and search for it as hidden treasures. Think again of those parables, especially the merchant in search of fine pearls, who found that one of great value. That's the idea. Searching. It has to be the attitude of the believer, the one who's been saved. There's an atimacy, a diligence, a persistent about a persistence about this search for wisdom and understanding. Think upon the imagery here. Seeker as silver or hidden treasure. Think of a treasure hunter. Having a direction, having some knowledge concerning that for which he or she is seeking, knowing its great value, possibly treasure which will allow that one to live in luxury. Knowing, having some knowledge of the treasure's whereabouts, and having done their research and approximated its location, they start digging and searching and here and there, they continue their search persistently confident that it does exist, maybe in the next hole to be dug, or possibly the one who's sifting for gold, having found bits and shards in a certain riverbed who now continues that sifting as he knows that there's small prizes to be gotten as he continues his diligent work The idea here is that this is work, this is labor. Not an easy task. Solomon doesn't call for one to sit in an easy chair and just let things soak in. There's digging involved. Sweating involved, there's diligence, a dogged pursuit of wisdom and understanding which is being sought out. Think of Paul's description in 1 Corinthians Chapter 9. Do you not know that those who run in a race all run, but only one receives the prize? Run in such a way that you may win. That's the idea. Searching, pursuing, running, sweating, disciplining your body, making it my slave. Or the writer to the Hebrews in chapter twelve. Since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding us, let us lay aside every encumbrance. And the sin which so easily entangles us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us See, there's a laying aside. And then there's the pursuit. Diligent study of the Word of God is difficult work. It takes time and concentration like those treasure hunters. This is what Charles Briggs wrote about proverbs. To be filled from the divine treasury, to have large portions of the word daily passing through the mind gives us a firmer grasp and a more suitable and diversified application of it. There can be no sound judgment without this feeding, enriching study. Seeking wisdom. It's hard work, but it's a great privilege And it leads to this, our fourth point. Knowing God. Verse 5. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Here's the result. Of those three conditions, the three ifs satisfied The son is being told now an instruction: if you do all of these things, the result will be this. You will be able now. To understand the fear of the Lord by crying out, by diligent pursuit, by storing it up. You will understand the fear of the Lord. Now, brothers and sisters, this is a lifelong process. It is evolving. It's it's it's not a switch. It's not immediate. We saw it a couple of weeks ago that the fear of the Lord has has many facets. There's a depth and a breadth and a width to it that must be studied. And must be absorbed and gradually understood piece by piece. The fear of the Lord is learned as one grows and matures. It's a fuller appreciation of the awe and wonder of our God. This is a process of learning, of praying, of studying, lifelong As we open the scriptures, as one loves the Word of God, as it's treasured and stored up, as we're attentive to it and our hearts are inclined to it. All by the illumination of the Spirit, we will more and more, we will increase, we will develop a greater and deeper fear of the Lord. But there's another aspect to it, which is very similar. You find the knowledge of God. Notice this was what was lost in the fall. As Adam sinned against God, this knowledge, this pure knowledge of God, was just destroyed, it was corrupted. It's like that car that's rusting on that Pacific Island because of all the salt water. That's our hearts, born from Adam. It's corrupted. The knowledge of God, that pure knowledge, that intimate knowledge of God, corrupted, and that's what we are regaining. Then you will find the knowledge of God. The fear of the Lord and the knowledge of God are so intertwined and related, we cannot pull them apart, and we wouldn't want to. The fear of the Lord increases as we discover his knowledge, and our knowledge of God is made deeper and more full as we fear him. What a privilege of discovering the knowledge of God, of knowing then as He knows. As understanding then as God understands, never completely. Never comprehensively, never exhaustively. But as Adam was able to name the animals brought to him because his knowledge and God's knowledge were not co-equal But that's where he got the ability to name the animals from. And now this is what's being rebuilt and renewed within us. What a glorious result. This promise, this truth. As one devotes him or herself to the word of God That you would be granted the very knowledge of God, true wisdom. True silver, hidden treasure Some passages of Scripture exhort, admonish, comfort, encourage. Some do one, some do all. This passage seems to do all. These first five verses of Proverbs 2, the four verses, contain an exhortation, an admonishment of sorts. It's implicit within the text. Behind the encouragement of the king in the first four verses can be found the command in God's word. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul, with all your might, these words which I am commanding you today shall be on your heart. Deuteronomy chapter six Deuteronomy 11. You shall therefore impress these words of mine on your heart and on your soul. It sounds so very similar to what he's admonishing us to in Proverbs 2. If we take away the ifs in the first four verses, we are left with commands. Receive my words, treasure my commandments, make your ear attentive, incline your heart, cry for discernment, lift your voice for understanding. understanding, seek wisdom as you would silver or treasure. Again, some of us tonight I'd venture to guess all of us might be thinking, I haven't been doing this. I haven't been doing this recently. Your heart may be pricked tonight. Because the underlying message of Solomon, the underlying message of God is to read and study his word, treasure it up in your heart, store it up and then use it, seek out his wisdom, his understanding, diligently, cry out to him. And there's certainly an implicit you need to set aside other things, which are mere distractions and unprofitable pursuits. We have many things to attend to in this life: work, school, houses. God has given us recreation. But there are many things which we engage in, brothers and sisters, which may not be profitable, many things which we might engage in today, which take us away from the study of His Word, which divert our attention. And I think that's part of the purpose of the Spirit here for all of us, for you and for me, to convict our hearts to spend more time in his word and diligent study in prayer. None of us can claim to have exhausted the scriptures, to know them comprehensively. To have received all of God's knowledge, to have fully discerned the fear of the Lord. None. None can, none ever will But the encouragement tonight is the Spirit has taken time to show us a better way, a more excellent way. God could certainly leave us to play video games or watch endless returns of happy days. But He doesn't. Encouragement here is to open the door, to receive that which He has freely offered us, His Word, His wisdom. To tell him, to confess to him that we're weak, that we struggle We struggle spending time in his word sometimes. We're inclined to go in a different direction. He wants to hear from us. He wants us to cry out and say, Lord, help me. Please incline my heart. Give me a deeper desire for your word. As we sit down and read, he wants us to cry out to him for understanding. He knows our weakness. We need to come before him in dependence. We need to plead for the light of the Spirit to shine upon our studies. We need to confess that at times we're too busy and we have really important things that take the place of studying God's Word and that He would help us. If you would allow us to sit back and watch how he will oversee these other things and solve our worldly cares when we devote time to the study of his word and seek out his wisdom and silver. To tell them that we're weary, that we've had a long day at work. We've had a long day in the house watching children. And that he would help us. That he would give us the strength, the diligence, the pursuit. He would cause our ear to be attentive. He's going to give us these things as we ask for them. Yes, the pursuit of wisdom ends in the discernment of the fear of the Lord and the knowledge of God. Call tonight here, brothers and sisters, is to pursue the pursuit in dependence on the work of the Spirit. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, help us. We are weak, we're frail. The old man continues to cause us to head down roads we don't want to go down Father, we pray continue to kill off the old man and to build up in us a greater desire for your word That we would be even more attentive to it. That our hearts would not be inclined to the creation or to recreation. These are good things. But they would be inclined to your word. That we would never have enough, that we would, Father, never be satisfied. That our longing and desire for your word would increase daily. And that by and through our study and through the illumination of the Spirit, Father, you would cause us to know what it is to fear you. That you would grant to us even more knowledge, your knowledge. And give us the ability to praise you as we seek your face. Help us, Lord God, to cry out to you, Grant us this, grant us wisdom, we pray. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.