Continuing a copy of God's word now to the gospel of Melissa. in chapter 10. We get from page 969 as we see the Bible. But making our way through chapter 10 is Jesus is coming out of society. I'm gonna try to finish up this chapter today. I'm gonna read in this morning of A 34. Let's base 34 is to the country monitor. It's not until I've come to bring peace to the air. And not God promised to set a man against his father, and a daughter against her mother, and a daughter-in-law against her mother-in-law, and he taken His enemies will be those of his own heart. Whether loved father and mother more than me is not worthy of me. Whether loved son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me The letter does not take itself and follow me, is not worthy of me. The other finds his life and lose it. The whether Whether receives he receives me. And what he receives me receives sends you something. The one that is a prophet because he is a prophet. When we see the prophet to worry. And the one that he sees a righteous person because he is a righteous person. When we see the righteous patient One of these little ones, even a cup of cordiata because he is a disciple. Clearly I say to you who by no means leave To find a little bit too. But I don't know if you guys address them to the meaning of the word and to do your presence. to open the passage. And see it works in all of our lights guys. The something with this passage is a difficult one, maybe even more remote I mean the SP is an A. The F I can just mean the HP. Listen to the deal. Let's look at some question Sometimes you might forget where the apostle's heir yaws when he pinned his letter to the church at the time In the middle of his letter he likes about himself, about having most confidence in itself, and then he lost all the ways in which he could have confidence in his law. We are the debu of de-dus, a safety, a persecutor of the church, and we are decide from the type I should write this anyway. I think he says this, for whatever game I had I tend to lose for the sake of twice. Did I count everything as a because of this one with millions twice are really As Paul writes of his loss, we might think that he's really just referring to those enumerated things that he had accomplished The reason that he had done his life is how to feel like they were made from his eyes. We kind of forget the power of in prison. And then we lost trouble. much more than the things that we enumerated. That is an increase for consumption of change All of them present for preaching Christ. The good meaning. Yes. Very thing that Google speaks about today in the championship in 1950 Jesus had called his disciples and now he's turning them out. This is the first turning we're gonna have on its account of of Jesus sending his disciples to out, sending for them. You know that Jesus had already been healed. I know that he had already been preaching the gospel, the good news, and more He is sending his disciples out and gives that harvest which is plentiful where the people are as if they have no secret at all And transform. Where today? Go nowhere among the Gentiles until they come into Samaritan. But rather that is a rock seat of the house The king of heaven is at hand. Here is the way to God. If it's not, just the dump back and leave that time. I'm only telling the way it goes to the key. And sending you out of feet in the midst of world. They will deliver you to kill, inside you, beside you from you. The one who plays with you. We do with you as we go on it. Told him everyone who had married his friend before no. I think there's a dip. And they can step to make Jesus to come in the man. This is then giving them words of encouragement to go. But now he's he's trying to make These are the ways that you should be given to those to whom we're going to be feeding. No, I don't have to see the two ways. they lose his life becoming worthy to receive the reward of eternal his life when they lose his life becoming worthy That is really okay. General theory. Consider Jesus' words C is a scalper because he's on the past for someone. I do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace And reason Jesus may not have been surprising to the disciples. They're considering him to be like David, the warrior king. They're accepting Jesus would be the one who would ask her in the replacement of the promised women of Israelites. Would establish or re-establish a the throne of David, the one who would remove the Romans from power and bring back Israelite rule in prosperity. The one who in fact you dispute to accomplish these things. Wasn't it people who denied that Jesus would be safe? Wasn't that one yet, but he was. And Jesus did That's a Peter who took out the sword to find out those who came to arrest state. The third the stairway. What maybe one of the most difficult concepts Yes. So we would understand as Christians but it was Jesus Christ, what the green priests. Science misunderstanding regarding the nature of the children's changes. It's having a surprise to you this morning of these words. Do you not think they are a content key to the Oh. If he consider Jesus his ministry, especially his ultimate ministry to present himself as these perfect sacrifice and a classic Things of peace, peace with God. And then as he as he recognizes now that he's seeing the face of God, those angels, so to speak, the Lord says to him, Truth be to you, do not please that We didn't build an airport and then pay it the Lord will His prophecy. He should peace. He writes a peace. He appears to Jesus Christ, the Messiah. Wonderful counselor, mighty God of Everlasting father can be peace. The worse shall dwell with the lamb, the leopard shall lie down with the young goat, the calf, and a line of pattern path together in a little size for reason. Is there a less of peace in such a thing as this? Or yours news You ordain peace for us. You are thinking of the covenant of peace. Think of our power, you think of how studied most of these letters Very C and B. If you know anything with the firewall to be the quote. outside of Christ will condemnate peace with God. Our sin brings us into the category of being pregnant as well or enemies of God, but only the blood of one believe as one believes upon Christ, more believers and what he is done and taking the entire life for God to the friends of his creatures. And that's why Paul can write in his letters of the Romans and chapters by birthday We have been justified by faith, we have peace was done to the other evil. The other one who is going to be You think the first question we could be an extra in the first. But the minute after we help us jump to the second class and to the first, what is Jesus knew when he said that she came to be a third, took a day together, so I think Jesus meaning. contacts if I thought. I'm very critical to that in the film of these words and Jesus. I think we've read the contacts by that Jesus is in the middle problem We send those recipients to proclaim the newness of the kingdom to proclaim the king has arrived. He's instructing the disciples that we're about to go out and the back of the good we must follow him. And so we must remember the context of the disciples going on it with the word of the lamb. Then you're not with the word of Lambert. And so it appears on Jesus' reference to ask for it, maybe we might say that a reference to the very word of God. The disciples with a clear wisdom can take time. Consider those different passages with us Medical of the food for the word of God. In Ephesians chapter seven is where we can include the army of God. Take the helmet of salvation Because then we need to get this Jesus would be called to the will of God And they're b and they're dark and something that's it's part of it, it's using using the colours to the word of God, we must see the statement about truth be set in the context of the Word of God building out. And so we see And we think of the three. Can't remember that I three minute. But we know that the story comes to a point unless the total portion of a call which is used usually against an attorney. And it seems to be what Jesus is designed to against a missile. It pierces the object into which it is wrong. And that's exactly what Jesus Christ claimed a divided person, cleaned preaching and teaching through his work, Jesus is in a literally seeking to truth for the shares of those who die I feel two and action. How would the stoning pipe become poor and mournful and mute and hungering after righteousness and mortal and I mean by doing two. How would one point away from doing angry with his body. He's being liable to judge him. How would one who says he feels he's liable to the Holy Father? He seems Because Jesus sought to convict a place of the house with the conviction that men, all men, have sinned against the living God. So these things we threw the nature of called the metaphor for the very word Jesus when the road into the body now for battle and the clone coming through that holiness his hands the point of the third method Take on the kill. With the rules. The key of the rules. The key to the card and left. called all bystanders that must be first. Then let one understand that he is bleeding This sin to be the living and holy child in God who will never get the need for those in any. things that you quickly know they We can make sense. Put the mother anything. If you see this moment with listening the last time I was listening to the students it's not Does not face their heart you'll come out to him even more. Ask him to freely his words and quite with our convince. And join the flash that he could feel to him, feel and feel to him and confess that can be for someone to give him I think it's just second time, it's the very separation. So that I have come to set a man against the father, a daughter, against the mother, a daughter in law, against the mother in law, present enemies of the days of his name. It's funny if you have it's known if you get the options because it's in the reason if it's possible and adjust so it can't make it. to Michael's words, to Michael's inspired words, his realization that that he was surrounded by the underground Jesus is moving to Where is this relationship that we have in this world? Consider our question that we would ask consider our biological family to be some of the closest relationships that we have in this world. And especially the relationship between a past and a college. Children, even adult children depend upon their parents, they look at their parents, they question their parents. And parents love and care if they can children with a unique domain between five body and tongue between daughter and mother and so Jesus takes the closest intimate relations that exist within the family unit and uses that and he says there is What I clean to separate one against the other. The two enemies of the life. He's just familiar. If you're against families, if he to destroy our family's hands, if he seeking to break down the family, we'll take him. I'm in a federal neighbor. Take it a give summary of the second paper of the tenth moment. You shall love the neighbor as yourself. I just love it. There's a little bit clear. Usually it's a The Christmas between father and son, mother and daughter. He considered his disciples had a powerful proof that as the means of the arrival of the king is proclaimed as the one The word of God, the word of life except it would not only convict of sin, but if the word life records would separate. So even a place cloud or exist. When would disease and question? And then For the children of God, the gospel, the good news, the word of God would become the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. But for the children They could reject the word of God. They would claim to be wise, they would become true, they would claim the glory of the mortal God for images resembling mortal men And birds and animals and creating things who did them. Everybody's quite trying to take that one. And for those who were feeling good, we're feeling the way to Jesus would no longer be able to remember claiming a waste concept that they had a word coming This cognitive weight would not be able to remain in the formulation that they had formally with a cognitive jet. Even if they were their parents, even if they were their biological children, we see that if one recognizes and confesses God as he hasn't decided that things can And I think Jesus is peaceful. Not only separation but in enmity will come about Jesus may me that God for even in the garden I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offering and her It's about when you have to make it one type, another two, the middle two type of two. another modern you would not really uh no you could say it was something The Yasha is the second one. He becomes the only one to whom you are devoted. He becomes the ultimate one to whom he obey And that he led him more than only other than the disciples needed to inside and proclaimed that thing. But that's then the theme to the core is what A separation expense. A live choice. A living place minimalist means It wasn't that he didn't love his came over. But that inspired him to and and practice and and Abraham love God so and is so obedient to him and and knew him as his center, the center of his life The sense of all things that he was willing to endure lay his son on the altar, binding him up, ready to put his knife to his throat The separation may turn into two viewers Lazy to follow Jesus. He's already called him a subject. Try change in for people If all you ever you do, and people said the impact of the carrying those of the year had enough, but a friend of mine has nowhere to lay his head. Jesus said something like the following. aside the word. And I would come to him and says, Lord, let me first go and bring my father, he's a five and the following and read the blood to blow the window. Who will get to be the company? Who will feel to be fancy? That's what it's carrying to trial for it would be It's the minimum theory. He's got to be turned out. asking for people to join his organization. Jesus was not asking for men or women to become He didn't own a president in a corporation that he was putting out. Very specifically and particularly here in a number of places that we require PC file things You see the choice constantly you're submitting the price to your side of here. Constantly around his work with her father. And do you look humbly and beautiful? I don't want asked her to be very father is ever yesterday. and done by not really supposed to perform totally. You know, thankfully. He's going to be the pen, that is it. He's he's going to die, that is it worth that and right, but it wasn't really to go to the past to become a certain past It will necessarily be telling the people of God, but he was trying to do it with himself and complete the lesson. It's a difference between his dominant test and his dominant test would be a holding complete permission. Have you thought about that? Have you thought about Christ's part if he goes with a class And after he told you how to take a cut thing that not more year, but where you'd be done. He thought I wasn't completely missing. He concerned about the high early beautiful high as he goes with the climate. To do something Jesus must dang these thousands after that humble type of submission I don't think it's very much worse. Never finds what we also use it, whatever users that we have to make that you find. If one is seeking to follow Jesus, Jesus makes them clear. If we not conclude to keep your life in the world while trying to follow Christ at the same time. If we're being subject to the world, if we love in the world, if we can feel that we're feeling bound up in the world with worldly things, with worldly prices until then. And they told him not to look back what this white walk right does. He came back to separate himself From the world from Sodom into misery. It's the world of a different time. And we have the backwards powered from the diamond pocket breath. God is not making his place in Paris does not lose an easy. He thinks we put in the place on the way Because that word will be used for not becoming before his father. Come a wordness of that as well. I don't know what uses those words for now. And it says that takes a That's a paradigm. Travis and paradigm law for the trade of price. He's in prison for the trade of price He tries for the sake of Christ. He has everything out of rubbish that he might gain twice. What if he plays in a lower seven and seven twice or the R in this We love more than a thing. He desired and hide sometimes, and sometimes we hear them not to ask them about the world Is it anyway? Is it training? Is it pain? Is it money? Is it health? Is it peace? Is it complex? You can fill in all kinds of things you might want Whether leaves it right in my time. I think that we can use the wing to look things to be quite explained. But if you put it on the third time too much with you He was going to look at his high teaching. His words that Jesus was sending him to cycles outly within How to accept, how to last, how to understand for the people that the type of going through the last thing We think they'd lost the word of God. We think they'd lost their purpose, their existence, they'd they had lost their relationship with God and now their disciples were gone out and they're Again, how to regain that that relationship with the living God. And in a sense, from from a lost perspective, this is how Then he respects before again. But he will. But he already sees the twice with whether he received their words, whether he proves the very word of God actually received twice. And whether received twice reproves the one in center, between God himself. I say the proclamation was that there would be a receipt of Christ. There are ways, and all the ways that we would think and receive them And do they enclosing for the declarative because that is the objective recording? And he talks about the reward, doesn't he? The one who receives a prophet because he is a prophet will receive a prophet. Reward, the one who receives a righteous person because he is a righteous person will receive a righteous prophet. He's talking about the disciples bearing out and their words being received, and what would the reward be when the words were received and he's talking about his former lives Is there no other reward than it's my life? Of course there is a reward that must keep in mind. Given the full name. The guru chance would be a command of December person to refuse the property, refuse the righteous one, to give that property a third waters to the one because he is a disciple. I say to you the moment lose his word, you see that he has to say And you consider my words to be fade. I'll be my fear. But I require the father to be against this time, which can be more than more than father made Modern mode and someone you have made out of him. If we do, because we try to learn, we can learn what you think what we like, we come to see me as we're saying We can't be able to do it with the word done. Do we have the world? Also, you can see that. Why can't this world would be black? Although the world with ten reality is bright. He was named a child with more and brush attacked with women, dishes from a dance full of work, jellyfishing. No one would be able to survive that if you can be able to move the wrap from it if In your own nature, no, it must be by glow to the and it would just be the drive by glow to that separation of being just and and submitted to it all about grace that one would love twice more. If you go and you're losing the other food and It won't be done the way. Father Heaven, we are so insufficient and an old being of these things And so you tell them how to continue to come in the height. Continue to separate off from the two In part of a life. Allow to achieve that the world is so function. So much that. to be great of a floor and beyond posing things. You can't be doing. And 59 and 25.