This morning we're going to read from the Gospel of Luke. Would you please stand and hear the word Word of God. Luke chapter 20, starting at verse 9. This is a parable of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then he began to tell the people this parable. A certain man planted a vineyard, leased it to vine dressers, and went into a far country for a long time. Now, at vintage time, he sent a servant to the vine dressers that they might give him some of the fruit of the vineyard. But the vine dressers beat him and sent him away empty-handed. Again, he sent another servant, and they beat him also, treated him shamefully, and sent him away empty-handed. And again he sent a third, and they wounded him and cast him out. Then the owner of the vineyard said, What shall I do? I shall send my beloved son. Probably they will respect him when they see him. But when the vine-dressers saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours. So they cast him out of the vineyard and killed him. Therefore, what will the owner of the vineyard do to them? He will come and destroy those vines. And when they heard it, they said, Certainly not. Then he looked at them and said, What then is this that is written? The stone which the builders rejected has become the Chief cornerstone. Whoever falls on that stone will be broken, but on whomever it falls, it will grind him to powder. The chief priests and scribes that very hour sought to lay hands on him, but they feared the people, for they knew he had spoken this parable against them. Amen. Praise be to God. Turn in your Gospels now to Genesis Continue our study there with the rest of chapter 37. Joseph has dreamed his dreams. And now he's being sent to his brothers by his father. Let's pick up Genesis 37 at chapter, excuse me, chapter 37 at verse 12. Then his brothers went to feed their father's flock in Shechem. And Israel said to Joseph, Are not your brothers feeding the flock in Shechem? Come, I will send you to them. So he said to the said to him, Here I am. Then he said, Please go and see if it is well with your brothers and well with the flocks, and bring back word to me. So he sent him out of the valley of Hebron, and he went to Shech. Now a certain man found him, and there he was wandering in the field. The man asked him, saying, What are you seeking? So he said, I am seeking my brothers. Please tell me where they are feeding their flocks. And the man said, They have departed from here, for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. So Joseph went after his brothers and found them in Dothan. Now When they saw him afar off even before he came near them, they conspired against him to kill him Then they said to one another, Look, this dreamer is coming. Come, therefore, let us now kill him and cast him into some pit, and we shall say some wild beast has devoured him. We shall see what will become of his dreams But Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said to them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit which is in the wilderness. And do not lay a hand on him, that he might deliver him out of their hands and bring him back to his father. So it came to pass, when Joseph had come to his brothers, they stripped Joseph of his tunic the tunic of many colours that was on him. And they took him and cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty. There was no water in it. And then they sat down to eat a meal Then they lifted their eyes and looked, and there was a company of Ishmaelites coming from Gilead with their camels, bearing spices, balm, and myrrh, on their way to carry them down to Egypt Egypt. So Judah said to his brothers, What profit is there if we kill our brother and conceal his blood? Come, let us sell him to the Ishmaelites, and let not our hand be upon him, for he is our brother in our flesh. And his brothers listened. Then the Midianite traders passed by, so the brothers pulled Joseph up and lifted him out of the pit and sold him to the Ishmaelites for twenty shekels of silver. And they took Joseph to Egypt. Then Reuben returned to the pit, and indeed Joseph was not in the pit, and he tore his clothes, and he returned to his brothers and said, The lad is no more, and I, where shall I go? So they took Joseph's tunic, killed a kid of the goats, and dipped it in dipped the tunic in the blood. And they sent the tunic of many colors, and they brought it to their father and said, We have found this Do you know whether it is your son's tunic or not? And he recognized it and said, It is my son's tunic. A wild beast has devoured him. Without doubt, Joseph is torn to pieces Then Joseph, then Jacob tore his clothes, put sackcloth on his waist, and mourned for his son many days. And as Saul his sons and all his daughters arose to comfort him, but he refused to be comforted, and he said, For I shall go down into the grave to my son in mourning. Thus his father wept for him Now the Midianites had sold him in Egypt to Potifar, an officer of Pharaoh and captain of the guard. Please be seated. Let's try. Father in heaven, now we pray that you would bless the reading of your word, that you would fill us with your Spirit, that you would guide our path this morning Give us not only understanding, Father. We pray that you'd convict us of our own sins, that you'd comfort us. Knowing of your love and of the atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen. Well, in that parable that we just read from the New Testament, as Jesus gives the disciples, all those listening, the Pharisees, the chief priests, a picture. Of a vineyard which was overrun with wicked men. Our tendency, as we read that parable, is to really focus On those who had been renting the vineyard. Our tendency is to see how wicked they were, and how many times they treated wickedly the servants. Of the vineyard owner, and then how in their evil hearts they slayed the son of the owner. Our tendency is to focus on their wickedness But this morning I'd like you to focus upon the vineyard owner, who is in fact God, who in his love continues To send servants, messengers, calling the people to come back to himself. In his love, he sends his son Seems to be what we have going on here in Genesis 37. A type. A type of The Father's love, which we find in the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, much has already taken place in the history of redemption, as we saw last time. We're jumping into, so to speak, in the midst of the history of redemption. We've seen that Jacob has fled from Esau, his brother, after taking his birthright. He lived and worked with Laban for many, many years. He's now returned to what will become the promised land. He's returned to that place where Abraham and Isaac had dwelt, in Hebron. Covenant promises have been repeated certainly to Isaac. They've been repeated to Jacob. The covenant, as we saw last time, is continuing even now through the generation. Of Jacob. We've seen the family dynamic, haven't we, already? In the first eleven verses of chapter 37, the father's love unique love for Joseph, the tunic which displayed that, and then the brother's hatred in response to the father's love. And then the two dreams of Joseph was which only inflated their hatred for him even more. Their envy, their hatred grew deeper and stronger. We see that contrast between love and hate. Today today, as we consider the rest of chapter three We want to see that the Father sends his son into the world of sin and misery to bring back a report on the well-being of his people. See that in three simple points. The love of God risks all, the will of God works all, and the word of God overcomes all. First, the love of God risks all. Here we see as this passage opens up the Father sending the Son, Jacob sending Joseph It seems as if Jacob doesn't remember anything that's happened up to this point. Doesn't remember the hatred of his brothers. Doesn't remember anything. He's just, go and see your brothers. They're tending the flocks. Might seem to be a routine task that the father is sending his son on. Minor thing. Just go and see how your brothers are doing. They're with the sheep. Come, I will send you to them. But as we think about that, I want us to think of three things first. Hebron, the place where they were living, the place that Jacob had returned to from his exile as he fled from Esau. That was home. That was to be the promised land, the place that God was giving to the family. Place where Jacob had established his family as he returned. Joseph is being sent from this place, away from this place, the place that the ancestors had established. Secondly, Shechem was dangerous. This is where the brothers were supposedly tending the flocks This is where Dad wanted son to go. Shechem was not a place of righteousness. We know that. If we back up a few chapters into Genesis 33, we'll see that Jacob had been in Shechem. This is where his daughter Dinah was sexually assaulted by Shechem. This is where Dina's brothers Simeon and Levi had deceived Shrechem and wiped out all the men of the city, all those in the Land. Jacob knew that Shechem was a place of unrighteousness. He knew that they might gather together against him and kill him. That's why he left Shechem Even though he knew this, Jacob directs his son Joseph to rise, go to Shechem, a place of unrighteousness, and a place of great peril. Thirdly, Jacob sends Joseph to brothers who hate him. Again, we saw that in the first portion of Genesis 37. When his brothers saw that their father loved him more than all his brothers, they hated him. Now Joseph had a dream, and they hated him. So they hated him even more for his dreams and for his words his brothers envied him. Three times at least The word hated is used in this passage. It's an emphatic use of the word. It defines the brothers. This is where Jacob was sending Joseph, into the midst of their hatred, which was being spewed out. Here then is the centerpiece of this event. That Joseph was sent to his brothers who've left Hebron to determine if they're well. To determine how they are doing, come and bring a report back to me. Naturally, we'd think that Jacob was concerned about their physical well-being. But I think in the background, unannounced, unstated, there's a spiritual sense to that which Jacob was seeking. How are your brothers doing spiritually? That wasn't asked by Jacob, that probably wasn't on his mind, but it is certainly implied by Moses. the inspired writer. How are your brothers doing spiritually? Are they well? Remember Joseph has already brought a bad report to his father about these brothers. This bad report likely concerned bad behavior of the brothers which reflected on their spiritually bad hearts. Just like the bad reports that make their way up to the fathers as he looked down upon Babel or as he heard the cries of the Israelites in Egypt. Now, as Joseph goes, he does find that which was already known. The spiritual well-being of Joseph's brothers was not good. Their hatred is shown in their conspiracy, even as he's walking up to them far off. The hatred is flowing out of their hearts as they conspire to kill him. Interestingly, Joseph never has the opportunity to report back to his father on the well-being of his brother. In lieu of Joseph's report, going back to his father, the brothers bring a report about Joseph's well-being They took him, they cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty, and there was no water in it. His father Jacob in a certain sense risked all, his favored son, in sending him to learn of his brother's well-being. From a human perspective, from our perspective, God the Father risks everything. In sending his only eternally begotten Son into the world. His precious, his beloved Son With whom the Father and the Spirit had been in perfect union and communion and fellowship for eternity was being sent away from his eternal home. Isn't that the read in Scripture? God the Father sending the Son God the Father knew that the of the sinful condition of the world into which the Son was being sent. Genesis 6:5. Then the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every intent of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. God knew this was the condition I'm sending you to. He knew of the misery in the world. He was the one who laid the curse upon it. Thorns and thistles, it will produce for you. By the sweat of your brow, you will eat your bread. This is where he's sending the Son. This is where the Son was sent. He knew of the hatred that awaited the arrival of his son, which would arise out of his goodness and righteousness. The Gospel of Matthew records that as Jesus Christ says to the man, stretch out your hand, and he stretched it out, and it was restored as whole as the other, Jesus Christ was healing. And what was the response of the Pharisees? They plotted against him as to how they might destroy him. The Son sent in goodness and righteousness amidst the hatred. That was being spewed out. Jehovah knew that there would be no substitute sacrifice in the place of his son. That he would indeed be the sacrificial lamb. From our perspective, the triune God was risking everything: the holy, the blessed, the perfect, tripartate love and communion. That in sending his son, the Trinity was risking the breaking of this eternal communion and blessed fellowship that needed no other. The risk was in separating this perfectly harmonious relationship which defines unity and goodness and love. The risk lay in veiling the glory of the sun so that the human nature could be taken on. The risk was in giving up the purity and becoming defiled with the sins of the world, as the sins of the world were laid upon. Jesus Christ. In sending the Son to this sin-filled, defiled, and filthy world bent upon wickedness and hatred toward the Godhead, it was as if The living God was risking everything, the very essence of his divinity. That's a human perspective. We know that God doesn't risk anything. But from our perspective, that's what he was doing, is he sending his son Jacob risked and lost for a time his precious son Joseph, as he loved his other sons and desired to know how they were. God the Father has sent his son for you, because he knew that you were not well. Because he knew that you were dead and needed reviving. Because he knew that you had broken his covenant and that you needed to be bound up. Unlike Jacob, God the Father knew that his son would be unrighteously slain at the cross at Calvary That the blood of his Son would be shed upon his beautiful robes of righteousness, such that they would be stained like the tunic, but with his own blood, the blood of the true substitute. God the Father seemingly held nothing back, but risked all so that you could be saved. Praise be to God. Amen. So the love of God does risk all, from our human perspective. That brings us to our second point: that the will of God works in all things. It would be a mistake for us to miss the providential hand of God. in this passage. In fact, the providential hand of God is throughout the remainder of this portion of Scripture. Indeed it's throughout Scripture. But there's a powerful display of the providential hand of God here in this particular portion of Scripture. How does Joseph get to his brothers? The obedient servant son Joseph, who says, here I am, that's an indication that he's ready to go. That's an indication that he's being obedient. Here I am. He does what his father asked, he sent, he goes, but somehow he ends up wandering. Verse 15, now a certain man found him where he was wandering in the field. In a sense, Joseph was off the path. His father had sent him, go to your brothers, and now he's ended up in this field, apparently in Shechem, and the brothers weren't there. This is the second and last time Joseph would speak in this passage. He says to the man, After he asks, What are you seeking? I am seeking my My brothers, think of that just for a moment. Ones who hate him three times said that they hated him And now he's telling a stranger, I'm just looking for my brothers. I I want to see my brothers I've got to tell my father how my brothers are doing. He shows his own desire to find his brothers, who are indeed spiritually lost. If it wasn't for this certain man, he's unidentified, Joseph would not have reached his brothers and would not have gotten to Egypt. And we know he's got to get to Egypt, don't we? It may be that this man who is providentially placed and not identified by name, a certain man And was not so identified, so our thoughts would not be on the man, but on God who placed him there, who providentially put Joseph back on the path he needed to be on to find his brothers. We know the rest of the account. Joseph needs to get to Egypt to save many lives, and by the hands of the of God, Joseph is set back on the path by this certain man. Joseph needed to be found so that he could find his lost brothers. Well, how did Joseph survive the brothers' desire to slay him? We know that's very clear. Even as they see him afar off. That's Joseph, maybe because of the tunic Let's kill him. That's the plan, that's the intent. We're gonna kill him, and then we're gonna throw him in the pit Their desire for blood was seemingly all they could think and speak of. Reuben hears it! God places Reuben there. He lays upon his heart the desire to intervene. Who knows why? But God does so. He moves Reuben to speak. He moves Reuben to intervene, one against eleven. He's spared. Because Reuben speaks. There's another aspect here that I just want us to touch upon very quickly. Isaac. Isaac was also spared. He had a death sentence God told Abraham, his father, to offer him up as a burnt offering. What happens? A ram is provided by God. Blood is shed so that Isaac could be spared. What about Jacob? As he steals the birthright from Esau, what does Esau want? He wants his blood. He wants to kill him. How is Jacob spared? Blood was offered. What what was what was his father given? Two choice kids of the goats. Savory food. Animals are slain. Blood is provided. Jacob is Allowed to go. And now here's Joseph. He spared death at the hands of his brothers, even death within the dry pit of damnation. And what did they do? A kid of the goats was offered up. Blood was shed. Jacob's, excuse me, Joseph's Life is spared. How does Joseph get out of the pit? For some reason Reuben wasn't around as the Ishmaelite traders come by. And now Judah's heart is moved to speak. He comes up with a bright idea to sell him off to. These slave traders. Judah was given the heart and persuasive words, so that his brothers would not slay him But the providential and powerful hand of God, his brothers listened. How does Joseph get to Egypt? Clearly, by the Ishmaelites. God works in mysterious ways, doesn't he? It's possible that the providential hand was on display here? Of course Joseph is wandering, he's not finding his way, his brothers are lost, they need to be found, he needs to get to Egypt through Reuben, through Judah, now through the Ishmaelite traitors, not the Isaiahites. I don't think that's really a word, but it's not through the line of Isaac that he's spared, that he's taken to Egypt. It's through the Ishmaelites. They give him a ride to Egypt. The sons of Ishmael are used to fulfill the will of God. God's providential hand on display. How does Jesus get to the cross? Judas must betray him. The disciples must flee and not intervene. The chiefs, priests, and the scribes must hate him. Pilate must cast off truth, and Barabbas must be set free. He must be delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge. God's will works. Even with the evil intentions of men. Brothers and sisters, we can become Dismayed and distressed as we see and observe wicked thoughts and actions of men and women in this world We may be dismayed at the actions and decisions made by government officials. We may be concerned over war between nations and threats of war. And to an extent, we should be concerned and we should pray for all of these things, but when we are tempted to despair, Hearing of bad acts and bad actors, do you remember that God's will works in all things? Just as it was here. As Joseph was thrown into a waterless pit, seemingly to die, stripped of his father's love God's will was working in that act, in that pit. Jesus Christ said, in the world you will have tribulation. Take courage, I've overcome the world. Yes, God's will works even with the evil intentions of men. That brings us to our third point. The word of God prevails over all. Or use a different word earlier, I'm sorry. But it does prevail. As we noted last week, the tunic was a symbol. It clearly represented the love of Jacob the Father for his son Joseph. It was unique. It was distinct. It was valuable and special. It represented the beauty of a unique love of the Father for his Son. It was a sign. Representation. And so what do the brothers do as soon as Joseph gets close enough to touch him? They strip off the tunic They remove that symbol, that sign, that representation of the Father's unique love for this particular particular son. That was the first action that they took. They stripped Joseph of his tunic. Why? Why? Why not let Joseph take it with him? Why not bury it with Joseph in the pit? Their design was to create a separation between the Father and the Son. And the tunic was a sign of love that brought them together in a unique bond, that which existed between them. And by removing it. From Joseph, by stripping it from the person of Joseph. They sought to dash this love. That Joseph would not even have this tunic on his body, even to help him remember to think upon his father's love for him Separating Joseph from his father and his father from Joseph. Seems to be their design, their intent. But here's the amazing truth. The Father's love for the Son was not removed or even diminished. It's the brothers' attempt to even defile the symbol. So they took Joseph's tunic, killed a kid of goats, and dipped the tunic in the blood. The love of the father of Jacob was not cast off into the pit. Even though he perceived Joseph to be dead, he refused to be comforted I shall go down to the grave to my son in mourning. The tunic no longer covered Joseph. The symbol of the sign of love had been removed But that which it represented remained. It couldn't be stripped. It couldn't be removed. Like the tunic, Jesus himself becomes the sign of God the Father's love for his children. Isn't that the case? Isn't that what Isaiah tells us in chapter 7? Therefore, the Lord Himself, the Lord Himself will give you a sign: Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and his name shall be called Emmanuel. A sign. Jesus becomes the sign of God the Father's love He cannot be destroyed. Indeed, he will return wearing the sign of his father's love for him, the badge of his righteousness That's what we read in Revelation chapter 19. Now I saw heaven open, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat on him was called faithful and true, and in righteousness he He judges and makes war. His eyes were like flames of fire. On his head were many crowns. He had a name written that no one knew except himself. He was clothed with a robe dipped in blood. Covenant sign and seal of God's love and his approval will not, cannot be removed. From the one he loves, from Jesus Christ. What were the brothers trying to do is they place Joseph into the pit. We shall see what will become of his dreams. As they sought to kill him, as they threw him into the pit. They wanted to get rid of his dreams. Their desire was certainly to be rid of the dreamer, but even more so of his dreams. His foretelling, his visions, they drove them, cast him into a pit, first there, and then to Egypt. They hated so much these dreams, these visions, these words, these prophecies. They wanted to be separated from the message, the message of truth, so they sought to destroy the one who brought the message. They tried to bury the very word of God into a pit. Expecting that the message itself could not come to pass if the messenger, the one who was to be lifted up above them, was himself destroyed. But the word of God cannot be silenced or buried. God's word will always Come to pass. It cannot be buried in a pit. It cannot be destroyed by fire. Think of this. The word of God was actually buried in a tomb. And it was not able to hold him. God raised him up, having loosed the pains of death. because it was not possible that he should be held by it. Even the stone which sealed the tomb could not keep Jesus inside the very word. The fact that the messenger can be sent off does not mean that the message will not come to pass. God's word cannot be sent off. It cannot be jettisoned into a pit and buried. Brothers seem to do all that they can possibly do to separate themselves from the very word of They were loaded for bear and held nothing back to get rid of Joseph and his foretelling. Ultimately it does not work. It cannot be done. Yes, the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God stands forever. His counsel shall stand Stand, and he will do all his good pleasure. He accomplishes that which he pleases by and through his word. Brothers and sisters, this should be a much Comfort to us today. There are many forces of evil surrounding us, seeking to bury the Word of God, to silence its power And it can't be done. It will stand. And God will accomplish all that he's ordained by and through his word. It will not return to him void. Praise be to God. The Father does send the Son into the world of sin and misery to bring back a report on the well-being of his people. Yes, those vineyard workers were cast out. And others were placed in it. Praise be to God that He loves us so much that He would seemingly risk everything by seeming Sending his son for us and to us, by working his will in and through us, by giving us his word, which overcomes all. Praise be to God. Amen. You pray with me. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would help us We are weak and frail, and Lord God, we so need your Son. We thank you, we praise you, Lord God, for sending him into this world of sin and misery. To be accosted by hate and yet to triumph gloriously. Over the powers of evil. We thank you and praise you. We ask, Lord God, that you would continue to work in our hearts, making us more and more like the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen.