Amen. If you turn in your copies now of God's Word to Leviticus, You'll find chapter twelve on page one hundred and six of your Pew Bibles. Tonight we're going to try to cover four chapters, twelve through fifteen. I will not read all of them I'll read a portion so we can get the sense of all four of these chapters. Begin reading it in verse 1 of chapter 12 into verse 13, and then I will skip to the end of verse 15. Excuse me, of chapter 15. Let's now hear the very word of God. Leviticus chapter 12, beginning at verse 1 The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Speak to the people of Israel, saying, If a woman conceives and bears a male child, then she shall be unclean seven days. As at the time of her menstruation, she shall be unclean. And on the eighth day, the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised. Then she shall continue for thirty-three days in the blood of her purific purifying. She shall not touch anything holy, nor come into the sanctuary until the days of her purifying are completed. But if she bears a female child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her menstruation. And she shall continue in the blood of her purifying for sixty-six days. And when the days of her purifying are completed, whether for a son or a daughter, she shall bring to the priest at the entrance of the tent of meeting a lamb, a year old, for a burnt offering, and a pigeon. or a turtle dove for a sin offering, and he shall offer it before the Lord and make atonement for her. Then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood. This is the law for her who bears a child, either male or female. female. And if she cannot afford a lamb, then she shall take two turtle doves or two pigeons, one for a burnt offering and the other for a sin offering, and the priest shall make atonement for her, and she shall be clean. The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, When a person has on the skin of his body a swelling or an eruption or a spot And it turns into a case of leprous disease in the skin of his body, then he shall be brought to Aaron the priest, or to one of the sons of the priests, the the priests. And the priest shall examine the diseased area on the skin of his body. And if the hair in the diseased area has turned white and the disease appears to be deeper than the skin of his body, it is a case of leprous disease. When the priest has examined him, he shall pronounce him unclean. But if the spot is white, then the skin of his body, and it appears no deeper than the skin. And the hair, and the hair is not turned white, the priest shall shut up the diseased person for seven days. And the priest shall examine him on the seventh day. And if in his eyes the disease is checked and the disease is not spread in the skin, then the priest shall shut him up for another seven days. And the priest shall examine him again on the seventh day. And if the diseased area has faded and the disease is not spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him clean. It is only an eruption. And he shall wash his clothes and be clean. But if the eruption spreads in the skin, after he has shown himself to the priest for his cleansing, he shall appear again before the priest. And the priest shall look. And if the eruption is spread in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It is a leprous disease. Now if you jump with me to chapter 15, I'm going to jump down to the bottom at verse 31. Thus, you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness Lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle that is in their midst. This is the law for him who has a discharge and for him who has an omission of semen becoming unclean thereby. Also For her who is unwell with her menstrual impurity. That is, for anyone, male or female, who has a discharge, and for the man who lies with the woman who is unclean. Let's follow in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we come to another difficult portion, a large portion of Scripture. It is difficult for us to grasp, Lord God, how this applies to our lives, our hearts today. And we ask, Father, that by your Spirit you would open our hearts, not only giving us eyes to see and ears to hear, but Father, giving us tender hearts. That the Spirit would apply your word to us. Draw us ever closer to Christ Jesus. And remind us, Lord God, of the cleansing power of His blood. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the prophet Ezekiel in chapter 16, he presents a parable of sorts to the Israelites in exile. He tells them basically a story, so to speak. Of how the Lord God raised up the Israelites He compares them to a child, a baby, who was not pitied by The baby's mother or father. And as for your birth, on the day you were born, your cord was not cut you, nor were you washed with water to cleanse you, nor rubbed with salt. nor wrapped in swaddling clothes, no eye pitied you, but you were cast out on the open field, for you were abhorred. This is the picture of the people of God before he takes them to himself. Ezekiel continues, I said to you in your blood, live. I made you flourish like a plant of the field. I bathed you with water, washed off your blood from you, and anointed you with oil. I clothed you. With embroidered cloth, shod you with fine leather, wrapped you in fine linen, covered you with silk, adorned you with ornaments, bracelets on your wrist, a chain on your neck, a beautiful crown on your head, adorned with Gold and silver ate fine flour and honey and oil grew exceedingly beautiful and advanced to royalty. A picture of external righteousness and purity God raising up a people for himself, giving them everything they needed to worship him. But Ezekiel didn't stop there. He continued and informed the Israelites, but you trusted in your beauty and played the whore because of your renown. And lavished your whorings on any passerby, your beauty became his. Externally The nation of Israel was beautiful, but internally they were still filthy in their sin. That gives us an idea of why we have these four chapters in Leviticus, indeed why we have Leviticus at all in Scripture. We've been a few weeks away from this book, so it's good to be reminded that we were led here by Exodus As God had given the Israelites the pattern for his tabernacle, they had constructed it. It was all together and remember Once it was together, Moses couldn't enter because of the Shekinah glory of God. There was something more that was needed before they could enter into the tabernacle, enter into the dwelling place of God and You know what it was, as we've had been studying Leviticus, you've seen that they needed to make sacrifices They needed to be cleansed of their sin. And that's exactly what brings us to these four chapters tonight, Leviticus 12, 13, 14, and 15. Which give us this broad overview of the uncleanness of the people of God, the whole reason for the sacrificial or the ceremonial rites. Tonight, as we do a broad brush overview of these four chapters, I want us to see that Christians are called to examine themselves, confess their sin, and be cleansed by the continuing mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ Christians are called to examine themselves, confess their sin, and be cleansed by the continuing mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ. See that in three points tonight as we skim through these four chapters, first exuding uncleanness, secondly, examining uncleanness, and then finally eradicating uncleanness. Well, first, exuding uncleanness. And that's really what these four chapters are all about. It's the uncleanness of the Israelites. We might be asking ourselves, why didn't Moses begin with these four chapters as he opens up Leviticus? Why not just tell us right away everybody's unclean? They seem to describe why the offerings were necessary, why these ceremonial rituals were called out by God to be performed by the priests Why Moses was unable to enter into the tabernacle once it was finished according to the word of God In a sense, it tells us why Leviticus is here at all. It's summed up In verse 31 of chapter 15, thus you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness, lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle that is in their Sometimes we just don't know why portions of Scripture appear where they do. We just know that this is the Word of God and this is His desire. This is where it appears for us But we do know that there is an overwhelming reference here to the uncleanness of the Israelites First, the Moses writes about childbirth. All of these are outward evidences declared by God to evidence uncleanness. And so we read, if a woman conceives and bears a male child, if she bears a female child, either way she's going to be unclean from the flow of her blood. Moses doesn't stop there. Chapter thirteen is all about leprosy. Leprosy is difficult to define if you look it up in dictionaries and commentaries. Some think that the word leprosy as used here in Leviticus refers to more than one disease of the skin. But that seems to be exactly what it is. And we're told if the hair in the diseased area is turned white and the disease appears to be deeper than the skin of the body, it is a case of leprous disease. When the priest has examined him, he shall pronounce him unclean. So if a woman has a child, she's unclean. If someone contracts leprosy, that person is pronounced unclean. clothing were to exhibit some form of leprosy and we're not quite sure what that means Later on in verse 47 of chapter 13, we read, When there is a case of leprous disease in a garment, whether woolen or linen. Greenish or reddish in color. It is a case of leprous disease. The New American Standards has has a leprous mark. The New King James has a leprous Plague. If the disease is spread throughout the garment and the wolf or the warp When the skin, whatever be the use of the skin, the disease is persistent, leprous disease, it is unclean. Matthew Henry writes, the learned meaning those who are scholars, confess that it was a sign and a miracle in Israel, an extraordinary punishment inflicted by the divine power as a token of great displeasure against a person or a family That a garment could somehow contract leprosy. The same thing with a house in chapter 14. The Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron saying, When you come into the land of Canaan, which I gave you for for possession, I and put a case of leprous disease in a house. Again, Matthew Henry writes, with regard to leprosy in a house We may resolve it into the power of the God of nature. He continues, thus a place and a name in the visible church will not secure wicked people from God's judgments. Matthew Henry would see the Leprosy in a house as the judgment of God upon that family, upon that people Moses didn't stop with leprosy, he also writes of a male discharge The birth of a child, leprosy, and now a male discharge. Verse 1 of chapter 15, the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron, saying, Speak to the people of Israel and say to them, When any man has a discharge from his body, his discharge is unclean. This is the law of uncleanness for a discharge. And he didn't stop there because there was this spread of uncleanness that was possible. Verse 4 of chapter 15, every bed on which the one with the discharge lies shall be unclean. Everything on which he sits shall be unclean. Anyone who touches his bed shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the evening. Whoever carries such things Shall wash his clothes and bathe himself in water and be unclean until evening. These four chapters Tell us without question that the Israelites were immersed in uncleanness It surrounded them. And you might be asking Why did God consider the flow of blood, the existence of leprosy, the discharge of a bodily fluid to cause a person to be unclean? These events in the life of a woman or a man seemingly had nothing to do with breaking the law of God. God was not saying that having children was sinful. There's no mention of disobedience directly connected to birth or to the flow of blood or to the discharge or to the existence of leprosy. Yet all were sinful, all were unclean And I think the the reminder here is that we are all sinners. You might be thinking to yourself, yes, I know. But there is a reason that Moses took four chapters to describe to us the uncleanness of the Israelites. Because we forget. Because we think we're pretty good. Because we don't understand the holiness of God. And because we don't think sin is as heinous as it is to our living God. Just consider for a moment these verses. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Genesis 6. 5. Or Ecclesiastes 7. See this alone I found that God made man upright, but they have sought out many schemes. Isaiah 53, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way. And the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. Paul seems to pick this up in his letter to the church at Rome. Both Jews and Greeks are under sin. As it is written, no one is righteous, no not one. No one understands, no one seeks God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Just as we need to be reminded this evening, each of the men, women, and children of the Israelite nation needed to be reminded that they were sinners. All unclean. And just as they didn't think so, just like we don't think so, God through Moses was reminding them daily, even hourly, They were unclean. I tried to figure out how many births were happening per day. And who knows? It's likely there were hundreds of births happening every day in the nation of Israel. And if that was the case, hundreds of times women would be concerned about their uncleanness Please don't miss this picture. All of these, the blood, the leprosy, the discharge, come from within a person. All of these begin internally and then are exhibited or displayed externally. All of these, the blood, the leprosy, the discharge, appear to represent sin which flows from our hearts. Isn't that what we read tonight in Mark's Gospel? As the Pharisees were concerned about washing the hands and Their tradition being broken before the disciples ate. And Jesus says unequivocally, what comes out of a person is that which defiles him For from within, out of the heart of man come evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, coveting, wickedness, deceit, sensuality, envy, slander, pride, foolishness. See, that's likely why Moses doesn't connect the birth with sin. That's likely why he doesn't connect the leprosy with with an act of sin because he knows, because God knew. But this is just a a display of something that's coming from within to the external. Indeed, we have a picture of continuous uncleanness, of being surrounded, of being immersed in uncleanness. And it's all connected with the presence of the tabernacle. This issue arises as a result of the presence of the tabernacle, God's dwelling place among his people, and that's exactly what Moses writes in Leviticus 15. Thus you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness, lest they die in their uncleanness by defiling my tabernacle. It was God's presence among them. He was calling them to remember and care about their uncleanness. Does that cause you to think of the spirit tonight? Should The physical tent in the midst, in the center of the camp of the Israelites, was demonstrating the very presence of the person of God, and God has told you tonight. But there's no tens. But the Spirit dwells within you. If you're trusting in Christ tonight, the Holy Spirit is dwelling within you. You have become the temple of God. Did you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells within you? Or do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit If the Israelites were being reminded of their uncleanness because a tent was set up in the midst of their camp, how much more Should we be reminded of our uncleanness as the Holy Spirit dwells within us? Brothers and sisters, that's for us to meditate upon tonight. I think Moses is telling us so very clearly we must be reminded of our uncleanness as we stand before a holy God That brings us to our second point, examining uncleanness. If we were to have read all of chapter 13 We would have read passages such as this, verse 9, when a man is afflicted with a leprous disease, he shall be brought to the priest, and the priest shall Look. Verse 13. Then the priest shall look. And if the leprous disease has covered all his body, he shall pronounce him clean of the disease. Verse 15, and the priest shall examine the raw flesh and pronounce him unclean. Verse 38, when a man or a woman has spots on the skin of the body, white spots, the priest shall look. And if the spots of the skin are of a dull white, it is Lucadurma. He's clean. At least twenty times, probably more than twenty times, in chapter thirteen alone, there are words such as examine or look or the like. The priest The holy man of God, the intercessor, was called to examine the people for leprosy, in other words, for uncleanness. He was called upon to examine for signs of uncleanness. An examination was necessary And if leprosy was found, a declaration of uncleanness followed. Verse 27. If it is spreading in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean. It was to be a consistent, a careful examination, a looking, which included clothing and houses, not just the skin, but their environment. And if a person was found to have leprosy, what was he to do? The lepros person, verse 45 of chapter 13. shall wear torn clothes, and let the hair of his head hang loose, he shall cover his upper lip, and cry out, Unclean! Unclean! Note the confession that follows the examination and the pronouncement of uncleanness. And this one who has now cried out unclean, unclean, shall remain in his uncleanness as long as he has the disease. He shall live alone. Verse forty six. Are you getting the impression That God wanted the people, his people, to examine, be examined, and to know and to recognize and to confess their uncleanness. Separation followed from uncleanness. One could not dwell in the camp any longer. We have to ask the reason for that Both of them obviously relate to the uncleanness. First, he was contagious. And so there was the protection of the community, the protection of the people of God. Sin is contagious. And so that seems to be at least one reason. That the people of God were to be isolated, so to speak, from one who was clearly unclean. But secondly, because the tabernacle was in the midst of the camp, and I think this is the focal point. Because God was dwelling with his people in the midst of the camp because this one would die if he remained in the camp in his uncleanness. He needed to be moved out. Until he became clean. See the picture of repentance here? The picture of casting off of sin You can't come back into the presence of God and lessen until you do so. You can't live before God in your sin. He must be cleansed. This one could return And dwell with God once he was cleansed, once the disease was eradicated Where do you see this work of examination today? We no longer have a separate priesthood. Indeed, if you're believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, you have become a holy priesthood, a chosen race, a holy nation, a kingdom of priests. You might say, well, I know that we're supposed to do it before the Lord's Supper. Yes, of course. For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. Let a person examine himself. Then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup. As Paul was writing that letter, people were not doing so. And what was happening? This is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. Yes, of course, before the Lord's Supper, but more generally, Christians are called to constant examination before a living God. Leviticus may not be known to us as the most practical book in Scripture. I would say we probably need to change our minds about that. Because this passage is so relevant to our lives today. You are called to examine yourself, and that is exactly what we see in chapter 13, this constant examination. We see it in Lamentations. After God had exiled his people and destroyed Jerusalem. Jeremiah writes, let us test and examine our ways and return to the Lord. They had defiled his temple. They had neglected his worship. That's why they were ex exiled. That's why Jerusalem stood in ruins. Indeed, we use the verses tonight or actually this morning in our assurance of pardon and grace that Told us we need to confess. We need to examine ourselves. John chapter one of his first epistle. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. In order for there to be confession, there has to be first examination. Isn't that the case? And then most expressly in Second Corinthians chapter thirteen Paul writes to that church, examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourself. Brothers and sisters, that's our call. That's the call tonight, not Not only in Leviticus, but throughout Scripture. Examine yourself. This must be done with the help of the Holy Spirit. Indeed, Jesus Christ said that he must go away, that the helper would come. That he would send a helper, and when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. That's part of the work of the Spirit to convict you of sin. That's exactly what the divines picked up on as they wrote the Westminster Confession of Faith. They wrote about sanctification. They who are once effectually called and regenerated, having a new heart and a new spirit created in them, are further sanctified really and personally Through the virtue of Christ's death and resurrection by his word and spirit dwelling in them They are more and more quickened and strengthened in all saving graces to the practice of true holiness, without which no man will see the Lord Examination is done by and through the work of the Spirit in our hearts. We've got to open up our hearts to the work of the Spirit. We've got to submit our hearts to the work of the Spirit. We've got to pray, Lord, give me a submissive heart that I will listen intently to the Spirit as He's convicting me. As he's examining me, that I may confess my sins before you That brings us to our third point, eradicating uncleanness Obviously these four chapters are not only about identifying uncleanness. They're much about eradicating uncleanness. Again, that was what the Lord told. Moses, thus you shall keep the people of Israel separate from their uncleanness. And so it's much about separating the people from their uncleanness, eradicating their uncleanness. Not merely knowing that it exists, not merely being examined to identify it, but then eradicating it. And there's a chosen way by God for the cleansing of his people that they may continue to dwell in the midst of his tabernacle. We've read all those, all the sacrificial offerings, and now we're seeing them put to use. The woman. Who has given birth. After the days of her purifier purifying are completed, she is to bring a lamb a year old for a burnt offering and a pigeon or a turtle dove for a sin offering. And he, meaning the priest, shall offer it before the Lord to make atonement for her, then she shall be clean from the flow of her blood blood. Leprosy. This was more difficult. There are twenty verses in chapter fourteen that tell the priest what he is to do to separate one from his uncleanness of leprosy. Twenty verses. I won't read them all. But you can see all of the detail of what was required to examine and then to cleanse one of uncleanness. Verse nine of chapter fourteen. And on the seventh day he shall shave off all his hair from his head, beard, his eyebrows, he shall shave off all his hair, then he shall wash his clothes, bathe his body in water, and he shall be Clean after seven days. Then on the eighth day, he shall take two male lambs without blemish, one you lamb a year old without blemish A grain offering of three tenths of an epaph of fine flour mixed with oil, one log of oil, and the priest who cleanses him shall set the man who is to be cleansed And these things before the Lord, at the entrance of the tent of meeting, the priest shall take one of the male lambs and offered for a guilt offering, along with a lar log of oil, and weigh them for a wave offering before the Lord in order to cleanse. this man. And the discharge was of the same nature. And the priest shall use them, meaning two turtle dogs or two pigeons One for a sin offering, the other for a burnt offering, the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord for his discharge. Priests had a lot of work to do. A lot of cleansing. There were 600,000 men who left Egypt. We can believe and think that there were at least 600,000 more, 1. 2 million at least. All of them needing examination and cleansing We can't leave here tonight without acknowledging our need to be cleansed. Is that acknowledging the holiness of God? That we are wretched sinners before Him We're called to be holy. And the only way that we can is by and through the Lord Jesus Christ. You see the Israelites were involved in their cleansing. They brought that which needed to be sacrificed. They might have washed their clothes and washed themselves. They were involved, but they couldn't do anything without the priest Without the mediator, without the intercessory work of the priest, there would have been no cleansing. It happens time and again that he shall offer it before the Lord to make atonement for her. Constantly. There had to be a priest. He had to do this work. And so now do you see how this all points to Jesus Christ How he had to do the work, the work of cleansing, the work which you can't do. Isn't that what Leviticus is telling us time and again? You can't cleanse yourself. It just comes out. It's within you You can't purify yourself. The blood from the birth, the leprosy which is erupting on the skin, the discharge, all of it. How are you gonna stop it? It's your nature. It comes from your first father Adam. And you need Christ. He's the one who executes the office of a priest. We haven't gotten there yet in our morning studies. But he is the one who offers up himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and he reconciles us to God and he makes continual intercession for us, meaning those who are in Christ tonight. You see, that's the only way you can be clean. We look to the cross. Yes, continue looking to the cross. Continue considering the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, which cleanses you, but without his intercession. Without his continuous mediation for you tonight, you're lost in your sin. He has got to mediate for you. He has got to plead his blood for you on your behalf tonight. And he is. He is the only mediator between God and man. He is the eternal God, who's sitting on his throne tonight. And he knows each one of you by name. Each one of the children of God he is pleading for continuously. Washing you, cleansing you Purifying me before his father. What a joy to consider that he loves you so much that he not only went to the cross for you, but now he lives eternally. To plead his blood for you. Yes, indeed. Praise the Lord. Christians are called to examine themselves, to confess their sin, and be cleansed by the continuing mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Ezekiel. Ezekiel finished his parable by telling the Israelites that they were lost in their sins yet. That they needed the cleansing blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, just as we do. And the joy of knowing that He mediates for you tonight, pleading His blood. For your everlasting life. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, thank you for this practical book of Leviticus. Thank you for your spirits applying it to our hearts tonight, and we pray, Lord God, that we would be those who would meditate upon this. Meditate upon our uncleanness. Our constant uncleanness before you Welcome the examination of the Holy Spirit, submitting to him constantly as he uncovers our sin. Causing us and bringing us to confession. And then, Lord God, as we know that our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, our high priest continues to mediate for us tonight. We are a blessed people. Help us, Lord God, to shine forth the radiance of Christ. Our only mediator, our only intercessor, before all