A reading from scripture this morning is from the book of Acts. I haven't been here for a number of weeks, but In large measure, pick up where I was when I was last with you. And we are in the book of Acts, chapter 6. Verses 1 through 7. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching For a proof or correction that the man of God may be complete or adequate, equipped for every good work. That being so, let us not simply hear or read. But prayerfully ask the Lord to truly feed us and teach us and guide us from hearing his word. Acts chapter one 6 verse 1. Now at this time, while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews Against the native Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. So the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples and said, It is not desirable for us to neglect the word of God in order to serve tables. Therefore, brethren, select from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the Spirit and of wisdom. whom we may put in charge of this task. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the word. The statement found approval with the whole congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith in the Holy Spirit, and Philip, Procurus, Niconor, Timon, Parmonos, and Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch. And these they brought before the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them The word of God kept on spreading, and the number of the disciples continued to increase greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. Pray. Heavenly Father, we read with joy and delight and gratitude. That you give us direction and guidance in your word. You did not leave it simply up to Moses to determine how it was that he should act and live. You gave him your commandments. You do not leave it simply up to him to determine how he should care for your people. You even work through his father-in-law and giving him guidance and counsel. And here, you led your servants, the apostles, to set up servants in the church that we've come to know as deacons. Oh Father, we thank you and praise you for this, for we left our own devices, being yet sinners, could come up with so much error. Father, we thank you that you guide us, you teach us. And while you do not direct all of our every single action we have, we have the principles that would lead us to make wise and godly choices in all of our O Father, we pray that you would cause us to hear this your word and be rejoice rejoice and be encouraged by it, but also be uh understanding that you you give us the principle here. of your teaching and leading and guiding and feeding us in all circumstances. This is true, Father, and we thank you. We praise you in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, thank you for giving us a fourth hymn, Trust and Obey, and playing it there. I kept on thinking of the words as she as she was playing there. Um obviously I I I have the habit when I pick two different scriptures, and I don't think it's certainly not unique with me, I picked the earlier one from an opposite testament. If I were preaching Old Testament, I would preach it I would pick something from the New Testament. for the other reading, just simply to have um sort of a a counterpoint. But I think something is related. And actually in technically speaking, I think a better relationship would be the setting up of the elders um to be in comparison to what What we had with Moses. But nonetheless, it is the setting up of God's church. And it is God blessing us, got you know, by his guidance in this way. Because one thing one of the truisms of the Christian walk and of the Christian life is to understand that you're still sinful and don't assume that you're infallible. I can make mistakes If I'm honest with myself, I can look this morning and see maybe some mistakes. I can certainly find them from yesterday. And I don't simply mean sins. So I I need to I need to be be taught, I need to be fed, I need to be led. And so the Lord here is giving us this setup, this this this guidance and this example of what happens here in Adam. And we've all heard I if you're a member of a church long enough, I I wonder what percentages it is of people who go to godly churches. I mean I was saved back in nineteen eighty six when I was twenty-nine Years old. To save you the math, that means I turn 63 next month. But and since 1987, I've been attending godly churches. Well, in 1990, the godly church I attended endured a huge church split. There was some pride and ego amongst some of the ministers, unfortunately. It was a godly church. The gospel was preached, but there was sin And if you're in churches long enough, here and there you'll bump into sin, which breaks up a church somehow. And there was a I ran across an anecdote of a certain Dallas church that decided to split and each each faction filed a lawsuit to claim the church property. Well, if you know scripture well enough, you know there's a problem right there. You don't have lawsuits against believers. Believers do not have lawsuits against believers. You have to call the guy an unbeliever to do it. But they did. And a judge finally refers the matter to the higher authorities in the particular denomination, which is actually a good idea. Why don't you guys take care of this? A church court assembled to hear both sides of the case, and they awarded the church property to one of the two factions. The losers withdrew, and of course, formed another church. Which can be good over time, but uh and during the hearing the church courts learn that the conflict had all begun at a church dinner When a certain elder received a smaller slice of ham than a child seated next to him. Have to be kidding. But no, no. Well actually if you if you live long enough you think I can imagine some people I know who would have ac reacted that way and which is horrible. Which is horrible. Just imagine how the people of Dallas laughed about that sort of situation. Oh, isn't that a wonderful witness for our Lord? This brought great discredit not only to the church, but to Jesus Christ. Make him an object of derision. Make him an object of mockery. If those are if his people are like that, why who would want to be one of them? Who'd want to join him Well, the tiniest events sometimes cause great problems. And again and again, a church has warded off a frontal attack only to be subverted from within. It's our own people who mess us up, kind of a thing. And so Acts 6 shows us, shows us Satan trying to just disrupt. The inward peace of the church. I mean, look at what where this came from. Why did they set up these people to help serve tables and things, to do works of service in the church? Why'd they do it? Well, what and we see wonderful things were happening as this church is growing by leaps and bounds. Verse 1. The disciples were increasing in number. When it says disciples, it's not talk we have the twelve apostles. And sometimes when we keep referring to them as disciples, but if they're talking about the twelve, that's the apostles. Anybody who's a believer is a disciple. Just like anybody who's a believer is a saint. Saint is simply a word from the Greek that refers to believers. Everybody's disciples. So verse 1: the disciples are increasing in number. It's growing church. In fact, you can see verse seven, and I don't think that's simply as a result of them doing this godly action, we have the word of God increasing. So it's a wonderful thing. And three thousand people have accepted Christ at Pentecost That's huge. 2,000 are added soon after. I mean imagine what that was like. Rejoicing. I mean, you know, you're rejoicing all day except when you went to sleep. I mean it was just a wonderful thing And Acts 5 tells us that many more were added to the church. So Satan was not happy about that. this. He wants to influence people for ill. He wants to try to pull people away from his enemy. And he shows a spirit of murmuring and gossip among God's people. Hoping to set believers against believer. And countless works for God have been hurt this way. I mean, one small tiny disagreement about something that's not terribly important. Somebody gets it in their crawl and just it's too important to them. No, no, calm down. But no, they get upset. Somebody thinks that they're not being appreciated, they're being neglected. And maybe, maybe you looked at me bad. I don't like the way you looked at me. That kind of thing. Somebody somebody forgot your name. As if that's their most important role in life, is to know, remember your name That kind of thing. And so y the you have dissension in the church, and things go up in flames. People leave. Acts six describes that kind of circum situation. So I mean they could have gotten to that point if they'd handled it wrong. And the unity of the early church became endangered. And it threatened the spiritual testimony of many thousands of believers. The Jews would be happy to basically make fun of this early church. So God is what God is doing in this lesson here, all of Scripture is profitable for teaching for us. All of it. And so what he's giving us here is a lesson in how he provides, a reminder of how he provides, as his counsel is sought. How he provides, and how we should act in his church. How we should act in this church. Let's look at that. First thing we see is there's a problem. Problem right here in River City. Thinking of the music man. But it's a problem in God's church. We might think everybody was so occupied with each day's new blessings that there's no room for murmuring. Oh, who can who can get bothered with anything? Because everything is so wonderful. Look at all these people coming to Christ. Not so. Verse 1. You know, at this time, the first phrase there is things being good. Then after is how they're increasing, a complaint arose on the part of Hellenistic Jews. Against the native Hebrews, because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. Well Jerusalem when Hellenistic is not a word that all of us think about or know what it means. All that meant was it was Greek. It was like Greek inspired. People who were uh influenced by the Greek culture. Hellenistic means Greek. And it doesn't mean all these people were from Greece. What it means was these were Greek-speaking. Because in Jerusalem at the time, the people who were the native Jews most likely spoke Aramaic That was the that was basically the the descendant of Hebrew. Almost no one spoke Hebrew at that time It was the language of the Bible, and modern-day Jews have revived it as a working language. But at the time of Christ, almost no one whatsoever was speaking in real Hebrew Priests knew it, but almost no one else did. But the language that sort of descended fr from it was Aramaic. That's what everybody spoke. That was the common language. Except for the the the hoirty-toidie ones who spoke who spoke Greek. Because Alexander the Great 300 years before had gone rampaging through the whole area and influenced everybody with the Greek language. So there were Greek-speaking Jews. Now these were Jews. I mean it could have been that they they had moved someplace or whatever and then come back to the area. These are Greek speaking Jews. Um they were descent they were of the twelve tribes of Israel. Well, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But um because they they may have it may have been from a group of people who'd lived abroad, in Greece, or someplace else, um, and they returned to Jerusalem because it was their holy city. They wanted to come back to Jerusalem. They were Jews. It's just they didn't happen to know Aramaic. And many of them returned had returned so they could spend their final days in Jerusalem, like mo like many modern-day Jews. It's like, where do you go when you retire if you're Jewish? For many of them, if they were devout today, it would go, let's go back, let's go to Jerusalem, let's go to Israel. And as a result, there's a whole bunch of Greek-speaking women who would outlive their husbands. I don't think the the the life expectancies then were probably similar to now. On the average, the women lived longer Saw something funny on Facebook some couple different times where it shows guys with ladders doing stuff that's incredibly stupid. And the caption says, I think this is why women live longer. Well, I mean it but the thing is life expectancy, women uh for all my life women have lived longer than men on the average. You'll find some old men, but still, on the average And the same thing was true then. And so here you have a bunch of extra women and resentful these native Aramaic speaking Jews discriminated against the Hellenistic Jews. not local. Like somebody in the north discriminating against people with a southern accent, or vice versa. It's that kind of thing. And the Pharisees held them in utter contempt. You got Greek-speaking ones And they consider them second-class Israelites. That's what people are used to. You have discrimination happening here. And then comes Pentecost, and thousands of Aramaic-speaking Jews plus hundreds of Hellenistic Jews. Become one in Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither male nor female. Before Christ, as regards our salvation, we are all even and equal. When it comes to our salvation, we are all equal. But conversion did not erase all their prejudices. As you hear me speak again and again about how we're still sinners. The no the Lord you know, I I see mine daily. As David said, is it ever it is ever before me. And so it does not it did not erase their prejudices. They were still prejudiced many of them. I mean some probably broke that off, but having said that, a bunch of them probably still thought, well, I'm not going to sit next to one of them. And the Greek-speaking widows soon felt like they were being shorted, because they were. This isn't this isn't just somebody's perception. They were being they were being dissed. And I don't even know if that's a common term anymore. I'm behind the times with expressions. But I mean they were being they were being not taken care of And so when the other w widows receive two loaves of bread, they only get one, that kind of thing. And at least that's the way they saw it, and they complained about it. And they say, our Hebrew-speaking brothers are favoring their own people. And the offense may have been more imagined than actual, but I you know I think it truly must be must some of it must have occurred or wouldn't be reported the way it is. It made no difference to those who felt they were being overlooked. So word reaches the apostles, they see the situation serious, and they call a congregational meeting. And they saw a court the corporate witness of the church was at stake. And of course the apostles, many of whom well, all of whom had walked with Jesus for a for a long stretch of time. You couldn't be an apostle if you were if you would not uh walk with Christ for a long period of time. They remember that Jesus has said, John 13, a new commandment I give you that you love one another, even as I have loved you. Jesus said that by all men by this all men will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. So we are to have love for all of each other. And concerning this specific situation, Acts chapter 6, verse 2 says, They summoned the congregation of the disciples and said, It's not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to serve tables. They tell us that something more than just simply corporate witness, I mean how it appears to others, is at stake. The thing is, some might have suggested that the wage that dispel hard feelings between the foreign Jews and the hometown crowd of Jews, the Hellenistic and the Aramaic speaking Jews Would be for Peter, John, Philip, and the other dis apostles to divvy up the widow's goods. You guys take charge and do this. And the council might have appeared sensible at first. It actually brought the apostolic principles of discipleship. I can teach you what I do so you can do it too, then you can teach it to others. Others, that kind of thing. Uh and delegation under well-meaning but deadly attack. Almost like like these top guys have to be doing it. Which of course is why I read what I read about Jethro and Moses. I mean, yes, God called Moses to do a lot of things. But God was speaking through Jethro to Moses. Have the Spirit lead you to call some other men to help you? Just like when your church here, at different times in years past, there's a time when the Lord leads someone to be you know lifted up for nomination as a deacon or an elder. The Lord has those seasons where that person comes forward. So here had it had it had it just simply be, well the apostles have to do it. You know, we can't all do it. It's all up to them. They would have weakened the early leadership of the church. And waiting on tables could have left the apostles little time for anything else. There's a lot of work like that to be done. And is that something you necessarily hand to the pastor and all the elders, like only they can do it? And so they might have dried up spiritually under the pressure of serving meals plus counseling plus preaching, and they would have had little time for preparation or for prayer. I mean, are you spreading out the task to various people? And if the apostles had personally agreed to run the food program, others might have hesitated to perform any ministry without asking. I can't do anything Because everything has to be done by the apostles. And you know, we can see that kind of thing today sometimes with with with members in the church afraid to tie their shoes without getting permission from the pastor. I mean not that bad, but I mean that kind of it's like how bad is it? Delegation is at the heart of developing followers, better put disciples And so, you know, it could have been a temptation for the apostles. No one wants to think of them as being below that work. That wasn't why they were saying no. I mean you can you can think Jesus say in Matthew 23 the greatest among you shall be your servant so it's like almost like well we necessarily better do that You know, so you might have thought, aren't we willing to wait on tables? Are we better than Jesus? We should do this. And I think it's one blessing of the fact that God gave us the example with Moses, with Jeffrey. It's like, no, it's not all up to you. God calls other people. There should be deacons serving in the church who have particular tasks and things that they do and role that is different from what the elders. They should be no less godly. But they have different tasks that they've been called to. And so there's also a temptation to think things won't happen the way they should if I don't do them myself. If you want something done right, you do it yourself. Kind of thing. There's a danger in the church because the Lord intends for the gifts of the Spirit to be a portion throughout the entire body And many people have roles and tasks and things that they can do. So that's the problem that in this church. That's the problem we're looking at in that church. It's a problem that if you've been a believer for more than a year or two, you've probably seen in different churches you've been members of Because we're sinners, and so you will you will see this. What's the next thing we see? Servants for God's church. God sets apart servants for his church. And beyond saying no to this suggestion, the apostles refused to assign blame and made the people part of the solution. Okay, guys. I mean, the ministry was increased through spiritual delegation and discipleship, and other people grew spiritually. You know, how is God calling upon us to serve? What do they say? Select from among you. Select from among you. It's like nominations in the church for someone to serve Seven men of good reputation. I don't think we're always locked into seven. Full of the spirit and of wisdom that we may put in charge of the task. And they allowed the congregation to choose men of impeccable character. As it says, full of the Spirit, full of wisdom. So it's not just, okay, here we got the guys to do the grunt work. That's not what deacons, which I think is what we're being re being referred to here. That's not simply what they're being called to do. These are people full of the Spirit, full of wisdom, which in that kind of way puts them very similar to elders Different tasks, but nonetheless. As an early 20th century commentator, a man named G. Campbell Morgan once said about this, he said, a man full of the Spirit is one who is living a normal Christian life. That's that's a challenge to each of us. To say full of the Spirit is not talking to some sec some some upper class Christian. It's actually supposed to be talking about any of us. But a full of the spirit. Fullness of the spirit is not a state of spiritual aristocracy to which few can attain. Anything less than the fullness of spirit for the Christian man is disease of the spiritual life The low ebb of vitality. Fullness of the Spirit is not abnormal, but normal Christian life. But I mean here you have godly men And these men, I think the first deacons, lived in dependence upon God's Spirit and not their own strengths. They were not people who would who would not ask. As as we read later in the New Testament, you do not have because you do not ask. Well, they would ask. And they knew how to take the truth and apply it in a practical situation. And they addressed the plight of the overlooked widows with Sanctified common sense. How can we help these people? And no doubt they, along with some of the apostles, no doubt, helped counsel people. Stop. Being rude to your brethren and your sisters. Stop being rude to them. They are fellow believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Fellow redeemed brothers and sisters And here we have not only the widows are given good care, but two of the greatest saints come to full maturity. Stephen soon afterward preaches his sermon before the Sanhedrin, becomes the first Christian martyr. As I may have mentioned before, the word martyr is simply the Greek word for witness. It doesn't mean person killed, but Usually the person witnessed their faith in Jesus Christ and then got killed. And it happened often enough that they wind up calling the person who got killed for his faith a martyr. That's all it is to create word for witness. But Philip and Philip had a ministry as God transferred him from place to place. Remember how he sort of shows up with the Ethiopian eunuch and then disappears? Spirit was really having having a fun time back then with the Lord's people. That doesn't happen on a regular basis. But so he's using these servants. So here we have the apostles had served their master wisely and skillfully. And their discipleship and delegation raised up an army of Stevens and Phillips, other people who could serve. And the ministry of the apostles and of the church was multiplied marvelously For the building up of God's kingdom. And this also came about because the apostles were able to maintain needed spiritual discipline. For themselves, as you would see with elders in a church. What are they doing? Verse 4. Because it says, verse 3, brothers, select from you seven men of good reputation full of the spirit of wisdom, whom we may put in charge of the test. In other words, you have this issue, somebody needs to be helping these people with it. You know, we want you to select some people from the from the body here. and to do this work. But then what are we going to do? Verse 4. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and the ministry of the word. They will be the one teaching from the the word. Amongst them you would have somebody who would be the pastor, the particular minister, but others you would have serving as elders. And they would be the ones especially devoting time and prayer. Now I I'm pretty sure the deacons would be praying a lot too. But nonetheless, this is the particular different role and task. As you see in 1 Timothy, 1 Timothy 3 has reference to the In a sense, the job qualifications, or actually the personal character qualifications, for elders. But it also gives a whole separate thing of the character qualifications for deacons. Now they're really pretty much the same in terms of being a godly man, but there you see the reference to these two particular roles. Likewise here. You have the elders who were at that time exemplified by the apostles. you have these deacons being set apart for this other work. And so we will devote ourselves to prayer. And pray they did. In this respect, they're like Jesus who, Hebrews 5, verse 7 says, during the days of his flesh offered up both prayers and supplications with loud crying and tears. That's Jesus. Do we pray like that? If I'm by myself and I know I'm by myself and nobody can hear me, I can pray like that at times I typically tear up when I'm praying. But I mean w we need to be in prayer. And this contrasts with Today's average pop pastor who, according to one survey I ran across, spends only three minutes a day in prayer. That's horrible And this could be because the person thinks they have to be present at every meeting and have your hand on every ministry, which gives an overcrowded schedule that leaves no time for personal fellowship. That's not what you want in your minister. That's not what you want. That's not what you want in your elders. And how much would it be better to emulate there was a 19th century Scottish minister named Andrew Bonard, an older brother named Horatius But Andrew Bonard wrote put some entries like this in his diary. He says, I see that unless I keep short prayer every day throughout the whole day at intervals, I lose the spirit of prayer. You say, today setting myself to pray. The Lord seems to send a dew upon my soul. Or was enabled to spend part of Thursday in my church praying. I've had great help in study since then. Or pass six hours today in prayer and scripture reading. That's a big day. Confessing sin is seeking blessing for myself and the church. That's a particular minister in a church. So the apostles' prayers were accompanied by the ministry of the word, and that's preparation. It's not just simply for their own building up and edification. It's like, oh, isn't it neat knowing this about the Lord? Knowing about his word. But they're getting ready to be able to teach people. Just like Moses, Jethro was telling Moses. You could appoint these people and they can help teach some of the laws. That's one thing they said. It wasn't simply the settling of disputes, but it was also teaching from the law. I mean, in fact, there you have the sort of the early setting up of the kind of work that the Levites themselves would do Teach God's people from the Word. Well the ministers, the elders here are making sure they have time for this. And some some wrote portions of scripture on the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. We see that in here in the New Testament letters. You have these people writing this. They all poured over the New Old Testament. Because of course back then, that's all they had. What does God want us to do now that He's brought the Messiah He promised the Messiah, he brought the Messiah, He was punished for His people's sins, He now reigns over us from heaven. What would He have us do? They wanted to make sure that they knew from God's word. So they prayerfully poured over it and they worked hard at understanding and communicating the spiritual truth of God's Word. That's what elders should do. That's what any minister should do. And so by divinely directed delegation, the apostles not only freed others to grow in their service to God. But they freed themselves for prayer, for preparation, and for powerful preaching. Thus the spiritual ministry of the church was enhanced. God worked through this circumstance. He worked through this circumstance of dissension. He worked through this circumstance of people being rude to each other. Of people being left out. He worked through the circumstance for blessing. I mean, months later, people could look back on this and say I mean all in all it's a good thing that it wound up happening because it wound up pushing us to have the Lord lead us to do this new thing Now verses 5 and 6 show how this plays out. The statement found approval to the whole congregation. The Lord, by his spirit, led them to realize, yes, this is what he would have us do. They chose Stephen and they chose a bunch of other people too. And then verse 6, these they brought before the apostles, and after praying they laid their hands on them. These men were ordained. were set apart for that office. And everybody, the Greek-speaking Jews and the Aramaic-speaking Jews, came together and they chose these people. What a wonderful event That is. They did that. Considering all that they had chosen, it's interesting, all that they had chosen are actually given to us here in Scripture with Greek names. These are all Greek, Greek name terms They chose them. So even though Hebrew Jews comprise the majority of the congregation, they chose Hellenistic Jews to administer the program. I mean the Holy Spirit was actually obviously a work. The result? Growth in the church. This is the last thing we see here: growth in the church. Verse 7. The word of God kept on spreading, and the number of the disciples continued to increase greatly in Jerusalem. A great many of the priests were becoming obedient to the faith. I love that last passage. These are people like who were members of the Sanhedrin People who worked for the temple. People who knew their scripture inside and out. And no doubt some of them began to realize They knew all the things that had to happen for the Messiah. To know who the Messiah was, you had to happen to them. And they began to realize this all fits for Jesus. This is who it is. And when they began to look into it with diligence and with you know energy in looking into it, they realized And the Lord changed their heart. Became obedient to the faith. God's word spread. More disciples, priests believe. So when Satan does not succeed in stopping the church with a frontal assault, he attacks from within. He gets people to be fussy with each other. And this usually happens subtly. Somebody doesn't get an invitation to something. A job is not noticed. Somebody doesn't praise you for it. You overhear a critical comment, think somebody's being rude or or mean or petty. Do you all see ever something that does not matter, like the size of a ham slice for that church in Dallas When the murmuring begins, the devil smiles. The devil smiles. When believers are unhappy And begin to murmur, the first place to look for the problem is in our own hearts. In our own hearts. Lord, what am I missing? What are we doing wrong? Assume we're doing something wrong. I mean when it was like, you know, and enable enable us who who are not the greatest sinners at this moment to have your grace in confronting and speaking to those who are in error and try to pull them back. It's like church discipline. People always think, oh, you kick somebody out of the church. The goal of church discipline is to Restore the person who's an heir to joyful, godly fellowship in the church. You want them to be to be to be you know a close brother following the Lord faithfully. So you you turn to that person. So we have to look for the problem in people's own hearts. Christians who are unhappy their last church can be unhappy in the church they're in now. Have they changed? Are you more are you a more kind loving person? Um what we have to stop murmuring We have to stop gossiping and we have to be part of the solution, not the problem. It's a cliche, but it's true. It refers to something that's really true. See if if widows are being neglected in our place, in our church. And it doesn't have to be actual widows. Here it can just be are are there people who are being neglected. We have to be willing to wait on tables. Anyhow If a Sunday school needs help, well, what can I do to help? How can I come alongside to assist? Sometimes it's just simply showing up. When you only have five people in Sunday school, I mean compare that to how it might be if you had ten or twelve, and some people actually occasionally ask questions. You didn't just sit there and just simply passively receive the whole thing, but you actually responded to what you heard and then engaged. And the body is fed and grows. You know, if we see if we see a need for a Bible study or small group, maybe we could host one. Come over to my home. Yes, it's a hassle, but well, so what If we see the need for evangelism, we need to be able to share the gospel of Christ, ready to give a defense of the hope That is within us. If we have that hope within us, if we know that God has changed our hearts, if we know that He's we He's taken us who are sinners, deserving of God's wrath and anger. I mean I'm a sinner deserving- I deserve hell. I deserve to go to hell. Because of my sin. Yet God chose to reach down and change my heart in the reading of His Word. Change my my heart from wicked sin sinner. disobedient stone as he calls it to obedient flesh. And he changed my heart so that I now know that this is his word. I now know he's speaking to me here And I now want to follow him. And I now want to do what he wants me to tell tells me he wants me to do. And as it as I encounter the the desire and effort to try to obey, I ask for help Not every single time, unfortunately. But I do ask for help. Lord, help me obey. Help me follow. Because I know it's clear as a bell, this is what you want me to do. If I'm his, that's what I do. If I'm his, that's what I want. See, if if if you're a believer and you find yourself not wanting to read If you call you think you're a believer, you find yourself not wanting to read God's Word ever, except when you hear it on Sunday morning. If you never turn to the Lord in prayer, yet you think you're a believer. If you're not trying to become more godly in some fashion, go back to the word and go back to prayer and ask If you truly know the Lord in the first place. Talk to a brother you know does. Because you maybe you don't know him at all. Because believers do want to follow the Lord. It's not like I'm a Christian because I show up at church. No. Do we want to follow the Lord? I mean, are we grieved by our sin of disobedience? Are we agrieved by our sins of waywardness? We at least will feel that if we're disobedient. But if we're not if we're not attack if the Lord is not sending upon us you know the conviction of sin for our sin, and we do, we have to wonder do we really know him at all? Oh, have we trusted in Jesus as our Savior truly? Are we trusting in what He did upon the cross and being punished for our sins? Truly or not. Because if we want if we're his and we want to follow him and we think we're, you know, we want to we want to know him. We want to believe him. We want to obey him. We know he is the Son of God. If all these things are true, then we will want these things. We will hunger for righteousness. We will hunger for righteousness We will hunger for holiness. We will hunger for godliness. We'll fall on our face before him in prayer, seeking him. See, we should be willing to do this We of all people who know his mercy. See if you do know his mercy. If you do know your sins, you have been forgiven If you do know that he's enabling you to obey, you do know that you're able to somewhat more and more over the years and decades here and there, bits and pieces, being more conformed to the image of Christ. Then you're among those who should be seeking what can I do to help? How can I help in the body, as we see in the example here? So we must not complain, but be willing to help and serve. To lead, depending on our circumstance, to delegate, and above all, to serve. We need to serve in God's church. That's what he calls us to do. Jesus calls us, says, even the leaders, you must be must be the must must be the lowest among you. We must see God's provision, not only in meeting the needs, but in His creating these needs. As it says in his word, God prepared beforehand such works that we might walk in. He gives us the opportunity. He wants us to see it. then meet it. And he's using that to build us up and glorify himself. So you thank and praise him for his provision in the church in a general sense as we see these things here. Here. But then thank and give him praise for his provision in your life, because look in your own life and how he is how he is doing the kind of thing that we see here in Acts six In your own life. If you're his, in your own life, where he's creating creating a sinful circumstance, and he's teaching you and showing you a better way and a different way to follow him out of that circumstance. And then thank him for it. And then ask him how he wants to use you in the work of his kingdom. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your forgiveness towards sinners such as we are. The longer we are saved, the more we realize how undeserving is your forgiveness. It's your Mercy. And yet if we are yours, we know we are forgiven, we know that we are yours, and the wonder does not decrease. But Father, we ask that you would use us in your service, that you would convict us of sins daily. And push us to seek to follow you or f follow you more closely, to look upon ourselves to ride herd upon our sin, to mortify it, to put it to death. death and to seek to follow you and glorify you daily. Well Father, cause that to be our desire. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.