If you open your copy of God's Word now to the Old Testament, to Joshua. We'll continue our study there this evening in really chapters 23 and 24. But I will be reading, beginning at chapter 24 at verse 1 through verse 28. I believe that's on page 234 of your Pew Bibles. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Joshua chapter twenty-four Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem and summoned the elders, the heads, the judges, and the officers of Israel. They presented themselves before God, and Joshua said to all the people, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, long ago your fathers lived beyond the Euphrates. Terah, the father of Abraham, and Nahor, and they served other gods. Then I took your father Abraham from beyond the river and led him through all the land of Canaan. And made his offspring many. I gave him Isaac. And to Isaac I gave Jacob and Esau. And I gave Esau the hill country of Seir to possess, but Jacob And his children went down to Egypt. And I sent Moses and Aaron and plagued Egypt with what I did in the midst of it. And afterward I brought you out. Then I brought your fathers out of Egypt, and you came to the sea. And the Egyptians pursued your fathers with chariots and horsemen to the Red Sea, and when they cried to the Lord, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians. And made the sea come upon them and cover them. And your eyes saw what it did to Egypt. And you live in the wilderness a long time. Then I brought you to the land of the Amorites, who lived on the other side of the Jordan. They fought with you, and I gave them into your hand, and you took possession of their land, and I destroyed them before you. And Balak, the son of Zippor, the king of Moab, arose and fought against Israel, and he sent and invited Balaam, the son of Beor, to curse you, but I would not listen to Balaam. Indeed, he blessed you, so I delivered you out of his hand And you went over the Jordan and came to Jericho, and the leaders of Jericho fought against you, and also the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Gurdishites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites. And I gave them into your hand, and I sent the hornet before you, which drove them out before you, the two kings of the Amorites. It was not by your sword or by your bow. I gave you a land on which you had not labored and cities that you had not built, and you dwell in them. You eat the fruit of the vineyards and the olive orchards that you did not plant. Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in faithfulness. Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the river and in Egypt, and serve the Lord. And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the Lord, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the river or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. Then the people answered, Far be it from us that we should forsake the Lord and serve to serve other gods. For it is the Lord our God who brought us and and our fathers up from the land of Egypt out of the house of slavery, and who did those great signs in our sight, preserved and preserved us in all the way that we went. and among all the peoples throughout whom we passed. And the Lord drove out before us all the peoples, the Amorites, who lived in the land. Therefore we also will serve the Lord, for he is our God. But Joshua said to the people, You are not able to serve the Lord. For he is a holy God, he is a jealous God, he will not forgive your transgressions or your sins. If you forsake the Lord and serve other and serve foreign gods, then he will turn and do you harm and consume you after having done you good. And the people said to Joshua, No. But we will serve the Lord. And Joshua said to the people, You are witnesses against yourself that you have chosen to serve the Lord to serve him. And he said, we are witnesses. He said, then put away the foreign gods that are among you. And incline your heart to the Lord, the God of Israel, and the people said to Joshua the Lord our God, We will serve, and his voice we will obey. So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day and put in place statutes and rules for them at Shechem. Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God. And he took a large stone and set it up there under the terebinth that was by the sanctuary of the Lord. And Joshua said to all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness against us. For it has heard all the words of the Lord that he spoke to us, therefore it shall be a witness against you, lest you deal falsely with your God. So Joshua sent the people away, every man to his inheritance. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we come now to the conclusion of this book, we ask, Lord, that you'd continue to work in our hearts. That you'd give us understanding and that you'd penetrate our hearts deeply this evening. That you'd show us all that you'd want to have us to see tonight. And that by and through your word, as the Holy Spirit takes it up and plants it within us, Father, that you would accomplish all that you have sent your word for tonight. For we know that your word will never return to you void, accomplishing everything that you sent it for. And so have your way with us Even tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. This passage asks a very powerful question tonight. And that is who will you serve? Whom will you serve? As we read earlier John chapter fifteen about the true vine and the branches We've already read that the branch cannot bear fruit by itself. It has to be connected to the vine. There's a sense in which the vine is serving the branch, but there's also another sense in which the branch is serving the vine. The vine is Jesus. And if you're in Jesus, you are the branch. Jesus says very clearly, whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. Indeed, apart from him, apart from Jesus. You can do nothing. To whom will you serve? That actually brings us then to the end of this book we call Joshua. As we've been walking through it these many weeks, indeed months, we've seen so many things. Those 40 years of wilderness wandering are over. The people now has entered into the promised land. It's been given to them by their God and by our God. Many, many, many cities have been deceited, kings have fallen, kingdoms have been taken The Israelites are now living there. They're dwelling in the promised land. They've been given the land. It's been divided up. They have each their own inheritance. Indeed, Joshua speaks of it at the end of this passage. Indeed, he sends the people away, every man to his inheritance, that which the Lord had given to them. Wars have been fought and won. And they had taken, in a sense, heaven by storm Tonight, as we just consider portions of this last chapter of Joshua, Joshua chapter 24, I'd like us to sum it up this way. The Christians are called to serve the Lord with their whole heart as they take the kingdom. Christians are called to serve the Lord with their whole heart as As they take the kingdom. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, all are called to serve. Secondly, some will not serve. And then finally, we'll spend most of our time on this third point, that Christians will serve the Lord. As we're going through this last chapter of Joshua, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question once again. Whom will I serve? Whom will I serve? Well, first all are called to serve. There's a great question that's been presented to those who were listening to Joshua at this last speech, this last gathering that we have recorded for us this evening. He tells the people, as he's speaking about serving the Lord, verse 14, just look at it right now. Therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and faithfulness. Joshua has just gone through this summary of the work of the Lord, how he has blessed the Israelites, how he has blessed the people of God. And he ends it uh by saying after the fact that he had given them the land that they had not labored for, that they had not planted vineyards in, but they're they're reaping the benefit of having them of being placed there He says so very clearly, now therefore, fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and faithfulness. Put away the gods your fathers served. Serve the Lord. It's a call, it's a command. But then it's followed up in a sense with a question. If it's evil In your eyes as serve the Lord, then choose this day whom you will serve. It's a question that he places before the people of God. Whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the river or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell, who will you serve? Indeed, this whole book is about serving the Lord. It begins With the description of Moses, the servant of the Lord. That's the first verse in the first chapter of this book, Moses, the servant of the Lord. The Lord tells Joshua, the son of Nun, Moses, my servant, is dead. The book begins with a reference to Moses as the one who served the Lord. There's a call to serve. As the Lord speaks to Joshua, now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, you and all this people, into the land. I'm giving them to the people of Israel. So called to serve the Lord by going over, by seeking to possess the land. That was the service that they were called to throughout this entire book. Joshua was called to be strong and courageous. For you shall cause this people to inherit the land that I swore to their fathers to give them. That's the work. That's the task. That's the service. Entering into the promised land. See any connection to your service as you're seeking to enter into your promised land, which we call heaven or glory? There is a parallel. This call to service is connected to the Word of God. And again, the first chapter is setting the table for the entire book. This book of the law shall not depart from your mouth, but you shall meditate on it day and night. That was the key. That was their plan book. This is how you're going to enter into the promised land, into my dwelling place. By and through the Word of God. Do not turn from it for the right hand or the left, that you may have good success wherever you go. It was by the Word of God. The connection with service to the Word of God is unmistakable. And so that was the work. Prepare your provisions for within three days you are to pass over this Jordan. Go in and take possession of the land. Take possession. Jesus puts it this way, from the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence, and the violent take it by force. This whole book of Joshua, the entering of the promised land, the the dispossession of those who were in the land and the occupation of the land by the Israelites is is certainly a truth. It happened, it's history. It's all by the Lord's doing. And it's pointing to Christians, to the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, taking heaven, the kingdom of heaven, by force. Through your service. Be strong and courageous. Do not be frightened. Do not be dismayed, for the Lord your God is with you wherever you go. You see how that applied to Joshua? Do you see how it applies to you tonight? Be strong, courageous. Take the kingdom of heaven, because God is with you wherever you go. Called a service. We know that Jesus served. We know that he was sent as a servant, even as the Son of Man came, not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. Jesus was sent as a servant to serve the living God so that you would have access to the kingdom of heaven. Indeed, he accomplished the work. In his high priestly prayer, Jesus tells his father, I glorified you on earth having accomplished the work. I could say the service that you gave me to do. Providing that way for the children of God to take the kingdom of heaven. The work of Jesus, the service of Jesus. Yes, all are called to serve. That brings us to our second point. We're not going to spend long on it. But clearly here in chapter twenty-four, some will not serve. So the idea we get is as Joshua calls them to fear the Lord, serve him in sincerity and faithfulness, put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the river and in Egypt. It's quite amazing in that statement as he calls them to put away the gods your fathers served is the fact, the truth that we can take from this. That they were still serving idols. Even as they crossed the Jordan, as they God parted the waters as the Lord Jesus Christ, the commander of the Lord's army, was leading them across on dry ground. as he led them to the battle of Jericho, to the battle of Ai, and all those kingdoms and kings which we see listed here in the book of Joshua. Even as that was happening, it seems as though they were holding on to foreign gods, false gods, and idols. Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the river Some were still holding on to false gods. And as a result, they weren't serving. As a result, they weren't serving the living God. They were serving themselves. They were serving an idea that was false and untrue and dangerous to their very souls. Choose this day whom you will serve. It was clear to Joshua that not all the warriors, not all the men, not all the heads, not all the judges, not all the elders that were gathered at Shechem, not that all the officers of Israel had chosen yet to serve the Lord Now we know that you can't be on the fence. We know that if there is no middle ground. There are only two ways. One only chooses to serve the Lord Jesus Christ or to serve himself or herself, to serve the world, to serve the creation? But there's no middle ground. There's no I really haven't made my mind up yet As Jesus Christ returns in his second advent to judge the world, there will be a separation of sheep and goats, and there will not be a third category. All the sheep, those who trust, sincerely trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, will be placed on the right, will enter into glory with him for eternal life. Those on the left, the goats, had determined not to serve him, determined not to follow him, determined to rebel against him. And thus these will be headed to eternal damnation. There's not a third place. There's not an intermediate place where you can go to make up your mind No, only two. And some will choose not to serve the Lord. We think that's so incredible as we read this passage, as we read this book and see all that the Lord was doing amongst them. Even as Joshua refreshes their recollection as to what he had done, bringing out their fathers and bringing them out of the iron furnace of Egypt. And yet he knew that some would still not choose to serve the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Some will hold on to foreign and false gods. Well, brothers and sisters, we need to be in prayer. That we will be the light of Christ to woo those who are lost in darkness to the one who can save. The only one, the Lord Jesus Christ. Whom will you serve? That then brings us to our third point, that Christians will serve the Lord That's exactly what Joshua tells those who are listening to him today. But as for me and my house, we will serve the Lord. I want us to just think about tonight serving the Lord and what that means. What did Joshua mean? What do we mean when we say we serve the Lord? I'd like to break this down into three subheads, first serving actively, secondly serving productively, and finally serving encouragingly. Certainly we could spend the entire night considering ways in which we can serve the Lord. But let's focus on those three first then. Serving actively. Think of Joshua's active service. Indeed, this entire book is seemingly about this active serving of the Lord. First we read of Joshua serving beside Moses. It's being a kind of sidekick to Moses as Moses was leading the people certainly out of Egypt. Toward the promised land and Joshua's the one who finishes that work and leads the people into the promised land. But we know even before that Joshua was going with that group that spied out the land in numbers the first the very first time they spied it out. And we know how he served the Lord as he brought back that good confession, that good report of the promised land and how he urged the people to enter, to come into the promised land. This was the command of God. He knew that the Lord had given it to them, but the people wouldn't listen. So Joshua and Caleb are the only ones who actually enter the promised land of that generation. Joshua was serving the Lord even then. I mean, no that Joshua was serving the Lord by and through the way he trusted. He trusted in God. He encouraged the people to enter the land. He trusted in God's word. He trusted in his faithfulness. He was active in it. And he took action based upon the word of God, hearing the words of God, taking those words, being the commander, the captain of the army of the Lord, meeting with him and actively submitting to him. Leading the way in battle time and time again, kingdom after kingdom, king after king, leading the men, calling them to place their boots on the necks of those whom they had vanquished. actively pursuing the work of the Lord, the commandments of the Lord, that they had called them to occupy this land, to drive out the occupants. Joshua was constant. He was consistent, consistently active and pursuing the will of God. Pointing to Jesus, wasn't he? He's a type of Jesus in that regard. Jesus was constant and consistent in his pursuit. He was active and pursuing the will of God. As we open up the four gospel accounts of Jesus' earthly ministry, we can see time and again that Jesus was active. In fact, I would challenge you to read the four gospels and show me where there is one moment of inactive or docile or complacent or lazy pursuit by Jesus Christ. There's none. Not one. He was never inactive, but always active and pursuing his father's will. Does that describe your service? That you're active? Can you say before the Lord God that I am actively pursuing your will throughout the entire day? You might be thinking, well, I work. I have an employer. I have tasks to do. I'm a student. I've got things to study. I'm a housewife. I've got much to do in the house. But brothers and sisters, many times we divide our day, don't we? Many times we bifurcate our day and say, well, this this is my time. This is my work, this is my labor, and then this is the time I spend serving the Lord. They're different, they're set apart, they're separated. But that was not the case for the Lord Jesus Christ. There was no separation. All of his life was service to his father. All of his day. All of his night. There wasn't a moment. In the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, when he was not serving his Father, all of his time belonged to his Father. And if you have been purchased by the Lord Jesus Christ, if the Lord Jesus Christ went to the cross of Calvary for you, He's redeemed you. He's bought you back. You are now his possession. And so all of your time belongs to him. There isn't a moment of the day, there isn't a moment of the night that don't belong to the Lord Jesus Christ if you're sincerely trusting in him. If you're dividing your time, I think the call tonight is to stop. And understand that every moment of every day, as you follow the Lord Jesus Christ, is his. Everything you do is service to the Lord Jesus Christ. Whether it's making dinner. Changing a diaper, serving your employer, studying for your math test. Everything that you do is serving the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, serving actively Our second subhead then is serving productively. Joshua produced fruit. He produced much fruit. Throughout this book, we we read of all the fruit that's been produced. The list of kings, the list of kingdoms, one, one after the other after the other. Each of these represented the land that they had been called to to take the promised land. And so, in a very tangible sense, this was the good fruit that the Lord had desired Joshua and the Israelites to produce, taking the land, occupying the promised land. And that's usually what we think of when we think of producing fruit for the Lord. Tangible physical results Maybe new people, new visitors coming to the worship service as a result of our evangelistic efforts. Maybe converts, people professing Jesus Christ who were formerly lost in darkness. Maybe uh attending the food pantry, handing out bags of food and and praying with people. All of these from a very typical Christian perspective would be good fruit that the Lord desires, and it is. But what about AI when the Israelites were defeated? What about good fruit there? Was there any? And we'd have to say there was much. First there was the realization that God was not pleased and that they needed to seek God to determine what went wrong. That's fruit. The seeking of the face of God is good fruit, which comes at times as a result of our sins, and achen and sinned against the Lord by taking the forbidden things, and as a result, the people of God Joshua petitions the Lord. They sought to commune with the Lord to find out what they could do at that moment in time to please him. But there's more. After the defeat of Ai, what did the Israelites do? They went back. At the command of God, they went back. They went back and fought. They continued to fight as commanded by their God, and that was good fruit. They were serving the Lord. Where did that come from? This call to be courageous. The Lord called for the people of God to be courageous. I don't think we need to speculate too far to know that this was a fearful work that the Lord was calling them to. Going in and dispossessing those who had occupied the land for years, who had built fortified cities, who were ready for battle. probably more numerous and better equipped to fight. Many times we think of the fruit of the Lord as being something external to us. Conversion serving at the food pantry Oh, again, these are good things, but the best fruit that pleases the living God is that which happens internally in your heart Isn't that what we see in this book? Only be strong and very courageous, being careful to do according to all the law that Moses, my servant, commanded you. That's what the Lord was looking for. That you do everything that Moses had commanded, not that you earn your salvation, but that you revere the Lord, that you fear him, that you don't turn from it from the right or the left That's the internal fruit. The desire of keeping the law of God. That's the best fruit that's happening within the hearts of the people of God as the Holy Spirit sanctifies. As you continue to turn away from sin, to turn back to God, to his loving righteousness and seeking his kingdom first, that's the fruit that he's looking for in your heart. Think of Jesus Christ in the Garden of Gethsemane. Think of that marvelous fruit that was displayed as he prayed three times, not my will, but yours be done. See, Jesus' heart was constantly producing good fruit. There was no occasion, no event, no circumstance in the life of Jesus Christ on this earth where he did not respond with good fruit. Call tonight is for you to bear fruit, isn't it? We read that in John's Gospel. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit That's the call. You're called to serve. And as you serve, you're called to produce fruit. Are you seeking to serve the Lord tonight by and through the production of internal fruit in your heart? And you know you can't do it without the Spirit. So are you pleading with the Holy Spirit to continue his work of sanctification within you? So that you'd be constantly reforming and renewing as you serve the Lord in this way. That might be contrary to our way of thinking To serve the Lord means to promote and seek the work of the Holy Spirit in your heart. We need to grasp that tonight. We need to understand that tonight. We need to long for that tonight. Please do not discount or think lightly of the work of the Spirit. As being that part of your service to the Lord Almighty. Brings us to our third sub-head, and that is serving encouragingly. Yes, serving actively, serving productively, and now serving encouragingly. Joshua encouraged. That's exactly what he was doing in these first thirteen verses of this last chapter. He was called to be strong and courageous, and he was being strong and courageous in his encouragement. To the men, wasn't he? As he summoned the elders, the heads, the judges, the officers, as they presented themselves before God Joshua encouraged them. He rehearses their history. He rehearses the way that God had worked among them. Showing that God was so powerful and he loved them so much that he'd give them, that he'd bring them into a land that they had not labored for, cities that they had not built, vineyards that they had not planted. And yet gave it all to them so that they might continue to serve him. Joshua encourages them by reviewing the work of God. Joshua encourages them by reviewing the words of God. Both. The Lord your God will push them back before you and drive them out of your sight. You shall possess their land, just as the Lord your God promised you. Therefore, be strong and keep and do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, turning aside from it neither to the right hand nor to the left. He's encouraging them. He's reminding them of the words of God and the care of the Lord. It's part of serving, isn't it? It's part of serving the Lord. It's my hope tonight that we can see through Joshua how we might be encouragers, how we might serve the Lord through encouraging, how we might serve the Lord by using his very words. Joshua did. He used the Lord's very words to the nation, to the Israelites, to the warriors. They heard the word of God from Joshua's mouth. They were assured of success. They were assured of victory. They were given the very promises of God. And you have the opportunity to do the same, don't you? As a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, as a believer, as one who trusts in the Word of God, you are able now to take the very Word of God, the promises of God, the covenant promises of God, and repeat them to anyone who's willing to listen. You can repeat, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. God sent his Son, his only eternally begotten Son to the cross of Calvary, to shed his blood, the innocent one for the guilty. It's a promise. But it's also the work of Jesus, isn't it? And that's also what Joshua did. He not only encouraged them by reminding them of the promise of God He encouraged by reminding the Israelites of the work of God, the powerful work that he'd already done in their midst. Do you know what an encouragement it is? To hear how the Lord Jesus Christ is working in your heart, in your life. As you tell others. What a blessing! What an encouragement. How that builds up the body of Christ. This is what Jesus did in my life this week. Isn't that amazing? That he would think about me, that he would care for me in such a way, that the providential hand of God would work this way in my life Causing me to press on, lifting me up, increasing my faith. Maybe the greatest encouragement that Joshua gave to these men was telling them that he and his household, his family, would serve the Lord. Think of that. It was a devotion, it was a commitment, it was a confession. Not only for himself, but for his entire family. That this is what he was going to do. He was going to lead his family as head of the household as one who served the Lord. Think of this, he's leading these warriors, these elders, these judges, these heads, these officers of Israel. But he's also leading his family. Fathers and husbands, did you hear that? The acknowledgement that Joshua was indeed head of his household, head of his home, and the subsequent confession that he would live in such a way that would lead them in their serving the living God. Everything about his life, he's saying, how he lived day to day, how he spoke to his children, how he treated his wife, would be an example, an exemplar of how they, his children and his children's children, were to worship and serve the living God. Does that encourage you? Husbands, what is it that you're telling your wives? That we will serve the Lord? Fathers, what are you telling your children? Or your grandchildren? This house will serve the Lord, and I will show that to you by my actions and my speech. Singles. What is your life demonstrating to your neighbors? Is it showing them that you're serving the Lord? Are you showing them your dedication to the one who saved you? Whom will you serve? There's a choice tonight. It's set before you. Will you serve the Lord? Or will you serve yourself? As Christians are called to serve the Lord with their whole heart as they take the kingdom. Jesus Christ tells us that in order to serve, we must be connected to him. In order to produce that fruit which he so desires, we must be Connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. Joshua was And this call tonight, this question tonight, is designed by the Lord Jesus. To continue to woo you to him, to be connected to him. That your whole heart desire would be to serve him and to serve him alone. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, what a challenge we have set before us tonight. Help us, we are feeble, we are frail, we are straying sheep. And yet You call us to serve. You call us to be connected to the vine so that we might produce that That fruit which you so desire and so Father, we ask even now, Holy Spirit, continue your work within us. We need you. We need to be sanctified. We need to be made blameless that we can by force take the kingdom of heaven Oh Lord, what a powerful work it is that you're doing within us to purge us of our sin, to crush the temptations of Satan. To help us to look the other way as he continues to draw us or try to draw us away from Christ. Oh Lord, God, we must have strength and nourishment in order to do this work. This labor, the service of taking the kingdom by force. So we ask now as we head to the table, help us. Feed us. Strengthen us. Holy Spirit, continue your powerful work in us. And we will give you all the praise. Lastis in Jesus' name. Amen