And now our New Testament reading, as we find it in Luke chapter fifteen, verse eleven to thirty-five. I would mention that although this is a somewhat longer reading than some of the other special readings uh it is one of the three parables that we found in this chapter and that all three parables are related to the same thing and that seems uh is probably well encapsulated in verse seven, which I read here Just do I tell you there will be more joy in heaven over one sinner he repent than over ninety-nine righteous persons who leave no rep painting. So that and verse one help give us an insight into the two parables. But I will read the third of the parables Ten times one which is worse. Two times one of his is worse. Um Luke chapter 16, verse 11. And he said, There was a man who had two sons, and a number of them said to Father, Father, give me the score of property that is coming to me and he divided his property between them. Not many days later do you younger son gathered all that he had and took a journey into a far country and there he planted his property to and left us living. And When he extended everything that severe problem arose in that country and he began to be in need. So he went and hired himself out to one of the citizens of that country He came into the field to feed pigs, and he was longing to be fed with a pod which the pig gave. And no one gave him anything. They wanted to Came to himself, he said, How many of my father's high old children have more than enough blood? But I perish you with hunger. I will rise and go to my father, and I will Say when Father, I have sinned against heaven and before you. I am no longer worthy to be called your saints. Treat me as one of your higher servants And he raised and claimed his father, but while he while he was still a long way off, his father saw him and felt complex and warm and embraced him and kissed him And the son said to him, Father, I have sinned against covenant before you. I am no longer worthy to be called his sin. But the father said to his servants, Being quick the best robe and put it on him and put a ring on his hand and seeds on his feet and bring the fat and tap and let it eat and celebrate. Or this my funnel shed and he's alive again. He is lost in the plane. And they began to call him. Now as old as son of Jimmy, I could come and be made of the house of his music and dancing and he called one of the servants and asking what he said. And he said to him, Your father has come. And his father has told the fat in the clock we refused him back faith and sin. But he was angry and refused to go in. His father came out and treated him. But I understood I told you. Now we could do this now. You never go younger, but I don't know if we are a bit with my But when this kind of came, he's divided your property with prostitutes, he straight apart and cost to him. And he said to him Yeah, I've just known I bet his nine years it was putting the trouble and bad and be bad, but this big daddy is dead and live. Yeah, yes, I mean uh I understand if you were very interesting that I mean feeling Again mostly the same And the same anymore because I was asked to do things. And as I thought about getting cut and this one come to mind, there was a little bit of hesitancy in this being checked because one of the best films I ever heard was tweaked from the the side of the film by Edwin Tony fan of Cody English uh less meet the seminar uh the title weapon and form in the side is welcome. And we can find that formula and this thing but I think many people have to have around that we can go listen to one or two a bit of code. Uh I requested difficult to listen to it again because I was afraid if I did all I would do is end up repeating my holding that corner. But uh it was in my I the first return award with interesting toxic about the three parables that I already mentioned. So a kind of ascending order of importance here. You have a man with a hundred feet, one is feet very valuable. And so you're contained but you can turn it back to one feet until you go and do this for it. Uh contable the country uh the woman's uh livelihood for the future and uh so the reason ran out of uh pain was a major loss that she eventually finds it and uh just as if it means find it winter it is how the target say something in the winter to celebrate when something did happen. And even if that something did happen because something bad has happened before. Maybe it is case that just precisely because of the great contrast of the lost and then the findings that we feel all the more joy. We can take blessings for damage, but when those blessings had been removed and then restored, uh were not so that was really a blessing to and uh and to fancy to have it before to the money. I think that's the thing to think about heart. And we can take our heart to gain it And if it uh gets not so good, uh we feel pretty badly about it, we pray about it, and then if it gets destroyed, we murders. On for that time when we were painful and could be painful. At that point, uh it may be an opposing for celebration. So there's a celebration in all of these perfect that comes back to from finding something that was left. And of course the most valuable is a human being, a son. One of two sons. One is a life. And your father seems that lost son is no longer lost, he's coming home. And so this is not a day for rubbing it in I tell you, what are you doing here now? That is for direct vibration. And so you see that doctor here and you play with it Yeah. There is some sound that we face when we read the Bible and we see God presented to us as a father One of the challenges is that there are enough people in this world who had bodies Yeah or fast or absent or poor or intention abuse in the world that you have to And so when we have a father like that and that we uh told that God is a heaven body. It takes some emotional and psychological readjustment to seeing how that is good As a matter of fact, I think Satan wants us to defect in the way of our thinking to think that that is actually God is queer. And if he appears to be nice for a season, maybe it's a fit Satan will take nice and protect from the leaving points of the home fair. The only way in which we can do that is by taking advantage of bodies in the animal. I usually against that understanding of what it means to be a farmer. So if you really don't And your fire is not what it should be. So you don't even know who your father is. That happens. And what can you say if that is not the microphone to look to if you think of God the Holy Spirit? God, the feminine party, is protect things. And every other thing, even the best, are My right hand and left uh comments and the airway from We looked up in the sun. All these grey sky. But you couldn't see as well from where we lived in the cities. And I suppose we can say, oh, but this is a kind of home. Of course we'd probably do it that the poem of poem is made to look like that which God is made. It's not that did God do a good job calling the design it's some kind of party and design it's battle during World War II there was a famous outfit the island happened to be kind of in the new time. And so if we were to be able to say to Uh well, I was not really surprised going back and coming over three hundred years ago. Uh and said, Yeah, what this is Why the call is coming to me that anything might let something in a moment, but they're not as yet. And so that is an example of the fact that that is what requires the origin to artificial. Anything like a maybe a an attack from anything, maybe a perversion Whatever the truth, God wants you to know that if you don't have a father mother, if you have a heavenly father, he's perfect, that he's perfect in the leg be distinct. And so Satan wants us to be distracted. There's also the issue of implementation What is this parabolic deal for? Is it the first the perfect fire? Yeah, I can always be the But in another way, it is showing us something of a concept among brothers. And And if we go back again to verse one, which we didn't read, what do we read? We read that Jesus is sitting down and he and he has And he's getting roundly criticized for that. Now There is some truth that we ought to be careful about who we associate and who we make with friends. But it is also the case that if Christians, greater it is he who is in us than he who is in the world. And uh it ought to be the cities out there who are told to sit down and eat with What? Rather, we're not sitting down and leaving the thing if we're walking attack. And say, Yes, be careful who you have explained That dragged you down in the old ways that won't happen when you were part of that life. But Don't ever get to the point where you think that you're so much better than those people. That you can't have anything to say to them. Uh play with them or play for them or perhaps even sit down and have a cup of coffee or meal with them because if you have the opp So uh in another sense I think this power is not just about an example of who the perfect body is, but who the perfect body is. And we come to the end of the paragraph and see just older brother well somewhere is this older brother what is meant to give leaders who thought if they would keep the law and if they ought to be taken forward because they were good and obedient. They were the good ones The other value is the bad one. We've all had failures and sometimes we have one that is pretty good and another one that isn't. from that and uh sometimes what surprises and writing like uh be really revoltor of that uh All of this are by nature simple in the need of God's gaze, even the safe part, good in it. And so in some ways where the weather certainly is emblematic of those that Jesus is being synced out of it But in another way, the older brother, if we turn it inside out, is Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the older brother who's not like This older brother in the parable. And so the Bible, although it invites encourages us to look at the example of Jesus and try to follow that. An example can't say this. It's Jesus says And if Jesus art is really coming through us, as we are united to him, through the Holy Spirit living in us, that transforms our whole It's like, you know, this is a day of celebration when we have the opportunity to see sinners come to know. Lord Jesus Christ. Because that's the way it's gonna be in heaven. Helling can be one good party. Not a party Like the Lord sometimes seems to say when we said it's the party's not sure that quite good that once we arrest the My hands. Each whenever we want to. Whether we were one of the goodie two foods or one of the redies that we weren't asked to do things I found it brought it back to the track and now we still are not there. And so what is the greatest zero that run something else. I think some of the greatest girls and what I've seen is some revived on And we saw people make a profession in Jesus Christ with the alien world. I saw that game where they call the Jesus movement Some people who were real, you know, just the situation with their eyes is just to be judged and and being a All the wrong things and he's wisely cleaned around. Some of these people persevered. Not all of them I'm afraid So God knows that um the joy of when you see somebody come to Christ, especially if we are able to do this We call the end. Because something let's play the play. Well then Another thing that we can say here that is that the term fade, as we found it in the Bible, back to the Father Is not an optimal metaphor of how we think of God. There was a time Quite asked for I think to do this movement again on the same time. Well, there's also a movement called second wave feminism And there were some ladies who were saying, well, we can just as well pray to God as our mother who is a mother heaven. No. That's not what the Bible says. I don't doubt that in every gay human relationship There's probably no figure more important in most of our lives than our mother. Mothers bring that kind of nature that uh the avid father struggles to to do. Uh it has been said that on the batteries here. They're hit by a share and lose limbs and agony sometimes cry out mama And so it is certainly the case that God incorporates characteristics that we may see in our minds. But when Jesus is in In the depths of agony, in the garden of Gethsemane, Satan with what it means to take upon himself the wrath of God for your safety In my team, what is the cow is high? Father, father, or daddy, or company Father, if it be possible, let this cut pass from us. Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. God has created him in such a way that his image is still from his creation. And with Lord and the devil are constantly Constantly trying to pay over it with protests the trees to Give us an inverted understanding of who we should praise you, who we should honor, how God is the good Heavenly Father And so we're not talking about an optional metaphor and God gives the Great Commission and Jesus tells us the great commission At the end of monetary, the adapting in the name of the father, the sun, and the raised spirit And Jesus tells us how we pray, he says, pray our father. We tried in heaven. Now to bring this to something of a story that I want you to think a little bit of how some people might We dispers who have not been influenced by the doctrine of God's guilty or understanding that God is the day to die. He had the audacity to ask for all the common origin It goes off and extends it and wise it's living in fact it's now ten times. But the most people would say If I'm gonna look at the back in this arc here and double for J The question is how this fair again. Then we know that there is a question of losses. of seriousness in how some parents think. We know that governments sometimes do crazy things Put people often left the local while people who defended the country uh put out of them And so only see people in the lefty myself in the country, some of them are even out not similar. That seems to I'll grant that in. That's that's just that each baby. But that's not the point at this film. We might leave it in some his father because he's so rough and sentimental about his love that he's doing his son noise that would be us and resistance. But the also is again we two at the beginning The Jesus regards these lost things as being found They are found. So that I think it's very seven. There's more rejoicing in heaven over one thing The repentance, then 99, we don't need repentance. So it's not being laughed about losing people in their sin and tangling to their sin. It's about being forgiven for having sin by Grace is heaven and father, he stands ready to forgive. This one has obviously repented in some way, state or saying. Recognize he no longer deserved anything. Recognize that he sinned not only against his father but against heaven And we've understood that I think that's what you get to. Although we uh sometimes make comics of that. But I think You know, sometimes God has to break through mindless It is not uh just what it I remember I remember not uh was being sent to the principal's office. And my wife and I ended up having to go to the principal's office too. I spent a couple of times there when I was in high school I think I spent at least as much time and time to clean for my time Uh and then one day I thought, you know, they come from and I'll come to him And we're not looking at God then. The other way to discover it as good, I'm going to call something different And it took into an all-like bag and then it always distinct. That's kind of crazy if I Never compressed the big order game, but what with the the point that I was hoping to make Is it I'm on your side? I'm on your side. The steel may or may not be on your side, but I'm on your side Let's try something different. Well it worked a media maybe A buttons always a wonderful question. man as the apple and I get him. And I take no credit for anything The goes to my family's life was inspired me because I was sometimes that kind of father that was only a beauty for it and couldn't be different We turn out B indicator. Oh, it's a chairman. The D length will continue and turn around That's because it doesn't work that way, does it? We need to know that God is our own hand. Please pretend that God is in this life. God forbid the world For the good within a design thing. But people are the evil didn't go. The hard way. God heard of that kind of testing him. And made of him. You're talking him even to you. Fellow to set who we are explored and would become and who died and fall That we hope is that it is not on I wish that gets to drive them that Jesus to guide us. He showed his wife there. He showed that while we sin he died for them. Anyone who struggled with their understanding of God's work, thinking that they couldn't possibly be uh help them to know what we can't be saying to pay for this thing. With a man may have and have everlasting name. Blessed those who doing it with doctrine and test your men. All them But you will