He told me that how to drive way down to Matthew's gospel. We continue our reading there in the practice why. nine hundred and seven ship with two dollars. 38. I feel like the contest would have been a very 33. Actually the contest You can make a tree good and a tree good and make a tree bad and a creep in it. But the tree is known by a tree. Blue of vital. How can we speak good when we are evil? Well out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaks. The good person out of a good pleasure game faith good and an evil person out of his evil treasure then faith evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment people were given a council ever By your words you'll be justified and by your words you'll be condemned. An evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but most sign The Chaffet Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the Great Fish, so the son of many Two days and three night and the height of the earth. And the men of Nineveh will rise up of the judgment with this generation and condemn They repented at the preaching of Jonah. And behold, something greater than Jonah is here. The king of the South will rise up at the judgment of this generation and condemn it, for she came from the end of the earth the earth before the waking of Siamon be heard, something greater than Siamon is true. Amen Father, we asked now that you give us eyes to see what it is to feel. And probably we desire the fear now to work policy in us If you can display your God, how we offend us your law and offended you. And then Rod, reminder. If he didn't need spent two days and two nights. And how do we And thankfully, Father, God. You praise the work powerful man by your fear. Thank you for congregating us. If you remember in this last book The Lord gives a quarter of a rich man and life If you remember the rich man enjoyed his good things while he was living in the earth, and the poor man, wise, didn't And in terrible continues it does die. And in hell or haze, as it set forth for us, and in this gospel, the rich man cries out to Abraham from his torment, from the feat, from the pain that he's experienced, and then he asked Yet Love was consent to dip his finger in water and cure the pen of the whisking man And Abraham is told to give his eight thousand six to seem to be known in the thousands. And then interestingly the Richmond asks Abraham to send someone from the dead to his writers so that they would repent and turn that they would recognize that there is a heaven and hell and that they would be prevented from coming to the place where the rich man finds himself in torment, thinking that if they saw this sign of a design that they Return to God. Over him if he can't return If we do not hear Moses from the prophets, neither will we be convinced that someone could wise them the devil. May son of raising and sending some men from the deadly be given to the rich men's brothers. Present to Jesus Christ in the passage we have before us, it's men. They demanded a fan. As we come to this particular passage in Matthew, we know that the identity of Jesus continues to be a major theme As he studied, it over and begins with John Cycles come to Jesus and ask him, Are you the one? Are you the special one? Are you the Messiah? Are you the one that Moses wrote us? Are you the one coming to say that? And passing continues, even as the Pharisees are challenging Jesus It actually stands behind each and every one of the narratives. Who are you? You can see the TS keeping an extra The people are scratching their heads wondering if he is indeed the son of David and the Pharisees telling them if he is son of the algebra. So the question of Jesus' identity is a major side of a major scene would be supposed to say as the small one this person As Jesus has sent out his disciples to proclaim the good news, as he continues to proclaim the good news and he able to land in the land the identity of Jesus continue to be that with this force recording. It's one of my three but the demand for a sound revealed with By faith in Christ, who heard the sufficiency of his word and reason. The demand to assign me I see him three times this morning with a name for a time And the second was marking the fear and finally the holding the gloaty. It's possible to free physically for the time. I gotta tell you to place a recent with just the fan. That's fine. That's fine. Put it not by failure. Put it by being The First Amendment signs. Notice that this interaction between Jesus and the Pharisees follows immediately upon Jesus is teaching on Justin quite immediately. Jesus has thought that all As the Pharisees ascribed what he had done healing the new and blind men, what he had done they ascribed that to Satan, they ascribed they ascribed it to the power of the eyes of death that he was able to cast out this demon and did it by Satan's work. Jesus was coming up the last thing. And he called the Pharisees, blasphemers, and he told them that they would be judged by their words, they would be condemned because of their blasphemy. They would not be forgiven. That's what this passage indeed begins because the four things and it's right right now responding to that which Jesus has said. The teaching. He's actually condemned national Then some of the therapies and the guides and therapy mentioned. So the followers types doesn't answer Jesus' admonition that we condemned for the words. And so as the person's now seen to the God wants to keep their words are framed as an answer to Jesus' prediction, indeed his prophecy, that they would be condemned. That's what they're doing. And we do throw about these twenty four years because we used to see a common from you. We now continue to translate it as you dance. We get. desire for something. When Gentiles tend to say it condemns bastard We asked and say we wish to see Jesus. That's the idea we we want we want to just show us what we want to do to begin with we want to see Jesus and the person who can We want you to give us that which you desire. And it place of it appears to be a request. But in a context, we At Jesus' identity, and given the particular interactions between Jesus and the Pharisees, it appears that this is a demand. What are the things? We want you to show it. We Jesus have leveled this prediction that we fail to be condemned to him. If you want proof, if your words are vowed, truth and God, so at the time man. Remember Gideon. As the Lord comes to him and speaks to him and saying that I'm going to deliver Israel by your hand Gideon says, if I found faith in myself and show me a sign, but you who seeked me, I want you to to me that you're God. If you're the Lord, I want some proof. I want to see something. And if you know the account, you know that he asked if there's you and the police alone in the morning go and again but I know that they're gonna stay good. And it doesn't go in at once but he doesn't care. That's the idea Songs will be in the location. You understand? It's an interesting demand. Jesus can use this on a place, you understand what they are from Jesus Provide some proof of your true identity. It's your words against us. I like to come down. To care who he has. And prove it. Prove it with some supermarkets where you were then we'll be angry. You wish to see a sign. But everything you feel is it. Give me the class is he feel. He receives the sign, both of them And now he goes out and he's rent to death by the hand of God. But in order to understand Jesus' response, we must understand the context because he question or their demand. And so that's just the obvious. This is no sincere request to know to truly know the identity of Jesus. Because it's already determined that that they would join with others who kill Jesus They were confining it even at that very moment, conspiring it out to destroy Jesus Christ. That's what he had to send the Sabbath from David Who they manage was To their position, to their stars, to their religious real entirely. Because Jesus to the Pharisees represented a very technical change and a word view To the Pharisees, these things wasn't welcome. In other words, it demands that if you desire to be friend to the Pharisees, so the test of the sign was not considered. The question of identifying whether Jesus was indeed the Messiah, the expected and the son of God, the Son of David, the promise and if you know at that point, that was really interested in proof And that's all it is. Please do that and quickly naturally work Which we cannot explain other than being from God that we are indeed God's very spine. He's not limited and is not limited to the fair things that Jesus is going. About Christ about God. You move one to the person who will say, I believe when God comes down and Satan says to me. I believe If Jesus appears before my eyes, God must send some priests with him. To the means of sin For the moment for that visual representation of a living God which is satisfied those human reason expanding The brothers and sisters are very easy. What a good one. But if we can ask the work of them done in your house, if you can't believe upon case of word and sound But we need to learn. Who can't have a breath on it? Very well. It makes sense. Well to the move it's clear. Well to believe it's an electronic sense and feel from the noise of it. I think that's our second point of monitoring the fool that Jesus would not leave That requests alone. When he answers them, look at verse 39. An evil an adulterous generation seeks for a sign But why is someone maybe given to it except the same as exceptional thing? Why does he call them evil and adulterous and maybe say another person? So why is the a plan that requests for a sign? Why is it argument and directly used to these These objectives that he needed to describe them. An evil and wicked generation, just as we have to be asked to be for time. understand these statistics words, either and darkness, they go together. It would appear that Jesus and both to describe it is happening within my heart. as they were thinking is fine. They hear for evil. They were bent on breaking the law of God. They were bent on opposing believing God. They they were rejecting the law in favor of their subdictions And their hearts were darkness. Because they weren't satisfied with the goodness, the blessings that we're living down. They were going off the other bad things that you're listening in. They were making themselves dead In the side of Bible. And it's in the backwards. So the clear is that all in God might be some Up in the thought of a world behind the demand that they're a summon. Jesus was obviously seeing evilness and adulterousness. I'm throwing the flow as they are a stand. What's the open thing? The God is determined the justification would be by not sight, but by faithful Lamb and faithful Lim, by grace for Lim. We heard that one is justified by faith. One touch of things. Paul way to the church of course, we're looking not to the things that are seen, but the things that are unseen. Again, the second way is the way it's seen. Yes, I say another thing. And we understand that faith is the sense of things perfectly. Consider Noah for a moment. Joined by God considering a gentle were about to happen about is all relative, it took many decades for the thread becoming. Which is more a good I want to find him. I want to water. Just because it's that in Redman's here you can struggle the eye. It was not the up. The water was not about to overflow the sun. He didn't see anything with it. He only overflowed the line You see? That is the term of the justification of these guys faith around us. But the more is necessarily feeling that God's claim, God's will, God's wisdom is insufficient. I know By claiming for a sign, one is saying that the plan of salvation by faith alone is not only unwise but unacceptable. You can think of it this way. Inform God that you are dead since the moment the name of the psalm is stating that salvation by faith is is not sufficient. But God, if he does exist, he could prove to me in time or in a way that it's acceptable to me that he exists. He must prove that he really did make all things and that evolution is not real. He must convincing me by selling me his power to me, personally. I'll determine whether the truth is participant. I'll determine whether you guys have convinced me to I am death. That is named for Sun. If the tackle mention that the one domain in the sun has turned the But the one demeaning the throne has determined that he has taken the throne. I'm sitting here. You, God, are the subject of my will. God submit Himself to the reason, the reason, and the will of me, of memory. design is using to submit himself wholly and completely to the small idea of the living dying. Because if the meaning of time is called just the sovereignty of the living God. This is an essence of how Jesus can clearly say that this is a wicked and evil generation of act So it was fine. I don't wonder if justification is there among that. That's the north and that's the man. So to believe in that which is given by God attend to give judgment to tend to um something it's added submission. Belief accepts that is at its foundation submission to that which God is present to Faith among other things is an essence of statement is really things given you by God according to his wisdom and his goodness and submitted yourself to him based upon that which he has given He believed in particular who chosen to do, not primarily put him in a list as a friend. And there's another minimum. You're fed between only the five and a hundred of the two. You see the difference between those and a demand for no? What if it's down for the thing? Great point that's put it off what you were saying. This is the way your seven guys are doing for you, for your justification. Plose for you. Remember this is to me and by the way he can tell And a season for the flu. He said that in chapter eleven. He played the flute for you when you did not dance, and he sang a day when you did not Not knowing. What a God is doing proclaim. People were doing told, but they were in prison. But the good news is that it's a common blow to me Bees and the Pharises and Scribes were those who rejected the good news of the kingdom of God and his king, and by this reason they substituted birds and men for time to do this completely to the living God. What are what I use? Are you submitting yourself to the living death? Are you receiving the pen that he's given you? Are you believing the pen that he told me to do And he said that's not enough. That's him guys. He needs something more. He's got to give me something else and This is what he's given. The place. And close to learning. The means this time. So no truth. Jesus is not his truth. Well it's Some people become a little bit of a moment to the mission connection to our three connector hidden agility. They've been told that they were condemned, that they were blaspheming us. The Now they're told this, the men of meaning of arise up to the judgment of the degeneration and condemn it So they tell the repeating of Jana behold something greater than Jana was here. This is the second time. claims for your becoming and it says none of it. So what were the first things to do? Wait for the Lord, wait for the day of judgment Wait for the termination, wait for the universe to keep. And commonly treat it later than zenith But when he stands before them in that day moment, that day moment in history began to when he stood before them as greater than Zana, why why would Jesus use Zona as being great if Jesus is great or then born and action great. Why would he need him? He is the fleeing prophet. He is a disobedient one. He is the unhappy, unwilling to sin Why would you use Jonah for comparison purposes at all? Well you say that because they're two days. Yes, that's good. That's good. Then I was in the day of the perfect three days and just like the done I dreamed to be in the belly of the air, so to speak. In the tune the three and g And so John is pointing to Jesus. Yes. Good. Okay. Damn taking it to myself. Who gotta read them from the perfect game? The disobedient cop And as he preaches and he's walking through the city, what happens? The people are feeling that the word of God, the power of Jonas preaching it, the Holy Spirit takes it up rest in their heart and they pawn and the pants. Isn't that why Jesus uses Donna, Nina Boss We can say it probably doesn't say some fear. Whenever the return comes from dental And the fear. But that's preaching. They're telling the distractions of the city because of those things that people turn and confess And Jesus is something once greater than John Air He's the radiance of his glory, the adoption of his empty of his nature take happens by the word of his power and that which he says it's his word. It's his power it is Jesus is ready and his work And that's how I think we use the thing Yes, the thing there is obviously the thing that you won't make. When is the stop? Who stopped a dumb didn't? You can't see that. You can't decide. He can realize that the judgment of the generation from them at the two points in the end of the year is where they used to be fine and be heard and conveyed and fine and through and the law Well, you say well because God gave Fawn and his men gave the same and the death of man as a sin and it is on the sea. That's in first Kings chapter four. Many people coming from all the As the king comes, he professes this, how blessed are your name and how blessed are those your servants to see before you And continuous to your wisdom, the wisdom of family is great. Jesus can be true Remember the lives family had and what they did to his heart? Heart was not fully devoted to God. Five on this part of the way. Because it was easier on the side of the world. I don't think this is the only thing. The think of the using of the reason of think of the current reading as I say. The power is bad, the reason is bad. This is really the simple decal because we can ask you nothing. You heard them call a card. Have a long time. The greatest prophet, the greatest, most effective preacher. Now through the work of the Spirit. Jesus is increasing to you this No, no, no, no. You're behaving as a prophet. You want to reveal to yourself really true to you of God For our salvation. That's what he's doing. That's why he's the greater priest. This is a nonsense situation. This is my beloved friend in whom I'm well pleased Listen to him, August, are you listening to him for me? Meditated on that question. I hear this kind of music. And the best in Jesus is my greatest prophet, my my smallest I think this as the one who reveals to me the Word of God, that means meditation. That means prayer. You need to be examining our fire in that way. The last of the heavy has the live can derivate high the most clear, the most holy, the most righteous, the most wise thing. When he says, He said, Look, your heart to his name as you behave in Jesus thinking as a wise benevolent king when he sat and subdues you to himself but rules and defend And he's things encounters all his and your enemies. He does behave him that way. Even more than someone to him. His wisdom. Blessing you with his wisdom. And the same And come from out of your husband. I would have heard him view his husband. That is because things we have to know the time. They're not easy to understand. It's a way to actually examine some of Because he's busy. It's terrible. No one is able to Because they have this fellow spell body. They're noises and perfect for We do this now. What a glory to be able to behold our glory. The glowing, peaceful, the bloody perfect, the glow Rise and then the holding between part of my dad wants to be Oh god, we have to admit we have to be practically that you don't prefer Bit of people and forgive us. And hopeful. Hopefully it's too well to bring the name to Jesus and His name is altered by every name. in Athens and in Athens we are the one who thought it was a lives and other people. The one we converse to a reveal to where we are And some people Who's that a late view? Some parties don't need to have all