Amen. Please remain standing. Let me read our passage for uh tonight. Uh we continue on in the sixth chapter of Romans Romans six, uh verse twelve, uh all the way um to the end uh verse twenty three. Remember though this first part of verse eleven is is to consider, to reckon, to count, that we have died to sin, that is the first exhortation and then but then it's not that easy. And so Paul continues in this. The apostle writes verse twelve, let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness, but present yourselves to God as those who have been brought from death to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under the law, but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not under the law, but under grace? By no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin which leads to death, or of obedience which leads to righteousness But thanks be to God that you who are once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. I am speaking in human terms, because of your natural limitations, for just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness But what fruit were you getting at the time from these things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. For the wage of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. You may be seated Friends, I feel um I feel a little uh anxious today, it's 'cause um You know, I I appreciate the encouragement after last week and then now you guys are like looking forward to to this week. I hope you didn't look forward too much for it. Or that I meet the moment uh today. Romans six. Um you know as we talk uh as we began last week, this is a uh important topic for all of us, right? It's a pertinent topic, right Uh we want to sin less. We want to be grateful to God. We want to live out um our our faith Because it's not about just not doing bad stuff that I think that as we mature we see God's laws as the path to the blessed life. Right. Uh this topic is like fresh to me because, you know, I'm counseling some um uh a young adult couple, uh dating couple in our in our church and It just bothers me about the the the the wrong attitude. When we talk about how far can I go without crossing it, you've already lost that Because it it it it is not about God restricting you from fun or freedom or true life. His uh his law is the path to the blessed life And this is what I'm trying to uh impress upon uh particularly our our our our people, our our our young adults there, right? Uh we want to live a life that is pleasing to God Uh we want to appropriately, uh reciprocally, as much as we can, respond to a saving love. So therefore we want to sin less, right? How do we how do we do that? Um last week we talked about um We talked about the first step is is identity. Self-identity is how we view ourselves. But then that's not that's not it. Paul gives us more practical reasons here in the the latter half. Alright? And so uh what does he say? I'll unpack it. But basically he says, consider yourselves dead to sin and be slaves to righteousness. That's uh how we sin less, right? And so let's unpack that. What does that mean, right? What does that practically look like in a real modern lives to be slaves of righteousness. You know, some of these things have lots of biblical, you know, s uh religious uh notions, tones, right? But then so it's like, let's not just leave it there. What what does that mean in our lives? I'm gonna unpack it this way, okay? One, why why why slaves Right? He could have used any other analogy, but Paul chooses to use this, so he said, Why that imagery? Right? And that's two, how do we become slaves of righteousness? Right? That's two, because that's That's what he says. And then three, what is our motivation to do so? Alright? So why the imagery? How do we become slaves of righteousness? Why should we become slaves of righteousness? But before we uh get deeper into this, let's just remind ourselves of what sin is. When we talk about sin, sin is not just murder and theft and and lying and violence or whatever. It is those things But um beyond that uh it is i it is putting anything, good, bad or neutral, above God It is to do more uh of something that is not required, right? So it could be like you're having children is good Right? But making them your all, that's bad. That is the idea of sin. That's why uh if you look at the end of verse twelve, that word, uh passions That's a great word in the Greek. Maybe not in the English, but that's a great word in the Greek to understand what sin is because basically that word translates to over-desire It's an over-desire. Sin is a over-desire. When we want too much of a good thing, that is sin. When we don't want the good thing enough, that is sin When we want it our way, how we want it, when we want it, to the degree we want it that it opposes God's uh sovereignty, his wisdom over a life, that's sin. Right? So even like getting good grades is sin, but we've met students who obsess over it They they put their identity in it. That's bad. Because your identity must be in something other than yourself or your performance. All of that is sin. That is what we're talking about, right? How do we put God first? How uh do we not have uh how we have appropriate desire, not a over desire, right? Look at verse 19. Paul exhorts to present your members Uh is another way of saying uh like your whole body and your whole life in a way. Uh present every aspect of yourself as slaves to righteousness. Right. Why why why does Paul use this imagery? Right? Why use this imagery, right? Let's zoom out um and kind of understand this. I think Paul uses this imagery because um uh slavery was was prevalent throughout um the first century and in Rome. So he's he's doing something that he that that his readership would understand. Right? That that they would see. Like I don't know about you, but like I w I don't live on a farm. So when we do agricultural uh imagery, that would be lost to me, right? When you talk about sports When we talk about suburban stuff, when you talk about growing up here in high school or whatever, okay, now you're speaking my language. Like I can understand it. I think that's what he's getting at. Uh this was a prevalent part of the first century in the whole Roman Empire, as well as the fact that uh the understanding of reign, of dominion All of these things, those are slavery terms. And so they would understand it. Slaves are bound, obligated to serve their masters It's friends, it's incredible to me that Paul describes himself as a slave of Christ. Right? If you really break it down, right, in his introduction in in the book of Romans, he he says, I'm an apostle. slave of Christ. Oftentimes, even as a gospel minister, I am not a slave of God. I want to do it when I want to do it, you know uh when people hurt me I wanna respond in the way you know I try to find that line too where I still r uh maintain my dignity but you know I wanna get my shots into right right but but slavery In the essence of it is you are not your own master. Somebody else has to tell you to do something, right? A and that's what his point is. How are b uh this is how believers are to be with God. It drives me nuts, particularly in our uh uh suburban lives What do you mean, like, we're not gonna be here next week? Attendance to worship is not a choice, right? Right? Like like there are things that we are called to do, basic things, right? Like uh there are other harder things that are more gray line, right? But but some of the stuff is easy If you're here, you're here, right? Sure, you're on vacation, then you, you know, understandable, but you're here, you're here You cannot marry a non-believer. That that that is easy. You don't need a seminary degree for that, right? But then we see our young people uh getting into relationships Which is fine, but you're just making it harder on yourself to break up at later on because it turns out that this guy is not really a believer. This person, this lady is not really Devoted to Christ, right? These things are simple. Friends, uh obedience is not optional. But we treat it like it is, especially in a Western, comfortable Suburban context. It's not an opinion. It's not optional. It's not up for debate. He says it, right? And we got to do it, right? But but but Paul I think he's he's he's poking at something deeper than that, right? Because I think he's poking at the essence, uh the core tenet of of what it means to be human. We all serve something We all serve something. Look at verse 16. That's what he's saying here. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey. Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to life. You see? Our obedience, in a way, friends, is fixed That is our mode of living. The key question is who are you obeying? Right? That's the idea. We all serve something. We all strive after something. We all are living. for something. You know, Tim Keller he wrote a I think his whole ministry was based on this, right? Uh for a season. And he wrote a whole book, Counterfeit Gods. It it here's what he wrote Accounter for God is an idol, right? Or anything that captures our heart that is over desire over God. That's what he means. He says a counter for God is anything so central And essential to your life that you should you lose it, your life would feel hardly worth living. An idol has such a controlling position in in your heart that you can spend most of your passion and energy, your emotional and financial resources on it without a second thought It can be family and children or career, making money or achievement and critical acclaim or saving faith and social standing. It can be a romantic relationship, peer approval. Competence and skill, secure and comfortable circumstances, your beauty or your brains, a great political or social cause, Your morality and virtue or even success in Christian ministry. An idol is whatever you look at and say in your heart of hearts, if I had that, then my life What would have meaning and value, significance, and security, right? Friends, w what does that trigger in your mind? W what is that for you? You know, I I uh I there was a portion I I think I've gotten past this a a little bit more now, but you know, I I realize that um My self-worth as a pastor was tied to my church for a little bit. Isn't that so dumb? It is the Christian Ministry. It is church planting that I was idling. The church of God and I was making that an idol, right? Because I have unbelieving family members, unbelieving friends, and how do they judge? my skill. Based on the the number of people in my congregation, right? Based on um these exterior things that we all know doesn't matter, that the Bible doesn't say it. But I wanted that too, right? And and it hurt me at times. Uh and and it hurt me even more to discover it, right? That even a good thing like Christian ministry, gospel ministry We can change that into something that is a counterfeit. God, what is what is that for you? Right? That's what Paul uses slavery Right? It's because it's this controlling power over our lives. I remember Tim Taylor uh so poignant, he said, you know, uh the power of alcohol for an alcoholic is not when the alcohol is not there It's in the presence of alcohol that you cannot control yourself. And when you can't control yourself, what are you? Your slave You're serving something, right? And that's why he uses his imagery. There's this sin that controls us, that dominates us. But uh but because of the cross it is broken now. So we have to remove ourselves from that. But even as believers, we still struggle with this. We still teeter, right? We still get off kilter. How? How do you know? How can you tell that you have made something a counterfeit God, made something an idol? How do you know what you serve? Three tests, right? One, what do you most frequently think about? Right? One theologian said that your religion is what you do in your solitude, what occupies your mind. You know, what effortlessly goes there, right? Uh i i it's not e i it's just uh you have two minutes but what do you look at you know on your phone what are you checking what are you You know, what does your mind go to? What are you daydreaming about? These are the things that can show us our idols. Two, what do you spend most of your money on? Right? Jesus taught where your treasure is, and there is your heart also. I remember I went to the University of Maryland, graduated from the business school. There was Uh the professor was like, you wanna know what a company cares about? You look at what they spend their money on, right? Right? And so like if if i i i if they don't give if the company doesn't give benefits then it's like They don't care about their employees. Because what you care about is what you spend money on. Not what you're going to say. Not what you put on your website. Right? It's what hurts. It's what it's what you put your money where your mouth is. Three. What moves you to grand emotion? Grand emotion. They're like uncontrollable things, explosive anger, crippling fear, utter despair. Right? There are things that can happen to me that won't affect you at all. But then there are things that happen to you that won't you see what I mean? It it's for different people. I remember uh some of you know I only have one child I I remember I took him to um I took him to an indoor playground. You know, I'm pretty calm in uh in in public, but this kid like winged the ball at my son's face and a it it just it came out I I didn't even know You know, like nobody would um you know I'm Korean, like like nobody would accuse me of nepotism. And then there's a decorum, there's a shame out there, but I screamed at this kid. I don't even know who he was. I was just like, and it just came out. Because that's like that's that's that's my son. What are you doing? Right? What evokes that out of you. You know. I I uh you know, I I I stopped playing fantasy football for this reason. I was like I'm so prideful. Fantasy is all about you being smart, right? You making the right moves and then and then usually play with friends and you jab it to your friends, right And then I'll get so mad because I feel like I read everything right. But then my player ain't doing what w what he he was projected to do that week Making me look dumb and I was like, Oh, I need to stop this. Why why why am I so upset Sunday afternoon over this? And it wasn't about football. It was uh it wasn't even about competition Like I feel I like I know sports. I watched it all my life, right? And and that was bothering me. It was my pride. And I and I would expla I would get I would get all upset. My wife's like, what's wrong with you? You know? What moves you to these grand emotions? Often when you when you pull up these things, there's where your idol is, right? That's what that's why Paul uses um the uh this imagery. I I love this, friends. The Bible speaks to the very essence of who we are, right? Oftentimes people ridicule scripture saying it's Just dumb farmers two thousand years ago that wrote this. How could how could this apply to our lives? It applies so much deeply. If you just you just need to know how to read it right, right? And it speaks to us. We all serve something. We serve something to give us significance, to give us meaning, to give us purpose, to give us worth, right? And that's what we work ourselves towards. That's why he uses this this slavery image. And so his basic his basic idea is in terms of sinning less, right? The trick isn't to serve nothing. In a way that's Buddhism, right? To not want nothing. That's inhuman, that's not human. We all desire something. We all strive after something, right? So the answer is not to cut out our desires and want nothing, it is to serve the right thing, he says And so he says, don't be slaves of sin. Instead, be slaves of righteousness. You see the Bible over and over again doing this. It doesn't just tell you to stop. Right? It tells you to stop, but then he tells you to start doing this. Right? And it's it's interesting to me as I parent my son, as I read psych child psychology books, it's the same thing. Stop telling your kids just stop. Or else they'll just fill it with another bad habit. It's to tell them to stop, or tell, but tell them to start doing this in its place. And where does that mirror? That mirrors eternal Scripture, right? The wisdom of Scripture. And so instead of not serving anything Paul says, replace it, replace it, and serve God. Notice how Paul explains this. Look at all the changes here. Verse 13. And it changed from instruments of unrighteousness to instruments for righteousness. Look at verse 16. We're slaves of sin, now slaves of obedience, right? Verse 17, you were this. You became this now, right? Verse 19. You presented yourself like this in the past. Now you present yourself to this Now. Verse 21. You then, but this is you now. You see? He's talking about controlling influences over our lives And so basically what is he saying? He's saying switch your masters. Switch the one you serve. Switch the one you're ser uh the going after, right? So so how do we how do we sin less? How do we live a life that is pleasing to God? I mean, l let's get the obvious out of the way. First you have to believe Right? You have to be renewed in this. This is why oftentimes I like I I always you know, some people get frustrated and they call talk to me, Pastor John I I try, I try Like, if this person's not listening, I was like, Maybe this person's not a believer. Why would he listen to you? Why would he live by by by scripture? 'Cause this person doesn't you know is a believer that has tasted and seen the goodness of God. It is the believer that the Spirit has regenerated. Only we can do that. Right? And so look at verses 17 and 18. Thanks be to God that you who are once slaves of sin have become obedient where from the heart, from the center of who you are, to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. That's just scripture. And having been set free from sin have become slaves of righteousness. You see. First you have to have faith. That's one. You have to have faith Step one. Step two is what we covered last week, right? You have to have a identity change. You have to start with your core to to see who you are. Let me put it like this. When you sin, how do you view yourself? Do you view yourself as somebody striving to God and you fall in short again? Or do you view yourself as accepted by God and you falter from time to time? You see the difference? You see the difference? We see it in sports all the time. That the teams that know how to win, they win more than they lose. They consider themselves as winners. But then the losing team, they're so used to losing that they expect it at the end that somehow we're going to give this game away Right? You see that in other facets, and we gotta see this for ourselves. Who are you? You are dead to sin. You are clothed in Christ's righteousness, that you have been adopted as God's children, and sometimes we falter, but that core identity doesn't change. That's how we're supposed to view it. I I we my family and I we went on our first Disney cruise, now it just ruined life 'cause now my son is like expecting it and it's very expensive or whatever, right? But then like It's a bad thing when a preacher like like experiences stuff, right? Because I'm sitting there on the boat and I'm thinking of all this I'm inundated with all this Disney stuff. You want me to ruin Disney for you? Okay Disney stories, you know what they are? Identity. Identity. Again When you see scripture and just pay attention to this world, it's about identity. What's wrong with Simba? He's running away from his identity, right? Even in the song when when Nala and him finally get together and she's like, why can't he be the king I know he is? The king I see inside. And he doesn't see it, right? Until remember, he sees the reflection and he sees his father in him. He sees the king in him. And it says, be the king that is in you, right? Think of Mulan, right? She pretend like she's a guy, she's fighting for her country and stuff like that. And then the song about who is this girl and the reflection Right? It's about identity. All of it is about uh there's a beauty in the beast, right? The beast? Who are you Right? He got cursed and he's entrapped. But inside the real identity, everything starts with identity. I see it in sports, I see it in Disney, I see it in all these things. Why? Because it's wisdom of eternal scripture that they don't know about. And Paul says it starts with you. What do you think you are? Who do you see in yourself? It has to be Christ. It starts there and then here today he moves on. What is it? Live for God. Why do we sin? Why do we move away from him? It is because we're not squared up in him How do we live for God? Just do what He says, right? Serve in church. Mentor somebody begin the day with a devotion look for avenues in which we can proclaim the gospel right Once we start doing this and seeing it in that way, that's when all of our lives start lining up. People get so like, oh Pastor John, I struggle so much. I'm in a dry season. That's because you're letting your emotions go up and down and dictate. Your the tenor, the posture of your life is not squared up on God, right? Sometimes for me I'm I'm just You know, like I wanna get old and b and be a curmudgeon, like, you know, and fits, right? Can't wait 'til I'm old. I swear Alex, I'm just gonna say stuff in press term meetings and I'll be older than people and then I'll be like, you know, they can't say anything, they can't talk back, right? So I'm I'm reserved to myself. Wanna go to seven eleven, wanna go to Costco? I don't want to talk to people. You know, I hate Chit Chat. I'm I'm very introverted, right? In in that way. But then I lose opportunities to get to know people and to proclaim the gospel. And then so it's like what is my identity here? Right? Right? So w s see, w w when when I have that idea of proclamation then okay, then then I prepare myself to talk to people when I go outside. But then I can't look all shabby, right? Like like like who's gonna who's gonna listen to somebody that dressed like a bum or like my hair is bad? So now I gotta like dress up a little bit, right, right, right. Like you see, everything is geared towards that bent. Now, you know, then I gotta watch what I say, watch what I do. Am I representing Christ that way? You see, when we put ourselves squarely submitted on him and serve him, right? When we serve him, that's when we start sinning less My people indirectly help me to sin less. Because I know that my people are depending on me. When I just depend on myself. I can do whatever, right? And I have no motivation. But when I know that there's 35 souls, right, that depend on my holiness. To me to be right with God so that I can minister to them, that I can deliver the word, that I can, you know, lead Bible study. My holiness uh they're dependent on it. That makes me oh I gotta shape up even more. I gotta be on point even more. You see? When we put ourselves in it That's when we naturally just let his word guide us into the blessed living. This is I mean if you think about it, this is why people don't people are so inconsistent with church, right? We have a a big uh mega church in our non denominational church in our area And people just go in and out. Why? 'Cause they want to do what they want to do. You see, when they commit too much Then you got like, you know, deacons calling you and like you know what I'm saying? And now you gotta go to a Bible stu or you gotta come into a small group, oh now I gotta host one once a year, like uh clean up the house and have people You see, they don't want to commit to all that. But when we're in it, everything shapes. Right? Everything shapes. How my co-workers see me, not because of my reputation, but if they ever ask I don't want the stumbling block to be, but y you have bad attitudes. I don't want to listen to you. Right? Or you you weren't you weren't that nice to me before. Right. I I uh to to meet new people, well I play pickleball in in Harper County. I I I I I joined that uh association. I'm like the nicest person there. They all know me, they all know what I do. You know, it's very liberal. I know people have wild ideas about what m what it means to be a pastor, but you know what though? Everybody loves playing with me You know? Because I I don't I don't get mad at them when the head falls out. I don't get you know, I'm very encouraging. Why? So that I can pump up my name? No. It's just in case you wanna talk about death and eternity. I don't want anything about me to hinder that. You see? Everything else lines up when we are on mission and when we submit. Right. And look at the look at the motivation. I'll close with this. Paul lays it out plainly. Look at the uh last few verses there, starting with verse twenty. For when you were slaves of sin. You were free in regard to righteousness. But just plainly he asked, but what fruit? What was the end? What were you getting at the time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin, have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end eternal life. Right. This is what did you get in that lifestyle? This is what I I want to challenge people when I I want to share the gospel Look at your life, right? From relationship to relationship to relationship. From one uh unsatisfying hobby to another unsatisfying hobby Right? You pour money into golf, okay, cool, now you can shoot a eighty five. Like what uh what what but you now your wife's upset like you know, 'cause you're not at home and you're playing golf four hours on a Saturday? Like what end to it? Oh cool, you got a fancy new car. But then now nobody can drive the car, nobody can touch the car, nobody can ride in the car because you're gonna mess it up. You see? All of those things, all it does is bring on stuff, right? Think about us though and other things. We're s enslaved to approval, right? Outside of Christ. We w but then now we're constantly experiencing envy and hurt feelings, inadequacy What did you say to me? What was that look for? You see? When we were slaves to success, now we're driven. But when now we're tired and we worry, we fear that someone better is going to come along, that someone's going to cheat me out of all these things. Right? You're slaves to love. But then now we're like we're like jealous, right? I I I sometimes I I sneak it in my sermons. It's like but some of y'all y'all can't be happy for people. Because we're so engrossed in it, right? How come I can't I you got the promotion. You got the raise. Well I'm good at my job. How come I don't get the raise? I'm a good guy, how come I can't find a girl for me? And you found one? They're so jealous. I can't say that to them. Well at least not yet. They gotta be ready to to hear it, right? Well we can't be happy for people because we're worshiping other things. So the key is simple but yes so hard, right? We We just serve God. Be on mission. Submit all of it. Why? It's because it gives us life. That's what we've seen. We've just seen death in our lives before Christ. But now we have the blessed life, friends. How can we spend less, friends? Go more into it, more into devotion, more into service, more into whatever he has said, and you just naturally see the parts of your life lining up. Right.