1 Timothy chapter 3, first seven verses tonight. The focus will be on verse 6. Let's uh hear now the word of the Lord. This is a faithful saying. If a man desires the position of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop, then, must be blameless, the husband of one wife, temperate, sober-minded, of good behavior, hospitable, able to teach Not given to wine, nor violent, not greedy for money, but gentle, not quarrelsome, not covetous One who rules his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For if a man does not know how to rule his own house, to rule his own house How will he take care of the Church of God? Not a novice, lest being puffed up with pride, he fall into the same condemnation as the devil. Moreover, he must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word this evening. Let us pray. Our father as we enter now into our uh uh our uh uh uh the ministry of the word tonight, Father, we pray that it would be attended to by the Holy Spirit And that Lord, the Holy Spirit will give us understanding. He will apply the Word of God to our own hearts. And he will assist us, Lord, to have these matters in our minds and in our hearts As Lord, your church is always looking and in need of those who are leaders in the church, elders and deacons. And Father, we would pray that your church would be willing to conform to the standards which your word sets forth for these offices in the church. We pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we come again to the study of uh the qualifications for office in the church We remind ourselves of the background of this epistle that the Apostle Paul wrote. You recall that Timothy was a young man who was an apprentice minister in training under the Apostle Paul. And the Apostle Paul had spent the largest portion of time in the church at Ephesus, where now Timothy is. And the largest time that he spent ministering to the people at Ephesus. And it was to the elders that the Apostle Paul gathers to himself at Miletus in Acts chapter 20. and talks about ministry, the kind of ministry the elders are to carry on because Paul's leaving. He's going, he says, you won't see me again. And to those very elders that now Timothy is going to be associated with and leading. The Apostle Paul also gives word to Timothy about the kinds of men who should become elders in the church. It's not as if there's ever a fixed number of elders. It's not as if you ever have enough. You have as many as the Lord seems fit to give to you And but when he does give for you, you must look at the man and evaluate the man carefully. You must vet him carefully on many different levels And we've looked at some of those levels. Timothy, as you recall, is very young. prompts Paul on one occasion not to let to to remind Timmy, not to Timothy, not to let anyone despise your youth And uh and and yet he has for Timothy a very important challenge, which he sets out in the first chapter. And he says, uh uh uh that he charges him uh to tea uh to not allow anyone else first Three, to teach any other doctrine than the one that he has taught. He charges Timothy to make sure that people aren't giving heed to fables and endless genealogies, which Which caused dispute rather than edification. In other words, the Apostle Paul is interested in the spiritual building up of the body of Christ. That's his primary goal. And he doesn't want false theology, and he doesn't want speculation and idol tales. Other kinds of Christian slogans that get baptized with truthfulness and become part of the church's understanding of things, he doesn't want these things to people to gravitate on to them rather than gravitate on to the Word of God and be built up by the Word of God. That's Timothy's charge in connection with all the other elders and their responsibilities here at this church. So it's sure if Timothy's going to have this kind of ministry, he's going to have to have help. He does have elders, but there's going to come a time when those elders are going to, for whatever reason, going to be leaving the scene. And they'll have to be new elders raised up. And what should Timothy and the rest of the church be looking for? And that's why we've been spending a lot of time on these qualifications for the last couple of weeks. I was quite surprised at the latest report of Sermon Audio. Uh, you know, that's our we're on sermon audio. And if you had if you took a look at it, there was uh there there were uh number of hits, uh in fact the most amount of hits from the sermons that I have preached are on this question of church leadership and qualifications for elders. And and so this is a this is a matter the church is thinking about. The church at at in general, uh uh at uh broadly speaking is thinking about Now let's look at this verse tonight. And I want to look at it in connection with the seventh verse, although I'm not going to preach on the seventh verse. except to bring one phrase forward from it. He says that this man uh whom you uh choose as elder should not be a novice Lest, being lifted up with pride, he fall into the condemnation of the devil. And He must have a good testimony among those who are outside, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil, and the snare of the devil. Two times in two verses, um the devil gets mentioned And um and he gets mentioned in connection with causing the man Who is to be a leader of the church, he gets mentioned in connection with causing that man to stumble. Or to f be snared. And a snare is a trap. And the devil, we remember, is the ancient foe of God's Of God himself and of Christ, and as Luther put it, he's our foe as well. He doth seek to work us woe He is constantly on the move. And as Peter, in his writings, which I uh just finished reading, uh also mentions the devil saying that we are uh that he is our adversary verse 8 1 Peter chapter 5 verse 8 He walks about like a roaring lion seeking to devour whom he may resist him. This gives all the marks of a very clear warning. He is not a balevolent figure. He is out to destroy you, and he's out to destroy Christ's church. And by destroying Christ's church, he hopes to heap condemnation upon Christ himself. And so those who take on the responsibility being examined for leadership in the church must recognize that The devil is real, that he's not a comic book character, that he is a vicious, persistent Foe of every Christian who believes in the saving work of Jesus Christ He has no other agenda but to destroy Christ and his people and to exalt himself above God. And he does it in a multiplicity of different ways. He is not geared in to one specific form of perversity or temptation. Deceit and temptation are always part of what he does, but he's much more sophisticated than that when he has to be. Anyone who can look at Jesus with a straight face and quote exactly Psalm eighty-two And exhort Jesus to commit sin after he told the truth, after the devil quoted Scripture word by word Cast yourself down, for it is written, His angels will take care of you, lest you dash your foot against the stone. Anyone who can do that is a far greater match for you and me. But, but, you see, God, in his infinite wisdom, has entrusted the leadership to his church. To such weak people as we. This concept of elders Call them elders, call them pastors. We've already been through this. Call them elders, call them pastors, call them shepherds, call them bishops. I don't care what you call them Except not hey you. Uh no. Uh uh call them whatever you want to call them It's not their idea to come up with this kind of leadership for the church. It's God's It's God's idea. And he shared that idea to the mind of Paul and to the mind of Peter And to the church, as it was being formed in the early time after Christ's death. Well, enough of that. Let's look at the text He who is to be a leader in the church, he says he should not be a novice. He should not be a novice. Now, when we examine that word and we see its usage, In the New Testament. We're going to see it translated in a couple of different ways. But they they all kind of come down to a fairly discernible pattern of uh of what Paul means by not a novice. 1 Corinthians 3 verse 1 is one of those places where this word is translated And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes. in Christ, that word babe. Same word as we got here in first uh in in 1 Timothy 3. 6, not a novice Hebrews chapter 5, 12 and 11, or excuse me, 12 and 13. For when the time for when for the time ye ought to be teachers, You have need that one teach you again with the first principles of the oracles of God, and are become such as have need of milk and not of strong meat For everyone that uses milk is unskillful in the word. And that word unskilful as if the person has no real understanding of what the word is saying. That's the same word as novice. 1 Peter 2. 2, as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that you may grow thereby. This term novice Is routinely associated with being a spiritual babe. In the New Testament uses, people are spiritual babes or novices because They are that for a number of reasons. Number one, they are simply new Christians. That may be one of the reasons why they are novices. Number two As our text, as not our text, but Hebrews chapter 5, 12 reminds us, they have not learned the first principles of the faith in Christ, as the word reveals them. And number three, their Christian authority has not developed. Why, you say, could that happen? Well, it happens to everyone who does not meditate on the scripture. And who does not put into practice what they are meditating on As a result, the Holy Spirit's work, which is to conform us to the image of Christ, is delayed. Is delayed or detrimentally affected. So they're babes, either because they're new Christians Or they're babes because in some way they're not growing. And the fact that they're not growing is not God's fault, it's their fault. How? And so we see that such a person Is not to be considered for the office of elder in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. He's not a novice. In other words, he's not a new Christian. And he gives evidence of the fact that he has a maturing understanding of what the first principles of the faith are. and that his walk is that which is exemplary, in that it is being progressively conformed to the image of Christ by the work of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. This is the person who doesn't have to go out and tell you that he's reading his Bible. He doesn't have to parade before everyone his piety. You see it. You see it in the way in which he conducts his life. And what you see, what you see is God's spirit at work And you see God's spirit at work in conforming that man to Christ. So what you see in that man is Christ. And that's why you're attracted to him. Because he's not a novice. He's a mature Christian. Who shows you what Christ is like And Paul goes further to say that you do not want to choose a novice because Lest he be lifted up with pride, he fall into the same condemnation of the devil That uh that word pride there. Um I I like the Greek translation. Uh it is uh Swelling with pride, swollen with pride, gives a little bit more flavor to that word. word. Um what what what what is it about Being in ministry or being a leader of the church, why would that be an occasion for someone to have their pride swollen? Well, I know I can testify. Perhaps Brother Cornelius can testify And I know other men who come out of seminary who believe that once they get out of seminary, they have learned everything There is to know about the scriptures. And they are just ready to help the church learn what they know. And they s they they embark on their initial. You know, I really look back and I pity the people in South Dakota in my first pastor. But, I mean, I thought coming out of seminary that John Murray Redemption Accomplished and Applied was the greatest book I'd ever read. And I decided in Sun that we were going to study it in Sunday school in South Dakota where most of the people are farmers and ranchers and have just gotten up at three o'clock to milk the cows. You know, uh not not to put them down because they were they were wonderful people and they were bright people and I learned so much from them Um but um you know w when You can't you cannot substitute academic seminary education for A life of living with Christ Experience is a good teacher. And you have to get experience. And you have to learn. You have to learn that you don't have all the answers. And even if you do have, think you have all the answers, you better learn how to communicate it in such a way that people will appreciate it and not feel put down. It is a powerful temptation For someone to be in the position of leadership in the Church of Jesus Christ. Thank God in his wisdom God's plan is to have a multiplicity of leaders and not just one man leading the church. Because it is an awful temptation to your pride. And you know who's right there standing at the door, ready to capitalize. It's hard enough being Being trying to live your life in a faithful way without having everybody think that you walk on water. If any man Paul write would later write in 1 Timothy chapter 6, verse 3 verse 3, if any man teach otherwise, and by otherwise he refers to, he means the things that Paul has already taught. If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. To the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing. But doting about questions and the meaning of words, whereof come envy, strife, railing, evil surmisings, etc. Accord if we were to take just from First Timothy chapter six, verse three, and try to extract From that verse, what might be some of the signs of a proud person? We would find, first of all, That he would teach another teaching other than what Paul taught. Or he would teach something that isn't taught in the Bible And present it as though it is to teach not the gospel, but to teach his ideas That is a sign that you've got someone who has a pride issue, who's swollen with pride, especially, especially when he does that in the name of Christ. And he presents to the congregation that which he claims to be the scriptures, and yet there is no biblical support for that view. And the sheep, for the most part, they're sheep. They're gonna follow the shepherd. You see the you see how things get set up that way for unscrupulous people, those who are proud, those who desire the adulation of men rather than the adulation of Christ. You can see how such things begin to Snowball and you feed the sinful emotion of pride. It doesn't take much To feed our pride. And to make us think that we are something when in reality we are nothing. Notice another thing. This is another thing which I I have I have witnessed many times When Paul writes in 1 Timothy 6. 3, and he says that if a man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness. I love doctrine. I love doctrine almost as much as I love life. I want to be precise about doctrine. Not always, I'm not always precise, but I try to be. Because I have always believed that there is a connection between right doctrine and right living. Another way of saying that is correct doctrine Ought to influence the practice of godliness and the development of godliness It ought to bring holiness from those who hear. And so often, and I think this is true somewhat in our own denomination. We got the right doctrine. We got it all down. We got the reformed faith embedded in our veins, flowing through our bodies. that subsequently we we've got the holiness matter covered too. And I'm not so sure that's always the case. I'm not so sure that's always the case. But you see, a person who is is doting about words, that's back to the the the verse 6 of chapter 3, not 6-3, but 3-6. A person who is focused on words and precision about words. And there should be precision. But that ain't the end of it. The test is not how precise you are, but who's listening? And what is the Spirit doing with what they're hearing from you speaking? Is are the people becoming more and more like Christ And if that is happening It ought to have, in the person who is humanly responsible for that, it ought to have this effect. Not. Hey, look at me, look what I did. But it ought to have the effect of God, I'm a sinner. And you use me to affect that in somebody else's life? It ought to, it it humbles you. It doesn't produce pride, it produces humility. That God works. Through vessels of clay, so that the praise might not be to men, but might go to God whose Christ saved them, and whose spirit is working in them. Tangible evidence. That the Spirit is still here and working among us by conforming people more and more to the image of Christ. If you take someone who is a novice And you elevate and and you know the apostle Paul said this to Timothy. You know what that means The Apostle Paul got wind somewhere that some people were doing this. Most likely. It means that. Or he wants to just warn Timothy, don't go down that path because you're setting that guy up. And if you set him up, you're setting the church up. Both are going to be impacted negatively because they will fall in to the snare of the devil. And it may not happen right away, but it probably will happen that at some point the congregation Will hear those things and get frustrated with someone who is kind of projecting the fact that he is out for his own glory and not for the glory of God. And there will be a terrible division. I mean there are other reasons why division occurs, but here's one. So not a novice lest lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil. And again, pride, pride, one of the Things that the scripture says that God hates a proud man. Oh, okay. If you'll go with me a minute, go back to First Timothy six, three, not three six, but six three And uh I I I want to just go a little further with that verse to uh let's go back and read it. Uh if a man teach any teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness Guess what? He is proud. And he knows nothing. That's God's evaluation. Such a person is proud and he knows nothing. Focusing on questions and stripes of words Whereof come envy, strife, railings, evil surmising, perverse disputings of men, of corrupt mind, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness. Withdraw yourself from such as these. That's interesting. I want to just focus for just a few minutes on this thought that such a person who is who who who won't who is proud he won't consent to the doctrine that Paul taught. Number two, he uh He bifurcates or he divides doctrinal understanding or academic understanding of the Bible from the heart From godliness, it says he's proud, and he supposes that gain is godliness. Now that's an interesting phrase. Gain is godliness. In what way are we to try to understand that? Well, we could take the route that 1 Peter takes with the word gain. And in 1 Peter 5, which we read previously, remember he talks about a person who takes on the role of an elder? And he says, not by compulsion, but willingly. And then he starts this thing of not and but. Not and but. There's a series of them. Not by compulsion, but willingly. Not for sordid gain, or translated also filthy lucre, in which the word gain in which the word gain revolves around the desire to use the position of leadership for financial security. And welfare. It could be that that's the same thought that Paul may have Here uh uh uh in in six three, uh uh believing that gain is godliness And the reason I say that is that we live in a community. We live in a county called Prince George's County And some of you know what is out there in the churches of Prince George's County. And you know that as you've been going around and looking at some of these churches, a very strong component of what is preached is called the health and wealth. gospel or the prosperity gospel. That gain Is godliness. Just because a person see in those kinds of gospel presentations. In those kinds of presentations They've got the material blessings that may come to us in Christ confused with the spiritual blessings. That come to us in Christ. They've elevated actually the material above the spiritual. To the point that they assume then that what is qualifies for Right Christian living or godliness is if you've got a Mercedes. And all the trappings that go with it. And it and it it's it's a it's kind of it's kind of a a perversion. Of the truth. And the people hear this. And you know what? They begin to think, what's wrong with me? I only got a Volkswagen I don't have that mansion. What's wrong with my salvation? What's wrong with my holiness? That's one way of thinking that gain is godliness I got the thinking that there's there might be another way. Let's take the word gain and let's take that word and apply it Not to money, but let's take it and apply it to what is normally thought of as one of the major criterions of success. What is success in the world? Power, yes. But what is success in terms of Getting ahead in life, and you think, well, it's all the material things I got. That's often thought that way. But if we take that and we start thinking about the church, what is success in the church? What? Yeah. Big church. Big church means success. Right? That's what our culture thinks. So Perhaps that's the sense in which it's meant here. That gain equals godliness. Must be doing something right. Because I'm sure packing it in. Of course, they forget the passages that says that in the latter times people will begin to have itching ears. And they will attract unto themselves teachers who will tell them what they want to hear. And you see, those kinds of the the devil uses those kinds of things to corrupt the minds of the people and to corrupt the minds of the ministers And the elders. They think that they're doing the right thing because there's so many people coming. I remind you that our Lord had 11 faithful disciples after three years of ministry. And I submit he was the most godly of all, and the most humble of all. all and the greatest leader who ever lived. No pride there His heart wasn't lifted up above the Lord. His heart was for the Lord and under the Lord. And neither was his heart lifted above his brethren. He was humble. And even though at the age of eleven He had knowledge that far surpassed the leaders in the synagogue. Remember, they marveled at what he knew. Even though he had knowledge, it didn't puff him up. But it was love for God and love for the people of God. that brought about edification under godliness as well as salvation. Do not elect such a novice to the office of elder Or you will destroy him, and you may wind up destroying the church. He will fall into the condemnation of the devil whose pride knows no bounds I thank God that God not only has A way for his church to be governed. But he tells us in plain English, or in plain Greek, what we should be looking at. For in those men. God give us the grace to follow God's way and not interject into God's way man's criterion for leadership for success. Amen. Our Heavenly Father, grant, O Lord, that your church Would uh would would bring forth men who have passion for the Lord Jesus Christ and his kingdom and his ways. And Lord, that they will maintain his ways over against the ways of the world, so that God Might receive all glory and all praise from all teaching, from all ministry, from all shepherding, from all edification that goes on in his church. We ask it for the glory of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit.