And now I invite you to turn to the text from which the sermon is taken, from the book of Amos, the second chapter, and verses one through three. Let's hear God's word. Then the Lord said, For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away its punishment. Because he burned the bones of the king of Edom to line. But I will send a fire upon Moab. And it shall devour the palaces of Kirioth. Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and trumpet sound And I will cut off the judges from its midst, and slay all its princes with him, says the Lord. Thus for ends the reading of God's Word. Well, we have been uh uh studying the book of Amos. This is the now the sixth The sixth of the series of judgments that God is bringing to the neighbors of Israel, the nation of Israel and Judah. We know roughly the time uh that the uh Amos wrote these uh words um uh uh because his uh His ministry is spoken of at the very beginning of Amos as being during the time of Uzzah. Uzziah, king of Judah, and the days of Jeroboam, the son of Joash, king of Israel. These all locate the time again at around seven fifty BC. Now uh at this time, as you well know, there are two nations of Israel, one called Israel in the north, the other called Judah in the south. The north is uh uh the primary the primary um uh kingdom that Amos is addressing his words to. Uh but uh this this particular kingdom of the north uh was uh known for its idolatry and uh subsequent wickedness There isn't one of its kings that are giving given any good commendations in the Word of God These are some of the things that we've heard in the past. The northern kingdom was repeatedly spoken to by God's prophets. Amos being just one. There are others that were speaking to it, call it calling it to repentance, but the northern kingdom would not listen. And judgment came, temporal judgment came to the Northern Kingdom in uh in 722 B. C. when it was carried off into Captivity and destroyed by the armies of the Assyrians. So, as you look at this section, the first chapter, and into the very beginnings of the second chapter, consists of six different sections of God's judgments being pronounced upon the nations that surround Israel and Jordan Israel and Judah. And those uh it's very interesting that geographically it covers all points of the compass. as if the judgment is encircling God's people. And it's also interesting to note that until we get to Moab, which we'll look at tonight, five of the six judgments are for what the various different nations is said to have done to Israel, or God's people, Israel This one tonight is the lone one in which judgment is for someone outside Judgment comes to Moab because of something she did outside of God's special covenant relationship with his people. Now these you can tell that there's a judgment coming because each of the sections start out with the same words, for three transgressions and for four. And uh uh you see that as it uh begins in verse 3 of chapter 1 regarding Damascus, uh a northern territory, and you see it as it uh ends in this section of judgments with Moab, the southernmost territory, for three transgressions and for four. God brings judgment upon sin. It's sin that is being judged. And even though God has entered into special covenant relationship with his people, Israel and Judah. The nations are not exempted. They're not exempted from God's judgment. They're not outside of God's purview. They're not given free reign to sin, whatever a uh as uh however they want. Because we remember, don't we? Don't we remember that God made a covenant with Abraham, and that covenant ultimately would involve the blessing of all the nations? And so consequently, even though God is choosing in the Old Testament to work primarily with Israel, the nation and the people of uh Abraham's descendants, that does not mean that God is forever cut off from the rest of the people. It does not mean that God's law doesn't have the same binding effect upon the nations as it does on Israel. Because we also know that the law of God is written on our hearts. It's written on everybody's heart, according to Romans chapter 2, 14 and 15. And in a certain way This succession of judgments that Amos is speaking about, as he starts talking about, think about it. six different judgments on six neighbors of Israel, some of which have long history of conflict with Israel. It's impossible for the people of God not to take notice of what God is doing to these nations. These people that Israel considers to be outside, as it were, of God's covenant and outside of God's interest. these Gentiles, these unbelievers, these pagans, of course they were all of that But you would think that if you're sitting and you're hearing Amos deliver these judgments and then these judgments come about, you would think that if you're Israel Gee, if I'm doing some of that, what exempts me? What exempts me from whatever punishment God has for them? Am I so special that I'm somehow immune from any judgment that will fall my way when I do the same thing? But the hardness of men's hearts, not only the nations, but also Israel's heart and Judah's heart, the hardness of hearts doesn't think that way Sin doesn't mean we don't learn. We will never learn. And learning will not be enough to transform our sinful behavior. It will take an act of God to actually physically change our hearts and spiritually change our hearts' inclinations. Now, the judgments that are spoken about regarding all of the nations, and I'll get to Amos in just a minute, but the judgments are only temporal. And I say only temporal, that's not to minimize how severe they were. And there were some very severe judgments You remember one of the nations that was the most, probably the greatest thorn in Israel's side during her existence were the Philistines. Well, God judges them. In verse 8 of chapter 1, I will cut off the inhabitants from Ashdod. And I will hold him that holdeth the scepter from Ashkelon, and I will cut him off, and I will turn my hand against Ekron, and the remnants of the Philistines shall perish, says the Lord. He mentions Ashdod, Ek, Ekron, Ashkelon, three of the five Philistine major cities all of which will receive judgment. And the judgment is such that God says, I'm going to wipe you off the face of the map. You're not going to exist when my judgment comes So, I mean, even though it's temporal, it's severe. That's not to say it's not severe. And uh but they're not eternal They're not eternal. Not that they couldn't be eternal, but this doesn't say anything about the souls Of the people of the Philistines. It doesn't say anything about the souls of the Edomites or the souls of the people from Tyre. Where or the soul, you know, it goes on and on. It's not necessarily a spiritual indictment or or uh or or or a spiritual judgment that's being levied against the people. It doesn't mean that God couldn't do that. It's just that it doesn't speak about that in these particular passages. And I think that if you want to ask yourself the question, why is that the case? Why is it temporal and not maybe spirit and not as much spiritual? Well The only answer I can think about is it gives the nations opportunity to hear, to hear the truth, and perhaps to repent. We've already read this morning or this afternoon, this evening, we read from Psalm 47 how God is the God of all the nations. Again, reinforcing that point. And again, we also know that the seed of Abraham does not just constitute One particular race. It ultimately focuses in one particular man, the Lord Jesus Christ. But the seed of Abraham, in that seed All the nations of the earth shall be blessed. Not every one of those nations in those nations, not every person in that nation, but all the nations will be blessed. Some from those nations will be blessed, in other words, by the seed of Israel. But Christ. Christ will not just be the God of the Jews, the Redeemer of the Jews, but he will be the only name whereby men in heaven or earth might be saved. Okay, so we come to the situation with Moab and what is going on. In verse one of chapter two, for three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not turn back God says, I will not turn back my wrath. I will not turn away its punishment. I will not turn back my wrath Once again, we're instructed that sin is not a minor matter, but sin incurs the wrath of God and the curse of God. God is angry at our sin. We never like to talk about that because we've dumbed down, we've downplayed the wrath of God. In general, people don't like to hear that. Talk about the wrath of God all the time, and you know, you won't have many people coming to the church. We want to hear about the good things. We want to hear about the good stuff. We want to hear about God's love. Right? He's both. He's equally both all the time. Uh and uh It is his profound love, which of course sends Jesus to be the wrath-bearing sacrifice. But God says at Moab, I won't turn back my wrath. You have rebelled against me, and it won't ever be forgotten, and it will be punished. Now the Westminster Shorter Catechism speaks of something called the misery of the estate wherein to men fell. What is the misery of the estate or the situation or the circumstances into which men fell? And it it reads, the answer reads this way, pretty, pretty short answer. All mankind by their fall lost communion with God, are under his wrath. And curse, made liable to the miseries of this life, to death itself, and the pains of hell forever That's what happened when men fell into sin. That's what happened when we became sinful. And that happened with Adam. That's what our sinful nature results in. These miseries, the text, the confession calls it. And you know some of the passages of Scripture that speak about these miseries. For example. We're under the wrath of God. John 3, verse 36. He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life, and he who does not believe The son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abides on him. Wrath for not believing in the Son, but wrath also for sinning. Romans one verse eighteen. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness. of men who hold the truth of God in unrighteousness. Unrighteous, ungodliness. But they hold the truth about God in unrighteousness. Ephesians 2, verse 3, Paul commenting upon our situation before we came to know Jesus, he says among whom we also had our our walk in times past, and the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and the mind, and we were by nature children of wrath. When we enjoyed the temptations of sin, the lusts of the flesh, we were children of God's wrath. Ephesians 5:6, let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things the wrath of God comes upon the children of disobedience. Not only are we under the wrath of God for sin, but we're also under the curse of God for sin. Whether we be from our whether our g generation be from Moab, or whether it be from Israel, or whether it be from Germany or America, some other place in the world, God is wrathful at sin and God exacts a curse upon us because of our sin Galatians chapter 3 verse 10 As many as are of the works of the law are under a curse, for it's written, Cursed is every one that continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. In that case, we're cursed if we think that we're saved by our obedience to the law. We're cursed because we cannot do that. We can't continue to do it. We can't do it perfectly. We will fail. And then there's death, wrath, curse, death. Ezekiel 18, verse 4. Behold, all souls are mine, as the soul of the Father. So also the soul of the Son is mine. The soul that sinneth all shall die. The soul that sinneth, all shall die. Romans 5. 12 Wherefore as by one man's sin entered the world, and death through by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for all have sinned. In our text, verse 2, it says that Moab shall die because of the sin. Because of her three transgressions and for four. Because of her ever-increasing sinfulness, she will die. The people will die. Because God owns the souls. And then sometimes you get uh this descriptions of how judgment shall fall upon men cursed falling into everlasting fire. Fire seems to be uh um a uh r ready uh use for uh judgment falling uh and punishment occurring Matthew 25, verses 41 through 46, where the goats are talked about. Part of their judgment is fire and everlasting punishment. So again, as the confession shorter catechism talks about the various miseries that occur to us in the estate of sin. All these things are also going to happen to Moab in this judgment because she has sinned. And the specific sin that seems to set this off is uh is is is probably you know the the the capstone of a whole mountain of sinful acts And it's mentioned here in the text. But before I say that, before I refer to it fully, let's just remember again who Moab is. Moab, the descendants of Lot, the descendants of the incestuous relationship between Lot and his daughters. Remember when they came out of Sodom, they got him drunk. And he had two children. One was Ammon. We looked at the judgment on Ammon last time The other is Moab. We looked at, we we see them today. Again, their territory as it relates to Israel is in the far south. Far south and far east, but near enough to get to Israel quickly, if necessary. There's frequent hostility between Israel and Moab. Early on, we find Israel coming out of Exodus. and they're wandering through territory and they want to go through Moab's territory. And they unite with Ammon in Numbers chapter 22, verses 1 through 6. to hire Balaam to curse the Isra to curse Israel. One of the first of the jud of the oppressors during the reigns of the judges was a Moabite king named Eglon in Judges chapter 3 verses 12 through 30. There's a rich history of conflict between these people But in this case, the conflict that she is noted for, the conflict that brings about God's judgment is because it says she burned the bones of the king of Edom into line. It must have been an awful conflagration. It must have been an awful fire to have been able to do that. Uh but the but you know of course too uh that Edom uh i is uh is kind of uh he is kind of one of their cousins I mean Edom was uh the the descendant of um of Isaac, Jacob and Esau. Edom descended out of Esau. And um And so this I said before is the first time in the book of Amos the specific cause of God's judgment against the nation is not because of sin done against Israel. But it's sin against another people. It's the first time in Amos that this occurs. And I've been told in reading about this that burning the bones of someone in ancient times was thought superstitiously to deprive the person's spirit of rest. Um uh that uh and and and and that I I don't know whether that's exactly true or not, but that's It's one thing to think about. What I do know is true is that this was horrific treatment of someone who is your neighbor and someone who is a distant cousin It certainly isn't love. Is it? Well, the nature of the judgment, again, we see in verse 2, fire. Fire consumes the fortress of Kyryoth. And Kyryoth is a generic name for the word city. Just like in Greek, generic name for the word city is polis. That's why you got Indianapolis. For example. But a generic name in the language of Hebrew is Kiriath for city. But Moab also had its greatest city, known as Kiryah. And in addition To Kyrioth being its principal city, there was something else in Kyrioth. And this was the shrine to their god named Kemish. And Kemish may not mean a whole lot to you, but he was the national god of the Moabites. And the worship of Temesh was like the worship of Molech, which we looked at the last time with Ammon. Both gods demanded human sacrifice Both gods demanded human sacrifice of the firstborn male. What a what an interesting picture that is as compared to the God that is and the God whose firstborn son is sacrificed for your sake It is to Pemish or Molok, you might recall It is the one of these two gods, I don't remember which one, but Manasseh sacrificed his firstborn son too. One of the most evil kings of the southern kingdom. But God, in his infinite mercy, brought Manasseh to his senses. And he repented, and he had another son, who turned out to be a pretty good king of the southern kingdom. Moab is described here as having been destroyed with tumults and shouts of war and the trumpet. And God says he will destroy their ruler or their judge, and he will kill all of their officials. A pretty comprehensive judgment. But again, what is God's purpose in such horrific destruction? I don't think we can get around the fact that part of it is a warning to Israel. And I say that, I say that because look at the next two series of judgments. Who are they on? Judah, followed by Israel. And then there are no more judgments It seems to be a logical progression in this geographic area. That even the covenant people of God who would claim that they are Abraham's children, even they will be judged. And they will be judged for similar sins and including unrighteousness and including the worship of other gods But there's an interesting passage in Psalm 83 that also sets the tone and helps us understand why there why God is bringing about such horrific destruction to um to the Moabites and to others, and even to these others of Israel's neighbors. And I'm going to read that psalm. And you can follow along if you wish. I'll begin in verse 1 of Psalm 83. Keep not silence, O God, hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God, for lo, thine enemies make a tumult, and they that hate thee have lifted up their head They have taken crafty counsel against thy people and consulted against thy hidden ones. They have said, come and let us cut them off from being a nation. That the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance. Certainly the first five of the judgments are people who would say that, trying to destroy Israel. They have consulted together with one consent. They are confederates against thee, the tabernacles of Edom. The Ishmaelites of Moab and the Hagarenes Gibel, Ammon, Amalek, the Philistines, with the inhabitants of Tyre. See, the psalm has mentioned all Five of the six ones that we were talking about. Asher or Asir also is joined with them. They have I have that in King James. I'm not sure what that means in modern English. I didn't check that out. They have hopen the children of Lot. Do not do unto them as unto the Midianites, as to Sisera, as to Jaban at the brook of Kishon. Which perished at Endor. They became as dung for the earth. Make their nobles like Oreb and like Zeb. Yea, all the princes as Zeba and as Zalmuna who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession. O my God, make them like a wheel as the stubble before the wind. As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame settleth the mountains on the fire, so persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm, fill their faces with shame. They may seek thy name, O Lord, that they may seek thy name, O Lord. You see the redemptive focus there? That they may seek thy name O Lord. Let them be confounded and troubled forever. Let them be put to shame and perish, that men may know that thou, whose name alone is Jahwe Like the Most High over all the earth, has a dual purpose. That God is the most high, and that some may seek his name. And I remind you again, I remind you again, just of the historical fact, that in the line of Christ is a Moabitus. His name was Ruth. Amen. Let us pray. Well God, we thank you for your con for your faithfulness that you are the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow. We thank you, Lord, that you have the same hatred today for sin as you had before. And we thank you, Lord, that you have the same redemptive plan today as you had before. That it is by your grace that we are saved and not of our works. For Lord, we are so ungrateful and we are great sinners And Lord, we do not learn from our sin. In hardness of heart, we continue, Lord, to be disobedient to you. Lord, we pray, we are thankful, Lord, that you have destroyed the hardness of our heart, that you have melted our opposition. And you have caused us to see, Lord, the greatness of your love toward us in Christ Jesus. And Father, we would pray the same for all the people of the world for whom you have called to hear the good message, the good gospel message, that in the seed of Abraham all the nations shall be blessed, that Jesus is that seed. And Lord, we pray that you will turn the hearts of the wicked away from their plans to exalt themselves above you and exalt themselves over your faithful people. And Lord, that they would come to see the error of their ways, that they would come to experience the wonder of divine grace. For Lord, we do not deserve it. No one deserves it. But Lord, you are good and you are gracious. And we thank you, O Heavenly Father, that you have sent Jesus to die. For our sins. And we thank you, Lord, not only does he die for our sins, but he resurrects and he ascends into heaven. And there he sits with his work finished, complete. And he does the ongoing labor of in of intercession for our be on our behalf and on behalf of the welfare of his kingdom. Kingdom. Lord, hear our prayers. And Lord, in our nation, which is so could fit in any of these categories of the nations around Israel. In terms of its sinfulness, Lord, for its great rebellion against you on so many different ways, for the calling of the continuing calling of evil good and good evil. Lord, for the way in which the people of this world uh seem to uh think absolutely nothing about the mass killing of babies that's going on. every day and think it's think it's the norm and think nothing of it being evil or sin As it really and truly is. Oh Lord, we pray that you would so turn the hearts of men and women away from the spiral of death and destruction. of eternal judgment and eternal j doom that awaits them, were they not to repent. Give them, O Lord God, the grace of repentance. Give our nation, O Lord, the grace of repentance Turn them from their evil ways. But don't just turn them from their evil ways. Turn them to you, Lord. Turn them back to you. Turn them to the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. turn those who are so possessed with the concept of freedom, freedom to do whatever sin they want. To help them to see, Lord, that such is not freedom, but it's bondage. It's a great deceit to call it freedom. Call encourage them to see That only in Jesus are we free to be what we have been created to do. And that is to worship and glorify you forever. May God have all the glory. Amen.