All right. We continue our study in the Presbyterian Reformed Church. Let's go to John chapter 4. John Chapter 4, let's give attention to God's Word. Now when Jesus learned that the Pharisees had heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself did not baptize, but only his disciples He left Judea and departed again for Galilee, and he had to pass through Samaria. So he came to a town of Samaria called Sikar, near a field that Jacob had given to his son Joseph. Jacob's well was there, so Jesus, wearied as he was from his journey, was sitting beside the well. It was about the sixth hour. A woman from Samaria came to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink, for his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. The Samaritan woman said to him, How is it that you a Jew asked me ask for a drink from me, a woman of Samaria? The Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. Jesus answered her, if you knew the gift of God and who it is that is saying to you, Give me a drink, you would have asked him and he would have given you living water. The woman said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw water with. Well is deep. Where do you get that living water? Are you greater than our father Jacob? He gave us the well and drank from it himself. As did his sons and his livestock. Jesus said to her, Everyone who drinks of this water will be thirsty again. But whoever drinks of the water I will give him will never be thirsty again The water that I will give him will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water so that I will not be thirsty or apt to come here to draw water. Amen. Today we're going to be talking about solo gratia by grace alone Passage that we've just read in John is full of grace This woman knew that Jews would not speak to her. Certainly, a male Jew would not be speaking with a Samaritan woman. It's only by grace that Jesus was even speaking to this woman. And he offers her living water. This woman was a sinner, with many, many husbands. She was seeking for her last husband in Christ, although she didn't know it yet. And Jesus offers her living water. Only by grace. Only by grace. As we consider where we've been, the five solas, next click there. We summarized it already this morning. They didn't really find the way of salvation. They just considered that the way of salvation was in the scriptures, and that was all we needed. Or the scriptures. Next slide. So the five solas were that summarization or have become that summarization, as again was said this morning tidy list uh to summarize what happened during the Reformation, what the Reformation was really focused on. Scripture alone, Christ alone, faith alone, grace alone, to the glory of God alone. Next slide. And so we have the five solas. Next slide. As we studied sola scriptura, we saw that All things having to do with salvation, spiritual life, explicitly or implicitly taught in Scripture. Next slide. As we saw from Douglas Van Dorn The scripture is sufficient for teaching, rebuking, correcting, training, and righteousness, so we may be equipped for every good work. Next slide. So as Christas The issue was not with the identity of Christ, but with the work of Christ. That's what the reformers were addressing. Next slide. And next slide. We're just going to run through these pretty quickly. And so as we talked about Solus Christus, we were talking, asking that question, what's the need for salvation? And we then we asked that question, how does Jesus save? And we saw there was only the God man who is able to save. So it's only Christ, it's only by and through Christ that we can be saved. Next slide I saw that that need for salvation was so very clear as we looked at that gap between God and men, the wrath of God, the impossibility of Adam and Eve entering back into the garden on their own and the everlasting nature of eternity. Only Christ can do all that. He is the way of salvation. We read in John 14, 6, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. Alright, next slide. Last week we talked about Solafide How can I be saved? Next slide, next click, click through these. There are three verses here, all of them pointing us to the need for faith. As Jesus preached his first sermon, as Mark recorded it, repent and believe. John, as he opens up his gospel writes so very clearly to all who received him, who believed in his name, and in Galatians chapter 3, for in Christ you are sons of God through faith. It's only by faith that we can be saved. Next slide. Consider Abraham. We did that last week. What did he do to be saved? He believed. And he believed the Lord, and he counted it to him as righteousness. Next slide. How was it that Jesus healed so many during his earthly ministry? Your faith has made you well. Pointing to The fact that we are saved by faith in Christ. Next slide. We talked uh before that uh the fact that there is this perceived problem of works, and we compared Paul's writings with the writings of James. See that some people come to the conclusion that there is either a conflict or that we need to add to the works of Christ as the perceived problem. Next slide. Click through this. And we discussed that fact that it is just faith that justifies, not faith plus works. We saw that there was a three-part solution, that scripture must be read as a unity, that context is really important, and that Abraham was the key. We also saw it next slide, that there was no real conflict between Paul and James. That they're both addressing the idea of salvation. James was addressing a point which Paul was not. It could be clearly seen and understood as we consider the harmony of the scriptures, the context, and certainly Abraham. Next slide. Today, Sola Bratia. Sola Bratia. What is grace? Let's talk about this. Let's think about this. Next slide. Grace, or to understand grace, we must have a deep understanding of the abomination of our sin. As the living and holy creator God has been infinitely offended by our sin, we will never grasp what grace is. Unless we understand sin. And that's why Paul begins his letter to the church at Rome. There's a deep understanding of sin. We must understand it. We must grasp it because grace isn't grace if we don't understand what we've been saved from. Next slide. This is written by uh Jonathan Edwards Maybe a little bit difficult to understand that he's the uses some words that we don't, but I think you'll get the idea. The crime of one being despising and casting contempt on another is proportionally more or less heinous, as he was under greater or less obligations to obey him. So what Jonathan Edwards is saying is, well, you know, our crimes, depending upon who we offend, could be greater or lesser depending upon who it is we offend. It's bad to offend our parents. It's worse to offend the living God. And therefore, if there be any being that we are under infinite obligation to love and honor and obey The contrary toward him must be infinitely faulty. We have an obligation to infinitely love, obey, and honor our God. And Edwards is saying, well, if we don't, then our sins Must be infinitely faulty. Our obligation to love, honor, and obey any being is in proportion to his loveliness, honorableness, and authority But God is a being infinitely lovely, because He has infinite excellency and beauty. So sin against God being a violation of infinite obligations Must be a crime infinitely heinous, and so deserving infinite punishment Again, that's Jonathan Edwards. But I think he's hit the nail on the head in terms of the abomination of our sin. It's infinitely faulty. It deserves infinite punishment. Next slide So we might partially grasp the magnitude of the offense if we go to the scriptures. And consider the images of hell given to us there. Next slide. So Jesus Christ says very clearly, if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It's better for you to enter the kingdom of God with One eye, then two eyes to be thrown into hell, where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. So Christ does two things in this passage. He tells us the heinousness of hell. The place of eternity, where the worm doesn't die, the fire is not quenched, it cannot be quenched. And he tells us that there's a better thing for you to do. And he uses that analogy of removing that portion of our bodies which causes us to sin. And we know that that it's not our bodies that cause us to sin, it's our heart. But that's the extreme measure he's telling us to to go to hell is It's just an indication of how bad our sin is. And so he calls us to remove that which causes us. to sin. Next slide. We had another picture of hell in Revelation chapter twenty. This is the place where the devil and his minions are will be thrown into. And it's referred to as the lake of fire and sulfur. Now if we think of that image just for a moment, a lake We think of a possibly a large body of water that we might get fully immersed in if we're swimming in it, if we're boating in it. But here it's it's got that image of torment, a lake of fire, a lake of sulfur. Beast and the false prophet were they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. This is how bad our sin is. That we would be cast into this lake of fire and sulfur. This is how offensive our sins are to God. That this would be the punishment. Next slide. Our sin. And I'm hoping that they're beginning to see that we can begin to understand grace when we begin to understand the abomination of our sin. This is what must be dealt with. When we consider grace, our thoughts must begin with the wretchedness of sin, the magnitude of eternal punishment for sins committed against an infinitely good God, infinitely holy. Next slide. Knowing then the magnitude of the offense committed against God and the infinite punishment which satisfies his wrath Right, the infinite punishment that we deserve is that which is satisfying his wrath. No mere finite human can adequately address this offense or satisfy his wrath. That's where we should be headed. We see the magnitude of the offense against God Illustrated by the infinite punishment which it deserves. And now we must come to the point where we say, there's no way. There's no way that we can address that. There's no way we can satisfy that. It's impossible. It's even beyond our ability to grasp it fully This is the beginning of grace. Next slide We should never ever be considering that, okay, what I need to do now is just do such good works that I'm going to overcome The punishment that I'm due. I'm hoping that what we've just seen is telling us so very clearly that this is just not possible, and we shouldn't even be thinking anywhere along these lines. This is how the world thinks. They don't grasp the infinite nature of our sin, the offense that we have committed against God that's not understood. And as a result of not understanding that, then these, see, I put good works in really small letters and sin in really big letters. The world thinks that, well, I'll just do some good works, that these will overcome, and it never will. It never will. All of our good works are mixed with our sin. So we shouldn't even be considering that. Not even one iota. That's not grace This, in fact, the idea that this is possible erases grace. It does away with grace. Next slide. So what is grace? 1828 Webster has defined it, I think, pretty well. It had more than one definition, but this is the one that got to the heart of what we're talking about. The free, unmerited love and favor of God, the spring and source of all the benefits men receive from Him. Such a great great thing of a dictionary. That is actually Based upon scripture. Well, that didn't last long. Forward, fast forward 200 years, probably less than 200 years. And now it's defined as unmerited divine assistance. Given to humans for regeneration or sanctification, a state of sanctification enjoyed through divine assistance. It's just completely wiped out. what was scripturally correct. So I'm sure that Miriam Webster's dictionary is good for certain things. But the 1828 is good for most things when we're looking for a biblically right answer in terms of just defining words. Next slide So examples of grace. Examples. We've seen one already In John chapter 4 with a Samaritan woman, she had no reason to expect that this man would speak to her at all, not only because he was a man, but then because he's a Jew. No reason to believe that he would actually engage in conversation with her and that he would lead her to the way of salvation. That's grace. Already seen one. Where else do we see examples of grace in scripture? Next slide Well, we see it in Genesis chapter 15. Now, Genesis chapter 15 is that passage of scripture where Abram has just defeated those kings who had taken Lot. He's brought Lot back, all his possessions, everything, nothing's lost. And yet, Abram is, in a sense, downcast because he hasn't had any children yet. God's already promised him that nations are going to come from him, that he's going to have this land And there's no child. And so he's thinking, well, it's going to be my servants who are in my house that are going to inherit all these things. And God tells him, no. No, you're going to have children. You're going to have a child. And we know that passage where Abraham believes that nations will come from him and it's credited to him as righteousness. But there was another part to the promise. And the other part was the land part. And Abram says, Well, how do I know this is going to happen? So he believes with regard to the children. He's not so sure with regard to the land. And so he says, Oh, Lord God, how am I to know that I shall possess it? And so what does the Lord do? He enters into covenant. He continues entering into covenant with Abraham tells him, bring me a hei, three years old, a female goat, three years, a ram, three years, a turtle dove, a young pigeon. And so this was all of this ceremonial uh Event that folks during that time enter into when they'd make a promise between themselves They'd take these animals and split them down the middle, lay the halves, they'd walk through them, and they'd say, Well, if I break my promise, may it be done to me as it's been done to these animals Right? Maybe slain. So their promise was sealed with walking through these animals who are now dead. And so God says, okay, how are you going to know? Well, let's enter into this ceremony. It's covenant. Next slide. And so the sun goes down after Abraham has done this. He's assembled the animals. They're slain. And Abram doesn't pass through it. From the start, smoking firepot and flaming torch passes between the pieces. A representation of God Himself passing through the animals and saying to Abram, I Will be as these animals, so to speak, if this doesn't come to pass. God will fulfill his covenant promises And that's what he was telling Abram on this day. On that day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, to your offspring, I will give this land. That's grace. It wasn't up to Abram to fulfill the covenant. It wasn't up to Abram to do anything. God was going to do it all. That's grace. Next slide What about what we've been reading about in Exodus, even today? You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. What was it that the Israelites had done to warrant being brought to the mountain of God to be saved, to be delivered? How is it that they become a treasured possession? Were they more numerous than the people around them? Were they just more righteous? No. No. It's all grace. It's all grace. Unfavored. Favor being poured out upon his people without merit. They didn't earn it. Next slide. Covenant relation did not depend upon the observance of that law as an antecedent condition. God entered into covenant with his people Before he even gave them the law. This comes from Hermann Hermann Babink, a forum of the dogmatics. The covenant relation that he entered into, he condescends, he enters into covenant with his people, but it's not dependent upon them satisfying any condition. See? He condescends. He enters into covenant with them. Why? Because of his love. Not because they were a lovable people, because of his love. That's grace. It was not a covenant of works, but rested solely in God's electing love. That's grace. Next slide. Well, what about Saul? Saul a Pharisee, Saul the fellow that was holding people's jackets, coats while they stoned Stephen, basically cheering them on Now he's still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord. He goes to the high priest, he asks for letters to the synagogues at Damascus. He wants to go there, he wants to find those who are following Jesus Christ. men or women and might bring them bound to Jerusalem. He wants to arrest those who are believing upon Christ. He wants to bring them to justice. Quotation marks around that He's breathing threats and murder against them. He hates Jesus, he hates God, he hates the people of God, so much so that this is a description of Saul. breathing threats and murder. Next slide. Well, if we continue on in Acts chapter 9, the Lord says to Ananias I've got his name, right? Rise and go to the street called straight at the house of Judas. Look for a man of Tarsus named Saul. Behold, he's praying. He's seen a vision. A man named Ananias. Come in and lay his hands on him so he might regain his sight. So at this point in time, Paul on his way to Damascus has lost his sight. Jesus Christ has visited him, and Ananias is told to go and lay your hands on him so that he might regain his sight. That's grace. What did Paul do to earn the regaining of his sight? Nothing. Next slide. But that's not really the focus of grace, is it? Go to him, go, for he is a chosen instrument of mine. To carry my name before the Gentiles and Kings and the children of Israel. He's taken this man who is breathing threats and murder against the people of God, and now changed him, made him into a chosen instrument. That's grace That's grace. Next slide. What about scripture proofs for grace? We've seen examples. That's certainly is a scripture proof, but just real, just plain scripture, Psalm 31. Be gracious to me, O Lord. Psalmist is in distress, my eye is wasted from grief, my soul and my body also. My strength fails because of my iniquity. Here's the real focus of grace. Psalmist knows that his sins are weighing him down. Bones are wasting away. Life is spent with sorrow, tears with my tears with signing, he needs God's grace. It's only by grace. Next slide. Isaiah 53. Surely he's borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Isaiah is speaking of Christ. That's grace. And yet we esteem him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted Pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace Christ didn't deserve any of that. We did. It's the unmerited favor of God. Next slide Ephesians chapter 2, possibly the verse that you would go to to say it's by grace. It's by grace, for by grace you've been saved through faith. This is not of your own doing. It's the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. By grace you've been saved through faith. Next slide. Finally, as we think of this, sometimes we think of those characters in Scripture, how bad they were. We just need to be pointing the fingers at ourselves. For while we were still weak. You could fill in the word ungodly there. At the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God chose his love for us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. At that time When we were still hating God, when we were still running from God, rebelling against God, doing exactly what Saul was doing. That's when Christ went to the cross. This passage shows us two aspects. That grace is based upon God's love. It must be, if it's based upon anything else, anything within us. It's not grace. And then it shows us the magnitude of his love. It shows us the magnitude of grace. It shows us how much favor he pours out upon us while we were still sinners. That's great. It's God who has grace. I will have mercy upon whom I will have mercy. I will have compassion upon whom I will have compassion. It depends not on human will. for exertion but on God who has mercy. That's grace Next slide. Next week, Lord willing, we will wrap up the solas and speak about Soli Deo Gloria. Only for the glory of God.