Tonight we continue our study in Timothy. We were in chapter 4 tonight. We began chapter 4 last week. And tonight our focus will be on verses 3 through 5. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. Now the Spirit expressly says that in the latter times some will depart from the faith, giving heed to deceiving spirits and doctrines of demons Speaking lies in hypocrisy, having their own conscience seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry. And commanding to abstain from foods which God created to be received with thanksgiving by those who believe and know the truth. For every creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving, for it is sanctified by the word of God and by prayer. Now the last uh time we were uh together and looking at this passage We made mention of the fact that the text clearly teaches that the latter days will be times in which People will be led astray. And uh and he can he speaks to the uh to the the to those who will lead people astray. He calls them deceiving spirits. And he says they teach the doctrines of demons. And one of the things we wanted to clarify, and we did the last time, that the idea of the last days. There is clearly a last day when Jesus will return. But there is also the teaching of Scripture. Born out in 1 John chapter 2 and in other places that we currently live in the last day or the last days. That the time of Jesus' birth, death, and resurrection unto now is the time of the last days. And it will be that way until Christ returns on the last day. He, John, for example, talks about in at the time of his writings in 1 John chapter 2, that many Antichrists Are here now. And says even some have gone out from us. So uh this whole idea of uh uh of um uh the the the last days being um uh uh uh in uh uh activity uh indicating that many will fall away uh is to be understood as That period of time since the death and resurrection of Christ until Jesus returns. And the devils will be active. During that period of time. And he mentioned a curious phrase which I had never thought about. He said, people will pay attention to these deceiving spirits. And they will also listen to doctrines of demons. And that kind of interested my thinking because I never think of demons possessing a book of doctrines. that they have kind of a an anti-God systematic theology. And uh and and and they work from that book So to speak. It's a book that's full of deception. It's a book of that's full of slander. And all the things that the devil says and thinks and does uh are contained in that book And more. But uh and and I and I speculated on what some of those doctrines of demons might be that uh that uh people pay attention to and get seduced by. And you might remember I mentioned a few of them. Such things we hear all the time, such teachings as if it feels good, do it. Or you only live once in life, go for the gusto. Or The devil made me do it. And you might remember I said, if those of you were here, there was one comedian who made his life with that phrase. Made his livelihood. And what about the whole idea where people seem to think relatively new idea where they think I'm entitled? What you have, I'm entitled to. Or I'm entitled to get that or to have that. I'm entitled to have a great life. I'm entitled to have all the things this world has to offer. And so I speculated about that. But tonight, tonight, we have the Apostle Paul outlining two of the doctrines of demons right in our text. And if you take note, verses 3 through 5 pinpoint those doctrines of demons. He introduces the subject of the doctrines of demons in verse 1, and then in verse 2, he talks about how the deva how the demons uh work, they speak lies and hypocrisy, and uh and they have a a conscience seared with a hot iron. And then verse 3 Forbidding to marry and Commanding to abstain from foods which God has created Now, on the surface, you hear those two things, and you might say to yourself, well, those are not really all that difficult or all that bad Those are not, those kinds of teachings may be a little different than what we think the Bible teaches. But they're not really in the category of doctrines or of demons. They're not the kind of deception that the devil will use To lead people astray. And yet, properly understood, both of those doctrines are anti-biblical Both of those doctrines, those doctrines of demons that are mentioned, are expressly denied in the Word of God. And it's my task tonight to point out those areas where the Bible teaches differently. than forbidding to marry and abstaining from foods We are not told, for example, who was promoting these views in Paul's day when he wrote to Timothy. But Timothy was an Ephesus. And Ephesus was a region, a city that was highly influenced by the Greeks. And a cardinal principle of Greek thinking Is that the world in which we live is divided into two different realms It's called different things, but it's usually referred to as the world of spirit or the world above and the world of this earth. Spirit, earth. The Greeks made the next connection by saying that the things of the earth are all bad. They're all evil, whereas the things that are above where God is is good. Now we would agree with the second part of that. The spiritual world is good. We may have a different concept of the spiritual world. But we do not agree that simply because you have contact with the things of this world, that it's automatically evil We would not agree with the thought that in order, in order, and here's where the next part of it comes in, that in order to transcend this world You have to refuse to be connected to certain things of this world in order to, as it were, save yourself. Or get better in life, go up the chain of being. You have to reject Some of the things of this world. Because those things are all fleshly. They're all matter. And all matter is bad. Now, the scriptures expressly contradict that. When God created the world and finished his creation, as we read about in Genesis, God looked at all that he had created, and he said, what? It was very good. It's not the fact that the yes, admittedly the world brings temptation, the world brings lust, but it's not because the world in and of itself is evil. It's men in the world that are evil, and the desires for the things of the world that are evil or that are that is bad. And we do not believe, you see, we do not believe that by abstaining From certain foods that it's going to make us more acceptable to God. Because that that that throws us all back on the works principle. The works principle of salvation. I think I got ahead of myself because I think I was supposed to be talking about forbidding to marry. And foods. But the same point is common to both arguments. Not only does the Bible not teach these two things But they're both based on a faulty view of this world. Forbidding to marry, for example. Again, Greek philosophy is involved. Marriage was seen as connecting with The lust part of this world. Connecting with the flesh, the matter. Because that is intrinsically evil. They got to the point of saying you have to be you have to forbid marriage. And if you look at history, you remember You remember that that was what happened in the in Roman Catholicism. Because they didn't forbid everybody to marry, but who did they forbid to marry The priests and the nuns, the leaders. Now, for whatever reason they said that that was the case, and I've heard some of those reasons You should be wholly devoted to God. You can't have competing loves. You should love the church, first and foremost, the priests and the nuns. But really, ultimately behind it was the idea that the philosophy behind that is the philosophy of the Greek. They don't don't want their people, they don't want their leaders to be contaminated by the world And it didn't work, did it? It didn't curb the lusts of the flesh. Forbidding marriage Did not work to make their leaders holy And it doesn't work because God doesn't say that. In the passage that follows what I read, It is God that brings together marriage. It is God that brings Eve to Adam. It is God Who says that for this reason a man shall leave his father and mother and shall cleave to his wife? It is God who says What I have joined together, let no man put asunder. It is God who said, it is not good for Adam to be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. So, what is God's view of marriage? If it is not, That this in and of itself is a good thing. And it's a good thing for many reasons. And the scripture details some of those reasons. Marriage is instituted by God in the beginning, as I've already said. It's not something that's just so it's not something that somebody just happened to think was a great idea. God did it God brought the two together. God brought the two sinful peoples together for his glory and for their blessing. Marriage is not a curse. We have to keep telling ourselves See how I can boldly say that when my wife is not here. Marriage, you see, also, is one of the clearest pictures the Bible presents of the relationship between Christ and his people. It's not that singleness in in this one instance, it's not that singleness is in any way not also predicting that relationship because what they have, what single people have, is God as their May I say it? Husband or wife. But in the the picture of marriage We see how God loves us And we are called in marriage to love husbands, love our wives, as Christ loved the church and wives. Submit and I would argue love your husbands as Christ loves the church. You see, if If we didn't have marriage, would it not be a little bit harder to understand how much God really does love the church? Would we have a good concept of that? Marriage, you see, adds to our understanding. Because that same passage in Ephesians 5, which talks about husbands loving their wives and wives submitting to their husbands, ends up with the statement: I'm not talking about marriage But I'm talking about Christ and his church. Marriage is a prev is some it an institution that God has ordained for dealing with Impurity, for lack of a better word. And I'm talking about what God says in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 6, and following I speak this by permission and not of commandment, for I would that all men were even as of myself. But every man has his proper gift of God, one after this manner and another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them if they abide that way even as I. But if they cannot contain or control, and most texts add their lusts. Let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. So you see, God has has it just the mere act of joining together in marriage does not bring some sort of mortal contamination. upon a person. Because the things that God has created are good. They're not bad. And the same is true with regard to food. The same is true with regard to abstaining from food. Perhaps that comes from not so much from the Greek way of thinking, but from the old Jewish dietary laws, where you know that there were, for for whatever reasons, prohibitions against eating certain kinds of food. Food. Those prohibitions did not come from man, but they did come from God. I don't know why God forbade certain foods in the Old Testament, but he did. I do know it has to be for his glory. But for men to go out and to somehow say that there are certain foods that you shouldn't eat And certain things that you shouldn't drink. I don't believe that's within our prerogative. Especially when we look at Genesis chapter 1, where it says Every creature or all creation, that's another legitimate translation, God has given for good. If, and there's a big if, if it is sanctified by it by prayer Abstaining from meats, abstaining from foods, does not make one more holy. Does not make one closer to God. Paul is saying those laws, those old laws are no longer applicable with Christ. They are part of the old laws that have passed away. In one sense, and we need to also understand this that those dietary laws contributed to to maintaining the divisions between Greeks and Jews. Because Jews ate this and Greeks ate that. You know, and they didn't, and they ate different things. And the the whole point of the of the New Testament is to break down those divisions. those cultural divisions that define people and make all people one in Christ. Ephesians, and I should have looked this up, but it's just coming to me. And so I don't remember exactly where it is, but it's in chapter two or chapter three, where it talks about Christ has come to break down the dividing walls of hostility, so that the two may be one. Food should not get in the way of that If God created all things to be received by thanksgiving for those who know the truth, then there is legitimacy to whatever Someone eats if given in thanks. If given with thanksgiving and with prayer Nothing is to be forbidden. Nothing is to be abstained from. And for the life of me, for the life of me, those who do such things consider themselves to be good practicing. Jews or good practicing Catholics. When the issue is, do you know Christ? Isn't it? For every Creature of God is good, and nothing is to be refused if it is received with thanksgiving. For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer. Paul's biblical doctrine and the Bible's Paul's and the Bible's doctrine regarding the things from the world Boils down to this. Christians are in the world, but not of it. God has created all things, especially for those who believe and know the truth, to receive with thanksgiving. Because it's what God has given to us. It is good for believers to sanctify their food with prayer Nothing intrinsically wrong with it. Nothing intrinsically evil with our food. Nothing that will make us less holy if we happen to eat it. You understand? And so you see, these are doctrines of demons because they subtly They suddenly suggest they suddenly suggest greater moral purity If we follow these two commands, when in reality, those two commands have nothing to do with moral purity. And they start leading people astray. They start leading people to think that because, you know, I I I've devoted my life to God and I've never been married and I've spent all of my time in religious activity that I know I know God and I'm in his kingdom Well, it may be a good thing for you that you have done that. Again, singleness is not wrong, but the point is, again, do you know Christ? What are you counting on for your salvation? Is it Jesus? Or is it what you're refraining from? And that's demonic to suggest to people under the auspices or under the authority that this is biblical This is somehow more super spiritual to suggest to people to go down that road, even over what God has said. Did God really say all things are created good? Did He really say That marriage was intended to be a blessing. You see These were probably two that Paul thought were important. Not probably, he did think, they were important to bring to people suffering. Again, they may seem like minor, small matters on the surface of things. But what the underpinnings of what undergirds this kind of teaching is not a small matter. It's another example of the devil's wiles, his deception, and his subtlety, and his deceit. That deflect us away from the truth. Oh, how easy it is to be deflected May God uh grant to all of you, all of you, a firmness In what you know to be true. May your decisions and may your life be based on what God's Word says. In order for you to do that, you need to know what it says. And you need to believe that God is speaking the truth. Amen. Let us pray, God, you are merciful God, it never ceases to amaze us how you how you continue to uh to love us in spite of our folly In spite of the fact that we are misled, that we're susceptible, we're gullible, we're easily influenced by The deceptive spirits. Oh God, make us strong in you. Make us strong in your word Lord, give us a longing and a craving for your word. A craving and a longing that can ever be satisfied no matter how many times we come and read it and study it and meditate upon it. Let's keep asking for more. And may the God of grace, may the God of all glory be pleased. with the heart of those who serve him who want more and more, more and more of his precious truth, more and more of his kingdom. more and more of his presence excuse me of his presence with them These things we ask in our Savior's name. Blessed be Jesus. Amen.