And now the reading of God's Word, our sermon text from Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verses 1 through 12, about half of the chapter. Well, less than half the chapter, but Ecclesiastes chapter 7, verses 1 through 12. Now here the section of Ecclesiastes goes into a section in which there are these wisdom sayings, these sayings that have to do with wisdom, what wisdom is. what it is to live wisely. Now, you're going to hear though, and you're going to see in this section Some of the things Solomon says seems a little funny. Seems a little strange to say, seems a little even upside down of what you might think wisdom might be. But you have to understand that the things he says are rooted in this perspective that he's been in where he's been meditating on the brokenness and the vanity of life in this world. And so even though these things sound sort of upside down, they're rooted from they're rooted in this somewhat uh somewhat depressing um reality of the fact that the world is broken. So listen for um you know many of these these sayings. Um he says he'll say some funny things like sorrow is better than laughter. Well that seems strange to us. He'll say some funny things like, It's better to go to the house of mourning than to the house of feasting. It's better to go to a place of mourning than a place of feasting. Don't we usually think that feasting is the better place to be and the place where we'll be more happy? But Solomon actually said it's better and even a happier situation. To be sad. A happier situation, to be in sorrow, than to be laughing. So listen for that as we read through Ecclesiastes 7. Ecclesiastes 7, again verses 1 through 12, these are sayings of wisdom. And listen to how it comes from the perspective of what he's been meditating on, what he's been meditating on, the brokenness of the world. Ecclesiastes 7, verse 1 through 12. Here is God's word. A good name is better than precious ointment. And the day of death than the day of one's birth Better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting. For that is the end of all men. And the living will take it to heart. Sorrow is better than laughter. For by a sad countenance the heart is made better The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning, but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth. It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise than for a man to hear the song of fools. For like the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool. This also is vanity. Surely, oppression destroys a wise man's reason, and a bribe debases the heart. The end of a thing is better than its beginning. The patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit. Do not hasten in your spirit to be angry, for anger rests in the bosom of fools. Do not say, Why were the former days better than these? For you do not inquire wisely concerning this. Wisdom is good with an inheritance, and profitable to those who see the sun. For wisdom is a defense as money is a defense. But the excellence of knowledge is that wisdom gives life to those who have It that's part of the reading of God's word. May He add His blessing to it and to its preaching this morning. So again, the the kinds of wisdom sayings you hear, um really, you know, overall, the overall thing they're doing here. It expresses kind of a negative outlook on life, doesn't it? Kind of a little bit of a downer to read it and to think about what Solomon's actually saying. He seems a little bit cynical about life. Doesn't he? Again, some of these strange things that that I mentioned a short while ago. It's better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting? Why would that be better? Sorrow is something that's better than laughter Why would sorrow be better than laughter? Don't we want to be happy? Wouldn't we rather enjoy laughter than having to be sad? And having to be sorrow, sorrowful. So again, these wisdom sayings, they seem to be expressing a fairly negative view of this life that it's really just better to just get it over with. You know, he even he even says um he says he says that that the day of death is better than the day of birth because then we just get it all over with. You know. This life is broken. This life is sorrow after sorrow. Better to just get it over with than than it is to be the person who is just starting out in that place. It's a very negative A very good negative outlook that Solomon has here. Now the thing we need to remember here is, again, the reason for his negativity is that he is actually trying to be quite realistic, isn't he? Again, isn't it better if reality is negative? If reality is negativity, isn't it better to be realistic Isn't it better to be sober about what's possible and what you can expect so that your hopes don't get dashed? Can't we understand this? We believe in the doctrine of sin, don't we? We believe in the curse of sin. We understand that there's only so much good that can be done in this world. We understand that there's only so much good That can come from the heart of mankind, even our own hearts. And isn't it better to be soberly realistic Than to get our hopes up, if our hopes are going to end up getting dashed in the end. Do you know that that's what Solomon is thinking about here? That's the way that the this wisdom proceeds in this section This is exactly what he has in mind. He has seen the upper limit of what's possible in a life, in a world that is broken. In a world of vanity. And he and he concludes, better not to get your hopes up if you know it's all gonna end a certain way in the end. Now again, notice verse 2. It comes out really clearly in what he says in verse 2. Why is it better to go to the house of mourning than to go to the house of feasting? Because the house of mourning is where we're all going to end up anyways. That's what he's saying. For that is the end of all men, and the living will take it to heart. You're gonna have to face mourning eventually. You're better off bracing yourself for it now and being prepared for it. than waiting. Then spending your time in frivolous pursuits and, you know, frivolous enjoyments when we all ought to know that the end is taking us towards that place of mourning in the end. So again, you should see that Solomon is trying to be realistic. He's trying to be sober-minded. You know, expect what is bad to come. That way you won't be disappointed. That is Psalmist might say. Don't we have some reason to accept this? Again, owing to the fact of the doctrine of sin. Owing to the fact of the curse that is on this world. Solomon's right about this. This is wisdom from God to take this perspective. Look at some of the other negative things that he points out in this section that really, again, it really shows us what we can expect this life so often to be and what we should not be surprised by. In this world of vanity, when we see these things happen. In verse 5, he sets our expectations so that we should be ready to hear rebuke. Boy, that's not a very optimistic view of mankind, but that is his view. Rebuke is coming. Be ready to hear rebuke, because you're gonna need it. And we're gonna need it repeatedly. This is what this is Solomon's view of the world here. Um, you know, it's fools who sit around and enjoy laughter. And enjoy things that are enjoyable for the moment because they are uh they should instead brace themselves for the rebuke that is coming. For that is just the way of this world. That's what Solomon is saying, essentially. Notice some other things that are true, like verse 7. Verse 7. Is there someone in this world who has true wisdom? Is there someone in this world who has a true heart? Well, there are things in this world that are going to mess up that person's wisdom and that person's good intentions when they have them. A wise person who is put under oppression, who is affected by oppression, All his wisdom goes to waste. A man who has a good heart, a man who has good intentions His good intentions are easily destroyed by the fact of a bribe. When a bribe comes, it steers his good intentions in the wrong direction. And we see this again and again and again in the world, don't we? Again, if you have your eyes open to some of the negativities that are true of life in a fallen world, it's easy to recognize so many of the things that Solomon is pointing out to us. This is what Solomon is saying. He's saying it is wisdom from God to have this mindset. Again, that overall that overall perspective that he's bringing to bear here. It's better to expect the negative and not be disappointed than to get your hopes up only to have them dashed. And reality is that if you have your hopes up, So often they will be dashed because again we live in a world that is fallen, world of of sin, and a world where the the curse um tends to mess up anything that is good. Yeah, again, in verse 7, that's sort of a reflection on how um evil in this world tends to spoil what little good there is. And again, this is the perspective of Solomon. What do we do with this perspective? Again, that's the basic thrust of what Solomon is getting at there. You know, here's a lot of wisdom for living in this messed up situation. What do we do with this? What do we do with this perspective? Well, truly we ought to understand that this perspective is true wisdom from God. It is wisdom from God not to get our expectations too high, if they are bound to be dashed and disappointed. If God has told us that this world is subject to sin and is subject to the curse We ought not to be surprised when those things tend to rule the day. But is that all there is for us? just to avoid getting our hopes dashed, just to um just to focus on what's negative and and uh take Solomon's perspective and that's it No. Again, this perspective does apply to things that are true of the way of this world, doesn't it? Anything that is affected by sin in this world, the whole of reality for the most part, is that which is affected by sin And in this way it is true that we ought not to get our hopes up. We ought not to get our hopes up about what can be accomplished by sinful men in a world where death is still the reality and sin is still the reality at the same time. Remember that this perspective should only apply to such things. Are there other things that have entered into the world? Are there other things that are true in the midst of God's world that are not subject to this wisdom? And beloved, it's important for us to recognize that there are other things that are not subject to this form of wisdom What are those other things? Those other things that are not subject to this form of wisdom are those things that are rooted in God's work of new creation in Jesus Christ. Christ. Because the whole point of the scriptures is to show us that God has begun the work of new creation through Jesus Christ. As we remember the things that belong to that new creation, there's every reason for us not to have this mindset here, but another One altogether. Yes, when it comes to things that are in bondage to sin and corruption that this world is in bondage to, yes. Let's not get our hopes up so that those hopes won't be dashed. But when it comes to things that are true, based on the grace of God, based on the promise of God in Jesus Christ, let's put our hope and our confidence in those things. And let's know that putting our hope in those things, our hopes will never be dashed. And one day we will see the end of those promises, and one day we will see them in full. Now, what are some of those things? What are some of those things that are true of the work of redemption and the work of new creation that God is doing in this world that will not lead to disappointed hopes? But we're reminded of the work of Christ. And everything that he said is true of us in him. We ought to understand is true that our hopes are not disappointed when we put all our hopes in Jesus Christ That when we believe in the fact that we are justified by grace alone, by the work of Jesus Christ alone, we can understand that that is an unfailing promise and an unfailing word. When we are told that God is working in us glory, and that He is at work completing His work of sanctification in us. We can put our hope in that and not be put to shame for putting our hope in that. Don't you see the justification, the sanctification, the glorification of the believer is God's work of new creation. And when it comes to such things, our hopes will never be dashed if we put our trust in Jesus Christ. And this form of wisdom here in Ecclesiastes 7 does not apply to such things. When we put our hope in the fact of God's church, that God is gathering for Himself a people formed for His praise, formed for His glory. In the midst of which there is fellowship and communion. And in the midst of which we can already enjoy that now. When we put our hopes in this, our hopes will not be ultimately dashed. Yes, we all understand as we struggle through the life of faith how hard it is sometimes to see that day, to see that endpoint that God is leading us towards. How easy it is in the midst of the struggle. To lose sight that it's God who is leading us there and God who will see it through. But that's just part of the life of the struggle of faith. And part of that struggle for us is to hold fast to that which God has promised. So again, remember this instruction here in Ecclesiastes chapter 7. Remember that it is wisdom to be sober-minded about the realities of the present. The realities of what can be accomplished in this world, the realities of what is bound to come out of the hearts of sinful people. Let's also remember at the same time another reality, that which God is doing in Christ. For that which God is doing in Christ will never put us to shame. Notice in Romans chapter 5, you have that language. And it's very apt when you think about the struggles that we go through in life as we we struggle to hold fast to the faith. That God has given to us in Christ. We struggle through many difficulties, many tribulations, but when we have assurance in Jesus Christ, We have the confidence to press on. And it's that confidence that He gives to us that allows us to press on in it. He says in Romans 5, verses 1 through 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand. And rejoice in hope of the glory of God. And not only that, but we also glory in tribulations, knowing that tribulation produces perseverance. And perseverance, character, and character, hope. Now hope does not disappoint. Because the love of God has been poured out in our hearts by the Holy Spirit who was given to us. So again, the one thing we can set our hopes on and not end up disappointed is that which God has given to us in Christ. That which He has given to us is born of His love. And when we set our hope upon what God has given to us in Christ, we will not be put to shame. So let's keep this in mind. Again, yes. When it comes to the world and what is possible in it, we are bound by the corruption that is true of it, because of sin and because of death. And when when it comes to such things, let's adopt the mindset that Solomon has in Ecclesiastes. But when it comes to what God is doing in his plan of redemption and in his work of new creation, let's put all our confidence in that and keep putting our confidence in that For it is coming to a day when it will indeed come to the to the right end, the end that he has promised. That day is coming soon, and it is he who will accomplish it. So let's keep looking to him and let's keep giving all glory to him along the way. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we do rejoice in you and your promises this day. We thank you that you have for your people a purpose. And you have a purpose even in the tribulations that we go through. Thank you, O Lord, that you know we are not ultimately left in the place that Many of Solomon's words were pointing that, yes, when it comes to the things of this world, there is only so much good that can come out of them, and in the end it will disappoint us. But thank you, Lord, that you have given to us the work of Jesus Christ, and you have given to us a great salvation. You have begun a work of new creation even in our myths, even our in our hearts and in our lives. Yes, sometimes we struggle to see it, and Sometimes we even question if it's really there. And sometimes there are even good reasons why we we question whether it's really there. But we praise you that in the end it is your work that prevails. And so we cling to your promise. We cling to you. We cling to trusting you simply at your word. And we ask you to answer. And we lean upon you to answer, knowing that you will. Oh Lord, strengthen our our our faith, we pray. Strengthen us in our hope. Strengthen us so that we do approach even our tribulations with the spirit of being ready to glory in them, being ready to glory in them owing to what you are doing through them. We ask all these things not for our own sake, but we ask these things that your name might be magnified. We pray these things in Christ's name. Amen.