Would you please open in your copy of God's Word to the book of John, chapter twelve? We'll be reading verses 20 through 36 of John chapter 12, found in the Pew Bible on page 1068. John chapter 12, beginning in verse 20. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. So these came to Philip, who was from Betheda in Galilee, and asked him, Sir, we wish to see Jesus. Philip went and told Andrew. Andrew and Philip went and told Jesus. And Jesus answered them: The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Now is my soul troubled. And what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour. But for this purpose I have come to this hour. Father, glorify your name. And a voice came from heaven. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said, An angel has spoken to him. Jesus answered, This voice has come for your sake, not mine. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. He said this, to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the crowd answered him. We have heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? So Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. That is God's word. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, as you have given your word to us, we ask that by your Spirit you would illumine our hearts. That you would work faith in us, that you would strengthen our faith, that you would show us our Savior. For it is in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Please be seated. Well, we're jumping into John's Gospel here in chapter twelve. And if you've been reading John's Gospel, you might remember how it begins with the prologue. That in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him. Without him was not a single thing made that was made. And John's gospel goes on to unfold the incarnation, the word become flesh and dwelling among us, so that we should believe and in believing in him have eternal life. And here in John chapter 12, the account that John has given is coming to a bit of a head. Things have developed and the tension has gotten to the point where something is going to happen. You might remember how it begins with Christ being anointed with the burial ointment. And how after having raised Lazarus from the dead, and many coming to see this Lazarus who was dead and is now alive, the plot thickens when the Pharisees planned to put Lazarus back to death so that people would stop following Jesus. And then there's the triumphal entry. Haught on the heels of that when Christ comes into Jerusalem. Hosanna, blessed is the one who comes the name of the Lord, and the crowds are excited to see their Savior riding On a colt, the foal of a donkey. And yet the Pharisees see this, and they recognize That something has changed. And in verse 19, they say, you see that you are gaining nothing. Look, the world has gone after him. And this might be a despairing thing for them. But this is also exactly what God's Word has prophesied, that the world should come, that the nations would be gathered to the Christ. Perhaps the Pharisees had simply glossed over Isaiah chapter 60, where this was anticipated, where this was made plain unto them. And with that in mind, we come to the passage before us this morning, verses 20 through 36, which will We'll see in three main sections as it unfolds. The first is the righteous desire that is expressed in verses 20 through 22. Then we'll see the life that comes through death in verses 23 to 28. And lastly, we'll recognize that this means there is a response required in verses 29 to 36. And so we come to verses 20 through 22. Now, among those who went up to worship at the feast were some Greeks. There are Greeks among the worshippers coming up to Jerusalem for the feast of Passover. And there's no shortage of Who are these Greeks? Where were they from? Were they simply Greek-speaking? Were they Jewish prophetes who spoke Greek? Were they from Greece itself? And God's word answers that for us. They were Greeks. And that's enough for us. The Greeks were representatives of the world, the world coming to worship the true and the living God. And so they go to Philip, a disciple with a Greek name, who's from Betheda in Galilee. And they ask him a question, and Philip goes to Andrew, and Andrew and Philip go together to Jesus. And at this point, it's worth pausing. If you have an inquiry to make of the Lord your God, where do you go? These Greeks seem to exhibit a degree of confusion about How they could approach the Lord. You might remember blind Bartimaeus. Son of David, have mercy on me We are called to go directly to the one who is the only God and mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. We need no other mediator We need no other intercessor. We have the Lord God Himself, who took on flesh for us and for our salvation. And who bids us to come to Him if we are weary and heavy laden, and He gives us rest. We go directly to the Lord. Do we recognize the access that God gives us to the throne of grace? These Greeks apparently didn't. And so they go to Andrew and they do the standard run-around procedure, and yet their question is brought to the Lord. And the request is a good one. Sir, we wish to see Jesus. We wish our desire. The longing of our heart. What does your heart long for? Would you see your Savior? That's what they're asking. To see Jesus is far more than simply to catch a glimpse of Jesus. If you've gone to the doctor's office and said, I would like to see the doctor, And they've showed you a picture of the doctor and said, there you go, you're on your way now. You would say that is absurd. That's not at all what I'm looking for. I need to be seen by the doctor. Don't you know what I'm saying? These Greeks are not simply saying we'd like to look at Jesus. They're saying we would have an audience with Jesus. We would be seen by Jesus. Jesus is the object of their heart's desire. And these Greeks have come up to Jerusalem to worship the true and living God, and as they've come to worship, they've encountered Christ and they would see him. Do you desire to see Jesus? Do you desire to be seen by Jesus? So we can have two responses to the reality that God does see us. The first response would be that we might squirm a bit. We might squirm, recognizing that the righteous, just, and holy God, the judge of all creation, who spoke all things into being. Beholds us. He looks upon us, not merely what we've made known to the world, but our heart. He knows the thoughts and inclinations of our heart. He knows our struggles. He knows our trials. He knows our sin. And apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, brothers and sisters, that is terrifying because our God is holy. And he is just. And he does not wink at sin. If recognition that the Lord God Almighty sees you causes you to be filled with great fear, You know what it is that's described in Psalm 14. You remember Psalm 14? The description of the one who does not acknowledge God. The fool says in his heart, there is no God. That's the beginning of Psalm 14. The one who lives as if God does not see him. The one who says, I have got this all under control. I am living for myself. There is nothing more important than myself. Well, in verse 5 of Psalm 14, we find out there they are in great terror. For God is with the generation of the righteous. There are no atheists on the Day of Judgment. All recognize the true and the living God. That can either be a terror. It can either make you squirm, or it can be your source of greatest comfort. In Christ Jesus, being seen by God means that the one who not only is the judge but is your advocate sees everything. He sees you, warts, and all. And he says, I have paid for you at my cross. This one is innocent in me. My righteousness is theirs. What shall separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus? There is nothing. And so we can live humbly before the Lord, knowing that He looks upon us. Not in wrath and fury in Christ Jesus, but as a Father looking At his beloved children. Would you see God? Christ pronounces great blessing. You might think back to the Beatitude in the Sermon on the Mountain, chapter 5 of Matthew's Gospel. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Is that the desire of your heart? Do you hear the words of Psalm 73? Whom have I in heaven but you? And the earth has nothing I desire besides you? My flesh and my heart may fail. For the Lord is the strength of my heart and my portion forever. Do you hear that? And does your heart give its amen? And do you recognize that to that inclination, to that desire, God promises blessing? If you would see God. You will see God. You will look upon the face of your Redeemer. These Greeks have the same desire that all of God's children have. They have the same hope that all of us have. I would see Jesus. I would look upon my Savior. And God answers that request in a surprising way. Here in verses 23 to 28, this difficult teaching that Jesus gives of life through death. And it is a difficult teaching. One, because if we take this seriously, it is a hard teaching of Jesus. We look at this and we recognize this is the calling that God has laid before us. The Christian faith is not simple, easy believism. I prayed once and nothing else has ever borne fruit. I've never once desired the Lord. I was once afraid of condemnation, but that has ceased to affect me anymore. That's not the Christian life. The Christian life is a life that is wrapped up in the love of God. And the love of God does not leave us as we are, but it transforms us according to the renewing of our minds. This is a difficult teaching, but it's also difficult because At first glance, it doesn't seem like Jesus is really answering the question. Maybe you've had those conversations with people and you've said What would you like to have for dinner tonight? And the answer has been, yeah, I do think we should probably go see the doctor tomorrow. That's it's clear there's something else on the mind. And Jesus is hearing from his disciples, these men wish to see you, and he says, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Is Jesus just thinking about something else? He's answering the question. And he's answering the question more deeply than they would even recognize in that moment, because this recognition that the world has come to him, that the nations are being gathered. shows Christ Jesus the fulfillment of time. And it sparks his declaration that his hour has now come. And if you've been following along in John's Gospel, you'll know that this has been repeated time and again. My hour has not yet come. We first heard this at the wedding feast in Cana of Galilee. Jesus, they're running out of wine. How does Christ respond to Mary? Woman, what does this have to do with me? My hour has not yet come. This is a pivotal moment in John's Gospel. Because now Christ's hour has come. And the rest of John's Gospel is going to outline what that hour means. From chapter 13 and on, we are in the Passion of Christ, the suffering of Christ, the atonement of Christ, the resurrection and the ascension of the Lord Jesus. His hour has come, and this hour means the glory for the Son. But how shall the Son be glorified? But by first going through his estate of humiliation, which began with his being born and not in a low estate And undergoing the cursed walk of the life lived under the sun and yet lived perfectly. And his suffering of death, even death on a cross. The glory of Son would come about through his suffering. It would come about through his death. And yet it is a glory that surpasses our understanding. See, Christ has spoken extensively about death and life. And here he gives a two-part answer, beginning with a parable. The hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the ground and dies, it remains alone. But if it dies, it bears much fruit. It's springtime here in Maryland. Seeds that have been sown into the ground are starting to sprout. Doubtless you've seen them. Some of them are probably growing as weeds near where you live. Those seeds that have fallen into the ground don't simply become big seeds, do they? They're consumed This is what Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians chapter 15, that the body that is sown perishable was raised imperishable. Why do we can why do we plant these seeds? Why does a farmer go out with a bag full of wheat and sow wheat into the soil? Not so that he can throw away what he could have made bread out of But rather so that he can have a harvest in the autumn. Because that wheat by itself has the ability to bear fruit if it dies and is raised to new life. God doesn't plant seeds in the ground so that they should be very pretty seeds lying in the ground, but rather so that they should grow and bear fruit. Unless we think that Christ is merely remarking on agricultural realities, he applies this parable directly for us. Whoever loves his life loses it. And whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. What does it mean to love your life? You might remember John's first epistle. There are those who are captivated. By the lusts of the eyes and the lust of the flesh and the pride of possessions. You could translate that literally as the pride of life. The things of this world that consume us, that fill our eyes, that dazzle our hearts, that cause us to turn aside again and again as we're walking along. And yet we say, oh, that's something interesting. Let's go over there and focus instead on that. And pretty soon the interesting distractions become the path in which we're walking. The things of this world are alluring, but they are passing away. The one who says, I love my life, who says, there is nothing more significant in my life than myself. There is nothing worth living for besides my own life and extending it as long as I can. That is it. And that's all I have hope in. I have no hope beyond living a long time, and God says that's correct. The one who loves his life, who cherishes as uttermost the things of this world and what he has, is a man with a very firm stabilizing grip on smoke. That will pass in the wind because this life is fleeting. But there is a contrast that our Savior gives us blessedly. Whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. Now Jesus is not talking about self-loathing. He's not talking about going out and trying to find ways to make your life as miserable as possible. He's not saying that this is an opportunity to compare myself to others and say, boy, I just have poor self-esteem. That's not what Christ is talking about here This is a real true hatred of life in this world. That's shocking language. It's intended to grab our attention. And to cause us to stop and listen to our Savior, the one who hates his life in this world. You might think of Paul writing to the Romans in Romans chapter 7, for I do not understand my own actions. For I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing that I hate. For I know that nothing good dwells in me, that is in my flesh, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out If you have turned to the Lord Jesus Christ in repentance and faith, if you have recognized the mercy of God held out in Christ Jesus, if you have recognized the sufficiency of salvation that is his, the love of God that is on display, freely held out to you. If you have turned in repentance to the Lord, saying, Lord, once again I have sinned against you. Once again my sin has been what has held Christ Jesus to the cross for me. How could you respond to that sin with anything but hatred? That's the practice of the Christian life That we should grow in a holy and righteous hatred of our sin. It's easy to be bothered by other people's sin. It's easy to look outward and say, Lord, my prayer of repentance is what I've seen around me. But what is the sin that is most abhorrent to us? But our own sin. Because it is our sin that caused our Savior to die for us. It was my sin that held him to the cross. It's no surprise at all that Christ says, whoever hates his life in this world. will keep it for eternal life. And actually Jesus is using a little bit of a wordplay here because he's using two different kinds of life. They're both translated as life because they both mean life, but he's using two different words. One is the one who loves his life and loses it, and the other who hates his life and keeps it. That's one kind of life, but there's another. And that is the eternal life. This is the life that is referred to as belonging to God Himself throughout John's Gospel. In him was life, and that life was the light of man. This is the life that Christ came to give all who should call upon his name Not merely more of the same, not merely longer days, but true and vibrant and new life. The life that was held out to Adam in the garden, represented in the tree of life. The life that was the reward for perfect personal and perpetual obedience, which we have lost in the fall, and we've added our inability to it every day by our sin, yet was won for us by Christ Jesus, so that it should be freely given. Can you earn it? No. Can you wrest it from God's hands by your best efforts? No. But you receive it. By grace alone, freely offered through Christ Jesus as he is clothed in his gospel. This is the life that is held out by our Lord. By our own power, we have no ability to hate our life in this world in a way that honors God. But in Christ Jesus we are transformed. So that we recognize the fleeting nature of this world. We recognize the things that are passing away. We recognize the urgency of the moment to live for Christ. And we recognize that this gives us great comfort even in the midst of trial. Because it's not about where I am now. Our eyes are fixed on where God is bringing us. And in light of our sure destination, in light of the grace and the life that's held out to us, how can we be preoccupied with the circumstances that weigh us down, that fill our eyes, that blind us, that stop up our ears? We are called to look to Jesus, to look to where he is leading us and to walk by faith in him To be servants of our great Master. If anyone serves me, Jesus says, he must follow me. And where I am, there will my servant be also. Where do you find the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ? But not on the sidelines of life waiting. We are found following our Savior. We are found walking in the footsteps that he has paved before us, that we should know that where he has walked, there is sure footing. There is where we can go in confidence. There is where our Savior has led us, because where he is going, there we shall be also And yet, as wonderful as this is, Jesus says more, if anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Do we think about that? The majesty of the gospel of our Lord that is freely held out to us. That God by his spirit has wrought faith in us. That God by his spirit sustains us and presents us before him blameless on that day. So it is a work of God's grace from start to finish. And that then as God gives us the crown of life, how do we respond with that? How do we answer? But that crown is cast before the throne, because worthy are you, O Lord our God, to receive all glory and honor and power. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain. And yet God honors us in Christ Jesus. What manner of love is this that we should be called children of God? And so our Savior continues with a quotation in Psalm six, now is my soul troubled. Now is my life troubled. Our Lord Jesus Christ was not surprised by what he came to do. But he came from heaven, dwelling in unapproachable light, laying aside the prerogatives that are his as the eternal second person of the Trinity, to take on human flesh. For us. And having lived perfectly, in perfect obedience, tempted in every way, yet without sin, he looks to the cross What is the reward for perfect obedience? Blessed communion with the Lord God. Life everlasting. What was the reward that Christ took upon his shoulders but the wrath and curse of sin? Not in the abstract. My sin. Your sin. His soul was troubled. But Psalm 6 goes on. Turn, O Lord, deliver my life, save me for the sake of your steadfast love. It was the steadfast love of God that sent our Savior. It was the steadfast love of God that accomplished salvation for us. And at this moment, this arrival of this hour, this climactic moment of redemptive history, of surrendering himself to the wrath and curse of God for the world. Our Savior did not turn aside. What shall he pray? Save me from this hour? No. Of his own will he came for this hour. Why did Christ come? Not merely to leave us an interesting book. He came for you, to win you to himself, to give you eternal life in him. This is why he came. Shall he turn aside from the cross? No. This is why I have come. Glorify the Son. Father, glorify your name. The hour of the Son's glory is the hour of the Father's glory. How do we come in blessing and praise and thanksgiving to the Lord? How do we pour out our hearts in adoration before him? But through Christ. This is glorifying to God's name that he should take sinners as us and turn us into his people. That he should be our God and we should be his people. Forever. Previously in John's Gospel, Jesus had said in chapter 5, The Father who sent me, he has borne witness concerning me. Neither his voice have you ever seen, nor his sight, neither his voice have you ever heard, nor his sight have you ever seen. But now, a voice came from heaven, and the crowd heard it. I have glorified it, and I will glorify it again. The voice of the Father comes from heaven with a message of sure glory. Christ had set his face like a flint to go to Jerusalem. He had taught He had healed. He had done all the perfect works that God laid before him, and he looked forward to his last work of redemption, the suffering of our penalty. And the world could now hear that the Father will be glorified. And this requires a response. We see that in verses 29 to the end. Because the crowd is gathered around. They've heard Jesus speaking, they've heard his prayer, and they hear this answer from heaven. And they they don't have the best response. The crowd that stood there and heard it said that it had thundered. Others said an angel has spoken to him. There's the naturalism crowd that says, well, it's just a coincidental thunderclap. Jesus was praying, and then we heard a voice, but in hindsight, it could have been a thunderclap. We'll just go with thunderclap. That's easier. I don't have to change anything if it was a thunderclap. The other group of the crowd says, well, yeah, no, maybe not a thunderclap. There were words, but An angel. I can handle an angel. Maybe an angel is a little bit less intimidating than God Himself speaking in response to the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul says, even if our gospel is veiled, it is veiled to those who are perishing. The crowd heard. They saw. They had badgered Jesus for signs, time and again. If you are the Son of God Do something. Show us something special. They had badgered him time and again, and yet having seen sign after sign after sign, in fact, these first twelve chapters of John's Gospel is referred to as the book of signs. Having seen all these signs fulfilled that the Old Testament had looked forward to, they still refused to believe. Now they have their last excuse taken from them. Not a one of them can say, we haven't heard the voice of God from heaven, confirming what Jesus has said. How do you hear the Word of God? We hear God speak to us by His Word By His Holy Spirit to apply his word to our hearts. The Word of God is living and active. It pierces to the division of soul and of spirit, of joint and of marrow. It discerns the thoughts and intentions of our heart. God's word is powerful. It is God's own speech. How do you hear it? As you come to God's word and you recognize what's being said and you recognize the majesty of the love of God on display for you, and you recognize that it means dying to self and living to Christ. Do you say, perhaps it's thunderous racket, or maybe an interesting angelic proclamation, but it will not change me. Do not harden your hearts on the day of salvation. Jesus has warned us, take care then how you hear. For to the one who has, more will be given. And from the one who has not even what he thinks he has will be taken away. God has spoken. Why? This voice. Did not come for my sake. It came for your sake. That's what Jesus says. Because his hour has come. Which John refers to in 1 John 2. 18, saying, My little children, it is the final hour. Jesus doesn't say the long period of time has come. He says it's the final hour. The hour of salvation has come, and the voice of God Himself has confirmed For all who would see and hear that the work of the Lord Jesus Christ is pleasing and acceptable in his sight, that there is forgiveness in him, there is redemption in him. And this hour is an hour of judgment on the world, of the ruler of this world being cast out. In John 14, Jesus is going to say, I will no longer talk with you much, for the ruler of this world is coming. He has no claim on me. But I do as the Father has commanded me, so that the world may know that I love the Father. The ruler of this world is judged, John 16, 11. And Jesus has just said, whoever hates his life in this world will keep it unto eternal life. The judgment upon the ruler of this world has implications for those who are ruled in this world. Because there is salvation. The hold that our adversary has is broken. He is a defeated enemy. In Christ Jesus, there is salvation, not possibly, but certainly Attested to all by his being raised again from the dead on the third day in accordance with the scripture, what Paul calls a thing of first importance. Salvation has come. How? And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. This was the death that Christ would die for us. To be lifted up. That seed that dies and bears much fruit, which Christ has applied to those who would hear, also applies first and foremost to Christ Himself. who would die not to make a show of something, but to accomplish something, to accomplish salvation for all who would look upon him Jesus already said to Nicodemus, right before John three, sixteen. In John 3, 14 and 15, as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. This is where Jesus has been going all along. to go and be lifted up so that you, believing in him, should have eternal life. We desire to see Jesus. Jesus says, you will look upon the Son of Man lifted up. This is difficult for the crowd to hear. They've demonstrated already for us that they're not really listening that well. But this they've heard, and they respond to it. We've heard from the law that the Christ remains forever. How can you say that the Son of Man must be lifted up? Who is this Son of Man? Is Jesus the Christ? Consider the question of John's gospel. It gets repeated. The woman at the well. Can this be the Christ? The one who was prophesied, who was foretold, who would come and save his people. The crowd that heard him teaching in John chapter 7, could this be the Christ? Is this why no one can answer him? Because he's the Christ? Well, if the answer to that is yes And that has huge implications. But just consider the crowd's fear, the fear that has held them back from confessing Christ throughout John's gospel In John chapter 9, if anyone should confess Jesus to be the Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. And again in John chapter 12, nevertheless many, even in the authorities, believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it. So they would not be put out of the synagogue. Was this simply that they didn't have a country club to visit now? No. This was everything for them. This was their life and livelihood. If you wanted to do business, you had to have a membership in the synagogue. If you wanted to be a Jew in Jerusalem, you need to be at the synagogue. This is significant. Whoever loves his life loses it. Will you confess Christ? And having confessed Christ Will you live for him? Who is this son of man? Well, Jesus answers them, because the Son of Man is the true light who is coming into this world. And though he was in the world, and the world was made through him, the world did not know him. But the light shines in the darkness. And the darkness has not overtaken it. Jesus says, the light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you Remember what John said, or Jesus said regarding John the Baptizer, his light you have seen. And speaking to the Pharisees, he says, You search the scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. Yet you refuse to come to me, that you may have life. The Pharisees refused to come to those who had the oracles of God. These Greeks said, we wish to see Jesus. We must work the works of him who sent me while it is day, Jesus says. Night is coming when no one can work. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light that you may become sons of the light. The work of God's Spirit to unite us to Christ by grace through faith alone. Transforms us. If you've heard the voice of the shepherd calling you And come to him. Walk in him. In him there is no darkness whatsoever. For the light goes on shining until full day, and there is no cause for stumbling on the path of righteousness. Jesus has proclaimed the good news of salvation. He has accomplished salvation. And if you have ears to hear God's word, the light is shining when God's word is proclaimed to you. Walk in the light. The one who walks in darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe the light, that you become sons of the light, you kind of get the sense that Jesus is saying, this opportunity doesn't last forever. Unless you think that seems a little bit fanciful, remember the rich man in Lazarus of Luke chapter 16. The rich man who had everything, who loved his life in this world. And from torment looks up and sees Abraham and Lazarus and asks for a drop of water. He is in torment. If I could only go back and warn my relatives that this is what awaits them. What's the answer he gets? You have Moses and the prophets. They know. They will not believe even if someone should rise from the dead. But our Savior has risen. He has conquered sin and death. He has broken death's dominion. He has held out eternal life. And this marks the end here in the first half of verse 36. This marks the end of Jesus' public ministry. From here on out, really beginning in chapter 13, he's speaking to his disciples. We don't see the crowds. The light shines. But when Jesus had said these things, he departed and hid himself from them. The light shines now. Now is the day of salvation. Will you be reconciled to God? Knowing that you bring to our Savior. Sin and misery and brokenness and need, hopes, aspirations Will you come to him and receive life? And if you give the good confession That you trust in Christ Jesus, you recognize that this light doesn't shine in part of your life. This is a light that illumines our whole heart. Our whole life. That guides us. Because our Savior is healing to all flesh. If you would look upon Jesus, if you would see Jesus, You look upon him as the crucified, risen, and ascended Savior. You look upon him as your Savior. And God attaches great blessing. Because it was the love of God that sent our Savior for you, so that you should see Him and be seen by Him. And knowing the Savior, that you should walk in the light and have eternal life. Let us pray. Our Father, We confess our need, our need for our Savior, our need for the Holy Spirit, our need for you. We ask that you would work faith in our hearts, that you would strengthen us in our faith, that you would cause us to walk in a manner worthy of the calling that you have given to us, that you would encourage us in this holy faith in Christ Jesus. That you would cause us each to be sons of light, that in so being we should be a lamp established for your glory here. That you would call many to true and saving faith. And that you would guide us that we should walk in Christ, in whose name we pray.