Dear friends and Jesus, uh just a few words of commentary. Tonight is a bit of an experiment because I'm going to be attempting a catechism message. The church I grew up in, the Dutch Reformed Church, the evening worship service always had a catechism sermon based on the Heidelberg Catechism. whose 129 questions and answers were grouped into 52 sections, one for each Lord's Day of the Year. Now we use the Westminster standards, and in fact, we're going to be using this question and answer 99 from the shorter catechism that we read a little bit earlier. about the rule that God hath given for direction in prayer. So we're going to be looking at the topic of prayer. There's some very good books written by solid people on the subject of prayer. And in fact in the handout, a number of them are freely available online. You can find them online. And I remind you also that back in August, August 6th of this year, Pastor Chris preached a very good sermon on the Lord's Prayer. And uh I, you know, I'm going to take a little different approach. There will be some points of overlap. But anyway, now finally we are ready to read the Word of God. Let's stand. This is Luke chapter 11. Luke chapter 11, beginning at verse 1. Now Jesus was praying in a certain place. And when he finished, one of his disciples said to him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John taught his disciples. And he said to them, When you pray, say, Father, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. Give us each day our daily bread and forgive us our sins, for we ourselves forgive everyone who is indebted to us, and lead us not into temptation. And he said to them, Which of you who has a friend will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves? For a friend of mine has arrived on a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within, do not bother me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot get up and give you anything. I tell you, though he will not get up and give him anything because he is his friend, yet because of his impudence, he will rise and give him whatever he needs. And I tell you, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds And to the one who knocks, it will be opened. For what father among you, if his son asks for a fish will instead of a fish give him a serpent, or if he asks for an egg, will give him a scorpion? If you then who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children How much more would the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? And if we remain standing for just a minute, You'll notice that that version of the Lord's Prayer is a little different from the one in Matthew 6. So let me just read that as well. In Matthew 6, beginning at verse 9. Pray then like this. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we have also forgiven our debtors And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And some of the ancient manuscripts have, for yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Please be seated Let's pray. Dear Father, we thank you for your word. It is so precious to us. And we ask for the help of your Holy Spirit now so that This passage would be understandable to our minds, and that it would be laid up in our hearts, and that we would live it out in obedience to you, to your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Prayer has been called spiritual oxygen. Our bodies need to breathe oxygen to maintain physical life. And our souls need prayer to sustain spiritual life. When a baby is born, very quickly, within seconds, it has to learn how to breathe. And in ancient times, like when I was born, it was the tradition for a doctor to pick up the baby and give it a little SWAT on the back side to stimulate it to start breathing. And I guess it worked okay with me. They use more modern methods nowadays. The baby has to then learn how to breathe and get into a regular pattern of breathing. Now, by the mercy of God, when the Holy Spirit changes our hearts and gives us new birth, we are born again. Remember what Jesus was describing to Nicodemus? It was hard for him to understand. But in the same way, we need to learn how to spiritually breathe in prayer. Well, prayer is one of the so-called means of grace, the Word of God, the sacraments, prayer. They're not flashy. They're not magical. They use ordinary things like bread and grape juice and water and human speech. But it does uncommon things. It confirms our faith in Jesus Christ. And we look forward to next Sunday morning when we will celebrate the Lord's Supper. Indeed. So going back to oxygen for the body again, uh I had to learn after my surgery, that there is good breathing and there is better breathing. So as I was doing these exercises for cardiac rehab I was taught that when you're exerting muscles like lifting weights, breathe out. Then relax and breathe in and repeat over and over. And prayer, likewise. We can pray better. We can learn how to pray better. So in Luke 11, we have this situation. Jesus has been praying. And the disciples come to him and they want to learn how to pray like Jesus prays. They already knew how to pray because John the Baptist had been teaching them, but John the Baptist was the Last of the Old Testament prophets. Jesus, of course, is the supreme New Testament prophet, priest, and king And when Jesus taught, the people recognized that he had authority. He taught with authority. No one ever spoke like this man, they said. And surely the disciples thought to themselves, no one ever prayed like this man. And so one of them comes. It says, Lord, please teach us to pray. And he gives them the Lord's Prayer. It's not the only time he gave the Lord's Prayer. Back in this long teaching discourse called Sermon on the Mount, he gives the Lord's Prayer as well. The words are a little bit different. Basically, it is the same thing I confess to you personally that I very much feel my failings in terms of prayer. And maybe you also would like to know how to pray better. So the catechism asks that very question this way, what rule has God given for our direction in prayer? You notice a word here that comes out, a rule. A rule. We need a God-given rule because Adam and Eve fell into sin, and we with them all fell into sin. And that has so affected our hearts and minds that we need a God-given rule to direct us. And where do we find that rule? Right here in the Bible, God's special revelation to us. This morning you heard a message about Rahab. Spies go into Jericho, and in this pagan city, and in of all places a house of ill repute, they meet a woman who professes faith in Jehovah God. This must have been totally unexpected to the spies. And she's willing to put her life on the line by misdirecting the soldiers that have come to arrest these spies. And that's all based her faith at that point is based purely on rumors and hearing people talk a little bit about what's been going on. Now, do you suppose during the time that the spies were hidden by Rahab that they would have taken the opportunity to tell her more, perhaps about God speaking to them at Mount Sinai, the Ten Commandments. Maybe telling them one of Moses' sermons that are recorded for us in Deuteronomy. Maybe telling her about the covenant promise that God made to Abraham, that his seed would be a blessing to all nations. Maybe even telling her about Adam and Eve, the garden, the fall into sin, but the covenant promise that a son of man would be born who would crush the head of the serpent. The spies leave, she helps them. And don't you suppose that for the for the next ten days, she was praying. On the basis of what she perhaps had been taught, Lord, I trust in you. You're the only God. My life is on the line. Save me. And ten days later. The walls of Jericho are flat as a pancake, except in that one little place where she lived. She saw God answer her prayer The Bible teaches us. So the answer in the catechism is the whole word of God is of use to direct us in prayer. That's point number one. But the special rule of direction is that form of prayer which Christ taught his disciples, commonly called the Lord's Prayer. That's point number two. Let's use these two points to structure our study of how to pray. So point number one, the whole Word of God is useful. The Old Testament, the New Testament. Because we need to know basic fundamental information about the Christian faith to set the stage for us to be able to pray. So what does the Bible teach us, Old Testament and New Testament? It teaches us the truth about who God is God is a just, righteous, holy God. He hates sin. But he so loved the world that he sent his only son. to pay for our sin by dying on the cross, so that anyone and everyone who believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. And the Bible also teaches us this truth about who we are. By nature, we are sinners in the hands of an angry God. And we have to humble ourselves and come to Jesus, repent, receive, and rest upon him alone for salvation. And then the Bible teaches us this truth that Then we are reconciled to God. We can come to Him, we can call Him Father. And He will grant us whatever we ask in Jesus' name according to His will. So, you know, I used to work for the federal government, and when I had a meeting with a certain official, before that meeting, I would try to find out who this official is. What is my work relationship to him? How should I approach him? How should I address him? Mr. Secretary, whatever. And how should I act with respect to him? And we do the same thing. The Bible tells us who God is, who we are, how we relate to him. That's setting the stage for prayer. But then it goes beyond that. And within the Bible, Old and New Testament, there are specific instructions about the method of prayer specifically. In the Old Testament, there are a number of prayers. And in fact, one of the sources I looked at said, throughout the Bible, there are 650 references to prayer. Of which 222, that's an easy number to remember, 222 actually contain the words of the prayers that were prayed 176 in the Old Testament, 46 in the New Testament. You can see I like numbers. What are some of those well-known Old Testament prayers? The longest Old Testament prayer is the prayer of Solomon when the temple was dedicated after it was finished being built. It's a thousand fifty words, 1 Kings chapter 8. And if you look at that prayer and study that prayer, What you see reflected in that prayer is the wisdom that God gave Solomon. Remember, God said, ask me whatever you want. Solomon did not ask for riches. He did not ask for a prosperous long life. He asked for an understanding heart. That was a long prayer. There's a short prayer. Hannah. She couldn't have children. And she was being mocked by others for that. And it's a very short prayer, 1 Samuel chapter 1, 55 words. She prayed so intensely to God that someone observing her thought that she was Intoxicated. The Lord answered her prayer, gave her a son, Samuel, and then in 1 Samuel 2, the next chapter, there's her prayer of thanks. Now there's some great prayers in the book of Daniel. Remember, uh. Nebuchadnezzar had a dream, and then the next day he obviously couldn't remember it, but he wanted it interpreted. But first, please tell me my dream. That's nearly impossible. But Daniel was given supernatural knowledge from God to be able to do exactly that. And Daniel then prays, thank you, Lord, because otherwise he would have been executed Nebuchadnezzar was so impressed that he made Daniel high an official in the kingdom of Babylon. And doesn't Daniel remind you of Joseph, the other exile of the Israelites in Egypt? Joseph Number two, right after Pharaoh, because he also interpreted dreams. And then this prayer that we read, it's a long prayer that we read in Daniel chapter 9. where he's been studying the book of Jeremiah. And you remember how this came about. The Lord told Jeremiah, write down the prophecies I've been giving you. Jeremiah did that. Then it was brought to King Jehoiakim and read to the king, who apparently thought so little of the word of God that page by page he cut it up and fed it into the fire. But the Holy Spirit helped Jeremiah write it again. Daniel has a copy. He's reading it, and he discovers the exile will end after 70 years. He knows they're in exile because the people of Israel, the people of Judah, have been very wicked. They've forsaken God. And so he's on his knees praying not just for himself, but for the entire people of Israel. This is a lesson for us that we can pray for our whole family, our whole church, our whole nation. And he sees this prophecy that the exile will end. It's a promise from God. He doesn't take that for granted. He prays, Lord, please, do what you have promised. And the Lord loves prayers like that. There are so many exceeding great and precious promises in the Bible. Grab them, claim them, pray them. The Lord is very pleased with that. I'll just mention a few other prayers in the Old Testament. Abraham praying to the Lord, please spare Sodom and Gomorrah, where my nephew lives. If you can just find 50 righteous people. And God says, okay. And then Abraham has second thoughts and said, well, how about 45 Well, how about forty, thirty, twenty, ten, and he stops, but the Lord still mercifully says yes. If there's only ten righteous people in a wicked, wicked city, I'll spare it from destruction. Lot, his wife, two daughters. And there weren't enough even for ten. The city was destroyed. But the Lord in his mercy spares us from destruction for the sake of only one righteousness. Person, the Lord Jesus Christ. There was Samson at the end of his life, a prisoner, and he prays, Lord, just give me strength to give one last victory over your enemies, the Philistines. Jonah prayed. He was in a rather extreme situation in the belly of a whale. Yeah, Lord Spare me, save me from hell. And then there was Hezekiah, another interesting prayer. He was sick at the point of death. And he prayed and asked for 15 more years to live, so that he could protect Jerusalem, the city of David, from the Assyrians. And the Lord granted that prayer. Now you're wondering Why has David not yet been mentioned? David was a real man of prayer. Psalm 51 is a wonderful prayer of confession of sin. It was written, and it says right there at the front of the Psalm, it was written after David committed this horrific sin. Adultery, and then the arranging the murder of the husband of the woman with whom he had adultery. Psalm 32 is another great confession of sin. In fact, the entire Psalter is a book of prayer. You find prayers of contrition, prayers of thanksgiving, prayers of lament, prayers asking for guidance and wisdom, all sorts of prayers in this altar. And many of the Psalms, as you read them, They're already in the form of prayer, and others can be very quickly turned into the form of prayer, which leads to a lesson that we should learn, which is praying the Bible Pray the Bible. The Bible is very prayable. Take a passage, read it, meditate on it, maybe memorize it, and then pray it Probably during the congregational prayer, you heard Pastor Chris using prayer in his congregational prayer. Prayer is a conversation with God. You know, sometimes I don't know how to start a conversation with somebody. But God is the one who comes to us and starts the conversation right here. He talks to us through his word. All I have to do then is respond to that conversation. Pray the Bible. Well, what about prayers in the New Testament? I think the longest one is the high priestly prayer of Jesus, John chapter 17. It's the night that he is arrested, the day before he's then crucified, and he prays for his disciples. But on the cross, he prays very short prayers, very short prayers, right to the point. Twenty-five times in the Gospels we have recorded for us prayers of Jesus. And the beautiful thing is that Jesus, after his resurrection, after his ascension, he's now seated at the right hand of God the Father, and he ever lives to make intercession for us if we come to the Father through him. What a glorious promise There's Mary's prayer after the angel tells us, you, Mary, are going to be the mother of the long-promised Messiah. My soul magnifies the Lord, she prayed. Zechariah. Told by an angel, you'll have a son. He and his wife were very aged at that time, and he he just couldn't believe it. And so for nine months he couldn't talk I wonder how he did his priestly work. But his son was born, John the Baptist. His tongue is loosened. First thing he says is a prayer. Is a prayer. Stephen's prayer. He's gone through a long sermon, and the Jews didn't like his preaching. And they stoned him. And then the the prayers of Paul, almost every epistle begins with a prayer. For example, Colossians. Paul praised for the Colossians that they would bear fruit, that they would grow in knowledge of God, that they would be strengthened for endurance and that they would bear fruit and give joyful thanks. And finally, and literally finally, there is the prayer to end all prayers at the very end of the Bible. Revelation 22 verse 20. It's a very short prayer. Three words, come, Lord Jesus. And that is the prayer to end all prayers, literally. Turn on the TV, we hear cries for end wars. End injustice. End racism And we pray, come Lord Jesus, Maranatha, come, Lord Jesus. And we're praying that, and we're praying more, we're praying, end suffering, end sin, end death. Because when Jesus comes again, he's going to end everything that's broken in this world and make all things good and perfect to the glory of God. Now we come to point two, which is the Lord's Prayer, the most famous prayer in the Bible. And this is the special rule of direction that Christ gave to his disciples to teach us how to pray. He said, pray then like this. This is Matthew 6, verse 9. After this manner, pray. And what this means is don't, disciples, don't limit yourself just to these words and pray only these words and nothing but these words. Use this as a framework. Use it as a pattern, a model for your prayers, and flesh it out in your own prayers. When you pray, just don't repeat this over and over and over. Vain repetition is what Jesus called it. Some people think, okay, I'm going to do five our fathers, and they run through it as fast as they can without any kind of thought at all. We're supposed to look at the Lord's Prayer. What are the characteristics of the Lord's Prayer? How can we then pray the same way? And I'll just give you some of these characteristics. And one of them already, Pastor Chris, in his August 6th famous sermon, pointed out, and that is this prayer is God-centered. God comes first. God, His holy name, His Holy Kingdom, His Holy Will, then our needs, our material needs, our spiritual needs. And then it wraps back to God, for thine is the kingdom, the power, and the glory. And so there is this circle. I'm sorry I borrowed this from G. I. Williams' commentary on the Surcate. It starts with God, it ends with God. God comes first. But that is so contrary to The impulse of our sinful nature. We want to put ourselves first. And God will just come into the story to serve our self-interest. And there's an example of that in the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector The Pharisee praised, God, I thank you that I am not like other men. It's all very self-centered. Wrong. Prayer should be God-centered. Second characteristic. The Lord's Prayer is personal, but still reverent. We are allowed to address Almighty God, maker of heaven and earth, creator of the universe. as our father. Stop right there. Pause. Think about that. This is amazing. And it brings us directly to what's called the doctrine of adoption that Paul explains in the book of Romans and elsewhere God brings us into his family. He makes us his beloved children. He gives us an inheritance, all for the sake of his son, our elder brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. But Immediately the Lord's Prayer follows that up, which art in heaven. So we're supposed to be reverent and respectful when we approach the throne of grace. Heaven Indicates God's majesty, his glory, his power. Our Father in heaven. We don't want to be flippant in prayer. We don't want to be overly casual in prayer. And I've heard some prayers like that And we ha we want to be careful. Personal but still reverent. And then number three, simple prayer There are no six-syllable words in this Lord's Prayer. There's no flowery, fancy, high-falutin language in the Lord's Prayer. There's no what somebody has called spiritual frosting on the Lord's Prayer. And we are just to pray very simply, like a child comes to parents, and I'm looking at some children, you come to your parents. You speak to them, you have a request. It's simple language. It's straightforward language. Jesus said, your Father knows what you need before you ask him So just come to him, very simply and directly. Number four, the Lord's Prayer is concise. It's not long at all. None of these six petitions has more than ten words in them. And children can learn the Lord's Prayer and basically understand it. I think in its essence. And I hope that the children and the adults have all memorized the Lord's Prayer. It's not how long you pray that matters. We're not heard for our much speaking, our many words. Okay, there is a time and a place for long prayers, and we had one this evening, you had one this morning, congregational prayers. When the pastor brings the needs and praise of the entire congregation, those prayers tend to go a little longer, and it's that's worthwhile. But so often in scripture we see short prayers Returning to the parable of the Pharisee and the tax collector. The tax collector said, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner. What is it, seven words? And he was the one who went home justified, right? The criminal on the cross next to Jesus. Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. And Jesus said to him, today you will be with me in paradise. And I hope in my final hours and minutes that I hear that same thing. Today You will be with me, Jesus, in paradise. So I um this is a secular example, but I like this. The Gettysburg address. Seventy-five miles north of here, 1863, the U. S. government dedicated a cemetery for the thousands, tens of thousands of soldiers who died in that horrific battle. And Abraham Lincoln was asked to give some comments. But he was not the main speaker. There was someone else on the program. Mr. Edward Everett, who was a university professor and a diplomat, president of Harvard University, and a professional orator. And he was asked to come in and speak, and he spoke for two hours, uh, thirteen thousand six hundred and seven words. People in those days must have had a lot of endurance That's all I can say. And after him, Lincoln got up and spoke 271 words. a mere ten sentences, and the audience was stunned like what just happened. There was no applause. But the next day Everett wrote a note to Lincoln and said, I wished in two hours I had said as much as you did in two minutes. So there's, you know, I tried to do this in work as well. There's the K-I-SS method. Keep it short and simple. Okay, characteristic number five of the Lord's Prayer, it is comprehensive. In spite of the fact that it's short and simple, it covers everything. There's nothing left out. We can frame all of our prayers on this kind of structure. Now, is it okay to pray the Lord's Prayer, verbatim, the very words? I said that it's primarily a pattern for prayer, but is it okay to pray the Lord's Prayer? We do that now and then in church. And yes, the answer is yes. Often when studying the shorter catechism, it helps to go to the larger catechism because it gives a more full explanation. And the larger catechism says, yes, it is okay to pray the Lord's Prayer verbatim, if, quote, done with understanding, faith, reverence, and other graces necessary to the right performance of the duty of prayer. In other words, don't do it mechanically. Do it with thought. Think about the words of the Lord's Prayer, their meaning, and their significance. And I want to finish with this thought, and that is this, that what we can learn from the Lord's Prayer and all of the prayers in the Bible is that true prayer comes from the heart. True prayer reflects a personal heart relationship with God, who we may come to as our Father. In heaven. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you that you've given us the whole Bible to instruct us with a rule for direction of prayer. And we can learn from the whole Bible. But especially, Lord, you've given us this Lord's Prayer, which is so wonderful. What a framework for prayer it is. Lord, we confess it's sometimes hard for us to find the right words for praying. We don't know what we ought to pray as we ought. Paul talks about this in Romans, but then reassures us that the Holy Spirit intercedes for us with words too deep. For groaning. Groaning is too deep for words. And we thank you for that. So Father, we do ask, as your disciples, please teach us more how to pray. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.