Please turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 13, and we begin reading at verse 10 and continuing through verse 17. Last week we examined verses 10 through 14, and today we look at verses 15 and 16. of this section. So let us hear the word of the Lord. Remember, those who rule over you, excuse me, that's verse 10. Verse 7. Verse 10. We have an altar from which those who serve the tabernacle have no right to eat. For the bodies of those animals whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin are burned outside the camp. Therefore, Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered outside the gate. Therefore, let us go forth to him, outside the camp, bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek the one to come. Therefore, by him let us continually offer the sacrifice of praise to God. That is the fruit of our lips, giving thanks to his name. But do not forget to do good and to share. For with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. Obey those who have rule over you and be submissive, for they watch out for your souls. As those who must give an account, let them do so with joy and not with grief, for that would be unprofitable to you. Please be seated. For a few minutes I'd like you to put your finger in uh Hebrews chapter thirteen. And flip over to First Peter chapter two 1 Peter chapter 2 is uh I'm sure is familiar to many of you. But um I'd like to focus reading on verses four, beginning at verses four, and then reading some select verses as we go through this this section of God's Word. This passage is an epistle of Peter to several churches in what constitutes which today would be in uh southwestern Turkey. Um and uh and he writes to them about who they what their identity is in Jesus Christ. and uh who they are as God's chosen people. So again, let's pick up at verse at verse uh uh Um four and um and read a couple of verses Coming to him as to a living stone, rejected by men, but chosen by God and precious. You also as living stones are being built up a spiritual house A holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Then turn down to verse nine. But you are a chosen generation. a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people, that you may proclaim the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Who once were not a people, but now are the people of God, who had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. This is Peter's characterization of the people of God. And we could go in more depth to it. But for the purposes today, I want to just note how similar 1 Peter chapter 2 is and the verses that we read To Hebrews chapter 13, verses 15 and 16. They both talk about believers who may live in different worship areas. But they encourage Christians to make a positive display of their love for Jesus. And specifically, they are encouraging the believers to offer up. sacrifices, spiritual sacrifices that are adorned with praise unto God Peter puts it his way. Verse 5, to offer up spiritual sacrifices accepted to God through Jesus Christ. And he later says that God's chosen people are at verse 9 to proclaim the praises of him. Whereas Hebrews 13, verse 15 says Believers are exhorted that thereby, therefore by Him let us continually offer the sacrifices of praise. Do you hear the same message in both of these passages? The believers are to offer up spiritual sacrifices of praise unto God. I'm struck but how at how similar these verses are But that's due, of course, to the wonderful nature of God's Word. We have an amazing amount of internal consistency Consisten in God's Word. Like we see here in Hebrews 13 and in 1 Peter 2. This consistency is a witness, is a witness to the cons Eternal truth that one mind, one God, one author inspired the Word of God. Having said that, I have wondered, and maybe you have too, what does a spiritual sacrifice for claiming God's praise look like? What are sacrifices of praise that God are sacrifices of praise that God is well pleased with? Hebrew puts it. So now I want to go back to Hebrews 13 and talk about those questions. As we turn and look at verse 15. It starts off by reminding us, therefore, by him, let us continually offer the sacrifices of praise to God. It's very clear that we who are identified as Christians by the Hebrews account Who the previous verses remind us of the truth that we are to go outside the camp, And be with our Lord, and we are to esteem the reproach of Christ greater than the treasures. Of this world. As Hebrews chapter thirteen uh puts it Let us go forth to him, verse thirteen. Outside the camp Bearing his reproach. For here we have no continuing city, but we seek the one that is to come. We are all in this category. All believers are to come to Christ outside of the camp. And bear his shame. We talked about a little bit about that last week. But we're all on a path We're all coming to an eternal city. And as we are on that path, and as we're Coming to an eternal city, no matter how long we're on the path, no matter how long we're in the journey, we are to be offering up spiritual sacrifices of praise. And it's pretty amazing how verse 15 emphasizes that point. We can only offer up spiritual sacrifices of praise because of Him. You know, that's right at the front. That's right at the beginning. It is not, it's talking about believers, not unbelievers. Not the people of the world. It's talking about believers offering up spiritual sacrifices of praise because of Jesus. And all that Jesus has done yesterday, today, and tomorrow, all that he has done, all that he will do, all that he's doing now. Because Jesus is in heaven, but his spirit is on earth with his people in their hearts. By him, can you and I go outside the camp? By him can we bear his shame. By him we are on the way to the continuing sin. And as I said last week, as Bunyan put it, even though we're on our way to the continuing city, there are going to be those interruptions. There are going to be those difficulties that are presented to us daily by the Word, presented to our faith, presented to us us as efforts to tempt us off the narrow path. But we are to be making sacrifices of praise as we go. Now it also says that this is because of Christ, but it also tells us in very clear terms. How much, how many spiritual sacrifices, or how often are we to offer up spiritual sacrifices How often are we to bear or bring to Christ offerings of thanksgiving and praise? Was that just something we do one day of the week? Is there one day of the week appointed for this? No It's appropriate to offer up the sacrifices of praise continually. That is uh reinforced in two different ways. There is the word continually or always, and the verb that is used is in the present tense So it's continuing to offer up the sacrifices of praise always. Now There are other uses in the New Testament of the word here for praise, praising God. It has a variety of uses. And praise to God is due to God for the variety of many blessings that He has shed upon us. There isn't really anything that comes to our life as believers that isn't a direct result of God's blood. There's nothing that we have that isn't God given Nothing that is of I mean our breath is God given Uh if you say we're to offer up sacrifices to God continually, you might think, well, gee, I might exhaust doing that But really, you can't exhaust it. You know, w think of go ahead, try to think of something something that you possess that isn't a direct result of God's blessing you You know, if you can find one, I'd like to know it. But that's beside the point. It says, bring an offering of praise to God continually. It isn't that difficult. And yet and yet do we do we do it. Think about how we see praises being given to God in the various different contexts in the New Testament. We find, for example, and I'm doing this because I'm pointing out where these where the word praise is used, the same word that we have here in Hebrews. Chapter 5 verse 15. The angels who gathered together at Christ's birth are described as praising God and saying, Glory to God, in the heart. highest on earth, peace, goodwill toward men. Can't think can you think of anything to pray for? Pray for Jesus praying with to praise God for praise God for for Jesus. Praise God for Jesus and all that He brings to your life The angels were the ones who were praising God. We can praise God as Luke 19, verse 37 puts it. In reflecting upon the crowd that follows Jesus into Jerusalem on the day of triumphal entry, or what we call also Palm Sunday. It records, then as he was now drawing near the descent of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice, praising God with a loud voice. And then it tells us why. There are many things they could have been praising him for, but it says specifically, for all the mighty works they have seen. What mighty works have you seen? The mighty works of God. Do you not think it's a mighty works of God Work for God to take a rebel, a despicable, a disobedient individual and turn their heart To love God. Is that a mighty work or is it not? I mean Think about it. They had seen m mighty, mighty works. They these people were had seen or had witnessed Jesus in his multiple acts of healing and kindness. They had seen things that their eyes had never seen before. They had seen miracles. They had seen the power of God demonstrated before their eyes. And they had joined with Jesus. Jesus to go into Jerusalem and they were singing and they were praising God with a mighty voice For his mighty works. You of course know that they would be singing, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna. In the highest. Luke chapter 24, verse 53 gives us a snapshot of a group of believers after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Early after the death and resurrection of Christ, and we find it's said of those believers that they were continually in the temple praising and blessing God. And then there is that amazing story in Acts chapter 3, where Peter and John get in trouble with the local leadership of the of the synagogue because they dared to heal a man who was ill And as it as it records that healing in Acts chapter 3, verse Verses 8 and 9, it says, so he, leaping up, stood, walked, and entered into the temple, walking, leaping, and praising God. There's somebody who's really thankful and has much to be thankful for. Do you think You think that as the time lingered, as the days grew long after that healing, you think he forgot what Jesus' servants had done And in the end of uh history we find recorded in Revelation chapter 19 and verse five It says, then a voice came from the throne saying, Praise our God, all you his servants, and those who fear him, both great and small. Well you think it'll be hard to figure out what to praise God for then? You see what offering up spiritual sacrifices of praise to God accomplishes something. And this is important to grasp when we are in the mode of continually praising God Offering up these spiritual sacrifices as we are coming to him outside the camp, as we're on the way to the continuing city. As we praise Christ for his death and resurrection victory, our focus in life becomes joyful. Our focus in life becomes joyful triumph for Jesus Christ's victory over sin. And that's in sharp contrast to the focus on the woes of our current life. With its uncertainty and its sometimes severe difficulty. It's a question It's a question of focus, it's a question of heart attitude. What do you want to be? You got reasons to praise God. Don't get overwhelmed by the woes. There will be woes There will be difficulties. There will be trials. Christ told us. But what attitude do you want to carry into that? You see, if you carry into that the attitude of joyfully praising God That will help sustain you. If you carry into that the woes, difficulties of life, that will discourage you That will bring doubt, maybe depression, and other kinds of things not helpful to your life. How sweet it is to be given the privilege of heaping praise upon our Savior for the blessings that flow from his victory. Notice the praise that comes to Christ is characterized in verse 15, the latter part of verse 15. As the fruit of our lips. The fruit of our lips. I cannot help but notice how um how beautiful that that Beautiful sounding that is. The praise coming from the fruit of your lips. As opposed to The tongue is a restless evil full of deadly poison. Who can know it? Who can take The fruit of your lips brings to mind the labors of the Holy Spirit producing such fruit Such spiritual fruit in our lives. We praise God for the many reasons stated above. Instead of cursing and lying Cursing God and lying to Him and to others, as we did in our old man, by Jesus' sake, we now have many reasons to praise God. And in Christ, our lips can always be occupied with praising God for our Savior. We never have to experience a moment when there is nothing else left to give praise to Christ for. Sorry, I ended with the preface. I struggled trying to figure that one out and I just couldn't. But I want the point to be made. We never have. We never have a moment where we can't praise him. We don't have something to praise him for While Christ sacrificed himself for us, now we, united to Christ in his death and resurrection, can offer sacrifices of praise to him. The words and the ways of the old man exalt self and not sacrifice. Now we live by the Spirit and zealously crucify the words and works of our flesh. We sacrifice our evil ways and thoughts and works gladly. To be able to praise the God and his our God in his glorious name. And as we do so, we will of course be giving thanks to his name as Verse 15 ends up. All of life is one continuous doxology of praise To God. In the words of the hymn writer, great is thy faithfulness. Morning by morning, new mercies I seek. Other spiritual sacrifices of praise that we can make are also enumerated in verse 16. Look at verse 16. But do not forget to do good and to share. For with such sacrifices, God is well pleased. Again, this is not a recipe for salvation for unbelievers. This is a recipe for living your life praising God. What other things can you do that God is pleased with? Coming from your praise, coming from your life. Once again, remember Verse 15's words as it begins: Therefore by him, only by Christ can we do good to others. share. True good. Doing true doing good and sharing have several things in common. In order to do to truly do good and to share, you have to have others around you to be able to do that. Um you have to uh be able in order to make uh spiritual sacrifices to other others and share with others in order for God to be well pleased with what you're doing, there got to be people that you know, that you know, that you're acquainted with who have need And this demands that you cultivate the sensitivity to others around you. Noting Uh uh noting their life, I guess. Taking note of you you know how it is sometimes you can look on a person's face and find and see what you think they're feeling. You can I mean you might be wrong, but you can you can you can really see it if there's discouragement going on in their life. It demands that you have that kind of sensitivity and that kind of willingness to ask, what's going on? How can I help? How can I do good to you or share? When you do good to others Out of love for Jesus, out of love for what God has given to you in Christ, and when you share with others, they're signs, they're unmistakable signs. In the context of the life of the church, that your life has changed You have changed from always orbiting around yourself To now orbiting around God and others. Another way to say it is you've changed from selfishness to selflessness. Or you've changed to loving your neighbor as yourself. Ready to sacrifice, and I do mean it is a sacrifice sometimes, to sacrifice your plans and your time To go outside your comfort zone to minister to someone who is needy, to put yourself out This is a lifestyle which our text tells us that with such sacrifices God is well pleased. And you might ask yourself This question. Why is God well pleased with that? Spiritual sacrifice is offered up with praise unto God. Doing good to others and sharing is the very image his son Followed of his son. And when you do such, it's the very image of Christ's ministry to us. And when you do such, you are following your master. In the believer's case, this means that offering up spiritual sacrifices of praise in your journey to the continuing city Of our Lord outside the camp means the Holy Spirit is working on you, and you are becoming more like Christ. I think it will be a wonderful thing to hear God say to you, who are doing such for the glory of God, who are offering up spiritual sacrifices of Praise to hear God say to you the same thing he said to his son. Well done. You are my beloved son in whom I'm well While such words are first and foremost to be given to Christ at all times, our take Suggests that God is ready to say the same things about you. And when you well please Him him through the sacrifices of sharing and doing good to others. Amen. And let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we ask that in our life, in our walk with you, Lord, that you Have your way with us and continue to conform us to the image of your dear son. so that the things that are important to him and important values within the kingdom of God are indeed important to us. us. We pray this so that your glory might be exalted, that we might be good and profitable servants. Good and profitable servants. In the kingdom of God. To that end we pray, Amen