If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Leviticus, which you'll find that on page 104 of your Pew Bibles. Leviticus chapter 10. And we'll read the entire chapter. Let's give attention now to the Word of God. Now Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer and put fire in it, and laid incense on it, and offered unauthorized fire before the Lord, which he had not commanded them. And fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them And they died before the Lord. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord has said. Among those who are near me, I will be sanctified, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace. And Moses called Mishael and Elizaphan, the sons of Uziel, the uncle of Aaron, and said to them, Come near, carry your brothers away from the front of the sanctuary and out of the camp. So they came near and carried them in their coats out of the camp, as Moses had said. And Moses said to Aaron and to Eliezer and to Ithamar, his sons, do not let the hair of your heads hang loose And do not tear your clothes, lest you die, and wrath come upon all the congregation, but let your brothers, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning that the Lord has kindled. Do not go outside the entrance of the tent of meeting lest you die. For the anointing of the oil, for the anointing oil of the Lord is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses. And the Lord spoke to Aaron, saying, Drink no wine or strong drink, you or your sons with you, when you go into the tent of meeting, lest you die. It shall be a statute forever throughout your generations You are to distinguish between the holy and the common, and between the unclean and the clean. And you are to teach the people of Israel all the statutes that the Lord has spoken to them by Moses. Moses spoke to Aaron and to Eliezer and to Ithamar, his surviving sons, Take the grain offering that is left of the Lord's food offerings, and eat it unleavened beside the altar, for it is most holy. You shall eat it in a holy place, because it is your due and your sons due from the Lord's food offerings. For so I am commanded. But the breast that is waved and the thigh that is contributed, you shall eat in a clean place, you and your sons and your daughters with you, for they are given as your due and your sons due from the sacrifices of the the peace offerings of the people of Israel. The thigh that is contributed, and the breast that is waved, they shall bring with the food offerings of the fat pieces to wave for a wave offering before the Lord, and it shall be yours and your sons with you As a do forever as the Lord has commanded. Now Moses diligently inquired about the goat of the sin offering. And behold, it was burned up And he was angry with Eliezer and Ithamar, the surviving sons of Aaron, saying, Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, since it is the thing most holy? and has been given to you that you may bear the iniquity of the congregation to make atonement for them before the Lord. Behold, its blood was not brought Into the inner part of the sanctuary. You certainly ought to have eaten it in the sanctuary as I commanded. And Aaron said to Moses, Behold, Today they have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the Lord, and yet such things as these have happened to me. If I had eaten the sin offering today, would the Lord have approved? And when Moses heard that, he approved. Let's start in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to another difficult passage of Scripture. And we ask, Lord, that your Spirit would guide and direct our hearts tonight. We might understand, deeply understand, how precious your worship is to you. Guide us tonight. Father, in understanding how you've called us to worship you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If we were to turn back tonight to Genesis And seen after the fall, you remember that Adam's and Eve's sons brought offerings. To the Lord. That happens right away in chapter 4 after we read that Adam knew his wife, they conceived, and they bore Cain. And secondly, Abel. And then we read immediately that Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground. Abel brought an offering from the flock and of the fat portions. And we read that the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering, he had no regard. Meaning he didn't accept Cain's offering Well we go on, we read that Cain was very angry, but that's not what I want us to focus on tonight. I want us to think about what Cain brought. Cain sinned against God by bringing an offering that was not acceptable We know that Abel's offering was acceptable because he brought it in faith. But Cain didn't. And as a result, his his offering was not accepted, and Cain was not accepted. And that helps us, I think, a great deal understand what's happening here in Leviticus. We've been led here once again by Exodus. And it's so important for us to remember that in Exodus we read of God's people being delivered for one purpose, and that was for worship. They were delivered to worship. And as they're delivered, as they come through the Red Sea and And and as they hear the words of God from Mount Sinai brought to them by Moses, they learn that God wants to be worshipped in a particular way, and they see that through the tabernacle, the The design of the tabernacle given to Moses, very particular, very detailed, coming from God on high, telling them that He wanted them to construct this tabernacle, that place where he would dwell, that place where they would be able to worship him exactly as he had given the pattern. It sets the stage, really, doesn't it? For worship of God and how He wants us to worship Him. It was marked even by the tabernacle. And then we read in Exodus how Moses and all the people did exactly as the Lord had commanded them. They were obedient. And we know that Exodus ends with them being unable to enter into the tabernacle. Something more was needed, and yet there was this Adherence to the exact way God had called them to prepare a place for worship. Tonight, as we come to Leviticus 10, I want us to see that the Almighty God of creation provides an exclusive way of entering into his holy presence. The Almighty God of creation provides an exclusive way of entering into His holy presence. We'll see that in three points tonight. First devising the way, secondly reaping the reward, and finally bearing the guilt. Before we jump into this passage, I just want us to ask that question, does God really care? Does he really care about the way he is worshipped? Does he have a particular way in which he would have men approach him and commune with him and fellowship with him in worship? I'm hoping you're saying yes. I'm hoping you're thinking that really all of Leviticus is saying yes, yes, yes. He cares. There's an exact way. And he's been telling us. We've seen that as we've been studying this book. We saw it in the tabernacle. We've seen that There was more that was required than the tabernacle because there's a particular way which God has prescribed for men, for sinners to approach him, to commune with him and worship. Yes. Yes, he cares about the way in which he is worshiped. And he's told us. So I want you to listen tonight. Listen tonight as he calls you to worship him. Only. Only in the way that he's prescribed. That brings us then to our first point. Devising a way The fact that God cares really sets the backdrop, doesn't it? It sets the backdrop for the first verse that we read here in chapter 10. Now David, Nadab, and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, each took his censer, put fire in it, laid incense on it, and offered unauthorized or strange fire before the Lord. We see very clearly that these priests, for that's what they were These priests were not merely bringing, they were offering. Offering something to the Lord, just as Cain did. They were the sons of Aaron, they were priests of the living God. They've been consecrated, set aside, ordained to that role, to that position. The oil was still on them, as we read. And they bring an offering. That which was intentionally, purposefully brought and given, if we can use that word, to the living God. We finished going through the first seven chapters of Leviticus, in which all the commands of God were set forth, all the rules, all the precepts. Concerning how God could be worshipped, how he could be honored and revered with sacrificial offerings. And then in Leviticus 8, we read the commands of God were followed. Explicitly, strictly, by Moses and Aaron, presumably Aaron's sons, Nadeb and Abihu. And then Leviticus 9 sets forth for us the details of how the sacrifices were made, the blood which was sprinkled for the sin offering, the burnt offering which was consumed completely, the peace offerings, all in accordance with the commands of God. We noted very particularly how observant Moses and Aaron and the sons were with regard to the commands of God. We noted how obedient they were in bringing these sacrifices before the Lord for his approval. And then we read how the glory of the Lord shone forth before all the people, before all Israel, causing them to bow down and worship. Indicating that the sacrifices were pleasing in the sight of the Almighty, acceptable to him, as everything appeared to have been done outwardly in accordance with the perfect and holy will of God. And then this, seemingly out of nowhere, Nadab and Abihu devised their own way of approaching the living God with fire in their sensors. Where was this called for by God? When had Moses heard this or repeated this command to Aaron, to Nadab and Abihu? How do they know? How did Nadab and Abihu know that this fire was desired by the Lord God Almighty? Well, it wasn't. God didn't call for this strange fire. That's why the ESV refers to it as unauthorized. Keep out, so to speak. Don't don't go through this door. The NASB calls it strange fire. I suppose it's because it was unknown to God, in a sense. We know that he knows all things, but as far as that which was to be used by the people of God to approach him, it was in that sense unknown to God, strange It was not called for, it was not wanted by the Lord Almighty. The fire was not that which pleased God, and thus was not what enabled Nadab and Nabihu to approach him. Moses never told Nadab or Bahu to fill their senses with fire and lay incense on it and bring it before the Lord. There was no command, there was no call from Moses. These two sons of Aaron devised this method on their own. This way, this attempt to approach the living God in worship. This man-made path was devised of men, something that they considered in their corrupt, fallen hearts and minds was appropriate and worthy of God's approval. Just think of this for a moment. When does this happen? If we can take this In its context as being chronological, I think we can. I don't think we see anything that tells us it's not chronological. It happens after these sons of Aaron were clothed, anointed, consecrated, were set aside. It happens after these had now entered into the work, into the labor of a priest of God. Theirs was a privileged, a special, a set-apart work, and they were enabled now to come closer to the Lord than many. Just think for a moment of the camp that was set up. 600,000 men, women, children, animals, in addition to that, all centered around the tabernacle. The Levites were the ones who camped closest around the tabernacle. And they were the ones, now the priests were the ones who got the closest. Nidab and Abahu were allowed to come closer to the Lord. Than most. Look at verse 3. And Moses said to Aaron, This is what the Lord has said, among those who are near me. Referring to the priests. I will be sanctified. And before all the people I will be glorified. Think about Eve just for a moment in the garden. How close were they to God? They walked with him in the garden. They spoke with him directly. It was just Adam and Eve. That was it. That's the whole congregation. They had come so close to God. And what did she do? But insert her own will, her own desire, her own thoughts. She saw the tree was good for food. There was a delight to the eyes that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate. Nadab and Abihu were ministers to the living God. They had come near to the Lord. They were representatives of the people. They were handling holy things. Used in ministering to the Almighty. That's when this happened. You see Satan at work here? We read that tonight in the confession. Acceptable way of worshiping the true God is instituted by Himself. He may not be worshipped according to the imaginations and devices of men or the suggestions of Satan. We can just imagine for a moment, not that it's in Scripture, it's not, that Satan was whispering in the ears of Nadab and Abihu, bring that strange fire. Satan was working. And he knew the vulnerability of men who had been lifted up to revered positions. And so pride creeps in to Nadab and Abihu's hearts It seems that they were overcome with pride. Pride led them to devise their own way to approach God. Pride led them to consider that the Lord would be pleased with their corrupt fire and incense Pride blinded their minds to the clarity of God's perfect commands and warnings. Among those who are near me I will be sanctified. In Exodus we read about the priests who come near to the Lord, who consecrate themselves. You see, you see, they they didn't sanctify God They failed to consecrate themselves. True worship comes, it flows out of the heart And so even as these men were offering up these animals, what was coming out of their hearts? God ordained worship flows out of a heart that's been changed, a heart which no longer is fixed upon self. Seems to be what Nadab and Abihu's hearts were fixed on. God ordained worship as a heart It flows out of a heart that is no longer enamored with self, nor with the world, and with the creation. God ordained worship flows out of a heart that's been changed from unfeeling stone to tender flesh, a heart which knows, which is convicted, that all of life is owed to and belongs to the living Creator God. And as a result, the longing of the heart is to serve, to commune, to fellowship with, and to worship this one who has given and preserved your very life, your existence. Knowing and believing that your existence is centered upon Christ, that He's done everything And so, if that describes your heart tonight, you're fighting against prideful remnants of the old man and pursuing your longing to serve the Triune God, the Father, the Son, and Spirit in worship. See if that describes you tonight, and your heart is going to want to worship only, only in the way that God has described in his word. You will abhor any way, any method which is not called for by God expressly and specifically. For your changed heart desires only to please Him. And you know that pleasing God happens through faith. According to his word. And so you know that he has devised the way. And the way is singular. The way to worship God is through the Lord Jesus Christ, his only eternally begotten Son. The way to worship him is is through the atonement made by Jesus on the cross. It's through faith in his pure blood. It's through the empty tomb where Jesus defeated the grip of sin and the enemy of death. It's through the intercession of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's through the second coming of this one to judge the world, knowing that. It's through the covenant of redemption. This is the divine way. That's the only way. And it's not the man-made way. It is the God-ordained and approved the God-desired way. Do we worship him? Praise the Lord. He has given us a way to enter into his presence That brings us to our second point, reaping the reward. Well, what happened as a result of this strange or unauthorized fire being offered to the Lord. Well, you know, verse two, fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them. And they died before the Lord. Immediately. So let me say the obvious. These two, Nadab and Abihu, could no longer serve as priests for the Almighty God. The holiness of God, the righteousness of God, would not permit Such a thing. And so these were immediately removed from service to God, from being priests, before the living God, from serving in his presence. In fact, these two could no longer remain in anyone's presence. They would have been a reminder of disobedient, false We see that as fire breaks out from before the Lord, and these two offenders were consumed in an instant. Nadab and Abihu reaped their reward and their pride. Their desire was to lift themselves up higher before God and before the people But the wages of sin is death. And so they earn their reward. You might be asking, well, what was the problem? A little fire, a little incense? We've already read it actually. As Moses approaches Aaron, he tells him, This is what the Lord has said, Among those who are near me, I will be sanctified. And for all the people I will be glorified. And again the priests were who come near were to consecrate themselves. Maybe Ibn Abahu attempted to bring God down to their level by devising a way to worship or fellowship on their terms. That was the essence of what they did attempting to make the creator gods subject to their rule, to their command. You see, they didn't consecrate themselves. Webster's 1828 dictionary defines consecrate in several ways, but this is the way that helps us tonight. To consecrate means to devote yourself. To dedicate yourself to serving and worshiping the living God Nadab and Abihu did not devote themselves. They did not dedicate themselves to serving God. For to do so would have been to serve him according to his word, not according to their devices Not only did they not consecrate themselves, they did not sanctify God. We read this in Isaiah. But the Lord of hosts, him you shall honor as holy, or sanctify. Let him be your fear. Let him be your dread. See, the act of bringing strange fire did not demonstrate fear. It did not demonstrate that they were in dread of God It didn't set God apart in their own hearts. Offering that which was not desired demonstrated a complete lack of fear of the Holy One of Israel. Certainly as this was done publicly, it did not sanctify God before the people who were watching, and then finally they did not glorify God. By bringing their own authorized or strange fire, Nadab and Abai, who did not glorify him, they sought to glorify themselves. This was discussed already as an issue of pride. By devising their own, their personal, their private way of approaching, they sought not to glory God, but to glory in them themselves. And finally, finally, what was the cost of their fire? Cost is involved in sanctifying or fearing God as well as glorifying him. Cost is involved in in first casting off pride and humbling oneself. And once humbling is done, then it can be clearly seen that as men sin against God, they owe him a debt which must be paid Consider what was the cost of the strange fire The sacrifices that we've read of, the burnt offering, the sin offering, the peace, the guilt offering, the grain offerings, all involved costs. The price was paid to bring the offering. Like Cain, though, the cost of the strange fire was minimal. Cain didn't bring the best. He didn't bring the fat. His cost was low, and Nadab and Abihu had no cost. There was no recognition of owing God a debt. There's no payment being made. You see, they didn't sanctify God, they didn't consecrate themselves, they certainly didn't glorify Him. And thus the reward of fearless worship, so to speak, if it can be called that It was void, devoid of the fear of God. It was not according to the perfect and pure word of God, which was based there worship their censor, their incense, their fire, their strange fire worship was based upon man-made wicked evil thought. And it resulted in death. Because it was sin. Because it offended a holy God. And he will be sanctified. He will be glorified If not through the obedient worship of his children, then through the consuming death of his enemies. He will be glorified. He will be sanctified. And all this should cause us to consider Jesus Christ, the always and ever-obedient Son of God. Just consider how he's described in Philippians chapter 2. As as Paul is pointing those in Philippi to Christ as the example. of a humble heart. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count yourselves more count others more significant than yourselves. And then he points to who? Jesus Have this mind among yourselves, which is Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself, taking the form of a servant being born in the likeness of men. humble himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. You see Do you see the obedience of Christ begins with his humiliation? It begins with his humble heart. It begins with him not counting equality with God, a thing to be grasped. And as a result of his humble heart, what does he do? He goes to the cross willingly. He honors his father. And what happens as a result? Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. See, Christ was exalted. Because of his obedient praise and glory given to his father You see how it's through Christ that our worship is not only acceptable, but will result in a great reward. That's what the Apostle John writes in his first letter. As he speaks about Christ, as he writes about Christ. As he speaks about the one we have seen and heard, we proclaim also to you. Why? So that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. See, that's what obedient worship is. That's what worship through Jesus Christ is. It's fellowship, it's pure, it's unadulterated. It's communion It's that certainly which is pleasing to the Father, but that which is a joy to us. That's how John finishes that portion. And we are writing these things so that our joy may be complete If we took a survey of churches in the area, you would probably find that most believe that joy, true worship, is found in praise bands, loud music. And healings. Be little about Christ. And so tonight as we think of the disobedient worship, it's even more appropriate for us to focus on the obedient. Worship instituted by our Savior, the Lord Jesus. And knowing that it's only through that obedient worship that we can have true fellowship, a true communion. with the living God, such that our joy may be complete. Praise God. That brings us to our third point, bearing guilt. This passage And we're just touching upon it tonight. We're not covering all of it. But this passage ends in a really interesting and sort of strange way There are many different kinds of offerings that are mentioned here in this passage, but the one it ends with is the sin offering. And Moses now in verse sixteen is Searching. He's searching for the sin offering. The people were to have brought a goat for a sin offering And they did. And it was offered up, it was slain, it was killed. The blood was sprinkled It was on the altar. And now the sin offering, a portion of it, was to be eaten by the priests. In chapter 6, if you remember, we read that the priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In a holy place it shall be eaten in the court of the tent of meeting. And so there's a sense in which uh the sin offering is not complete Until it's eaten by the priest. And so now Moses is looking Where where is it? Where is the goat for the sin offering? Where is that where's that meat that the priests are now to consume He was angry with Eliezer and Ithamar, the surviving sons, and Nadadab and Abinu are dead. He's angry with them. Why have you not eaten the sin offering? He finds that the whole thing's been burned up. It's been left on the altar. It's been consumed. That was for the burnt offering. The sin offering was to be reserved, a portion of it reserved for the priests. And now Moses finds, after diligently inquiring about it, that the go to the sin offering has been burned up completely And so he's asking, why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary? It's a thing most holy. It's been given to you. Presumably Nadab and Abai who had offered it up. If we were to understand this, or maybe it was Eliezer, some of the sons of Aaron clearly offered up this goat. And so now the question is, why haven't you eaten it? And then we read of Aaron's response. Verse 19, behold, today they have offered they, I believe it's a referral to his sons. They have offered their sin offering and their burnt offering. before the Lord, and yet such things as these have happened to me. I believe that's a reference to the death of Nadab and Abihu. If I had eaten the sin offering today, would the Lord have approved? Or would it have been good in the sight of the Lord? Now Nahadab and Abihu were dead. They had sinned against the Lord. It would appear that the strange fire they offered intervened. It seems that they were in the midst of these offerings And Nadab and Abihu come and offer their strange fire, their unauthorized fire, and it appears to place an interruption in the whole process. It seems as though they've defiled their work and buy into this unauthorized fire And Aaron was recognizing the sins of his sons, who apparently participated possibly even in offering up the goat. It's not quite clear. And so how could Aaron eat it? His sons had defiled themselves, and the offering was most holy. Every male amongst the priests were to eat of it. And so Aaron was grieved likely over the loss of his sons. He grieved over their sin. He may have understood this strange fire as interrupting the atonement of the sin offering for the people. And so Aaron does not eat. And his sons do not eat. Maybe as Aaron has witnessed the burning of his sons for their sins, he steps back. At a minimum, he observes that Nadab and Abahu were no longer present among the priesthood and could not participate in the eating of the sin offering. And so Aaron, for whatever reason, for whatever cause, he determines not to continue with the atonement. Did you notice that? Did you notice what Moses said? Why have you not eaten the sin offering in the place of the sanctuary, since it's the most holy thing, and has been given to you that you may bear the iniquity of the congregation? to make atonement for them by eating the sacrificial animal. You know, we usually think, at least I think, that the atonement happens as the animal's being slain, as the blood is being let out, as the animal dies. The shedding of blood. And then as the animal is burned on the altar, you think that's it? Atonement complete. Check. Work done. No, not for the sin offering. That's exactly what Moses is asking. The atonement's not done yet. You need to eat the sin offering in order that you, the priest, may bear the iniquity of the congregation. To make atonement for them. That's an important point. Don't miss that. By eating the sacrificial animal, the priests would have been representing the need to become like the sacrificial animal. The unblemished one that was slain, whose blood was shed in payment of the debt owed to God, offered up, dead to self, alive to God, so to speak, satisfying his perfect justice. And thus they were to eat, ingest. In a sense, become like this one. And Aaron and his sons stop. They didn't complete the atonement. This work of the human priest, his servants of the Lord Most High, was unfinished at this point. The atonement that was to result from the sin offering didn't occur. As the priests did not consume, they didn't eat the sin offering, and thus, as Moses spoke, the iniquity of the congregation was not borne by the priests. By not eating the priest didn't finish making atonement for the people before the Lord's sin intervened. You see that? Sin intervened in the process of making atonement And brothers and sisters, these animal sacrifices, even this one in chapter 10 of Leviticus, was always pointing to Jesus. And Leviticus 10 points us to Jesus Christ in a most powerful way. See, everything the priests failed to do, Jesus did. They failed in their obedience to the word of God and thus to God. And for whatever reason, Aaron and his sons, the priests, in this Leviticus 10 did not complete the picture of atonement Think of the people of God as they come to know. The priests didn't eat, the atonement wasn't complete. Their iniquity was not borne away. It remained upon them. But Jesus was the sacrifice. And as such he drank the cup of God's righteous wrath to its dregs. Nothing was left. Nothing. Not for the children of God. The priests left left the sin offering uneaten. They chose not to bear the iniquity of the congregation, but Jesus did bear the iniquity of all who trusted in him and the cross to Calvary. Jesus left nothing unfinished. And that's why he said, as John's Gospel records for us, it is finished. Tonight, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, you have every assurance That Jesus Christ has completed, fully completed your atonement. You've been washed. In the blood of Jesus' perfect blood. He has taken and drunk the cup left full by the Iranic priests. Jesus was given to you to bear your guilt. Amen Amen. The Almighty God of creation provides an exclusive way of entering into his holy presence. Cain. Cain brought that which was unwanted, unauthorized, and unacceptable to God. And so did Nadab and Abihu. But Jesus Christ brought exactly that which his Father desired. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven. What a joy it is to know that you have ordained an exclusive way for us to enter into communion with you through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Oh Father, you have told us the way. You've given us the way, and you've given us your Son. We are such a blessed people. Help us, Lord God, to cling to your word. As we seek to worship you, the triune, God, help us not to stray. To the right or to the left, but help us, Lord God, to be committed, be devoted, be dedicated. To serve in you just in the way that you have prescribed in your word. Oh, Father, your worship is so beautiful, so precious to us. Father, cast off our pride, humble us, that we would submit ourselves wholly and completely and joyfully to your word regarding worship We thank you and praise you for Christ. Help us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.