We're going to Romans chapter eight And just for context, I'm going to begin at verse 1. We'll be focusing on verses 12 through 17. uh this evening. Let's give attention to God's word. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus, who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh, God did By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh on account of sin. He condemned sin in the flesh. That the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the spirit, the things of the spirit. For to be carnally minded is death But to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God, for it is not subject to the law of God, nor indeed can it be So then, those who are in the flesh cannot please God, but you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If indeed the spirit of God dwells in you. Now, if any one does not have the Spirit of Christ, he is not his And if Christ is in you, the body is dead because of sin. But the spirit is life because of righteousness. But if the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in you. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh If you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. You did not receive the Spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the Spirit of Adoption, by whom we cry out Abba, Father, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs Heirs of God and joint heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with Him, that we may also be glorified together. Amen. Uh you pray with me. Father in heaven, as we come before you this evening as we close this day. by opening your word. We ask, Father, that you work powerfully in our hearts. We thank you for the worship that we have already been able to participate in this morning. And now we ask, Father, Come to the close of this day, that you would use your word in our hearts, that by your spirit you would continue to move us and change us and transform us to be more like Jesus. You'd forgive us of our many sins. And that you'd help us, Father, to understand what you have done by justifying all those who trust in Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, when one goes to boot camp, meaning that they have uh joined the military uh the military organization takes that young civilian and transforms them into a soldier, a sailor, or marine. They go in. The civilian, they come out as a military person weeks later, looking different. The hair is different, their posture is different Clothing is different. Everything's changed. Everything's transformed. Even speak differently. With respect, sir, ma'am. Look in the eyes And they also have a different outlook. They're now taught to obey commands quickly, seemingly, a very different person, much different than the one that went in. At least outwardly. Justification. Justification also involves transformation. This passage points us in that direction. The Apostle Paul has been writing much about this doctrine of justification. He began in chapter three and has been looking at it in different perspectives, different ways, and continues to do so even here in this chapter eight. Such an important doctrine and so important to see all the different facets of it, how it affects our lives, what God has done by and through it, what Jesus has accomplished. and then applied to us by and through his spirit. Tonight, I'd like us to see that the work of the Spirit of Jesus Christ confirms the justification and transformation. of the children of God. The work of the Spirit of Jesus Christ confirms the justification and transformation with the children of God. Three simple points. First, the justified are obligated. Secondly, the justified are sons of God. And finally the third point justified our heirs. Well first, the justified are obligated. Once again, as we look at verse 12 We see Paul is not beginning here with a question as he has in the past. He's beginning with a statement, which begins with the word, therefore. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors. And so, as we do often, we want to know what is that therefore referring back to? What does Paul want us to bring uh into this verse 12. What's the backdrop to this that he uses this word therefore. In other words, uh considering then what we have just learned, we could substitute that for the word therefore. And what did Paul just teach. Well, I think you could might incorporate all of verses one through eleven of chapter eight and say, well that's it. That's what Paul is asking us to consider. That's what he wants us to bring forward. now into this verse 12 that he speaks about being a debtor. Well what do we have in verses 1 through 11? There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus No condemnation. And that is throughout verses one through eleven. And verse eleven itself, kind of a bookend to the passage. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, And he who raised Christ will also give life to your mortal bodies. No condemnation and life through the Spirit And so that's what the therefore is all about. You are no longer condemned, and you have life therefore. Therefore, you're a debtor. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors. Well, what does that mean, a debtor? Most of us know what this means, generally speaking. Debtor is someone who owes something to another. Paul has used this word at least a couple of times in Romans. He began the letter by saying, I'm a debtor to both Greeks and to barbarians, to wise and to unwise. He meant by that that he was obligated to preach the gospel And God had laid this upon him. God had given him this task. God had saved Paul, and now he had a duty to preach. He was a debtor. Also in chapter 15 he uses the word. For it pleased those from Macedonia and Achaia to make certain contributions for the poor among the saints who were in Jerusalem. It pleased them indeed, and they are their debtors. Those from Macedonia and Achaia made contributions. They gave Property, they contributed to the poor. And now those who received that which was given have a duty, they have a debt. to minister to them also in material things. That's the idea. A duty owed as a result of something that has happened, something that has occurred. Well, Paul makes this very strange statement. Therefore, brethren, we are debtors not to the flesh To live according to the flesh. Who would have thought that? Who would have thought, oh, I'm a debtor to live in a particular way which is offensive to God? There's a reason that Paul inserts this here. And at first glance, we would think it's just strange. Why would you think that we're a debtor to the flesh or obligated to live according to the flesh? You have been writing uh uh profusely about the that's the wrong way to live. Usually when we think of becoming obligated, we think we've received something good. Or like Paul, when he's received a task to accomplish. There's nothing good about the flesh. Paul's told us that so very clearly. For the good that I will to do, I do not do. But the evil I will not to do, that I practice. Wretched man that I am. Well, I think Paul might have been thinking about the sin nature of men in general when he wrote not to live according to the flesh. We're not debtors to live that way. Think of the golden calf just for a moment. As Moses ascended up onto the mountain, and the people were curious, wondering where he had gone and why he had not returned, what do they do? They fashion a golden calf. And what does Aaron then say once this molded calf has been fashioned by his hands? This is your God, O Israel, that brought you out of the land of Egypt. It was idolatry. It was fashioning that which was from the earth into that which they then worshipped. All idolatry is rooted in diverting the acknowledgement of our obligation or our duty or our debt. From the creator God to his creation. That's what we do naturally in our sin nature. That's what those did at the foot of the mountain. They diverted their obligation, their duty to God, to his creation, as they worshiped the golden calf. You're living according to the flesh. And that takes us away from God, from his spirit. Living according to the flesh is truly living to please our sinful flesh. And one lives, and when one lives according to the flesh, then he or she does become a debtor. For the flesh is never satisfied. Hell and destruction are never false, the eyes of man are never satisfied, Proverbs 27 One in this condition is condemned continually to feeding the unsatisfied hunger of the flesh. We think of it this way, then Paul's warning as he begins this particular section is really not strange at all. Well, Paul says we're not obligated. We're not debtors to the flesh But he never expressly states what we are debtors to. He leaves that out. It's an ellipsis. Something's missing. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die, but if by the spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. He's saying what we need, we're debtors to live according to the spirit. That's the import. That's what's missing. That's what he doesn't expressly state, but he clearly means that. He's left it unstated. The truth is actually powerfully unstated. So those who've been justified. those who are no longer condemned, or for whom there is no more condemnation, these These are indebted to the one who has paid the debt, the one who has paid the price, the one who has justified. It's one of the greatest gifts given to the children of God. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die, but if by the Spirit He will put to death the deeds of the body. He will live. So that's Paul's Warning, that's Paul's admonition. We are debtors to live according to the Spirit So if justified, there is this obligation then to live in a certain way, according to the Spirit We might think that at this point, Paul is now moving out of justification and getting into sanctification. How to live when you are justified. And while Paul does touch upon behavior, I believe that his focus is yet upon the benefits of justification, particularly here in the work of the Spirit. Yes, because one has been declared just or saved by God, there is this debt to live before the Savior in a way that's pleasing to him. And Paul is explaining that this way of living flows out of that supernatural work that God is doing, which follows justification. In other words, The one who has been justified is able to live according to the Spirit because of the amazing transformation that's taken place. Now that he has been justified or declared righteous. Because as you believed, you received the Spirit of God Because the Spirit leads you as he dwells. Because the Spirit is one of adoption who enables you to cry out to your Heavenly Father Because the Spirit testifies because you've been made a child of God and because you've been made an heir with Christ. Well let me ask at this point, do you consider yourself to be indebted? Indebted to live in a particular way When you're indebted to someone or to some organization like a bank who holds the mortgage on your house, you tend to live in a particular way before that person or that organization when you owe something to someone it just changes your relationship you consider yourself to be indebted And if so, how do you live? How do you live by the Spirit? Or what is the result of living according to the Spirit? The call is to put to death the deeds of the body. That's the obligation. That's the debt owed for the grace and mercy and blessings you've received. Put to death the deeds of the body. This cannot really turn into a list of do's and don'ts, for if it does, we become moralists We seek to achieve our own righteousness by creating that list. Do this, don't do that Our righteousness has been given to us through the Spirit of God. We have the righteousness of Christ, but yet we're called to put to death. Murray, John Murray refers to this as an activity on our part. In chapter 7, we're represented as having been put to death and having died. But now there's this active nature put to death It's good for us to think upon these things and to pray the Spirit would work so very powerfully in us. That we would be able, as a result of the Spirit's work, to continue to put to death the deeds of the body so that we would recognize our indebtedness. to God and live joyfully as we mortify sin. That brings us to our second point, the justified our sons of God Well, then the question becomes, how are you going to do this? How are you going to put to death the the deeds of the body? Is that really what Paul is writing us about, writing to give us in step by step? plan of of how to put to death the needs of the body. How one can live according to the spirit and not according to the flesh. And certainly that was the call, and that is the expectation Now that one is free from condemnation, now that the sinner has been set free from eternal damnation and destruction. Remember, a few verses back in chapter seven, Paul reminds us of the difficulty that he had been experiencing as the old man was constantly fighting against the new man, as that war. raged in his inner being. And he seemed to say that there were times in his life when when he appeared to be living by the flesh, but now Having admitted this difficulty, which is a difficulty that every single one of Christ's followers experiences in this life, Paul calls Christians Those who are no longer condemned to live according to the Spirit. And so one might consider that Paul describes how that is possible as the Spirit indwells. Certainly this passage does explain how very generally, but I want us to see that it explains much more. Paul describes how he is at the same time describing this great transformation that occurs as a result of a sinner being justified. Not sanctified, but Just as a mere fact of his justification, Paul's describing this awesome, transformative work of God, which is at its core part of the benefit of being justified flows directly out of being declared just Well let's first look at the leading of the Spirit. So as we continue to learn of the benefits of justification, we come to this truth, verse 14. For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are sons of God, to be justified. Or to be made righteous in the eyes of God first means that you have received the indwelling Spirit of God to abide in your heart. It's got to be the case You've been declared innocent. As you've come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Spirit has already been abiding. Part of justification is recognizing that that spirit is indwelling now. Continues to abide in the heart. And that connection is clear and it's true and it's unbreakable. This is what Paul writes in the first chapter of Ephesians. In him you also trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom, having believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. You see, that connection is is clear and unbreakable, it's true. The Spirit does abide, the Spirit does dwell within those who believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. This again is one significant reason why Jesus Christ needed to ascend to the throne in heaven. You read in John chapter 16, nevertheless I tell you the truth. It's to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I depart, I will send him to you And when he has come, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Here then is the idea of being led by the Spirit of Jesus. Leading a believer to being convicted by sin. Without the Spirit's work, I just read this by a commentator, without the Spirit's work, we're never going to be convicted of sin. That's part of the great work of the Spirit. That's what he does. That's how he leads us in part, in great part, being convicted by sin. The Spirit leads the believer to walk in righteousness. I think that's Paul, what Paul's getting at here is the speaks of living according to the Spirit. Yes, being convicted of sin, but as we're convicted of sin, then walking in righteousness That's such a big part of what the Spirit's work is as a result of being justified. Now these things are things of sanctification. They flow out and are a result of being justified, aren't they? We don't want to confuse the two The point I'm making is that these things flow out, their result of being justified, being declared just. The Spirit leads the believer in walking in righteousness. And the Spirit also leads the believer to see that Satan will be judged. Isn't that what Jesus was saying, he will convict the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. Not only will Satan be judged, but there will be a day of judgment that Christ returns. And so you might think, there it is. This is the how. This is how we can live according to the Spirit. Don't forget. This leading of the Spirit necessarily includes the transformation in the one being led. That God has so changed the heart of the saved sinner, flowing out of being justified. That the saved sinner is willing and desirous of being led by the Spirit The saved sinner is changed from hating the purity of the Lord Jesus Christ and following his prior will to lust after the world. Now to follow after and pursue the righteousness of Jesus Christ as the Spirit leads. William Hendrickson, a commentator, wrote this, when the Holy Spirit leads believers, he becomes the controlling influence in their lives. And brings them at last to glory. That's the idea to being led by the Spirit. Well Paul didn't end that verse that way. He ended it this way, for as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. So those who are led by the Spirit are truly sons of God. There's a parallel there One doesn't lead to the other. It's just the fact that if you're being led by the Spirit, then in fact you are a son or a daughter of God as the Spirit indwells As Martin Wood-Jones puts it, it's a matter of assurance. As one is led by the Spirit The same believer knows, is reassured that he or she has mysteriously, yet really, been brought into the family of God. A great transition or translation has taken place as one is justified, as one who is led Has been brought from the other side, brought out of prison and into freedom in Christ. Just think for a moment of that great battle That David came to as Goliath was blaspheming God as he was calling out to the Israelites as the Philistines and the Israelites were arrayed in battle gear, already to enter into a great um battle. And Goliath is is spewing forth insults and threats As he's dressed in full battle gear, he's armed with all kinds of weapons of war. He is hating God and the people of God wanting nothing other than the blood of God's people to be spilled that day on the battlefield. What happens? Well, we know the story. Goliath is slain. But what if Goliath weren't slain? What if he were transformed? What if Goliath were to have laid down all of his weapons of war? What if he were to have taken off his battle dress? What if he were to have shut his mouth? What if he were to have left his armor bearer behind and slowly walked over to the Israelite camp? and sat down and ate dinner, now embracing David and the others in the camp as brothers. We know that didn't happen. But if it had, there would have been this great transformation. Of one coming out from the other camp, from the enemy camp, into the Israelite camp, and now becoming one of them. That's kind of the idea. A great transformation. One being brought out from those who are the enemies of God, being brought into the family of God, set free, not to wander, but to enter into the household of God Himself. We must see how that brings with it the desire to live in a particular way, not being brought now being brought in and welcomed. It changes everything And note that this was not any mere spirit that was working, but the spirit of adoption, verse 15. For you did not receive the spirit of bondage again to fear, but you received the spirit of adoption by whom we cry out, Abba, Father. Again, Paul inserts here something strange. Why would he insert this idea of the spirit of bondage again and contrast that with the spirit of adoption? Calvin understands that Paul means by the spirit of bondage, the spirit of bondage to the law Romans 7 tells us that we have been delivered from the law. Romans 8, earlier on, we read that the law of the Spirit of Life in Christ Jesus has made me free from the law of sin and death. So Calvin writes hence that as there is a spirit of bondage under the law which oppresses the conscience, the fear So under the gospel, there is the spirit of adoption which exhilarates our souls by bearing testimony as to our salvation. Yes, we we've received a spirit of adoption, by whom and by which we can cry out to God Abba Father, the one who has taken us into his family. The one who causes us to enjoy the liberties and the privileges of his children. The one who has put his name upon us. The one who gives us access to his throne of grace with boldness. The one who pities us, who protects us, who provides for us, who chastens us. As a father that never casts his children off, but seals them to the day of redemption. That's Westminster Confession, chapter 12. Hendrickson writes this, it's the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit of adoption, who transforms slaves into children. That's the idea. We receive the spirit of adoption. This is that which flows out of justification. This is the truth of what justification does. We receive the spirit of adoption. Not to bondage, not to fear But to be welcomed into the family of God, taken into the number, and enjoy the liberties and privileges of the children of God. Well, how do you know you're a child of God? Being led by the Spirit is certainly one means of assurance, as Martin Lloyd Jones is telling us. But the Spirit, in addition to leading, He testifies, He speaks. Verse 16 Spirit himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. Do you see he leads us He leads us. He transforms us. He adopts us. And he testifies to us. Now, I don't think what Paul means here is that we're hearing an audible voice. I don't think that's what he's saying Spirit, Spirit of God, bears witness with our spirit. Hosea writes, And it shall come to pass in the place where it has been said to them, You are not my people, there it shall be said to them You are sons of the living God. This is the testimony of the Spirit, to our Spirit. This is how God loves his children. This is how Jesus Christ loves the ones that he died for. That he would send his spirit to testify, to reassure. Again, going back to the Gospel of John Chapter 14 in the Upper Roman Discourse, Jesus tells his disciples, I will pray to the Father, he will give you another helper that he may abide with you forever, the Spirit of Truth. Whom the world cannot receive, because it neither sees him nor knows him, but you know him. For he dwells with you and will be in you. I will not leave you as orphans I will come to you. And Jesus Christ comes to us today by and through his Spirit. The one who speaks to us, the one who testifies to us. That we are indeed the children of God. We've been taken into his household, that our elder brother is continuing to work on our behalf to intercede for us. Yes. The justified are sons of God. Praise be to God. Let me ask you this evening, do you consider yourself a son of God, a daughter of God? Do you think of yourself as being brought into his family? to be cared for, to be loved by him, to be watched over by the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the idea as a result of your being justified tonight. You've been brought into the family. Now adoption is a separate uh uh separate category. As we think about the order of salvation, but it flows out of our justification. Brings us to the third point that justified our heirs. Look at verse 16 The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God, and if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and joint heirs with Christ. Well, I think we all know what an heir is, one who inherits, or as Webster says, to take from an ancestor one who is entitled to possess. That's an air. Clearly, we've learned that the Spirit testifies to the present reality of a believer's position in the house. of God. And that as a spirit indwells and as he leads the spirit of adoption as he testifies A saved sinner is assured of his or her salvation and thus his or her justification in Jesus Christ. Now the benefits, as well as assurance, extend beyond today to the future The promise to the true child, the true child of God is not only care and love for today, but forever. That which Jesus Christ has secured in his perfect obedience becomes promised to all who trust in him. If children, then heirs, heirs of God and joint heirs with Jesus Christ. Do you see that? Do you understand that? Think of all that Jesus has secured in his perfect obedience. He's been given a kingdom Psalm 2. Ask of me, and I will give you the nations for your inheritance. and the ends of the earth for your possession. That's given to Jesus. You can go back even maybe a little further to Daniel And then to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom. That all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. way in his kingdom, one which shall not be destroyed. What has Jesus inherited? Everything everything belongs to Jesus as a result of his perfect obedience to his father. His father is happy and glad to give him nations. And as a result of trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, as a result of being justified, being declared righteous, being declared innocent, being forgiven. You also have inherited that which Jesus has. The Spirit Himself bears witness. You're an heir of God and joint heir with Christ. The end of justification ultimately is this inheritance It's really just one more way of saying he who overcomes will inherit these things. And I will be his God, and he will be my son. Revelation 21, verse 7 Do you see? Inheritance is truly having God as your God. And being a child of his forever. If it shows us nothing else clearly demonstrates that we often think too little of God, the Father Of the Son, and certainly of the Spirit. As we think and we ponder justification, brothers and sisters, we must guard against thinking only in terms of forgiveness. We need to think in terms of forgiveness. We need to think in terms of righteousness But when we limit our thoughts to that, I think we err. Justification is certainly being declared innocent, being forgiven, being declared righteous. But we're learning that it is so much more is one of the great solid blocks of our faith. Justification is so full. And the work of the Godhead is spread throughout justification. Through justification, you've been set free. You've been pardoned. You've been cleansed. You've been made righteous. So much so that God enables you to stand in his presence. I think that's really ultimately the idea of justification. Because you've been justified, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, then it is your hope in Christ, your certain hope in Christ, that you would not fear, little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Luke 12, 32 We can go a little further in Luke as well. I bestow upon you a kingdom, just as my Father bestowed one upon me, that ye may eat. and drink at my table in my kingdom and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Those are Jesus' words. Luke 22, 29 All of that flowing out of justification ultimately Well, brothers and sisters, we're not going to get into the last part of verse 17. We'll save that. Lord willing for next week as we think of suffering and the and glorification of Christ. But I do want us to just dwell tonight upon the work of the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, which does confirm our justification and transformation. Yes, that transformation which occurs at boot camp is is amazing. But it's all outward Transformation that occurs as a result of justification is all inward Praise be to God for the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, that he has sent his spirit To not only abide within, but to lead us, to assure us of our adoption And testify to us, we are indeed the children of God. Amen.