If you turn your copies of God's Word now in the New Testament to Matthew Matthew chapter 21, we'll continue our study there this morning. I believe that's on page 982 of your Pew Bibles. We'll seek to finish the chapter this morning. Now begin reading at verse twenty-three. Let's give attention to the very word of God. And when he entered the temple, the chief priests and the elders and the people came up to him as he was teaching and said, By what authority are you doing these things? And who gave you this authority? Jesus answered them. I also will ask you one question, and if you tell me the answer, then I will tell you by what authority I do these things. The baptism of John. From where did it come? From heaven or from man? And they discussed it among themselves, saying, If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him? But, if we say from man, we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet. So they answered Jesus. We do not know. And he said to them, Neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. What do you think? A man had two sons, and he went to the first and said, Son, go and work in the vineyard today. And he answered, I will not. But afterward, he changed his mind and went. And he went to the other son and said the same. And he answered, I go, sir, but did not go. Which of the two did the will of his father? They said, the first. Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God before you For John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him, and even when you saw it, you did not afterward change your minds. and believe him. Here another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a wine press in it and built a tower and leased it to tenants and went into another country When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit. And the tenants took his servants and beat one and killed another and stoned another. Again, he sent other servants more than the first, and they did the same to them. Finally, he sent his son to them, saying, They will respect my son. But when the tenants saw the sun, they said to themselves, This is the heir. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. And they took him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? They said to him He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their seasons. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone? This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes Therefore, I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people, producing its fruits. And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces, and when it falls on any one, it will crush him. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard this his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds, because they held him to be a prophet. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we ask for help now. We've read your word. We pray, Lord God, that you would add uh Add to our understanding by your Spirit that you would teach us this morning. Help your servant, Father who seeks to proclaim your word. Give us all ears to hear, eyes to see, that we might be those who would seek after you will and submit. Submit to it. Help us, Father. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you questioning Jesus' authority this morning? It's an important question for us to ask and examine our hearts about As we read about Korah's rebellion earlier this morning, that was exactly what Korah was doing. Korah and the two hundred and fifty chiefs of the congregation, the Israelites, who were chosen out of the assembly to come and challenge Moses' authority. We're actually challenging God's authority. For God had set Moses in place. He had set him in place to deliver the Israelites out of Egypt. and into the promised land. And Korah, a son of Levi Question that authority. Remember what Moses records in Numbers. Therefore it is against the Lord that you and all your company have gathered together. Moses is saying at this point that you're questioning the authority of God Seems to be a good segue into our passage this morning. Jesus has entered into the city. He's entered into Jerusalem. He's entered into the temple. Uh he has cleansed, symbolically cleansed the temple. And he's left the temple after he Told those who had defiled the temple that my house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it into a den of robbers. Jesus has now returned. He has gone past the fig tree which he caused to wither, which gave us a picture of the condition of the temple, a picture of the condition of the people who've been spiritually starved. And now Jesus is back. The passage that we have before us is, again, fairly straightforward. Jesus has been exercising authority in the temple and in the cleansing, that's exactly what he's done. But also now in teaching. And so the chief priests and the elders view this as exercising authority, and that's exactly what Jesus was doing. And so they question him, who gave you this authority? And so Jesus asks that question about the baptism of John, which is very significant in this passage. And as the chief priests and elders refuse to answer, for they feel trapped, Jesus proceeds with telling two parables. Which actually answers the question for them, if they had eyes to see and ears to hear. This morning we might sum up the teaching here in these verses this way: a sinner must submit to the authority of Jesus. to enter the kingdom of God. A sinner must submit to the authority of Jesus to enter the kingdom of God. We'll see that worked out through three heads or three doctrines. First, authority is rejected by image bearers Secondly, authority is rejected through false claims of obedience, and finally, authority is rejected as gifts are converted to sinful personal use. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you once again to be asking yourselves that question. Am I questioning the authority of Jesus this morning? Well, first, authority is rejected by image bearers Clearly, authority is the theme throughout this last portion of Matthew chapter 21. We see that initially as Jesus has entered the temple, he's teaching, and the chief priests and the elders are asking him, by what authority? Who gave you this authority? The temple itself was an image, a representation of authority. It was a representation of the sovereign God, the one who calls his people to worship to love him, to obey him, a constant reminder before the Israelites of this beautiful temple sitting in the middle of their city. A constant reminder of his authority. And so, in that context of temple authority, the elders and chief priests question Jesus' authority. This is a central question throughout the Gospel of Matthew. Who is this Jesus? Where did he really come from? Is he the one and only Son of God? Is he the promised one? Is he the Messiah? Is he the Savior? And if he is, what does that mean with regard to authority? In other words, does Jesus have authority? That's the unwritten question, in a sense, presented to us this morning. Authority as Webster defines it, the legal power. Or the right to command or to act. Power, rule, sway. That's the idea. Does Jesus have authority? Not everyone has authority over you. Children. All parents do not have the same authority over you as your parents do. You should respect your elders, but the authority is different. Children, obey your parents and the Lord, for this is right. Honor your father and mother. So God gave you your parents with authority over you, wives. Scriptures tell you to submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. Not all husbands have authority over all wives. Just the husband of the wife. Submit to your own husbands. Employees. You with jobs. Scripture tells us, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with a sincere heart as you would Christ. And so you're called to obey your employer, not all employers, but the one who is employing you. It's clearly different with God, isn't it? The living God has authority over all of his creation He has authority over the earth and everything on it. He has authority over the heavens and everything in it And thus as the maker of all things, including human beings, including you and me, the Lord our God has authority over you. And God the Father can give his authority to whomever he chooses. Nebuchadnezzar was realizing that as he has a dream. Daniel records that. As Daniel takes Nebuchadnezzar's dream and interprets it, he tells him, You shall be made to eat grass like an ox. You shall be wet with the dew of heaven. Seven periods of time shall pass over you till you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. God can give his authority to whomever he chooses. And he's chosen his only eternally begotten Son, Jesus the Christ. We see that right away in the Psalms, don't we? Psalm 2. As for me, I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill, I tell you of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I've begotten you. Ask of me, I will make the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possession. Jesus Christ has been given authority by his Father over everything. That's the backdrop to our passage today. And that's what the elders and the chief priests are asking Jesus about. And as they have that question poised to them about John the Baptist, they're thinking in their minds, We're trapped If we say from heaven, he will say to us, Why then did you not believe him? If we say from man, we are afraid of the crowd, for they all hold that John was a prophet. So they answered Jesus, we don't know. And Jesus tells them, neither will I tell you by what authority I do these things. The chief priests and the elders have refused to answer Jesus' question. They're refusing even in that moment to see his authority being exercised over them and submit to it, so he tells them he's not going to answer their question. Yet in giving these two parables, he actually does preach on authority. We have problems with the exercise of authority over us, don't we? We resist the exercise of authority Parents, consider your children, whether young or old. We see it in our children. As they resist the exercise of authority. We see it in Satan as he speaks through the serpent before Eve. The serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. You'll be like God, knowing good and evil. What was Satan doing? He was not revering the very Word of God. He was rejecting the Word of God. He was rejecting his authority. We see it in Adam and Eve. And consider Eve as she listens to the serpent. She saw that the tree was good for food, that it was a delight to the eyes, that the tree was to be desired, to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate. At that very moment, she rejected the authority of the one who made her. What about Adam? What did he do? You say, well he disobeyed God as he he ate the forbidden fruit. Yes, of course. But what did he do? He did not revere God. At that very moment, Adam did not revere God's very word. He refused to submit to the authority that God was exercising over him. That's what Adam did. He considered himself to be autonomous, meaning independent, not subject to God's authority. And at this point we might ask ourselves that question, why? Why do we have problems with authority? Why did Adam at that very moment not revere God's word? What was going on? Why is it that Adam and Eve and you and I seek to be our own authority? Why do we in Adam resist the sovereignty of God? And I think we have to admit that we do. Why do we come? in Adam and reject his authority and seek to be our own authority. Well it seems that it must go back to being made in the image of God. It must go back to God's purpose or his intent in placing Adam in the garden, that he would exercise dominion over the creation in God's place, so to speak. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and keep it. He'd given them dominion. And God had placed Adam there for that purpose. And the only way that God could have done this was to make Adam in his image, such that Adam, as an image-bearer of God, would be able to imitate God's dominion Or he might even say exercise sovereignty, so to speak, over all things on earth. And so here's the problem. Adam and Eve failed to distinguish between their dominion and God's authority, which gave them dominion. Adam and Eve failed to distinguish between being made in the image of God as image bearers and taking from God the authority that only He possessed. Being image bearers did not include the capture or the taking of God's authority over them as image bearers. You see, that's the sinful mistake that we all make. Because we all have been made in the image of God. We all have been granted dominion over the creation. Not quite like Adam and Eve, because they fall fell from grace and cursed the ground But we think that being made in the image of God is equal to, or should be equal to, our ability to exercise authority over ourselves. It seems to be the explanation of why we constantly seek to exercise authority and reject God's authority. Every time we take that which God has not given us, we reject his continuing exercise of sovereignty over all things, including us. Yes. Authority is rejected through our being image bearers Secondly, authority is rejected through false claims of obedience. Now we get into the parables, and Jesus is actually explaining and teaching on his authority here in these two parables, and we take up this first one, which involves the two sons. It sets forth a contrast between those who ultimately seek to do the will of the Father and those who adamantly refuse. Well, the first son is the father goes to him and asks him to go to work in the field that day, and he answers, I will not. This son was being truthful, honest. I'm not going. I don't care what you say, I don't care what you've asked. I'm not doing it. That's just plain disobedience. And that's exactly what Jesus wants us to see as he opens up this Parable. The first son was honest about his disobedience. I will not. He demonstrated a lack of reverence for his father and for the authority that his father had over him. But then time passes, a short time, appear according to this parable, and he changes his mind Afterward, he changed his mind and went. There's a transac uh transition that occurs within his heart and mind. He ultimately goes from uh Inward and outward disobedience, a disdain for his father, and for his father's desire. And he turns 180 degrees From I will not to going. He turns from his lack of reverence, he turns from his disobedience, and he turns toward obedience He now goes and works as his father has requested, demonstrating a change of heart. That he would at that point revere his father. That he would recognize the authority that his father had over him, although he initially disobeyed and sinned in that disobedience. But now He's turned. It's hard to believe. The scenario is hard to believe. And I think that's purposeful. I think it's purposeful that Jesus puts it that way. How does one go from adamant disobedience to Willing obedience in the space of one verse. How did this unchange in literally one heartbeat It seems to point to the powerful work of the Spirit, doesn't it? It's the Spirit that causes us to change, to turn. And the Spirit can work slowly, he can work quickly, and in this case, as Jesus puts the parable, it was immediate It's the powerful work of the Spirit of God, which brings one from disobedience, irreverence. Rejecting authority to just the opposite, to reverence, to respecting authority to obedience. The second son shows just the opposite. He agrees to go. I go, sir, but did not go. The father must have been pleased to hear his willingness, the willingness at least of his response, especially after he heard his first son tell him that he would not go. But as the parable continues, we find that this second son does not go And so his agreement to go appears to be a lie. There's no change of heart in the second son. We can presume that the second son never intended to go and work, but merely in a ruse or deception tells his father that he would go. I don't read of that change of heart. He remains a disrespectful, disobedient son who does not recognize or submit to the authority of his father. But yet professes to do just that. Jesus now applies that to the chief priests and the elders. And he takes the tax collectors and the prostitutes, and he says, Well, the tax collectors and the prostitutes, those whom you think to be the worst of sinners, those who are outwardly clearly sinners that everyone can see and everyone knows. It's these who are going to go into the kingdom of God before you. Now they must have been scratching their heads at this point. What are you talking about? How could Jesus say such a thing? We have to read the text a little bit more closely to understand. Truly, truly I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes who go into the kingdom of God before you for or because John came to you in the way of righteousness, and you did not believe him. But the tax collectors and the prostitutes believed him. That's the key. John the Baptist came calling people to repentance. His baptism was a baptism of repentance. He was a messenger of God sent to prepare the way for Jesus Christ who had come. And in that, Jesus speaks of John as coming in righteousness, coming proclaiming God's word. And so the worst of sinners, the tax collectors and prostitutes, believed John. They believed indeed that he was from God. That which the chief priests and the elders have already denied. The worst of all sinners heard John's call, believing it to be from God Himself, and were baptized into his baptism of repentance. They believed and repented for their sins, just like the first son in the parable. Initially disobedient. open about their disobedience, and then they turn, believing John, believing he was called by God, believing he was providing a message from God and heeding that message. repenting. Thus the tax collectors are prostitutes, or repentant sinners, like we can put it in that category, are represented by the first son who initially disobeys and has a change of heart and ultimately obeys. The chief priests and the elders are tied to the second Son. And so Jesus is saying that the chief priests and the elders have professed their obedience to God the Father in their oversight of the temple and of the people of God, but never had any intent on actually obeying the commands of the living God. And even as they watched the change of hearts in the worst sinners, the tax collectors and prostitutes, as they went to John believing and turning from their ways, the chief priests and elders refused. to do so themselves. Even in the face of this display of righteousness. By John and subsequently by the sinners, the chief priests and elders were not moved to believe upon John's message of the coming Messiah, Jesus Christ. himself. Do you see how this ties back to their question of authority? And why Jesus brought John the Baptist now into the conversation? They refuse to be moved by John's call to true and sincere repentance for their sins. They refuse to listen to John as a prophet of God who foretold that this one is the Lamb of God coming to save the world from their sins. And thus they would not be the first to enter the kingdom of God as they surely thought. And so They continue to question Jesus' authority. What was the result? Indeed, it seems to indicate that while the worst of sinners would enter first due to their belief in repentance, these chief priests and elders, if they continued in their unrepentant sin, would never enter the kingdom of God. This parable, when it's understood properly, should dig into our hearts deeply. Here the chief priests and the elders knew the plain command of God, and even as they knew it and understood it, they never had any intent to keep it. Despite their profession, their speech, they're telling others that they in fact would. Indeed, even telling God Himself that they were keepers of the law and keepers of the temple. How often do we do the same? Now you may be thinking to yourself silently, I don't do that. But you see, that's our nature and Adam. We think we're pretty good people. We look at others like the chief priests did and consider how wretched they are in their sins. But how often do we tell our friends that we will pray for them and never do? How often do we give the impression that we are a good husband or wife to our spouse or a father to our children or a child to our parents? And in the privacy of our own homes we act quite differently than our professions. At its root, once again, the parable is illustrating a rejection of the authority of God It's demonstrating how easily with our mouths we disrespect the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me consider some examples. In Romans chapter 12, the Apostle Paul, the inspired apostle, writes that each and every Christian must become a living sacrifice. I appeal to you, brothers, by the mercies of God to present your bodies as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. Now I'm sure most of us have heard this passage and read these verses and know that call or that command. It's been preached upon here. But how many of us ignore it? We know, as we've heard in the past, we like we acquiesced to it. And with our hearts we're saying, yes, I'll become a living sacrifice. What have you? Jesus told his disciples that if they were to be saved, they must be followers of him, to die to themselves, to take up their cross and bear it daily. Again, those passages are similar, becoming a living sacrifice and dying to yourself And again, I believe most of us have heard Jesus' call, his command to to all of his followers. But have you done it? Have you denied yourself? Are you denying yourself? Are you taking up your cross daily? Again, this is not a question of doing this to be saved. Jesus doesn't say you've got to die to yourself to be saved. It's Christ that's done all the work to save anyone But the question is whether you're actually revering and respecting the authority of your Lord. This is not a nice thing for us to consider once in a while, if I have time. No, this is critical. As you examine yourself, are you submitting to the authority of Jesus Christ as he calls you to become a living sacrifice? To die to yourself, to take up your cross daily? Or are you thinking that's for someone else? That would be a grave error and misunderstanding of those passages. If you love the Lord Jesus Christ, meaning that you have been saved by His work on the cross at Calvary and through the tomb, are you submitting yourself wholly and completely to his authority? The two cannot be separated. If you're living a life rejecting his authority over your daily thoughts, words, and actions, as James clearly states, You must consider whether or not you are truly in Christ. Because if you're in Christ If you're truly and sincerely believing upon him, you will desire to become that living sacrifice. You will desire to die daily to yourself and take up your cross. That brings us to our third point. Authority is rejected as gifts are converted to sinful personal use. This brings us to our second parable. Again, Jesus is teaching about authority, specifically his authority. And we see that The second parable speaks to our converting that which God has given to us for our purposes. Here another parable. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard and put a fence around it and dug a winepress in it, built a tower and leased it to tenants and went to another country. And you know this story. Uh the owner of the vineyard now, when the harvest time comes, ask for the fruit a portion of the fruit which would be his due as a result of being owner of the vineyard. But the tenants sought to exercise ownership over the vineyard. This is the heir as the sun is sent. Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance The tenants who were given the vineyard for the purposes of producing fruit, notice that they were given the vineyard for the purposes of producing fruit. a portion of which was to be given back, now convert the whole thing to their own use. As the owner seeks to receive that which was his due, we understand the tenants had taken over the vineyard as their own property for their own purposes and sought to kill those who would take it from them. They kept the fruit for themselves Ultimately, it was a picture of rejection of the authority, of God's authority given to his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what Jesus is telling the chief priests and the elders. This is exactly what you have done and what you will do in terms of killing the son. The chief priests and scribes rejected the authority of Jesus by taking that which was given to them, the temple, the worship of God in and through the cultic rites performed within the temple compound. And they possessed it as their own and for their own purposes. They, in a sense, became the owners in their minds and in their own hearts of that which God had given to them. Now would be a good time to ask yourself, am I doing that? You have to answer this question by first asking another question, and that is what's been given to you? The temple was given to the chief priests and the elders. To rule over for God's glory. What has been given to you? You first have to identify those things that have been given to you. What do you have in your possession that's been given to you by God? Well it seems that everything. It seems that everything in your possession has been given to you by God. And we have to realize that. You have to understand that whatever you possess, be it money, a job, a home, a family, a spouse, relationships, your faith, whatever you have, whatever is in your possession, is a gift from the Most High, the Lord Jesus Christ. That tends to put this question into a completely different light, doesn't it? Am I doing that? Am I doing what the chief priests and the scribes did? Am I doing what the tenants of the vineyard did? Everything is a gift. Everything is a temporary possession that you've been given by God. Everything. A temporary possession of your bank account, temporary possession of your job, of your of your schoolwork, of of your relationships with your siblings or your spouse or your mother, your father, your friends down the street. All are gifts given to you by the Creator The living God. Is that your mindset? Everything? Or like the vineyard tenants, do you consider the things given to be your own, your eternal possession? So this is truly a matter of the heart, isn't it? If you believe that, and I think you need to, everything is a gift from God. Are you using each and everything for the glory of God? You see the tenants in the vineyard That parable had no intention. We're not purposeful with regard to using the vineyard for the owner's purposes. No, the fruit that the vineyard produced was not for the owner. It was solely for them, the wicked tenants So you have to ask yourself, why does anything exist? Your house, your cars, your job, your family, your friends. It's all for God's glory, isn't it? So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. The Lord is not going to return with an open hand looking for you to give him something that he does not have. But his purpose in giving you anything is so that he, meaning Jesus Christ, would be glorified by and through your use of it. Whatever it is. The tenants had no intention of lifting up the vineyard owner and serving him. They had rejected his authority and did so as they used the vineyard for their purposes. As they consider the vineyard to be their own and to be used as they pleased, and refused to produce any fruit for the owner. So how are you using all that you've been given? What are you doing with the relationships that you have, the education that you have, the jobs, the house, the health, whatever's been given to you? Are you opening your house to strangers? Are you using your voice to talk to others, to your good friend down the street about Jesus Christ? You see, this is one mark of a Christian, isn't it? Not that using the things that are possessed for the glory of God will save you. It won't. But a mark of being saved, a mark of true saving faith, will be seeking to glorify God through everything you possess, whether it be tangible or intangible. We're not trying to add a new requirement for salvation this morning. But I do suggest that submission to the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ is part and parcel of faith. To trust in Jesus is to submit yourself to Him, to His care, to His loving kindness, to His mercies. Yes. to his calls and commands as to how you should live today. You see, what is faith in Jesus Christ? The shorter catechism answers it this way. Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon him alone. For salvation, as he's offered to us in the gospel. Well, what is it to rest upon him alone? It's to submit yourself to him completely to his authority completely with everything he's given you. What a blessing it is to submit to Jesus Christ. The one who does all things and all things well, the one who's gone to the cross for you, who's laid down his life for you, who's shed his blood, who's taken the eternal wrath of God that you were due and Took it upon himself and suffered it in your place. What a blessing it is to submit to this one who loves you so much. But he's now interceding for you, praying for you, mediating for you, loving you. Doing all things for your salvation and for the glory of his Father. What a blessing to submit to this one. Yes, a sinner must submit to the authority of Jesus to enter the kingdom of God. It's part of faith, isn't it? It's part of trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's exactly what Korah and his compatriots refused to do, and they were destroyed immediately. But all those who trust in Jesus will never be destroyed and will enjoy submitting to his perfect authority until he returns. Praise be to the Lord. Amen. Our Father and our God. Oh, as those who are having Adam as our first father, it is difficult at times for us to submit to your authority. It is part of our sin nature. It's one of the last things that it seemingly will be erased from us as Jesus returns. And so we pray, help us, Father, by your Spirit, to submit to your authority, to the authority that you've given to the Lord Jesus Christ, all authority, all rule, all reign over our hearts. Help us Jesus, by your Spirit. Help us to enjoy the blessing of submitting to your perfect and pure authority. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.