If we really dissect our lives, I think the choices and actions we make, it conveys the opposite, doesn't it? Right? Why do we want more money? Uh we're not just greedy people. I mean some of us are, but we want more money because we calculate that having enough of it will mitigate the pain, right? Uh we avoid risk We don't let anyone in, right? Drake says it said no new friends, right? Why no new friends? It is because I don't know you I don't know what you're going to bring into my life, right? We don't take chances, right? We delay commitments. We avoid gospel conversations because it's going to get awkward at times, right? So we don't become vulnerable to pain. So we avoid these things. Or some of us plan ahead a lot. Because we think that thinking of every situation and outcome and preparing for that will somehow relieve the suffering because uncertainty is the real enemy, right? Or why do we try to do the right things We do the right things at times because there's a hidden assumption that if we have integrity, hmm, it'll shield us from injustice, right? Or we control numb or dull our emotions. This is what what young people do, I I notice is don't get my hopes up too high. You know, that's no way to live life, right? 'Cause we dull our senses that we dull ourselves the pain, that's good, but we dull ourselves the joy too, and that's That's not how to live. That's not what joy in the spirit is. Now understand what I'm saying. There's nothing wrong with this, per se, for some of these things, or a certain amount of these things. But that's what I'm getting at. Our mentality, our calculus, our expectations. Deep down inside, do you really believe That you can manicure your life in a way in which all suffering is removed or a lot of it is removed and avoid it. The Bible says don't do that. It's gonna come, right? It is in general. Do you know why? Uh again, we're gonna I'm gonna talk about this in like a couple weeks, but just peek down to verse twenty eight. This beloved well known verse by many, right? But for now just simply look at it, right? We love this. We put this on our t shirts, our bumper stickers, our Coffee mugs and stuff. It says, for those who love God, all things work together for good. Do you catch what is implied there? It's all things. It's good things. It's neutral things. And it's bad things too. It says it right there. Right. Do you believe that suffering is done? Unavoidable. We will suffer in this life. We will suffer more because we are believers. But here it is, right? This is the grace of the gospel Second point. Suffering, Paul says, is is is incomparable, right? It's it's it's it's incomparable, right? Go back to to verse eighteen. Paul states that the sufferings of this present time, look at it, are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed. We gotta pay attention to the fine print of Scripture, to the fine print of the gospel Look at all that is promised here, right? Notice the phrase, not worth comparing. That is a very strong phrase in the original Greek. You know what some commentators say? It's almost dismissive. The phrase is beyond comparison. You know what this is like? This is like when men argue about sports, right? And we say player X is better than player Y, right This phrase basically means that player X doesn't belong in the same breath, in the same sentence as player Y. That's the sentiment that Paul is saying here. They're not even in the same zip code. It's not that that that that that suffering is the first floor and the glory is the penthouse. Paul is saying that that when you compare those two things, they don't even live in the same neighborhood, in the same zip code, in the same country. He says it's not even worth comparing. And with that with that we ask, what what what what is this beyond the comparison, right? What is this glory that you're talking about. Look at verses 18 and 19. What is this glory? He he says it's the glory that is to be revealed. Right? And so what Paul is referring to is that is the age to come. It it is it i it is the idea that yes we are united to Christ right now, but the fullest ex expression of our union with Christ, of our adoption, of our closeness to God, that will be fully experienced when Christ returns. Now here's the fascinating part about this. And I'll admit to you, I I I didn't know this until I was studying for this to preach this, right? This is the most fascinating part about this passage for me Who, look at it, who is waiting for this revelation? Look at the middle of verse 19. Who is waiting for this revelation, right? This glory to be revealed. It's not us. Right? Because in grammar, whether it's Greek or English or Chinese or whatever, you need a subject and a verb, right? And the subject and verb go together Revealed glory that waiting for the glory to be revealed, that's the verb. Who is the subject? Who is the waiting? It's not us We should, and we do long for it, but in this verse, that's not what Paul's saying. No, the subject of the verse, look at it. Verses 19 and verse 20, in the beginning of those two verses, it says the Creation, right? What does this mean? Well, it's a little weird, right? The creation. Note the definite article. So it's not a creation, it is the creation. There's something specific about this, and Paul is talking about all non-creation. human creation. This entire world other than us humans. Why do I say that? Peek over at verse 23 You see how Paul distinguishes between creation and we ourselves, right? You see how he divides that? And so that's how we can deduce what Paul means back in verses uh verse 19 and verse 20 there. So armed with that, go back to verse 19. All subhuman creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. Why are they waiting? Go on to the next two verses. It's because all non-human creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage. to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. Friends, this is incredible, right? Paul is teaching here that All creation, non-human, but also including us, all of that has been ruined by sin, right? And all of it will be renewed when Christ returns. And the trigger for this cosmic glory is our renewal. Is when Jesus comes to take us home. Right? That's what the glory to be revealed. It's so infinitely beyond all the sufferings of this life. It's not just about you. It's not just about me and my ruined life and my sin and my death and my penalty for sin. No, Paul teaches here that God's redemption includes the entire universe, the entire cosmos. I mean just think about all that we've gone through in the recent months, in the recent years. Remember the California wildfires? Was that like a year ago, right? And then just all of the West Coast is burning up Remember COVID? Right? There's famines, there's droughts, there's tsunamis, earthquakes, hurricanes, tornadoes. Think about climate change. It's gonna be ninety degrees tomorrow, right? Right? Right? It's so hot. Polar bears are dying because the ice caps are melting. We've lost hundreds of species of animals because we haven't taken care of this environment. You know, in fact one environmental agency says that over six thous sixteen thousand species of animals are currently categorized as threatened with extinction. And there are wars going on, soldiers killed, babies dying, people homes being ruined for what? They didn't do anything, right? Also, let's make this a little bit personal. Here this list is this this this is my people, right? This is all that we've gone through in our small congregation. Cancer Our body's breaking down, knees and hips and all this stuff. We have multiple gallbladder removal surgeries. We have GI issues. We have anxiety and depression. We have infertility We were losing unborn children into pregnancy, asthma, autism, death of pets? I I I can think of every single one in my two and a half years, almost three years in my congregation, this is all that we went through This is the suffering, right? But God says He's gonna take care of all of that. All of that We have such a narrow view of all this, right? Because we just think about my sin and Jesus loves me and and he's taking me home. But all of this futility. The racism, the injustice, right? The power dynamic of I feel so You know, I get so mad about our political thing and I feel like we're losing our country. What am I gonna do about it? Nothing. I have no power I have no clout, right? You feel so, you know, whatever. And all of these things, like we can think about and get so depressed. But that's the thing. God's like, I'm not just gonna take you out, right? I'm gonna renew this whole thing. Right? Into what it's supposed to be, how it's supposed to function. That's why this glory to be revealed is incomparable, right I ain't just about you and your bad back and your poor eyesight. Okay? It's not just our bodies that are getting renewed and and all this stuff. Think about the relational strife Right? You ever have friends like well why do you act that way? This why people don't like you and then sometimes I'm just like, you know what? I don't want to talk to you. I'll wait for heaven when you are glorified So you stop upsetting me with these kind of bad habits. All of that, and including nature, including all of it, God promises here. And it's tied to our our redemption His renewal will be cosmic. But it's not only that, right? Even in this life Here's my last point. Suffering is endurable. It's endurable. Right? He gives us another reason here. Go back to verse 20. It says the creation, remember, all non-human creation was subjected to futility. Meaning it's not it's not it's not working how it's supposed to be working. This happened, look at it, not willingly, uh uh Paul is personifying nature. Uh nature didn't do this to itself, right? No, it was done to it because of him who subjected it. And so here's another grammar when we're studying scripture, we gotta think, who is this pronoun? Who is this him, right? Who Subjected uh nature to this. Uh my initial first thought was like, oh, is it Adam? Right? Or is it S Satan? But that's the thing, they don't have that power. Who cursed this earth? It was God in Genesis three, right? But that's Paul's point. Since it was the gracious God who who who gave the curse It is the gracious God who ordained this suffering, meaning he's going to use it for your good, right? I love the the the the wonder of Genesis 3. I remember learning about this in seminary, it always stuck with me and it blew my mind God is the God of order, right? It is God first, and then man, and next to him is woman, and then underneath them is all of creation, right? In the garden, what happened? It got flipped. It was the animal, the creation, talking to the woman who was leading the man and leading God And then if you look at the curses, what does he do? He puts it back into order. He talks to Satan and then to the woman and then to the man It it's incredible, right? The the the the the the geometry, the symmetry of all this stuff, and he puts it back into place. That is the God that we worship Right? It's suffering in his hands. Right? Church i it it it it's it's it's him and his grace, right? And so he's gonna use this suffering He's gonna use this suffering for our good, right? That's why look at the end of verse 22 Paul labels this as pains of childbirth, right? I've never delivered children, okay? But you ladies Like y you knew that this is gonna come to an end. You knew that there was a big payoff, right? Right? That the the baby needs to be delivered through pain. And so that's what Paul's saying, right? You know what this is? You know what this is. Because the sufferings of this life are designed by a gracious and sovereign God, the sufferings of this life for the believers are not an obstacle to God's plan. It's not destruction for you. But it is the way in which God brings about his purpose and plan in your life. Right One I put one Christian author, Alex, this is uh Peter Lee. I quote Peter Lee back to his face. This is what I do. In his book he writes this, is to know Jesus is to not is not only to know that he saved us from divine condemnation and death, right? But also that he saved us from meaningless life and agony. Friends, he saved us from meaninglessness. This is why we can't stand it. Why am I what is the payoff for this pain, right? But if we knew the payoff then we would endure it That's the point. And because you guys are of a certain age, remember Nancy Kerrigan? Remember Nancy Kerrigan, right? What did she say? Remember that I I I I I was a child. I still remember the newspaper in the New York Post, right? It's her crying and big words. You could Google it. It's why me? Because at that time, was it 92, 94, Nancy Kerrigan was the next darling of figure skating, right? She was the it girl. The the women's figure skating is the highlight of the Winter Olympic and it was her turn, right? Christiamaguchi, she retired and then she was gonna ascend. She got the Coca-Cola, the Diet Coke, the Wheaties box and all this stuff. And in the Olympic trials, she thought some random person she didn't know it was a hitch off. But she thought it was a random act of violence and she thought that her moment, her glory was ripped away. But in that moment, so visceral, so natural, she goes, Why me? Right? When we suffer meaninglessly, that's so much pain. But Paul says here, your suffering is not meaningless. God's going to use it. He's going to soften your heart or toughen you up or round you out in whatever way. All of our life is in the hands of a gracious God who loves you and is for you. And though we live in this fallen world, friends, He's got us. You know. He's got us. Suffering. And so, let me close like this. Lean into it. Lean into your suffering. Face it through Christ, with Christ, in Christ. Learn from it Be transformed by it. I'll be honest with you, like there are times in church planting where we just stagnate, right? No visitors, no, you know, and uh I I enjoy preaching here because I know you guys go through similar things and you understand, right? And I get so Distraught. Because I'm the pastor. I take this personally. Right? Right? It's like i they're not rejecting you, they're rejecting me. That's what it feels like. And in a way they are, right? Right And then like God had to remind me, what do I want from you? And then through Romans, it's like I want you to help them, no matter how large or small the group is, is to become more like Christ, right? When you're their pastor for X amount of years or whatever, did you get them from point A to point B growing in Christ And I had to be humble. Because all I cared about was being self-sufficient, being um enough, growing larger, particularizing. And I was like, oh my priorities are wrong. You see, I'm suffering, and then I lean into it, and I'm like, oh no, no, no. You're teaching me this lesson. Maybe you're withholding and stagnating us for this for these few months because my head, my mindset was not in the right place. Right? There's always a lesson to be learned. There's always a thing that God is showing you through the pain. Right? And so Pray. Ask him, why am I going through this? What are you trying to show me? What are you trying to teach me? Right? And let it remind you of how unfulfilling this life is. And all the glory. That is promised, that is yours, that is hidden, right? Kept in heaven, imperishable, undefiled, unfading for you. That's what his message is for us in the suffering. And so friends, I encourage you, suffering is in the hands of the gracious and sovereign God who is good to you and who is for you. Let's pray.