Return your copy of God's Word now to Romans. Romans chapter eight. I believe you'll find that on page one thousand one hundred and twenty-two of your two Bibles. I'm going to start a short series in Romans just on chapter eight. This will be the first of that series. We'll be reading for us the first 17 verses of Romans 8. Let's give attention now to the holy inspired and infallible There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not be, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin He condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds in the things of the flesh. But those who live according to the spirit set their minds in the things of the For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind and the spirit is life and peace. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the spirit of God is in you Dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, though the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the Spirit of Him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit. Who dwells in you. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom requry Father, the Spirit Himself here's witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then Heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ, provided that we suffer with him in order that we may also Father and our God, we ask that you would be with us now. We are weak, we're frail. We need the Spirit's work in order for us to listen, in order for us to hear. We pray that you'd be with me, your Spirit. Excuse me. Your servant, that I may do your will this morning. Grant, Father, that we would hear you We need to hear Christ work powerfully in our hearts. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we read that portion of Genesis in which we heard of Joseph's son. Suffering. Joseph was seeking to be righteous. As Potiphar's wife sought to lure him into sin, he continued to refuse in righteousness. Even as she approached him, he confessed, How then can I do this great wickedness and sin against God, Joseph was seeking to be righteous. And ultimately, Joseph suffered for seeking to be righteous Moses suffered As he was called by God to lead the Israelites out of Egypt, out of bondage, into the promised land. We read time and time again in the account in Exodus and in Numbers that the whole congregation of Israel grumbled against Moses They wanted another leader, and they wanted to return back to slavery in Egypt. Even to the point that the congregation was willing to stone Moses. Moses was called to suffer. David suffered as he was anointed to become king of Israel, and Saul pursued him, seeking to kill him. Even as David saved the people of Kala, a town or city in Israel, And then when Saul found out that David was hiding in that place, David asked the Lord if they would give him up to Saul. And the Lord said to him, Yes, they will surrender you. David was seeking to be righteous and was suffering as he pursued righteousness. We come to Romans eight, we come having had Paul in writing about The law. In this context where we are this morning in Romans 8, Paul has already written about the law. He's been speaking to the church at Rome about the law. He tells them in verse 4, My brothers, you also have died to the law through the body of Christ, so that you may belong to one another, to him who has been raised from the dead. Informs him that they've been released from the law. And then he confesses that he's struggling with keeping the law That he's unable to do so. That he is of flesh, that he's sold under sin. He doesn't understand his own actions. He doesn't do what he wants to do, but he does the very thing that he hates to do That seems to provide the backdrop, the context in which Paul writes now about there being No condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. This morning, as we look at these first seventeen verses of chapter 8 of Romans, I want to I want us to see that suffering is one means by which the children of God learn obedience and righteousness. Suffering is one means by which the children of God learn obedience and righteousness. We see that in three points this morning. First followers are set Secondly, followers are debtors, and finally, followers are heirs with Christ. You go through these verses. This morning I'd like you to be remembering that you're saved by grace, but what obligation do you have? As a result, all first followers are set free. You see this first verse in Romans chapter 8, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. These are possibly some of the most comforting and exciting words in all of Scripture for those who are following Jesus Christ. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. To understand this comfort, this assurance, this promise, we must first grasp what is implied here in this first verse of Romans. eight. Because it starts with an implication. It's the unspoken negative. There was condemnation. Paul writes that now, now there's none. But before, before the now, there was condemnation. Before those who are now in Christ, there was condemnation. For those outside of Christ Jesus, there is and there will be condemnation. That's the implication. Well what is it? What is it to condemn? Well, if we look at Webster's, we'd read, to determine our judge to be wrong or guilty. That's the idea. To be condemned is not only to be found guilty of committing a crime, but then to have the punishment to be suffered for having committed the crime pronounced. So if you were in the criminal court and you heard one coming charged with thievery, And the thief was founded guilty of being a thief, the judge would pronounce the breaking of the law. You have been found to have broken the law by taking the property of another without their permission, with the intent to keep it for yourself. You're a thief. And then for this crime I sentence you to five years in prison. Guilt plus punishment. That's condemnation. And Scripture tells us that every single human being descending from Adam by ordinary generation Is condemned in Adam. Every single person is born in guilt, meaning a lawbreaker in Adam Adam. In Adam we have inherited his guilt, and along with his guilt, we have inherited God's eternal wrath and judgment that punishes In other words, every single person descending from Adam by ordinary generation is condemned to hell, to the flames of hell, to that place where the worm will never die, and the fires will never be quenched. And not only for the sin of Adam, but also for our actual sins committed against the holy God of creation. This is our lot. This is our future. This is our end unless we are in Christ. Why? Why this condemnation? Because outside of Jesus Christ, a person stands alone. Outside of Christ, the person remains in his or her sin. Outside of Christ, every man, woman, and child is covered with the filth of their sin. Because outside of Christ, your disobedience, your law breaking, your crimes against God must be paid for by you and you alone. God demands justice And the debt that you have incurred must be paid. This justice must be satisfied. The commands of God have been broken. And those who have broken them have not loved God, they've not loved their neighbors themselves, they've not trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ. And thus there's condemnation But now there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Jesus. Remember, Paul has just bemoaned his his estate in chapter seven. I find the law to be good. I delight in the law of God. But I see my members, another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. See, that's how he ends chapter 7 and begins verse 1 of chapter 8 with now. Now. Now, because of Christ. Now, because I'm in Christ now Now that the Son of God has come, now that He has taken on a human nature, now that Jesus Christ was condemned for my sins, now that Jesus Christ has taken the full brunt of the eternal wrath of God, the innocent for the guilty, now that He suffered in my place and atoned for my sins on the cross at Calvary, now that Jesus Christ suffered Christ has defeated sin and death by and through his resurrection from the tomb on the third day now that he sits enthroned. Next to his father in glory, interceding for me. Now there is now no condemnation for me. That's the excitement. Therein lies the excitement, the anticipation, the covenant promise of this verse for all those who are in Jesus Christ. That condemnation which has just been described will not be suffered. There'll be none Not a single drop from God's cup of wrath to be suffered by those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation for all true believers in the person and in the world Now Paul goes on, and he says this for the law of the spirit of life has set you free and Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Been set free. It necessarily means that in Christ you have freedom Now certainly you may think that this condemnation you may think that I've been set free. From that certain condemnation for my sin. And I think that would be part of what Paul is saying. But I'm not sure that's all of what Paul is saying here when he when he speaks of your being set free. I think there's another aspect to it that we have to appreciate. You see, the law made no one perfect. Because of our corruption in Adam, because each of us have inherited an inclination to break the law, to rebel against the lawmaker, the law could not save you. It was not intended to save you. And in a sense the law became a bondage. Isn't that what Paul writes with regard to the Israelites, with regard to the Jews? Jews. For them being ignorant of the righteousness of God and seeking to establish their own sought to establish their own righteousness through the kingdom Keeping of the law. They did not submit to God's righteousness. Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. And so now there's no condemnation. Because in Christ You've been set free. You see, there will be no condemnation because you've been set free from the bondage to the law as a means of salvation. That's what you've been set free from. There'll be no condemnation because you've been set free from the obligations To keep the law in order to be saved. Christ has set you free. From keeping the law for your salvation, and as a result of your being set free, you will not suffer condemnation. There's the connection between the two, and that's the excitement From this day. In this life, before Jesus returns and before He takes you home to be with Him, you've been set free and now can enjoy that freedom. Many times we're thinking, we'll we'll have that freedom when Jesus returns. We'll be completely set free from sin and misery, and that's true. Many times we're just thinking of glory in heaven and and that's when we can rejoice, that's when we can be excited. But this passage is telling us that even now There should be excitement. Even now, there should be arresting. Even now, there should be joy. Even now, there should be vibrant living in Christ that you have been set free today. Free from the law. As a means to salvation and free from bondage to sin, so that you're free now to pursue righteousness All as you grasp this truth through your life, even today. Must be the connection Now no condemnation because we have been set free by Christ. Brings us to our second point. Followers are debtors. Now you might want to just stop there. No more condemnation, I've been set free. So blessing. But Paul doesn't. Look at verse twelve. So then, brothers, we are debtors. Well that's interesting. The debtors. He starts with those words so then You could read this in this way, or out of or from what I have just written to you, this follows You have to understand what I just wrote. And now because of what I just wrote, this follows from it. We're debtors. What does that mean? You understand what it means to have a debt. And so if you have a debt, you are a debtor. You owe somebody something. But you say in your heart, well, I've been saved by grace. And that grace is free. There's no cost for grace. That's what makes it grace. That's what Paul writes to us, isn't he? In Ephesians 2, for by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not of your own doing, it's the gift of God. It's all grace. The cost for grace has been paid by the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Father and by the Holy Spirit. The three persons of the Trinity have paid the price to pour out grace on you. From a human perspective, now remember I'm speaking from a human perspective, grace is not free to the Trinity. From the human perspective, there's a cost associated with the grace that you have received. And that simply was the precious blood. Of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God. It is the loss of fellowship and communion, again from a human perspective, between the members of the Godhead. was the Father turning away from the Son, as he was immersed in your sin on the cross of Calvary. It's the cost of grace. So in this reception of his grace, you're not bringing anything to God. That's not what Paul means when he calls you a debtor. God is not receiving anything from you. He's not demanding repayment. You couldn't even if it were required. He's not extending his hand of grace to you, conditioned upon anything you may say or think in the future. Grace is poured out upon you according to his holy and perfect and free will and loving kindness. So that's not what Paul means when he refers to you as a debtor this morning. And yet somehow we are debtors. As a result of receiving this grace, you are a debtor, so then, brothers, we are debtors. You may think, well, those seem to be contradictory statements. But they're not. It's not that you have to pay for grace, it's not that you have received something. That's incomplete. When that transaction is complete, you have received grace. It cannot and will not be taken back It's not conditioned upon you what you might or might not do in the future. Grace has been poured out. You've been pardoned. You've been forgiven. You've been given life. So this is where dictionaries become very helpful. Greek dictionary. It defines this word to debtor in this way, actually in two ways. One who's in debt in a monetary sense. Debtor That's not what Paul is speaking of here. It seems that he is speaking of this. One who is under obligation in a moral Sense. One who is obligated to do something. That seems to be the sense in which Paul uses If you've been set free this morning, if Christ Jesus has died for you on the cross And you've been given faith as a gift, you've been given a precious gift, you've been given life, and so now you have an obligation, you have a duty to use that which you have been given for the glory of God, to exalt the Son. That's how and why Paul can write of being a debtor. You have an obligation to use the gift that you've been given for Christmas Christ. Think of it this way, as it's put forth for us here in Romans 8. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our spirit that we are children of God. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. You did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you've received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry Abba Father. See the repetition just within those short verses of Romans 8? Not to live as a son or a daughter of the Creator Not for salvation, but because you've been set free by Christ, not that you're without help for an adopted son Or a daughter is able to cry out as Jesus did in the Garden of Gethsemane, Abba Father. You see As a child, as an adopted child, you have an obligation to your parent, now your father, God Himself. He's giving you a gift. He's calling you to use it. Where else do you see that supported in Scripture? Jesus Christ, as he preaches the sermon on the mount, you are the light of the world. Let your light shine before others. It's calling you use your gift. Use the light you've been given. Ephesians chapter 2 After we learn that faith is a gift from God by grace, we're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Use what you've been given. You're a debtor. James, your faith I have works. I will show you my faith by my works. Use the gift you can give in. puts to death the deeds of the body. Brothers and sisters, I think that's what Paul means when he calls you a debtor this morning. Not that you have to repay God. You cannot. But you've been given precious gift. He's calling you to use it. This morning. That brings us to our third point. Followers are heirs with Christ Jesus. This passage, these first seventeen verses, are filled with glorious truths. There's no condemnation. You've been set free. You've been given a precious gift. And you have the privilege of using it. Verse sixteen we read this the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God and Spirit. Fellow heirs with Christ. Just consider that for a moment. Let that sink in. What has Christ inherited What has Christ been given? I don't think we can think of something he hasn't been given He has all dominion. And you're an heir, a fellow heir with Christ Jesus. Let me read this. Provided we suffer with him. Hmm. There seems to be a condition here. There seems to be a sense in which there is something attached to this promise. That you, as a child of God, you are an heir, a fellow heir with Jesus Christ, who has inherited all things, provided or conditioned on your suffering with him. The call to suffer occurs throughout scripture. We rehearsed a little bit of that as we opened up. Moses was called to suffer. Joseph was called to suffer. Paul. Paul was called to suffer. The Lord said to him, Go. For he is a chosen instrument of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and kings and the children of Israel, for I will show him how much he must suffer. For the sake of my name. Jesus was called the second. At the Garden of Gethsemane, he tells his disciples that his soul is very sorrowful even to death. He's already suffering at that point. And you remember he cries out to his father a few times, If it be possible, let this cup pass from me, nevertheless. Not as I will, but as you Jesus is called to suffer But every Christian is called to suffer. Isn't that what we see here in verse 17? Paul lights upon this truth in many of his epistles. Second Corinthians. Our hope for you is unshaken, for we know that as you share in our sufferings. Philippians Paul considers all that he has as rubbish, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection, and may share his sufferings. Colossians. Now I rejoice in my sufferings for your sake, and in my flesh I am filling up what is lacking in Christ Christ's afflictions for the sake of his body, that is the church. Think of that just for a moment, that Christ's afflictions are somehow lacking and need to be filled up with the sufferings. Of his body. Peter writes, but rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings Brothers and sisters, it's clear if you're a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, that not only are you called to suffer with him, but you will. suffer with him. We've shown, I think, that that suffering is not optional. It's a reality of being a follower of Jesus. That every true, sincere follower, every child of God, each person the Lord has chosen to be his own will suffer with Christ. It's not a choice that you make. It's not a situation that you put yourself into. No, it's a way of life. Just as the Lord's plans for Paul's life was for him to suffer. Suffering with Jesus is a way of living before the one who died for you. And so you may be asking yourself this morning how. How do I live a life of suffering with Christ Well, I think he gives us some general principles here in chapter eight of Romans. First put to death your sin. Verse 3, by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. Verses seven and eight: The mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit Verse 10. But if the Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of Sin put to death your sin. So how is that suffering? It's suffering when you're tempted to By Satan to satisfy your sinful desires, and you say no You see, while keeping the law is a great blessing, yet in our corruption we have difficulty breaking away from it. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. So there must be a striving, a suffering against the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. And so there's an image here in Romans 8 of putting to death Putting off the flesh, which pictures suffering. And then we have the opposite side of the same coin. While there is putting off, there is a simultaneous putting on. Verse 10, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. Living a life of righteousness as an adopted son or daughter of the holy God of the universe. is a striving. It's a constant work. Not that you can accomplish it on your own. You must have the spirit. And that's why we read here that you're able to cry out, Abba Father The Spirit will guide and direct you. But there is a suffering in that as you're putting to death The flesh and seeking and striving to live to righteousness through the work of the Spirit Those are the broad brush ideas that are contained in this passage. But then as we drill down a bit deeper, we have to ask ourselves: how did Jesus suffer? Because this suffering is to be with him. So how did he suffer as he walked upon this earth? First, Jesus suffered the unbelief of many, even his own disciples. Peter writes, But in your hearts honor the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for the reason, for the hope that is in you This is your call to constantly be prepared, to make that defense. And you're going to suffer as you receive the response to that word you speak of following Jesus. There will be suffering in the world That response from those who are outside of Christ. Jesus suffered them. Second, Jesus suffered the disloyalty, even the betrayal of his disciples. So he was on the path of doing his father's will. And it was when the path became difficult that his friends left him alone. Then all the disciples left him and fled. See, as you suffer with Jesus, there will be times when friends, good friends, Will not be willing to accompany you down the path of doing the Father's righteousness. As you head down that path, it may be alone. But you always have Christ. Third, Jesus suffered the unrighteous verbal attacks and blasphemies. from many, including the religious leaders of the death. Now you're not Jesus, but you will see Suffer mocking. As you hold on to the truths of the Bible, as you uphold this book As absolute truth, you will be marked by the word. Call the supper of Jesus And fourth, fourth, Jesus did suffer that mocking, didn't he? Even as he suffered, being suffering His righteousness. We saw that in Joseph. We saw that in Moses. We see that in Paul. We especially see it in Christ. That as they were pursuing righteousness, you will be derided And thought mindless by the world. We suffer for seeking to do that which is good and right. In the eyes of the living God. The end of this passage may be for us to ask that question why Why suffering? Why has God ordained suffering for His children? I think the answer to that is contained in the letter to the Hebrews. We read there in chapter five with regard to Jesus Christ in the days of his flesh. Jesus. Although he was a son, he learned obedience Obedience to what he suffered. That was Jesus. And I think from that we can understand as it's set forth for us throughout Scripture, as it's set forth for us here in Romans eight. Suffering is that which leads us to obedience. As you suffer for Christ, as you suffer You suffer in many ways similar to Christ, you are seeing unrighteousness up close. You are experiencing rebellion to God near and dear to your heart And as you do, you are learning the opposite. You are learning what it means to do the will of your Father. You are learning how offended God is as creation rebels against him. You're learning how pleased God is with sincere obedience. And so suffering is that which instills and teaches and instructs every child of God in righteousness. It's the righteousness Of Christ. And this is what prepares you for eternity with Christ. Remember, Jesus is returning for a blameless bride. As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, that he might present the church to himself. In splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and blameless, or without blending. It seems that Christ is using suffering to prepare his bride for that That great wedding day. Suffering is one means by which the children of God learn obedience and righteousness. We see that our forefathers suffered. Most of all we see that our Savior suffered. He's calling us even now, even today, to suffer with him, knowing that there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for his suffering for us. And we know we can never suffer as he did on the cross of Christ. And yet, Father, we're called to suffer with him. We're called to die with him. And we know we've been raised with him. And so, Father, this morning we're so very thankful that there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ. We also thank you that you care enough for us. If you continue to mold and shape us after the image of Christ through suffering. Help us, Lord. Help us as we cry out, Abba Father. Father, help us to suffer in such a way that brings glory to your name and exalts the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, who suffered for us.