And Morning. Welcome to Trinity. We're here to worship our Triune God this morning. What a glorious day it is. What a wonderful thing that the Lord gives us this one day in seven to set aside and to worship him all day. Before we begin that worship, welcome to our visitors, certainly here in presence and on the stream. We hope that you uh sense the spirit among us and that we as we worship that uh God is glorified A couple of announcements. Um this afternoon, Lord willing, we'll continue our study in Romans. We'll begin that at 5 p. m. as opposed to 4, 5 p. m. That's because we were going to have a service at Gary and Mary's, but they're here with us today, so we will not be having that service at Gary and Mary's. We praise the Lord that they are here with us, and so we don't need to have that uh service today. But we'll keep our study at 5 p. m. this afternoon. Please join us for that. We'll uh continue with uh Romans chapter 5 and verses 1 through 11 and looking at our hope. in Jesus Christ. Tuesday night we have a session meeting, so please pray for your session that the Lord would uh provide wisdom. And compassion uh for his servants as they look over and shepherd the church Wednesday night, we'll have our Zoom meeting as we do typically. We're continuing our study in the Lord's Prayer. That's at 7 o'clock. Please join us for that. And next Sunday we have our fellowship meal. So please plan to stay for that. Bring something to share. And more importantly, bring a friend. It's a wonderful time for us to join together and evangelize and and bring those who don't normally come to worship to join with us in worship and With a fellowship meal afterward. Please pray for our dear sister Jean Calderon. She's not feeling well. That's why they're not here with us today. And I do thank you for your prayers for the General Assembly. I will, Lord willing, next week uh during our fellowship meal, just have a brief summary of what happened at General Assembly. So that will be Let's join our hearts together now in private preparatory prayer as we anticipate meeting with the Lord here in a moment as we are called into worship. Let's pray that He would send His Spirit and prepare us to worship Him. Let's come before the Lord. Congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ, please arise and be called to worship from Psalm 148. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord from the heavens. Praise him in the heights. Praise him all his angels, praise him all his hosts Kings of the earth and all peoples, princes and all judges of the earth, both young men and maidens, old men and children, let them praise the name of the Lord, for his name alone is exalted His glory is above earth and heaven. Brothers and sisters, our help is in the name of the Lord who made the heavens and the earth. Grace and peace to you from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Amen. Pray with me. Oh Father, you are in your sanctuary. And as you have now called us, you have brought us in, into the Holy of Holies. By and through your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And Father, as we enter into your presence, help us to remember that the fear of you is the beginning of knowledge. As we gaze upon your majesty this day, help us, Lord God, to remember all of your works To remember, Lord God, that you are the one who created all things. That you are the one who has saved us. Help us to give you the praise, the honor. And the thanksgiving that only you deserve. Help us to worship you now in spirit and in truth, by and through your spirit. We pray all of these things in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Amen. Let's join our hearts together in our hymn of adoration. It's not number five, it will be number thirty-two if you turn there in your read Trinity hymnal. Number thirty-two, great is thy faithfulness. Just for killing your care to make this thy faithfulness over my body. There is no shadow on time with me. I'm all you did my hands at all my things like Fullness floor down to the right winter, winter and sun moon and sun. Stars and their forces are part one with conditions in thy great faith. Faithfulness, mercy and love. Wait thy faithfulness, wage thy faithfulness, running my mouth. For his two mercy I see, but I have needed the sight of my death, places my face. And what can I do? Let's see all mine. A bit is thy faithfulness Corn in my Lord History Mercy I have needed by Man, please be seated. The reading of the law this morning comes from the book of Proverbs, in chapter four. As King Solomon writes about wisdom, he also writes about what we as followers of the Lord Jesus Christ are to do in our lives. Proverbs 4 at verse 20. My son, give attention to my words. Incline your ear to my sayings. Do not let them depart from your eyes. Keep them in the midst of your heart. For they are life to those who find them. And health to all their flesh. Brothers and sisters, as we think upon This inspired writing. As we think upon the wise king giving direction to his subjects, these are words from God Himself tells us to incline our ears to his saying and not let them depart from our hearts. We know if we're honest that we've not done that completely and as thoroughly, as continuously as we're called to do it. And so he gives us an opportunity to confess our sin this morning Let's go before the throne of grace now and confess that sin. We're going to be doing that silently. I will lead us initially. And then if you would confess your sin in prayer individually, but as we do that, we're confessing it collectively also as the congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's go now before the throne of grace in our prayer of confession. Our God and our Father, as we come before you, we know that you hear us. We also know, Lord God, that you have called us to be those who would not only recognize our sin, but confess it before you. And so help us now to pour out our hearts before you. Help each one of us to confess our sin now. Help us, Lord. We are weak and feeble and frail. We need the blood of Christ to be cleansed. Forgive us, we pray. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The Lord does not leave us merely in confession after reading his law He gives us words of grace and pardon this afternoon or this morning. We see those words of grace and pardon from the Gospel of John. In chapter 10, at verse 7, we read these words, these words of grace and pardon to you. And Jesus said to them again, Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me. He will be saved and will go in and out and find pasture. The thief does not come except to steal and to kill and to destroy. I have come, that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly. Amen. Praise be to God. Hearing that, we should want to sing praises to our God, and we have an opportunity to do that in our doxology. Would you please stand? Let's give praise to our God. Number seven hundred and thirty one. Are you more preachers here? Man. Please be seated. A confession of faith is from the Heidelberg Catechism this morning, question number one This is a very broad confession, and that's why it is so loved. It's good and right for us as we come together as the people of God to jointly speak even to one another about what it is that we believe. So I will read the question, and then I would ask that in unison we each one confess what it is that we believe. Brothers and sisters in the Lord Jesus Christ, what is it that you believe? What is your only comfort in life and in death? That I am not my own But belong body and soul in life and in death to my faithful Savior, Jesus Christ. He has fully paid for all my sins with his precious blood and has delivered me from the tyranny of the devil. He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Father in heaven In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. Because I belong to Him, Christ, by His Holy Spirit, also assures me of eternal life And makes me wholeheartedly willing and ready from now on to live for him. Brings us to our offering. Plates are in the back. We can put our offerings there. If we have not done so already after the service is over, we give thanks to the Lord. He has blessed us. in manifold ways, and only request that we give a portion back to him with glad and joyful hearts Would you go to the throne of grace now with me, once again? Let's pray. Father and our God We rejoice in you, for you are righteous Praise from the upright is beautiful. Your word is right. All of your work is done in truth. You love righteousness and justice The earth is full of your goodness. Father, we pray that this morning you'd help us as we set our minds on the things above. That you would even help us, enable us, to think upon how you have blessed each of your children here today. How you have watched over us. How you have brought us into various and particular situations. Which cause us to even draw closer to Jesus Christ. Some of us have been in affliction and trials and tribulations this past week Some of us have been experiencing pain and suffering. Some, Lord God, have been experiencing joy. We're God in all these things. You are good. And you have provided an abundance of good things for us. Things which draw us even nearer to the Lord Jesus Christ, whether in suffering or affliction, depending solely upon Him. For relief, for comfort. Father, whether grieving or mourning, again, looking to Jesus Christ, who has done all things and done all things well. Who reigns in the heavens, who's sovereign over every single thing that happens, guiding and directing And Father, as we have rejoiced this week, we know it's only because of Jesus Christ that we are able and have joy within our hearts For without Christ there is no joy. Without Christ there is no hope. But in Christ, we each have certain hope And so, Father, you are good and have given us good things this week You've called us to fear you and told us that there is no want to those who fear you. And you've also told us, Father, that blessed is the man who trusts in you. And we ask now that you would even increase our faith this day. For Lord, we know each of us have doubts. Indeed, the Satan seeks to lead us away from you by increasing our doubts, and we pray now That your kingdom would come. And that as it comes, Father, that you would continue to destroy and dismantle and crush Satan's kingdom. That you would cause his darts and arrows to fall to the ground, being knocked down by the breastplate of righteousness that you have granted to us. He loves to sow doubt, Father. He loves to seek division within us. And so we pray that Not only would you remove division from us, but that you would unite us even closer together in Christ. Father, we pray for unity We pray for singleness of mind. We thank you for the way that you have granted that to this congregation over many, many years. Not that it's been perfect. But we pray even now, Lord, that you would increase our unity That you would increase our singleness of mind, that each one of us would be looking out for the interest of others and placing them even above our own. Help us to love our brothers and sisters in Christ Jesus. And help us, Father, to display that to the world, not in a boasting fashion. But in a humble and contrite way that the world might see the love of Christ within our hearts. Help us, Lord God, to be those lamps burning brightly for Christ. Help us to proclaim that you indeed are good and call others to taste and see that. Help us to show the world that those who seek the Lord shall not lack anything good. Father, we thank you for our church. We thank you for our presbytery. We thank you for, Father, the whole church and the general assembly that met this past. We pray, Lord God, that you would use the decisions that were made during that assembly for your glory. That you would use the decisions that were made to continue building your church. And that, yes, Lord God, that you would provide unity and peace. and singleness of mind, even amongst your whole church. Father, we pray even closer to home now. For we know that part of our body is sick, is ill, is not well. We pray for our dear sister Jean Calderon and ask Father for your blessing upon her. We pray, Lord God, that you would minister to her heart. That even in this time of sickness, of illness That you would use this, Lord God, to draw her ever closer to Christ. She would give you all the praise and thanksgiving. We ask that you'd heal her body. According to your will and in your good timing, watch over our dear sister and bless her. We pray for Dido and Donna, who are now mourning the loss of Mima, Donna's grandmother. Lord, it is hard to see death It's hard when a close relative dies, when we lose that intimate fellowship and communion Be with them. Lead them in their mourning and grieving. Help them to be, Father, an encouragement to the rest of the family. We look forward to that day, Father, when there will be no more tears, and thus we ask that Jesus would come quickly. And that, Father, causes us to think of that prayer, that model prayer that the Lord has given to us. And so we pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors, and do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one Yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Amen. Our New Testament reading comes from the letter to the Philippians. If you would stand for the reading of God's word, Philippians chapter 3. Beginning at verse two Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision, who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I also might have confidence in the flesh, if anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I more so circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin A Hebrew of the Hebrews concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is in the law blameless. But what things were gained to me, these things I've counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. That I may gain Christ and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ, the righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead Not that I have already attained or am already perfected, but I press on that I may lay hold of that for which Christ Jesus has also laid hold of me. Brethren, I do not count myself to have apprehended. But one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forward to those things Which are ahead. I press toward the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. Amen. Our hymn of preparation is again changed. We're going to be singing number two in the Red Trinity hymnal. Number two. Let's turn there. Oh, worship the king. Oh worship the King of glorious above, all grateful we see his power and his heart. Our shield and defender the ancient old days of the standard and the host. Tell us his might, who seen on this place, is the light, whose end of his face is true. Of that wonders have storm and darkness on the things of the stone Of wonders and told of mighty of God has found it a hold externally passed by. I am so free and round as I thought for the sea force. It breathed in the air, it shines in the light, it's fresh on the rose, these hands to Excuse me, display the rain The children of us and evil life In you do we trust nor find who to fail, nor mercies how tender, how firm to hear. Make the deep spending the friends of course and Amen. Turn in your copy of God's word now to Genesis. Continue our study there this morning. Chapter forty seven. Pick up in verse thirteen and read to the end of the chapter You remember Joseph's family has come now to Egypt and been settled in Goshen. And the famine continues. Let's give our attention to God's word. Now there was no bread in all the land, for the famine was very severe. So that the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine. And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan. For the grain which they bought. And Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house So when the money failed in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came to Joseph and said, Give us bread. For why should we die in your presence? For the money has failed. And Joseph said, give your livestock, and I will give you bread for your livestock if the money is gone. So they brought their livestock to Joseph, and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for the horses, the flocks, the cattle of herds, and for the donkeys. Thus he fed them with bread in exchange for all their livestock that year. And that year it ended, they came to him the next year and said to him, We will not hide from my Lord that our money is gone My Lord also has our herds of livestock. There's nothing left in the sight of my Lord but our bodies and our land. Why should we die before your eyes, both we and our land? Buy us and our land for bread. And we in our land will be servants of Pharaoh. Give us seed, that we may live and not die. That the land may not be desolate. And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh, for every man of the Egyptians sold his field, because the famine was severe upon them. So the land became Pharaoh's. As for the people, he moved them into the cities from one end of the borders of Egypt to the other end. Only the land of the priests he did not buy. For the priests had rations allotted to them by Pharaoh. And they ate their rations which Pharaoh gave them. Therefore they did not sell their land And Joseph said to the people, Indeed, I have bought you and your land this day for Pharaoh. Look, here is seed for you, and you shall sow the land. And it came to pass in the harvest that and it shall come to pass in the harvest that you shall give one fifth to Pharaoh. Four fifths shall be your own as seed for the field and for your food, for those of your households, and as food for your little ones. So they said, You have saved our lives. Let us find favor in the sight of my Lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants. Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt to this day that Pharaoh should have one fifth, except for the land of the priests only, which did not become Pharaoh's. So Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen. And they had possessions there and grew and multiplied exceedingly. Jacob lived in the land of Egypt 17 years, so the length of Jacob's life was 147 years. When the time drew near that Israel must die, he called his son Joseph and said to him, Now if I have found favor in your sight, please put your hand under my thigh and deal kindly and truly with me Please do not bury me in Egypt, but let me lie with my fathers. You shall carry me out of Egypt and bury me in their burial place He said, I will do as you have said. Then he said, Swear to me. And he swore to me. So Israel bowed himself on the head of the bed. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. You pray with me. Our Father in heaven, now we come and seek. We seek your face. We ask for God that you would by your Spirit illumine our hearts That you would, Father, give us all that you have this morning from this your very word. Work powerfully in us. Make us more like Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Jesus gave his disciples and those who were listening many, many parables. Two of them, two of them really are the same, and this would be the parable of that hidden treasure in the field, and the parable of the great pearl. If you remember what Jesus was doing when he was teaching his disciples about the kingdom of heaven, what it was like. The kingdom of heaven was like a treasure hidden in a field, which a man found and hid, and for joy over it. He went and sold all that he had to buy the field. Similarly, with the pearl, the merchant was seeking beautiful pearls. And when he had found one of great price, he sold everything that he had to buy it. Similar parables. Both men were searching, both men were seeking that which they did not yet possess. And when they found it, when they came upon it, what did they do? They sold everything. Nothing that was in their possession had any value any longer They never gave those things that were in their possession a second thought. Out of hand, out of mind, they had that which was of great value either the treasure hidden or the pearl. Only one thing was of value That's what the kingdom of heaven is like. I think we have something similar today in this passage in Genesis, as now the focus or or at least the geographic focus of Genesis 37 through 50 has really been on the land of Egypt. Almost all of the narratives so far have been taking place in Egypt. Joseph was sold off into Egypt. While uh while the family was caught in sin, Joseph was suffering in Egypt, where he was being brought closer. to the Lord. Joseph interprets dreams in Egypt. He is raised as second in command. We're in Egypt that survival He tests his brothers in Egypt. And now the generations of Joseph have all moved into Egypt. As we consider this passage today, I would ask that you think that as the Spirit works Worldly lusts are left behind, and the faithful reach forward to those things which are ahead. See that in three points. Three simple points this morning. Forgetting hunger, forgetting worldly things, and then forgetting desolation. Well, first, forgetting hunger. As this passage opens, verse 13, in chapter 47. There's a harsh description of what's going on in Egypt. The severity of the famine. Look at verse 13. The famine was very severe. So the land of Egypt and the land of Canaan languished because of the famine. That word languished. As far as Webster's is concerned, it means to lose strength, to be spirit less. To grow heavy, to wither, to grow dull, no longer active or vigorous, that's what that word means, languished. That's a description of the land. The whole land. Obviously it's the description of the people in the land. And then the perception of the people, verse 19. As the famine continues, as the very severity of the famine continues, what do the people say? They say to Joseph, Why should we die before your eyes? Verse 19. By us. That we may live and not die, that the land may not be desolate. Again, Websters would tell us that that word means uninhabited, laid waste. A ruinous condition neglected or destroyed. The people were seeing that And they were pleading with Joseph that the land wouldn't become like that, desolate, destroyed, neglected, ruinous. Famine was severe. Now hunger is not expressly mentioned here in the passage, but we have to think that if the famine was severe, there were hungry people. Significantly hungry. But there wasn't a sufficient amount of food to sustain the level of nutrition that they were accustomed to, especially following seven years of abundance. Verse 56 of chapter 41 tells us the famine was over all the face of the earth. And as Moses writes, he writes of Egypt and of Canaan, and it gives us the idea that this is it. This is the world. That's in view here over all the face of the earth, the world, all the people that this passage was concerned with were in the midst of a severe famine. The land was producing thorns and thistles, wasn't it? Previously mentioned that in another sermon. But isn't that what's happening? That Adam was told that as he sinned against God, what would happen? Well, the land would be cursed and it would produce not an abundance, not what you're used to, not like the garden over here. Thorns and thistles. Cursed is the ground. Both thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you. Why? Because of Adam's sin. Thorns and thistles were to be expected. So famine would also be expected. That was the norm. Then and now, because of our sin, anything else, meaning abundant produce, such as was in the garden, would be abnormal. Seven years of abundant produce in the land of Egypt was not normal. Now the seven years of famine To be expected. Thorns and thistles produced as a result of Adam's sin, the prevailing effects of the curse. That's the backdrop. But what's the reality? God was merciful. That in his mercy he sustains his people along with the Egyptians. There's a great focus here on What God did through Joseph. Either the name Joseph or a pronoun referring to Joseph or even the words my Lord were used 22 times in these verses. Moses wants us to know that God's servant Joseph was being used to sustain his people even in the midst of a severe famine. Joseph was using the gift of wisdom given to him by God to provide and distribute that which the people lacked, food. Finally, moving them into the cities where they could labor for Pharaoh. The Lord took this shepherd boy through much suffering to this place and position where his decisions, or his wisdom, saved the people of God. There may have been death, but Moses doesn't record it There may have been those who died from starvation, but Moses doesn't record it. The only thing he records is that people survived. The only aspect that Moses records is that there was life, but it continued. Think of Psalm 37, verse 19. They shall not be ashamed in evil times, and in the days of famine. They shall be satisfied. That's what was going on. Even in the days of famine, God was satisfying. The covenant was being fulfilled. Out of the famine came abundance. Look at verse 27. Everything up to this passage, verse 13 through verse 26, is all about the famine and how severe it was. And we get to verse 27. Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt in the country of Goshen. And they had possessions there and grew and multiplied exceedingly. Not just a little Exceedingly. In keeping with God's covenant promises. God's very words to Jacob were be fruitful and multiply a nation, and a company of nations shall proceed from you. And God went above and beyond. He multiplied them exceedingly See what a great encouragement this would have been to the Israelites. As they were on the border, ready to enter into the promised land. And as Moses was rehearsing with them the promises of God and even showing them, look, we'll see what he's done. Look and see what he did with Jacob. How even out of the midst of famine that he multiplied the people exceedingly. They would have seen how God provides for his people, sustaining them even in impossible situations. And God does provide a way. There's a slow shift in this narrative. From famine, from hunger, from being on the threshold of death to life. Slowly the thought of famine fades from the minds of the Egyptians. And the reality of salvation comes into view. They're being saved from the thorns and the thistles. It comes slowly out of the shadows And then into the light of day. God snatched life out of what seemed to be certain death, that which captured the daily thoughts of the Egyptians and Jacob's family was slowly fading away. Hunger. Hunger was forgotten. Left behind in the goodness of God. In a seemingly impossible circumstance, God provided a way for life to be sustained through his servant Joseph, a lowly shepherd boy. Who appeared to be on his way to living out his days in a dungeon suddenly becomes governor and savior of the land. God preserves his people. Canons of Dort provides this. Because of these remnants of sin, speaking of what resides within us. The old man, because of these remnants of sin dwelling in them, meaning us, and also because of the temptations of the world and Satan. Those who have been converted could not remain standing in this grace, meaning the grace that God has given to us, if left to their own resources But God, God is faithful, mercifully strengthening them in the grace once conferred on them and powerfully preserving them to the end. You see, that's what was happening with Jacob and his family. Through God's preserving hand, he enables Christians To forget hunger. Before he converted each one of us, we were in a state of hunger. You say, what are you talking about? Talking about our spiritual hunger. Like the famine which raged in Egypt and Canaan, we were spiritually hunger. Sin never satisfies. Lust is never quenched. No one is ever satisfied with things that do not pertain to God. The eye is never satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. He who loves silver will not be satisfied with silver, nor he who loves abundance With increase, this also is vanity. Do you see? See how the Lord feeds us? How we were so hungry. And he satisfied that hunger. He does provide a way. for spiritual life. Certainly here the Lord provided a way for physical life through Joseph, but this is just a picture of what he does for spiritual life. We consider the situation in Egypt, Canaan, to be perilous, to be dangerous, fraught with danger and death, then consider, brothers and sisters, your sin. The issue presented here was death by starvation. As we consider our sin, it's death by the eternal wrath of God. Fire which cannot be quenched, that worm which does not die. Punishment we all deserve Like the famine, which seemed to ravage the entire civilized world. Sin ravages every single human being except Jesus Christ. This passage points us to Jesus, doesn't it? God provides a way. And Jesus is the way of salvation from sin. Jesus is the way from eternal wrath and death for all those who trust in him to life. Sin and death can and will be left behind. And the righteousness of Jesus has been wrapped around us. He indeed is the door. And if anyone enters by him, he will be saved. God provides a way. Jesus brings us to our second point, forgetting worldly things. Probably the majority of this text Is fixed upon what Joseph did. But it's a striking description of what the Egyptians gave up. First it was money Verse 14, Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt and in the land of Canaan so they could buy grain. A dramatic way of stating the people spent all of their money they had no more. The bank accounts were empty. The cans buried out back. Gone. Because of the severity of the famine, all of their funds, all of their monetary resources were spent. Given up. And when the money failed, and when the people were still hungry, Joseph said, Give your livestock. Horses, your flocks, your cattle, your donkeys, everything, all animals given up. Not one left behind And when the animals, the donkeys, the cattle, the flocks, the horses were gone, given up, the only thing left was the land. The land and their very persons. By us in our land for bread. And we in our land will be servants of Pharaoh. Joseph bought all the land. For every man of the Egyptians sold his field. I'm not sure Moses could have put this any other way to give us the clear understanding that they gave up everything. Nothing was left to the people, no more worldly possessions, money's gone, livestock sold, land deeded to Pharaoh, even themselves moved off of their land. Into the cities where they could now labor for Pharaoh. All worldly possessions, indeed, even their individual freedoms, given up Why? Why would they do such a thing to live Give us bread, for why should we die in your presence? In other words, why should we die when you, Joseph, have the power to give us life, to save us, buy us in our land for bread? That we may live and not die. Verse 25, so they said, You have saved our lives Their worldly things, their worldly possessions, their freedom itself. It lacked value when they compared it to life itself As they're faced with death, the value of money, the value of livestock, the value of land, even the value of their freedom was worthless. If they had no breath at all. Life became their all-in-all, everything given up so that they could have life. If they were willing to give up everything to have life, to continue living, how much are we willing to give up to It's quite interesting that these in Egypt gave up all their possessions to have life, and that Jesus tells us that we must go actually one step further. That we must give up life itself to have life. For whoever desires to save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Matthew 16, verse 25. He who hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. John 12, verse 25. And then that letter to the Philippians. After Paul has told them who he was, all of his accomplishments, all the boasting that he could do within himself, he says, I've counted it lost for Christ. I've suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ. Jesus tells us that we must go one step. Further. Let me ask you, how do you lose your life? How do you count everything is rubbish to gain Christ. How do you lose your life for the sake of Jesus? How do you hate your life in this world? It seemed almost natural for the Egyptians to give everything up. They were ready First, first, I think we all need to confess that we don't. I think we all need to confess that we hold so very tightly to the things of this world I think we need to recognize that, especially in this country with so much prosperity, we Americans, we American Christians. have become lovers of this world, lovers of the comforts, the pleasures of this world. Powerful lie of Satan is that this world is all that there is to have But the things of this world, this creation, are the things which provide ultimate satisfaction and enjoyment, not life with God. How did Satan tempt Eve? He set the fruit before her eyes. How did Satan tempt Jesus with bread, with the avoidance of suffering, and with worldly kingdoms, the creation? Satan's greatest desire is that you love this world and creation so much that you neglect and turn away from God. To lose your life for the sake of Jesus is to unhand the world. It's to release your grip on the world and worldly things is to count as rubbish here, the things in this world. All your accomplishments, all your belongings, indeed. Your very self. And to set your mind on the things above. Say no to Satan, as he offers you the riches of this creation and not the riches of Christ. Secondly, we need to remember and recall and meditate upon the greatest treasure of true life in Christ. We've died. Our life is hidden in Christ with God. And to lose your life for Jesus uh means to store up treasures in heaven and that treasure is Jesus And as you do, as you lose your life, indeed you're building up that treasure in heaven May the Lord help us to do that. That brings us to our third point, forgetting desolation. This passage, if it has anything, it has many, many references to death. The thrust of the narrative is indeed death. That's the underlying problem, the backdrop which is present throughout step by step. The reader follows the plan of Joseph as it unfolds and he is constantly dealing with the threat of death. year after year having to provide a new solution to the old problem, which has been the problem since Adam's sin in the garden. Nothing has changed, and that's death So it's surprising. When it appears that the famine is over, when it appears that Joseph indeed has saved the people by and through his wisdom that's been given to him by God. And he's been placed there by God in order to do just that. And we get to that point, we think, well, the threat is gone. It's over. Indeed, we're told that the Israelites, the generations of Jacob, are growing and multiplying exceedingly, we think, hooray! The famine has been vanquished. Death is no longer the problem, and yet it still is. Verse 29. When the time drew near that Israel must die. That's an interesting way for Moses to put what was happening. For Jacob must die. And death was still a problem. All of Joseph's plans, all of his work, all of his success, didn't attain to eternal salvation, didn't vanquish death. Jacob, here Israel, was about to die. So that helps us to focus our minds, doesn't it? Jacob had heard the word of God, who told him that he would go down with him to Egypt, and not only go down, that he would surely, meaning God, would bring Jacob back up. He listened, he heard, he trusted. And so now he's telling Joseph to take him back up. Please do not bury me in Egypt, but let me lie with my fathers. Carry me out of Egypt. Jacob was emphatic Even though Egypt was likely doing well, even though the family of Jacob was multiplying exceedingly, Jacob did not want to stay. You shall carry me out of Egypt. Why? Egypt represented the land of desolation A land which languished. Say, well that was back in the famine. Not really. Egypt was a land of idol worshipers. God was not sought after in Egypt. Yes, Egyptians had physically survived what were spiritually dead. The land of Egypt was truly uninhabited by worshippers of the living and true God. Egypt was dull. Egypt was feeble. It was spiritless. It was languishing. It was a desolate wilderness. But Canaan. Canaan represented the nearness of God The land of promise, it represented the intimate communion and fellowship with God. I will be with you. That's what Jacob was told when he was called to return. God told him that he would be with him. Canaan would be made alive through the very near presence of God. Canaan represented restoration and reconciliation with God. And the Israelites who were on the border ready to enter in, they needed to hear this. They needed to hear that Jacob wanted so much not to be in Egypt, but to be in the land of God. It would be Jacob's final resting place. In an earthly sense, he wouldn't be moved from that place. God himself would dwell with him there. That's where Jacob longed to be. Jacob was forgetting those things which were behind. And he was reaching forward to those things which were ahead. To a land which would not be desolate. It's interesting. The prophet Isaiah in chapter 32 writes the, excuse me, 62. You, referring to the Israelites, referring to the people of God, you shall no longer be termed forsaken, nor shall your land anymore be termed forsaken Desolate. The same Hebrew word, the same root Jacob's thoughts were on the things that lay ahead. He was reaching forward to his permanent dwelling, his eternal dwelling with the living God. What are you reaching for? This morning. Where's your heart? Brothers and sisters, there are so many things in this world which cause us to keep our minds, our hearts here. But Jesus says no. Jesus says, forget those things which lay behind. You've died. Your life is hidden with Christ. Why would you fix your minds upon these things? You've left them behind. You're with Christ. Fix your minds, your hearts upon that treasure. In Christ Jesus, that's what He's calling out for us to do even this day Reach forward to those things which are ahead. Jacob was doing it. Call this morning. It's for us to do this. Yes, as the Spirit works, worldly lusts are left behind, and the faithful reach forward to those things which are ahead. These parables give us an image, don't they? Those things which we might use to purchase that treasure, that pearl, not even given a second thought. Brothers and sisters, you've been given Treasure, that great pearl in Jesus Christ. Fix your minds upon Him. Amen. Father in heaven, we ask now that you'd help us. We are weak, we are we are feeble, we are frail, we are tempted Lord God, continue to uphold us in the righteousness of Christ. Continue, Father, to help us forget those things which lay behind and and continue striving forward to those things which lay ahead. Help us to continue laying up treasures in heaven. Help us, Father, to fix our minds upon the things above. which is Christ Jesus and Him alone. We ask these things in His name. Amen. Oh yeah. As we come to the table this morning, I'd like to read the words of institution from 1 Corinthians 11. First Corinthians eleven, beginning at verse twenty three. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you. That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take, eat. This is my body, which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same manner he also took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy man unworthy manner will be guilty of the body. and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup. For he who eats and drinks in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself, not discerning the Lord's body. Brothers and sisters, this is a covenant meal that the Lord has given to us. As we have heard this morning, that the Lord provides a way. The Lord has provided a way for us to have communion and union with Himself through Jesus Christ. And so as we have these elements set before us, as we have the bread set before us representing the body of Christ, which was broken for us. We have the grape juice set before us representing the blood of Jesus Christ which was shed for us Representing the death of Christ. As we take these elements, as we recognize and and and receive this sacrament, we are proclaiming the Lord's death every time. But not just his death, his death which was atoning, his death, which was the ultimate sacrifice, his death which which washed away our sin if we're trusting in Christ. But also his resurrection, also his triumph over death and sin for us, and also his ascension. The fact that he rules and reigns from heaven, from sitting next to God the Father, and also that he returns. That he will return for his bride, the church. All of those things we are proclaiming by and through taking the supper. And by this supper, we are being nourished and fed and built up so that we can. Fend off those darts and arrows of Satan which we even heard of this morning. This is a real meal. This is a covenant meal. For the covenant people of God. Let me read you a couple of sections out of the Heidelberg Catechism to help us as we take this. Sacrament. Do the bread and wine become the real body and blood of Christ? No. Just as the water of baptism is not changed into Christ's blood and does not itself wash away sins. But is simply a divine sign and assurance of these things so too. The holy bread of the Lord's Supper does not become the body of Christ itself. even though it is called the body of Christ in keeping with the nature and language of the sacraments. Even though this does not become the body, the blood of Christ, by the work of the Spirit Brothers and sisters, and as we take this in faith, we are being nourished. We're being built up. We're being drawn ever closer to Christ and made more like Him. That's what's happening. As we take this meal. As we read this morning, this meal is not for everyone. It is clearly for sinners. For those who have confessed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, for those who are members in good standing of a Protestant church which professes the the true gospel, salvation only by and through the Lord Jesus Christ, not our works. It's for those who are not gripping and holding on to sin and denying Christ. That doesn't describe you. If you haven't confessed Christ this morning, if you're clinging to sin and rejecting Jesus. Allow these things to pass you by. For if you take in that state, as the scripture tells us, you'll be bringing judgment upon yourself. Come, talk with me, talk with our elder. We want you to take this meal, but we want you to do it in a way that recognizes and confesses the body of Christ. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now we ask for your blessing upon these elements. That you, Father, would set them aside, that you would consecrate them. That Father you would use them for your holy purposes. All the purposes which you have ordained from eternity past. Use this bread, this grape juice, Lord God. To increase our faith. Use it to build us up in in strengths. To continue to fight the spiritual battle that we are in. Use this meal, Lord God, for your glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our Lord Jesus, in the night in which he was portrayed, took the bread And after blessing it if I asked for that blessing in his name, he broke it, displaying the breaking of his body. And I, ministering in his name, give to you. Similarly, our Savior also took the cup Having given thanks as has been done in his name, he gave it to his disciples, as I now ministering in his name give to you. Please come up from the back on this side first and take the elements, return to your seats, and then we'll take them together. Lord Jesus said, take ye. This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. Yeah, I don't know. The Lord Jesus said, This cup is the new covenant in my blood, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. Drink of it, all of you. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we bless your name. You indeed have provided a way. And we thank you and praise you for the Lord Jesus Christ and for the work of the Spirit. Use this meal for all the purposes which you have ordained. Strengthen your people. Send us from this place as mighty warriors. For Jesus Christ. We ask these things in his name. Amen. I have a response this morning Remind me of the Hila response. Number fifty-five. Number fifty-five, I'm sorry. Please stand. Let's give praise to our God. God is a glory, great things he has done, so loved our world that he gave us his son. It is white and the home for things of life that we may go in the road. Take the Lord, wait for the ball, I can choose the God. That moment from Jesus for gifts to longer. Let them get for rejoice to the father's. But the five and God and the God has been as well. And praise our register through Jesus and grace will be our one day. Where I think of Jesus is not, make the north, let the earth go, make the north, make the north. Let the three glory choice the Father who Jesus and Christian the glory we see. Receive now the Lord's blessing. Now by the God of peace, who brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus Christ, the great shepherd of the sheep. By the blood of the eternal covenant, equip you with everything good that you may do his will, working in us that which is pleasing in his sight through Jesus Christ. To whom be the glory forever and ever. Amen.