If you'd open your copy of God's Word now to Matthew once again, we'll continue our study there. And the Sermon on the Mount will be on Matthew chapter 5. You should find that on page 963 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll be reading beginning at verse thirty-three. Matthew chapter five. At verse thirty three. Let's give attention to the holy, infallible Word of God. Again, you have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth. for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. And do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. Let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come once again to what might be a familiar passage. Help us, Lord, to see the depths of what Jesus is teaching. To see how this applies to our daily lives, to see how this really enters into our hearts and opens them up. That we might see, Father, how we might do your will, hour by hour, moment by moment. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As Paul writes to those at Galatia, he recounts an event where He speaks with Cephas at Antioch. Cephas is another name for Peter. And Paul relates in his letter that I, meaning Paul, opposed him, meaning Peter, to his face because he stood condemned. This is an unusual passage in the scripture, one apostle admonishing, condemning another apostle. Paul was concerned because Peter, although he had been eating with the Gentiles previously, now because those of the circumcision party had come Peter had now backed off and separated himself from the Gentiles because Peter feared the circumcision party But the point is that Paul spoke truth to Peter. He saw that his conduct and those around Peter was not in step with the truth of the gospel. That's what Paul records. Even though to oppose Peter face to face was probably a difficult thing, even for the Apostle Paul. It needed to be said. And it was good for Peter to hear the truth. This morning we're going to be focusing our time upon speaking the truth. Jesus is in the middle of this, what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount, he's been teaching the disciples about the kingdom of God. That's how he opens with the Beatitudes. And he's describing the new hearts of those who have been converted. Those who have been changed. Those who have received new hearts. Hearts now of flesh, no longer of stone. They are those that are poor in spirit. They are those who mourn, who are meek, who thirst after righteousness. And then he describes the work of the apostles, telling them that they excuse me, of the disciples, telling them they are the salt of the earth, and that they cannot and should not lose their saltiness, that they are the light of the world. They need to be set on a hill so that all can see. And then he describes the book of life as he refers to the law and the prophets. Reminding them that he had come not to abolish them, but to fulfill them. And then he begins describing the nature of the one that they will serve. By opening up the law. The law describes the nature of God. He begins with murder and he says that if you're angry, unrighteously so, you've broken that law. If you lust with intent After a woman you have just committed adultery. And if you divorce If you divorce for anything except on ground of sexual immorality, you make your spouse commit adultery. Jesus Has been speaking to the disciples about the nature of God today And these verses that we read, I want us to see that Jesus calls his disciples to speak the truth from their hearts. Very simple. A very simple message. Jesus calls his disciples to speak the truth from their hearts. We'll see that in three points. This morning, the command, secondly the problem, and then finally the truth. Now we might be tempted to tune out this morning. We're going to be talking a little bit about oaths. Very slightly about vows, about swearing. These are things that we are not in the habit of practicing. We just don't engage in these things generally today. So we're tempted to think this is not too important for us. Not so. This passage has critical importance for our daily lives, for witnessing to an unbelieving world. So please listen. Well, first the command. As we've learned, Jesus begins these short teachings Concerning the law of God with a reference to what we now know as the Old Testament. He does it here in verse 33. You have heard You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. Jesus seems to reference here both oaths and vows together, swearing falsely regarding oaths, and then perform what you have sworn regarding vows He appears to be referring to two commands which are embodied in various passages in the Old Testament. With regard to swearing falsely, it seems that this comes directly from Leviticus 19, a verse that we read this morning. You shall not swear by my name falsely, and so profane the name of your God. To swear, it means to make a statement. This is from a Hebrew lexicon. To make a statement, to give a pledge under oath, invoking God. A commitment to do good. Well, that's part of what Jesus seems to be referring to. And then he refers to what we would consider to be vows. You shall perform what you have Sworn, an action. From Numbers 30. If a man vows a vow to the Lord or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, he shall not break his word Now vows were not mandatory, but if one took a vow, the teaching of Scripture was Deuteronomy 23, if you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it. Or Ecclesiastes 5, pay what you vow. A vow was a promise, a special achievement, so to speak, that you were committing to make. Again, from the Hebrew lexicon. So Jesus refers once again to commands of the Old Testament. We have to bring some together to see the whole thing in Jesus' short statement. But now he says But I say, but I say to you, do not take an oath at all. Is Jesus really teaching no oaths? Is that his point? The Old Testament clearly calls the children of God to swear and to fulfill vows taken. We just read portions of it. It gets more explicit as Moses writes his last book to the Israelites, Deuteronomy in chapter 6. It is the Lord your God you shall fear. You shall serve, and by his name you shall swear. And that's repeated again in Deuteronomy 10. You shall serve him and hold fast to him, and by his name you shall swear. In Isaiah 45, we see this prophecy. By myself I have sworn, for my mouth has gone out in righteousness a word that shall not return. To me every knee shall bow, and every tongue shall swear allegiance. The Old Testament is clear. We shall serve God. We shall swear by his name. It's part of worship. In fact, as God makes a promise, he swears. He swears to Abraham an oath. In Hebrews, we read this in chapter 6. For when God made a promise to Abraham, since he had no one greater by whom to swear, he swore by himself. And how is it that Jesus becomes a priest? The writer to the Hebrews tells us so very clearly: the Lord has sworn and will not change his mind, you are a priest forever. God himself swears. Was Jesus changing the law? Was he modifying? Was he contradicting the Old Testament? This cannot be We've already read so very clearly. Do you not think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets? I've not come to abolish, but to fulfill. Not an iota, not a dot will pass from the law until all is accomplished. And he didn't stop there. He said that whoever relaxes Even one of the least of these commandments and teaches the others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. Jesus was not changing the law. It cannot be that Jesus would change laws. That would be tantamount to causing a portion of it to pass away, so to speak. And he cannot be teaching his disciples to ignore or sidestep this portion of the law. He's already condemned those who do so. Jesus has not been changing or modifying the law. He has been about the work of explaining, explaining who God is, explaining his nature. He's teaching the disciples the full scope of the law as it relates to their hearts. He's been teaching them concerning the nature of God and his will for their lives, and God himself cannot change. For I the Lord do not change, Malachi 3. 16. That's the problem is we cannot stop reading Jesus' words at the comma that the English Bibles give us. But I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by the earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of a great king, and do not take an oath by your head. To stop at the comma is to misunderstand Or to make Jesus say something that he did not say. Jesus was not saying, do not swear at all, full stop, period. For that would contradict Scripture. The centerpiece of Jesus' teaching is at the end of the passage. Look at verse 7, just for a moment 37 for a moment. Let what you say simply be yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil. This is the simple cut to the chase, center of the command, speak the truth from your heart. And not only when swearing or vowing, but this very broad and very simple command is all-encompassing, as Jesus calls all To speak in a particular direction, and that is in the direction of truth. We'll get to this under our third point. But now we want to see what lies behind this teaching Concerning swearing or oaths. The ultimate command is in the positive. You shall swear only by the name of the Lord. And so what Jesus does is now he teaches the bulk of what he has to teach in the negative. Do not take an oath at all, either by heaven or by earth, or by Jerusalem, or by your head. In other words, you shall not swear by heaven, swear by earth, swear by Jerusalem, swear by your head. All of his examples amount to something other than the name of the Lord. Jesus stacks up the negatives so that the single positive might stand out. You shall swear only. You shall make an oath only by the name of the Lord your God. It seems to be the point that Jesus is pressing home, at least initially. Westminster Confession here is very helpful In summarizing Jesus' teaching on this command. In chapter 32, we read this: the name of God only is that by which men ought to swear. And therein it is to be used with all holy fear and reverence. Therefore to swear vainly or rashly by that glorious and dreadful name, or to swear at all by any other thing, is sinful and to be abhorred. That's the command. That's the teaching of Christ Jesus, stated positively. That brings us then to the problem, which we need to uncover. What was the issue here? Why was it necessary for Jesus to teach on this subject? Had this not already been set forth by Moses? What was the problem that gave rise to this lesson, to this being included, this lesson being included in the Sermon on the Mount? Well, it seems very clear. It is apparent that a practice had arisen of swearing, of making an oath by something or someone which or who was not God. Later on in Matthew's gospel, chapter 23, as Jesus addresses the scribes and the Pharisees. We know this as the woe chapter. He says to them, Woe to you blind guides, who say, if anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, He is bound by his oath. Jesus goes on, and a blind man That was the practice. That was what was being taught by the religious leaders of the day To swear by something other than God. And so to understand Jesus' concern, we must dig a little deeper into what oaths or swearing was. Again, the Westminster Confession of Faith is helpful. The oath is a part of worship, whereupon the person swearing solemnly calls God to witness what he asserts. And to judge him. It's a call to God to judge my statement According to the truth or the falsehood of what is being sworn to You're placing yourself before the judgment seat of God and saying, God judge, am I speaking truly or not? Jesus was pointing out that the practice had been to swear an oath by that which is not God. To take an oath by heaven or earth or or by Jerusalem or by your own head. People were being taught to swear in a certain way, and they have been practicing that which was not in the Word of God. Why? Why would the Pharisees teach something not in the Word of God? Why would the people swear by the gold of the temple? Why would anyone take an oath by the offering or the gift upon the altar? Why would anyone swear by heaven, by the earth, by Jerusalem, by one's own head? Seemingly, this was done that one would not become liable to the one who could bring about judgment. So the one swearing could not be judged. So the one taking the oath would never be called to account truly. Solomon's prayer as he's dedicating the temple is helpful. As he's praying to God, he says, God, if a man sins against his neighbor and is made to take an oath and comes and swears his oath before your altar in this house, then hear from heaven and act and judge your servants. Repaying the guilty by bringing his conduct on his own head. That was a true oath. That was a right swearing. And that was used in the right way as Solomon praised to God. What the Pharisees and Scribes have done is they'd taken out that portion of swearing to or before God. Swearing before the one who hears from heaven and the one who can act and the one who does judge. That was the problem. Swearing by something lesser than God. Thus not being subject to real punishment. In essence, I will swear an oath just not before the one or in the name of the one, the only one, Who can judge truth? This was not swearing truly. This was not speaking rightly This was swearing to gain, to deceive, to prophet. This was not speaking in love Meaning that the person speaking and swearing did not really mean what he had sworn to. The statement made may not have been true, and the one making it was seeking to convince the one hearing it that it was in fact true by using a corrupted oath. At a minimum. This was a movement away from the true law of God, and thus a movement away from God. And it amounted to a hiding of the truth. By swearing to that which could never call out the one swearing to an untruth, the real truth would likely remain in the heart of the one swearing and never see the light of day. The real truth would likely remain hidden and unseen. And so righteousness and justice which comes about as a result of the revelation of truth when we also remain hidden and unseen, being stored up in the heart of the one swearing by heaven, or by earth, or by Jerusalem, or even by his own head All this then was seeking to avoid justice and judgment. Is that not the fear? That is, the truth is known. Justice is likely to follow in punishment or judgment. And this is just the opposite of the nature of God. He is a God who reveals. He's a God who unveils the truth. He's the God who gives truth to his children. Certainly there are the secret things which remain. secret, but our Lord cares so much for his children that he reveals supernaturally the truth Brothers and sisters, I think we must admit this morning that we like Wiggle Room. Since the fall, all men, women and children like to be able to move around within the lines of what they think are the laws of God. In our corruption, we want to create some Freedom. Thinking that we are coloring within the lines But here this swearing by heaven or by earth or by Jerusalem or by one's own head was a way of keeping a portion of the law that which called one to swear, that which called one to take an oath. But then wanting to create a bit of space A bit of room for freedom. An important part of that command was removed. By his name, you shall swear. That portion was removed and substitutes were offered. You see, this is one of the great deceptions of Satan, isn't it? As he said to the woman in the garden, did God actually say? He implanted the idea that the very word of God might be questioned Indeed, isn't that what's going on here? That you have the ability, maybe even the right, to question the Word of God and if necessary. Change it to your liking so that you can move about in this life freely. That's Satan's great lie, his powerful deception. But the law of God is bad. It bounds you. It's restrictive. It must be cast aside in order for you to have true freedom. And that's just the opposite of what we read in the scripture. No, the law is holy, it's righteous, and it's good. And there's great freedom in keeping the law. As Paul writes in his letter to the Galatians at chapter 5, for you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, because that's exactly what the Pharisees and the scribes were teaching. Use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh to keep truth within, to hide righteousness and justice. Brothers and sisters, we have to stop seeking wiggle room. The law is good. It's perfect. It's right. God has given it to us for our good, and we need to praise Him for it. That brings us to our third point, the truth. As I said earlier, this passage is indeed summed up In the last verse, let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil Should you swear or take an oath in the name of the Lord? Yes, absolutely. We're called to it. The Old Testament tells us to. Jesus is, in a sense, calling us back Back to the way the law was written. But does a Christian need to swear an oath in the name of the Lord in order for his or her words to be true? Obviously the answer is no. Jesus is teaching. We're slowly beginning to see more clearly the method of the Lord Jesus Christ as he continues to preach to his disciples, as he continues to open up the the law of God, the word of God. Now we see what he's really doing and he's digging into their hearts and And into our hearts. He was showing them how they had broken the law. In each case, the law against murder is broken as one becomes unrighteously angry. The law against adultery is broken as one lusts intentionally after another with his heart. The spouse has sinned against as one attempts to break the unbreakable marriage bond, and now Jesus asks his disciples to consider certainly their method of making an oath, but more basically Whether they speak the truth, even in the most simple statements that they make during the day, yes and no. This required the disciples to consider their motives, their intentions every time, every time they uttered speech. Jesus was digging into their hearts. Why was this so important to Jesus? That he would raise this matter at all. There are at least two reasons. I'm sure there are many more. First, the name of God was at stake. And secondly, Jesus knew that God delights in truth. Indeed, the name of God was at stake. The third commandment lies behind this command. While Jesus did not expressly include swear by my name falsely It seems that that was certainly what was intended. A reference again to Leviticus 19. You shall not swear by my name falsely. Making promises to the Lord God. God's name is clearly in view. His name is being used such that the swearing or the taking of an oath is to be done in His name. And so the third commandment is clearly in play. You shall not take the name of the Lord your God in vain. For the Lord will not hold him guiltless who takes his name in vain. If you use the Lord's name as you're swearing out an oath and promising or asking the Lord to judge your statement, but not really wanting him to. Or you've actually spoken a lie. That would be using the Lord's name in vain. That would not be revering his name. And so Jesus' first concern that God's name be revered, that this truth be spoken always. Secondly, God delights in the truth. Isn't that what David writes in Psalm 51? Behold, you, meaning the Lord, delight in truth in the inward being. That's where truth resides, so to speak. As God gives us the truth, it resides within Indeed, Jesus was and is truth. John 14, Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. We know that Jesus is the only way. Times we just fix our minds upon that. He is the only door, the only gate. He's the narrow gate. He's the only way. We know that Jesus is life. In that great chapter in John chapter 10, I came that they might have life and have it abundantly. I give them life. I am the resurrection and The life, John 11. But how often do we meditate upon Jesus being the truth? How often do we sit in our prayer closets and ponder Jesus being the truth? How significant is this fact to the Father that Jesus is the truth? This is the center. This is the focal point. This is the theme of the passage. The Father delights in the Son, who is truth itself That's what we read from the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant, whom I uphold, my chosen, in whom my soul delights, I put my spirit upon him, he will bring forth justice to the nations. Justice is based upon truth. And we know that as Paul describes love in chapter 13 of the first letter to the Corinthians, saying the love is patient and kind, it does not envy or boast. It says it does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. The Father of the Light and the Son who is the truth. Remember what the Father said on the Mount of Transfiguration about his beloved Son, with whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him. Why? Because he speaks the truth. And Pilate asked that question. What is truth? Jesus had just told Pilate As he confesses that he's a king for this purpose, I was born, and for this purpose I've come into the world to bear witness to the truth. That's quite powerful. That Jesus was born to bear witness To the truth, to speak of the Father. He bears witness to what he has seen and heard. He is the exact radiance and glory of God, his very nature. And so as Jesus speaks, he's speaking truth. He's revealing his Father. And God delights in him. Brothers and sisters, as we think about truth, we might be thinking about a courtroom scenario That might come to mind as the witness approaches the stand to testify as he or she is required to swear an oath. To the truth. Many times by placing his or her hand on the Bible and swearing upon the Bible. Promising to tell the whole truth. It's a wonderful example of swearing and promising or covenanting to speak truly. That one's yes would indeed be yes and no would indeed be no, that justice and righteousness would prevail. But obviously there are many other situations, instances when this call by Jesus to speak in a particular way truly applies. We might say, we should understand that there is no situation in which this command does not apply Not one. It's a call to speak the truth. Your yes means yes, your no means no should be applied daily, hourly, moment by moment, in the big things, and the small things. I think that's why Jesus chose yes and no. There are no little white lies, just lies and untruths. So let us consider another example. We're telling the truth. Will demonstrate Christ. Christ tells us that if we confess him before men He will confess us before the Father If we think for more than a moment upon what it means to confess Jesus Christ, we would likely come to the conclusion that this confession would include The good news, it would be difficult, if not impossible, to confess Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior without confessing the gospel. To confess the gospel of the good news requires speaking the truth. And if we think back to that witness in the courtroom. He or she is going to be required to tell the whole truth Sometimes when we're confessing Christ, we tend to shy away from speaking the whole truth. There are many reasons why we do what we do, none of which are biblical. All of which are rooted in our focus upon ourselves. We might want to maintain a friendship with the one with whom we are speaking. Maintaining a friendship is a good thing. But friends tell others to friends tell their friends the truth. Even if that truth is hard, just as we saw with Peter and Paul. So to shy away from speaking of hell and damnation for fear of offending a friend is not speaking the whole truth. The point Must remind us that the whole truth must be spoken in love That's the call. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in every way into him who is the head, into Christ. Ephesians chapter 4 verse 15. At other times we might be concerned about what people think of us. Do you really believe that a donkey spoke? Is it true that you think the earth was created in six literal days? I understand that you believe Jesus died and rose from the dead. How can you believe that myth Brothers and sisters, the Bible is full of supernatural acts of God. If we are fearful of speaking concerning them with others, outside the family of God, we are not speaking. The whole truth. Call this morning is to speak from the heart. That your yes would be yes, your no would be no. And indeed this means speaking the whole truth, even when it might be hard, or even bring hardship. This calls for an increase of faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. That we should be praying. Not only that the Lord would work in us, that we would identify the truth within and speak it and and bring the whole truth, but That he would increase our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and know that as he gives us the words to speak, That whatever the result, it will be good for the ones speaking, and it will be good for the ones being spoken to Spirit must work in order for us to speak, such that our yes is our yes, our noas are no, that anything more comes from evil. Yes, Jesus does call his disciples to speak the truth from their hearts. Paul did so as he approached his good friend, most likely his apostle, his brother in Christ, Peter. And called him. He called him out of sin. And he called him to be that witness of the Lord Jesus Christ. So that more and more Could be brought into the kingdom. Brothers and sisters, that's the call for us this morning. That we would indeed speak the truth from our hearts, that we would revere the name of God and exalt the name of Christ, that his kingdom would be expanded. Praise be to God. Amen.