And now we're going to uh turn to the Old Testament, to that uh portion of God's word we referred to, Psalm thirty-four. And uh you may be aware that uh uh yes you are aware that uh this uh psalm, uh verse eight of this psalm i was the theme for our thank offering. I know that you're aware of the thank offering and you're contributing to it. That's a blessed ministry in support of the work of our denomination. The theme for the thank offering this year is that verse, Taste and See. that the Lord is good. You're going to hear that verse as we read the psalm. And the title tells us that this is a psalm that's associated with a particular event in the life of David. But will you listen as we read God's Word, beginning at verse 1. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth My soul makes its boast in the Lord. Let the humble hear and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me, and let us exalt his name together I sought the Lord, and He answered me, and delivered me from all my fears. Those who look to Him are radiant, and their faces shall never be ashamed This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encamps around those who fear him and delivers them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him O fear the Lord, you his saints, for those who fear him have no lack. The young lions may suffer want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing Come, O children, listen to me. I will teach you the fear of the Lord. What man is there who desires life and loves many days that he may see good? Keep your tongue from evil, and your lips from speaking deceit. Turn away from evil and do good, seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are toward the righteous and his ears toward their cry. The face of the Lord is against those who do evil to cut off the memory of them from the earth. When the righteous cry for help, the Lord hears and delivers them out of all their troubles. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones, not one of them is broken. Affliction will slay the wicked, and those who hate the righteous will be condemned. The Lord redeems the life of his servants None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. That's the word of God. Let's pray together. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for such words as these. And now we ask that God the Holy Spirit would be our helper, that He would open our hearts, that He would take that word that's sharper than a two-edged sword, that He would drive it into our hearts to touch the places where our hearts need to be touched by the living word of the living God. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Will you please be seated? And so we uh we read together Psalm thirty-four, and it's it's another of those busy Psalms, isn't it? There's a lot going on. And I don't know about you, but sometimes when uh when I read the Psalms it seems like there's an awful lot going on. There's a lot of Uh we meet a lot of different people. We see a lot of different imagery, a lot of different scenarios uh are presented to us. And this psalm is no exception. I wonder did you notice as we uh read the psalm together that uh well there are uh we meet different uh kinds of people don't we? We meet uh we meet young people, we meet children. There there were some children there Uh we meet some uh saints. Did you notice that saints get referred to? There there were some people uh in the psalm who were uh obviously not Saints at all. There were some were angels. Did you notice uh that? And and there were lions, so all kinds of characters and uh all kinds of people and and the psalmist brings us in close, doesn't he? You notice that uh the psalmist uh brings us in close where to the point where we're able to see uh faces, we're able to see uh eyes and ears and lips. Even tongues. In fact, the the psalmist mentions uh bones. This this is a close up uh personal examination of of some people and and when we get up close and personal we discover that some of those people are uh needy. Some of those people are in frightening circumstances. Some of those people are anxious and distressed. And we start to realize that those are people very like us. Aren't they? People like like you and me, people who get anxious, who get frightened, uh people who who get uh who get fearful, people who find themselves caught up in the uh blizzard of circumstances and situations that we encounter in life and sometimes it seems that we just can't get our our head around all the things that are going on and sometimes this uh uh season of the year is particularly like that. We start to get really stressed don't we and there seem to be so many things to take care of and so many things to to nail down and plan and organize and get and and our heads are spinning And the the psalm presents us with a whole blizzard of of uh uh things going on and and right there in the psalm, just like a Uh standing out in the Psalm is is that eighth verse where they uh where we hear a voice speak to us and say, Taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in the Lord. And commentators would say that the that verse, that eighth verse, is maybe the uh the the very uh center of the psalm, the the verse that kind of captured the whole uh idea of what's going on uh in the psalm and the speaker in that verse he beckons us and and we're distracted by all kinds of of things, those friends of Jesus. You remember uh the ones we met in in John chapter eleven, and we know that one of those sisters was distracted by all kinds of things and uh and and uh Mary, her sister, Martha's sister, was the one who was she came aside and she she was with she was with she was focused on the Savior. And and verse eight of Psalm thirty four is a little bit like that. It it it uh beckons to the Marthas, it beckons to the people who are stressed and agitated and frightened and alarmed and says, Come and taste. Taste the goodness of the Lord. And that's an invitation that we want to pay heed to this morning. Let your imagination run uh run riot for a moment. Imagine that you are a king or a queen of your kingdom. And uh you you you might uh maybe have uh some kings and queens in mind and you'll know that in some of those uh courts uh there was someone who had the job of being a food. taster. Okay. And you know what their job was when they when the food gets preserved. You know there are people out there who don't like you. And you know there are people out you've done your best to uh you you've done your best to make them happy. You can't make everyone happy and uh say you've got a food taster. And uh the food before you eat uh your dinner, the food tasters uh now you're going to you're going to watch that food taster, aren't you? You're you're gonna really pay attention to uh how that food taster responds uh to the food, uh how he or she acts. And you're certainly going to listen to uh what uh the the food taster says. Well uh Psalm 8 we hear the food taster speak to us. And the food taster is saying, taste and see that the Lord is good. Now I want us to take our psalm and and just explore uh the psalm with that that idea in mind. Here is the uh here is someone who has tasted the Lord's goodness and he's speaking to us. He's speaking to you and me. And he's saying, Come and and taste the goodness uh of the Lord. See that the Lord is good. And and here's what we're going to do. In the first uh uh first seven verses of the psalm we we we're going to uh hear something of the uh the testimony of this uh this taster, this person who's tasted the goodness. of the Lord. And then in in verses 8 through 10, we're going to look at that invitation that He extends to us. Come and take. And then in verses 11 through 22, we're going to we're going to get some instruction from him. So first of all, we're going to hear his testimony We're going to hear his invitation. We're going to hear his instruction and that way we'll be able to walk through the psalm. But remembering that we're invited to taste and see the goodness of the Lord. And we might say, well who is who is this person that's uh speaking uh to us? And uh in in verse four uh he uh he says this poor man cried he he identifies himself as a as a poor man Uh this poor man cried and the Lord heard and delivered him from all his fears. And and actually the word fears is just a little bit uh insipid because the uh the the the Hebrew word actually has the idea of of terrors. These are not just regular fears. These are terrifying fears. These are amped up fears. These are fears on steroids. And uh the the psalmist says, this this poor man cried and we think, well you know, poor poor you. Uh I wonder uh what what's going on that might make him so uh frightened and fearful and terrified. And of course we we notice that the psalm is connected with David and uh connected with a particular episode in the life of David. And let me just remind you of that episode. You know who David uh who David was. Boys and girls. All all of you here know who David was. He was the one who went up. He was the shepherd boy. And uh uh the great uh big uh gul uh giant Goliath, the Philistine from the town of Gath was terrifying and intimidating the armies of King Saul. And David was the one who said, I I will go up against the giant. Because he's he's coming in the name of his gods. They're false gods. They're idols. I'm coming in the name of the living and true God. And uh and David did what Saul and his army couldn't do. David went out there and uh uh with God's help killed Goliath, um chopped off his head. With with Goliath's own great big sword. That's really something. And uh Goliath is But you remember what happened because David, who was the hero, then that provoked the jealousy of Saul. You remember how Saul got jealous? Because David was the military hero and people were out singing in the streets. Saul has killed his thousands, but David his tens of thousands. And Saul got jealous and Saul started to hunt David down and uh uh and uh uh look for uh s uh plant spies who would betray David and Well, in that situation, what what are you going to do? David realized that even his own people couldn't be trusted to keep him safe, and so David David hit on a plan. He decided he'd get out of Saul's territory entirely and he would go to well he went to the Philistine territory. Uh and he actually he went to the city of Gath and he went there with Goliath's sword. This is Genius. Genius plot. What can possibly go wrong with this? Uh of course everything went wrong because uh not very long after that uh the Philistines were on to him And uh they they realized exactly who this fellow was and and David uh felt the uh noose tightening around his neck, so to speak. And what do you do when you're in that kind of situation? Well, David pretended that he was mad. You know, when all else fails you can pretend that you're mad. And sometimes when all else fails, we just feel like we're We're losing our mind. Uh but you know the the psalm the psalm uh teaches us that uh really at that point David came to himself Because it was at that point that he sought after God. That's what the Psalms saw. This poor man cried The Lord heard him, the Lord delivered him from all uh his fears. David cried out uh to the Lord in his uh distress. And and David learned that and this is a lesson that you and I uh do well to learn. I'm trying to learn this lesson. David uh David learned that that God is not the one you go to as a last resort when when all else fails. You go to God. Really, what you and I need to learn is that we go to God first. And often the problem is that we try everything else Isn't that right? The hymn writer says, I tried the broken cisterns, Lord, but ah, the waters filled. Even as I stooped to drink they fled and mocked me. as I will. And and of course the the Lord Jesus is the one uh who to whom we come with confidence in our neediness. And Jesus is the one who shows us the kind of God that we have. He is a God who hears needy people. And Jesus tells us that the one who has seen me, the one who sees Jesus has seen the Father. If you want to know what God is like, look at the Lord Jesus. And Jesus is the one who, as he's going down a road, w and seemingly busy, hears a a blind beggar crying out Uh son of David, have mercy on me. That's Bartimaeus. Crying out. And and here he is. Look at him. He's he's filthy. He's there on the side of the road. He's blind. He's poor. He's a beggar. People are ignoring people are saying, be quiet And the Lord Jesus hears. Why Jesus bring him to me. Bring him to me. Let me help him. What can I do? What do you want me to do? Of course, what kind of question is that? Lord, I want to see, give me my sight. Jesus ministered to that needy, uh needy individual individual and we see that God uh God is the one who is attentive uh to to needy people, people who cry out to him. And that that's the uh testimony of our of our psalmist. He's uh someone who has uh cried oh he says I sought the Lord and and he heard me and uh that that uh that that word to to seek is the The idea of really uh seeking something or someone with absolute determination is actually the uh the word that gets used back in uh in in 1 Samuel when it describes uh David's uh sinful attraction to Bathsheba. And uh the historian tells us that uh David uh saying Bathsheba sought to to find out who she was. He really wanted to know who she was and he was so determined to have her that Nothing would stand in his way. And of course you know the the way in which David multiplied his sin because he was determined uh to have Bathsheba. Well that's the the same verb that's used here. This poor uh man sought the Lord. He was determined to seek after God. And you know, s uh so often, so often we we get we allow ourselves to be put off so easily. We allow ourselves to be deterred so easily. And we might uh oh we might think of some of the people in in Scripture whom we meet who were so aware of their neediness that they were absolutely determined to let nothing stand in their way. Those people who tore a hole in the roof so that their friend could be uh lowered down into where Jesus was. They were so determined that he could be that their friend would uh meet Jesus because Jesus would They knew Jesus could help him in his neediness. And and doesn't that sometimes put us to shame because uh well we don't seek after the Lord with much determination on Sunday mornings We have a hard time dragging ourselves out. And you know, if you're like me on those mornings where you have a hard time dragging yourself out, but you do it anyway, and you come to the place where God's people meet and where God's people are worshiping God, you're glad you came You're glad you came. And you say well it was it was worth it. It was well worth it. So the next time you and I are struggling to get up in a a cold uh December or January or February uh Sunday morning, uh it's good for us to remember that that when we came and tasted uh God's goodness it was it was well uh worthwhile. So uh and of course Jesus identifies with us in our our neediness, doesn't he? Because uh Jesus is the one that the writer to the The Hebrews tells us in Hebrews 5, verse 7, Jesus cried out to God with loud cries and with tears. And he was heard because of his reverence. God, the one who was able to deliver from death, heard the Lord Jesus. And and and so uh you see we look at these other needy people who are portrayed in scripture, the Bartimaeuses and the paralyzed, uh people coming down through the roof and and uh and then you see we realize that Jesus Himself placed himself in a situation of neediness. Jesus knows. This is why the writer, the Hebrews then, talks about Jesus as this sympathetic high priest. So that when you and I uh can't quite seem to get the words to to uh uh to to to formulate sometimes are have you ever found that sometimes you just can't get the hurt the hurt is is so kind of inexpressible and and the uh confusion is so profound that you can't Can't even describe it. And that's where we're reminded that Jesus is the one who's a sympathetic high priest. He's the one who intercedes for us, the Holy Spirit. And uh Jesus uh is is the one who identifies so fully with us, who hears us. So ver verses 1 through 7, we've got the testimony of that uh that that person who's tasted. And then in verses 8 through 10, we do have the invitation, taste and see that the Lord is good. And it's another one of those It's another one of those great invitations in Scripture. One of the things the devil wants you to think is that God is a mean God, a tight-fisted God, a God who's uh who's some kind of skin flint. The Bible actually is full of generous invitations. The Garden of Eden. Whole uh as far as the eye could see trees that were bearing fruit that was good for food. There was one tree that was out of bounds. But there were lots and lots of uh trees laden with fruit and God said, It's all yours. Just this this one tree is off limits. It's all yours. God uh placed our first parents in a uh in a place of abundance, place that was a picture of his generosity and kindness. Listen to the devil. The devil wants you to think that God is depriving you of good things. And that's a lie. From Genesis 3, where we see uh God's uh goodness paraded in the Garden of Eden, right through to oh we hear the Lord Jesus say, if anyone's thirsty, let them come to me uh and drink, or come to me you who labor and are heavy laden. Lots of generous invitations right through to the end of Revelation. uh where the the Spirit and the bride say, Come, come and and there's the uh the Holy Spirit speaking through the church of the Lord Jesus to to people who are who are needy, saying, Come, come on. Isn't that the message of the church To a needy world we speak and we proclaim the gospel and we say, Whoever will let him come. We have a Savior who is gracious. We have a Savior who hears the cries of the needy. We have a Savior who gives salvation. to those who trust in him. And here's that in Psalm 34, verses 8 through ten, we've got that invitation. Come, taste, see the goodness of the Lord. John Calvin says that uh uh this this is a rebuke to the people who uh uh who who receive uh God's kindnesses with without uh recognizing the hand from which they came. Because you see Uh even even unbelievers, even uh rebels, even blasphemers, even those who deny God, they they taste God's goodness. They experience the blessings of friendship. They enjoy good meals. They they experience that comes from the the hand of The things that you're uh seizing on, that you enjoy, and and uh what does James tell us? Every good gift comes down from above from God, the Father of lights, with whom there's no shadow due to He doesn't change. He's constantly good. Constantly generous. And uh here's uh John Calvin says we we need to be mindful of that. We don't imagine that uh someone has made you a wonderful They've gone out and they've carefully sourced uh the very best of ingredients and they've labored away in the kitchen and they've worked hard and uh they've they've presented it's not just about what you make but it's a presentation as well. And there's the ta absolutely mouth watering and I I and you just you just grab it and you're you're gulping it down, you're bolting it down I thought it would be rude and inconsiderate and ungrateful. And we shouldn't be like that. Matthew Henry in his commentary says that We should the way you might take it, he says, we should roll uh the morsels of God's goodness around our tongues and savor them. It's good for us to be thankful. It's good for us to be uh thankful for the the generosity of our God who blesses us with with good things and and be grateful for his kindness Paul writes in 1 Thessalonians 5 verse 17, this is God's will for you that you give thanks in all circles. circumstances. Sometimes we it's not one of the questions that we ask ourselves, what's God's will for my life? And I noticed and and really appreciated that in your order of service this morning you have uh one element of the worship in which you hear God's uh will for you. And sometimes we ask what's God's will for my life? And God's will uh for my life as we We read that passage in Romans twelve, that I love my brothers and sisters, that I honor the saints, that I serve God, that I And we could extend it into other things and and one of the things that's God's will for his people, Paul says, is that we should be we should be thankful We should be thankful people. We should remind God we should remind uh one another of uh God's uh goodness. God is a good uh God. But the this almost invites us. Well come and uh uh uh uh come and taste the the Lord's goodness. And he's beckoning to us. It's an invitation. You see the uh the good things that Jesus provides are things that you and I need to lay hold of for ourselves. You can sit at a table uh laden with food and starve to death if you don't actually pick that food up and put it in your mouth. and chew it and swallow it. And so it is with the the Lord Jesus. You have the Lord Jesus presented to you in the gospel. And this is the glorious, wonderful, free offer of the gospel. Jesus is proclaimed in the gospel. He's set forth as the Savior of sinners, the one who invites Tired people to come to him, hungry people to feast on him, thirsty people to drink in abundance of the water of life, and he invites a response. He invites us to come and sometimes we're slow. Sometimes oh yes, sometimes in our rebelliousness we're we're kind of on spiritual hunger strike. Isn't that right? Uh the the food is presented and we refuse it because we have our own agenda that's very important to us. And that may perhaps picture where you are in in relation to the gospel, in relation to the Lord Jesus. The Savior presented to you faithfully through the pulpit ministry. Perhaps through parents who love you and pray for you, perhaps through Sunday school teachers, the Savior presented to you, and you say, thanks, but no thanks. No, I don't I don't want I don't want that. I don't want that saver. So uh we've got to we we've got to respond to the the invitation extended to us. We need to uh receive the blessings of the Lord. And uh the psalmist says in verse 10, the young lions uh suffer want and hunger, but those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. And I wonder did uh uh when David looked at those Philistines, did he maybe see them as the young lions that were uh looking for the opportunity to seize him and and devour him and do away with him and And uh David says that the young lions are going to go without uh because God is going to God is going to protect and uh deliver me. And you know that's that's true. Peter uh Peter uh says you're your enemy. Well he he says uh first Peter chapter five Cast your your burdens, cast your anxieties on him because he cares about you. And then uh shortly after he says the devil goes about like a roaring lion seeking whom he knows So uh as the devil goes around and he tries to subvert your faith, he sows doubts, he confronts you with Temptations resist him. Let him go without his mood. Let him go hungry. You you hold fast to the Lord Jesus. Hold on tight to the Satan. Okay, so one last thing that we said we're going to see from verses uh uh 11 through 22. We've heard the testimony of this this taster. We we've heard uh his invitation. We want to uh in verses eleven through twenty-two we want to uh receive his instruction. Because there's words of instruction. If you're looking at the the psalm and trying to break the psalm uh out, it might seem that the first uh Uh the first ten verses of the Psalm uh has to do with with praising God. You think of a worship service. Uh the the the the early bit seems to be all about praising God, uh and then 11 through 22 that's the sermon. Uh the the speaker says, Come, listen to me, I'll teach And then when we receive God's instruction, that makes us wonder praise God all the more because we've tasted God's goodness. So there's a wonderful uh there's a wonderful cycle that takes place in the worship of God's people. We praise God. And and then we want to hear more about this God and then we want to praise him and then we want to look and you see, part and parcel of the Christian life is that we're com Constantly learning about the God whose goodness we've tasted. We taste and we want more. That's what Peter is talking about in the passage that we read from First Peter chapter two, where he uh tells us to uh earnestly, uh as newborn babes, we're earnestly to desire. Uh the the pure milk now that we have tasted that God is good, or if we've tasted that God is good, because you see, Peter knows that that's That's a sign that you're a Christian. How do you know you're a Christian? You know you're a Christian if you want more of Jesus, if you want to know more about Him, if you want more instruction, if you want a deeper understanding of His grace. and his goodness. If you keep coming back for more, that's a sign. That's a good sign that you're a Christian. And uh Christians who receive the Lord Jesus, who trust in Jesus, are going to want more They're going to keep learning. And that's what the psalmist is talking about. He says, Come, my children, learn from me. That's verse uh eleven Uh, isn't it? Uh come listen to me, I'll teach you the fear of the Lord. Who desires uh a good life? You want do you want do you want a good life? Do you want the good things? Well then listen to me. Listen. Learn what it is to fear God, to worship God to be in awe of God's goodness and holiness. And you see, again, this is one of the ways that the devil will come against up against Isn't it sometimes uh people will they they'll they'll receive God's good things, they'll receive his goods, but they don't want his guidance. Okay. Uh that's we we we yes, gimme, gimme, gimme, Lord, but don't tell me what to do. Okay. That that's no we if we love God, uh if we've tasted his goodness then we're going to say, Wow uh I I I want more of this. Show me, instruct me. Uh you see we we uh are willing to we're we're willing to have uh Jesus as safe. But we don't want him as Lord. Uh we don't want to learn how to uh how to honor Jesus in in in our workplace, in our marriage, in School. But but that's not how it works. If if we have Jesus as our Saviour, then he's Lord over all of our lives and every area of and and we we want to learn. You're like me. Uh you you realize just how much you you you need to learn about how to do that. How do I have Jesus as Lord in in my mind? How do I uh have Jesus as Lord in in my workplace? How do I have Jesus as Lord in in what I uh uh uh where I go on the internet, what I do on the on the web? How do I how does the Lordship of Jesus How does the Lordship of Jesus apply to my interactions with with my brothers and sisters? And we want to we want to learn about that. We want to know about that. And so they the the end part of the psalm speaks to people who are who are responding to that invitation. Taste the goodness uh of of God, uh taste the goodness of God. And uh learn more. Learn how to live the good life that's sustained by the nourishing grace of the Lord Jesus. Blessed is the man who takes refuge In him. That's first uh verse a bless blessed is the one who tastes that God is good, and then who takes rest, who camps out in the goodness of God. And you see that uh that means that we're going to be received And it means practical things like being committed to uh perhaps daily daily devotion. Certainly it means being committed to to being in the place of worship It means uh making uh good use of of the Lord's uh supper, good thoughtful use of Isn't that where we taste the goodness of God? Uh because we we taste the bread. We taste the fruit of the grape and it it's it's real isn't it our taste buds say yeah yeah I I'm tasting and and the Holy Spirit says God's goodness is every bit as real and much more wonderful than than a morsel of food. And we taste God. That's why uh isn't that one of the glorious things that God knows how weak our faith And remember that it's Jesus who institutes that. Jesus says, take and eat Take, take what I'm offering, and uh taste my goodness. And the Lord's Supper pictures that and models uh that for us in wonderful ways, and so we're committed to abiding uh in the Lord Jesus. It's like uh In John fifteen where Jesus gives us that picture of the vine and and the branches, and Jesus uh says uh abide in me and you'll bear much fruit. Why is that? Well it's because the the sound The nourishment of the vine flows out into the branches and makes them fruitful. And you and I are to abide in Jesus. We're to rest on him. We're to cultivate our relationship with him. And that way we bring forth fruit. He helps us in our weakness. We're very weak. But you see, Jesus helps us. He gives us the grace that that you and I need. And so the psalmist reminds us uh of we uh of the need that we have for instruction. And and yes, the psalmist does go on to say he keeps uh the uh many are the afflictions of the rights. Oh yes it's It's not always easy. So if you're if you're struggling, if you're facing difficulties, that doesn't mean you're not a Christian. That doesn't mean that God. God doesn't love you. Because the righteous people have many afflictions, but but says the psalmist, the Lord delivers him out of them all. And you might say you might say Really? Uh and then well then we're clued in because the the psalmist in verse twenty says he keeps all his bones, not one of them is broken and then we're reminded And we're reminded of uh we're reminded of uh those grieving sisters, uh Martha, uh of whom we read in John chapter 11. And she's grieving because her beloved brother is is uh he's gone. And Jesus stands before that sorrowing one, and Jesus says, I am the resurrection and the life. The one who believes in me, though he die, yet he will live. And you see that then we realize that That yes, it is true that that God who allows us to taste his goodness in the Lord Jesus blesses us with every good thing in Jesus Christ. And Jesus stands before us as the living proof that God has defeated even death itself. And our hearts are glad and we say, Praise the Lord. And we encourage one another. uh to to praise a God who is so good to us that he should have given his own son. And the psalmist says, right back in verse 3, the psalmist says this is good news for needy people Magnify the Lord with me. Let me see, I've lost my place now. Totally lost my place. Oh my verse two, my soul makes its boast, and the Lord let the humble hear and be glad. So humble people, this is good news for humble people. The the the word uh that's used for humble is a word that's that's also uh used in in the Old Testament with the English uh equivalent of needy. This is good news for needy people. So, needy people, listen to Psalm 34 and and be glad. God is good for to his people. There was a congregation that we meet in the book of Revelation, the congregation of Laodicea, and they were a congregation whom Jesus came to to admonish because they said, We're all right, thank you very much. We are prosperous, we're well off, we're calm, cool, and collected, we're all buttoned down, we are doing very nicely, thank you very much. And Jesus says Actually, you are poor and pitiful and wretched and naked and blind. Okay, you're needing. They didn't realize that. And Jesus speaks speaks to the direct. And then of course that's where where Jesus says if you're listening, if you're paying attention. Receive the goodness. Open the door, I'll come in and eat with you. And you'll eat with me Jesus, you see, uh he's speaking to needy people and those needy people in in Revelation three, they're needy people who didn't realize how needy they were. They were desperately needy. And Jesus Jesus says, just take down the barrier. Take down the barrier. And enjoy the meal. Enjoy what it is to fit. And we're we're so thankful for that, aren't we? The hymn writer says, We come, we come to thee, thy living bread, and long to feast upon thee still. We drink of thee the fountain head, and long our thirst from thee to fill. Taste and see that the Lord Let's pray together. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for such words as these. And I pray that you would cause your word to be laid up in our hearts that we would feast on it. We pray, our Father, that We would not be as those who gaze into your word and then go off and forget what it says. We ask rather that we would have the continual feast of those who make your word our meditation by day and by night. And we ask this in Jesus' name, Amen