Open up your copy of God's Word now to Exodus. Continue our study there in chapter three. This morning we'll be reading just the first six verses of chapter three. You'll remember last week we studied this passage and more. I thought it might be good for us to spend some time. On these six verses. Let's give attention now to God's word. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian. And he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. The angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned. When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called to him out of the bush. Moses! Moses! And he said, Here I am. And he said, Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. He said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face. He was afraid to look at God. As far in the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Father in heaven, as we come now to this passage It is so familiar to us that we might think it commonplace. Help us, Lord. Help us to set aside the common. Help us to set aside the profane. And help us, Lord, to gaze upon your holiness. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Moses never made it into the Promised Land. At Maribah, there was no water for the congregation. And they assembled against Moses and against Aaron and grumbled and complained once again. Moses and Aaron stood in the presence of the Lord, who appeared to them, and he told them to speak to the rock. And it would yield its water to the congregation. But instead of speaking to the rock, Moses struck the rock with his staff twice. Water flowed abundantly But the Lord said to Moses and Aaron, because you did not believe in me to uphold me as holy. In the eyes of the people of Israel, therefore you shall not bring this assembly into the land that I have given them. Moses broke faith with God. Moses did not treat God as holy in the midst of the people. He came near to the promised land, but he never entered. This passage this morning asks that question once again to us, how is it possible to enter into the presence of God? You can imagine that that question was on the minds and hearts of the Israelites as they continued to be in slavery in Egypt, as they were trapped. A generation of Josephs had died. Another Pharaoh had risen up, and he was an earthly enemy of the Hebrews. He was oppressing them with much hard labor. Indeed, he had condemned the firstborn male Hebrews to death. Moses was rescued by Pharaoh's daughter pulling him from that watery death and he was adopted into Pharaoh's family for forty years, but then he fled as a result of killing the Egyptian And that's where we find him today at this passage. Forty years he's been shepherding sheep Last week we considered this passage and more and heard of the sufficiency of God. The sufficiency to lead the Israelites out of their bondage. A God who cared, a God who was present, a God who Promised. We skipped over a portion though. That's why I wanted to come back to this today. The God who is holy. Today, God calls his children to ponder holiness through Jesus Christ. God calls his children to ponder holiness through. Through Jesus Christ. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, turning aside. Secondly, pondering holiness, and then finally, removing sandals. Let's keep in mind this question as we go through this passage this morning, how is it possible to enter into the presence? Of God. Well, first, turning aside. We know Moses now had been a shepherd for forty years. In Pharaoh's home for forty years, now in the wilderness. shepherding his father-in-law Jethro, the priest of Midian's flock, for forty years. Stephen tells us that in Acts chapter 7. Forty years. Constantly looking down, counting sheep, watching over them, looking for dangers, looking for wolves, seeking water, seeking pasture. Forty years with his attention turned down. Looking down, not up. That was the picture Moses gives us, gives his readers. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law Jethro. And he led his flock to the west side. That's what he's doing. That's what he's been doing. But then there's this interruption. What causes Moses to stop this work of shepherding? What was it that interrupted his work day? It was not a wolf, it was not a straying sheep. Noah, something abnormal, something out of the ordinary. The supernatural was appearing before Moses, that which is above natural, that which was beyond natural, which grabbed his eyes, grabbed his mind. Moses was given eyes to see this vision, the privilege of being called away from his current work as a shepherd to see this great sight. What was it? Verse 2. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst. It's a curious description. The angel of the Lord. Not plural, not angels. Moses has written of angels in Genesis chapter 28 when we read of Jacob's ladder. Angels. But here it is the Angel of the Lord, a specific angel, a specific messenger. We know that the sight of an angel must have been fearful. Yet Moses does not hide. He does not run away. And then there's the bush. Sometimes we refer to this as the burning bush, but in essence, the bush was not burning. The NASB translates it this way, appeared to him in a blazing fire. In the natural world or the creation world that's been ordered by God as it is then and/or was then and is now. Fire appeared. What is fire? Well, I had to go to the internet And Science Learning Hub tells us that there is a triangle that's required for fire. Oxygen is required, heat's required, and then one last thing: fuel. Something to burn. And something happens between these three things, a chemical reaction, I don't understand it. But that's fire. It requires Fuel to be sustained. Fuel is the source of its existence, so to speak, along with heat and oxygen. But this particular fire was self-sustaining The bush was not fuel. Indeed, there was no fuel necessary for this fire to burn brightly enough, flaming, blazing, which caused Moses to turn aside. The angel, the unnatural fire, the unconsumed bush, all used by God to draw Moses' attention from his worldly work. His labors. God desired to communicate with Moses. He had spun something special to say to him. He was commissioning Moses for a particular work. And thus Moses' attention needed to be drawn away from the work that he was engaged in, shepherding sheep, to now shepherding the people of God. This vision, this supernatural event which occurred before the eyes of Moses, it caused him to enter into a spiritual realm, didn't it? Supernatural sights brought Moses to hear the very words of God, which necessarily entered into a spiritual realm. God called to him. God. God called to him. Notice Moses didn't report that it was the angel which called to him. But God, Jehovah, utters the name of Moses, calling him to himself, Moses, Moses, two times confirming his call. The supernatural event, the angel, the fire which raged within the bush and yet did not consume the bush, did more than merely draw Moses' attention. It did more than even draw him into a spiritual realm. No, the supernatural sight worked to confirm for Moses that it was indeed God who was speaking. The one who called Moses out of the natural realm into the spiritual was the Lord God Himself. Notice Moses never questions this. He asks his name, but he never questions that this is the God of creation speaking to him. The supernatural event that was occurring before his very eyes confirmed from Moses that this is who it was who spoke to him, calling him to turn aside. We have a difficult time turning aside, don't we? Our minds and hearts are so fixed upon this world, upon the things of this world, upon the circumstances of our lives. That at times the world is the only thing that exists for us. We're busy. We're busy with the world. We're busy with creation. The spiritual realm becomes unreal to us at times. It becomes distant. It may not even at times be relevant to us. The natural world, the created world, can become our all-in-all. That's the danger, isn't it? God or Jesus become an only an afterthought. That the Trinity does not occupy our hearts and minds. We become so enamored with the creation that the creator fades, our attention set upon good things or maybe things that we consider to be bad and capture our hearts and minds that we dwell solely upon the creation. We need to turn aside to see this great sight. How do you change? How do we change from a people that are so occupied with this world that we turn aside? How do we reorient our minds? How does a mature Christian regain that awestruck nature which you first had when the Lord opened the eyes of your heart? By walking by a burning bush, in a sense, yes. We you must turn aside to dwell upon the holiness of God. It turns our thoughts now to that topic, pondering holiness, our second point. Well, why would Moses listen? He was doing good work. He had a good home, wife, children, sheep to care for Why would he divert his attention from this good work to something new and completely different? Why would he listen? I'm going to suggest this morning he listened because of the holiness of God. Yes, all these other things we talked about last Sunday as well, but I think it was the holiness of God that drew Moses. What did he actually see that day? You say an angel, yes. A bush on fire, yes. He did see a flaming or a blazing fire. He saw an angel. But there's a sense What Moses saw and experienced that day was the holiness of God. Charles Hodge puts it this way: it is because of his holiness that God is a consuming fire. Hajj connects the holiness of God with the statement we read today in Hebrews that God is a consuming fire. Well, beyond what Charles Hodge said, we might just consider how Moses responds. You might consider the fear of Moses. Think of this. There was no initial fear by Moses. As he's shepherding sheep and he sees this blazing fire and an angel which has descended upon this bush There's no record of any fear. He doesn't note as the people did as God descended upon the Mount of Oreb. Their fear, as we read even in Hebrews, the fear that Moses himself experienced as God descended upon the mountain, that wasn't pleasant yet. He has interest, he has curiosity in this powerful, the supernatural, the spiritual sight. Fear of Moses is not recorded until the Lord God identifies himself. Why is that? What was it that Moses knew of God that would cause him to hide his face and turn away in fear, being afraid to look at God? Note the connection. Verse 4. When the Lord saw that he had turned aside to see God called him out of the bush, Moses, Moses, And he said, here I am. Then he said, do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is wholly ground. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Moses hid his face. who was speaking, the revelation of God, they go together, and as a result, what happens? Moses now hides his face. He was gazing upon the blazing fire, even the angel. He was able to ponder that and observe it with some intensity. All of that we might think of as representing the holiness of God, as R. C. Sprohl puts it, the otherness. of God, the uncommonness of God, the purity, the divinity, the majesty, the set apartness of God. represented in that flame, that blazing fire which didn't consume the bush and the presence of the angel. Some would ascribe the holiness of God to his moral excellence. Freedom from moral evil, absolute moral perfection. That's the way Charles Hobbes describes it. But I think while it must include that, his purity, it seems to be broader, more encompassing than just, if I can put it that way, moral purity. Moses wrote in Deuteronomy 32, I will proclaim the name of the Lord, ascribe greatness to our God, the rock, his work is perfect. His work is perfect. It's part of the holiness of God. Some commentators note that the only attribute of God mentioned three times in repetition is His holiness. Isaiah 6 is as Isaiah enters into the throne room, the seraphim are flying about, they're crying to one another, holy, holy, holy. God is holy. Indeed, Jeremiah and the Apostle John seem to bring it closer to us. Jeremiah writes in chapter 10, there is none like you. There's none like you. Arcee Spro would say the otherness complete separateness of God. There is none like you. And John writes in Revelation chapter 15, for you alone are holy. It seems to be the idea. Another commentator wrote the uniqueness of his holiness is stressed in that repetition. There's a seraphim cry, holy, holy, holy. And he continues, the complete perfection of his attributes. It's holiness. The holiness of God. And if we can think this way, that's what Moses was was gazing upon. But there was a problem, wasn't there? There was a tension. The burning bush was drawing Moses close That supernatural sight brought about by the hand of God intentionally causing Moses to turn aside. He looks and he beholds He sees the great sight and he hears God calling to him. Moses, Moses, he was able to see and gaze upon and ponder the holiness of God if only for a moment, but then but then he heard the words, do not come near. Do not come near. That particular patch of ground, the earth, is made holy by the very presence of God Himself, set apart from everything else around it. Moses had been walking about in the wilderness, and now he had come to this patch of ground which was made holy by God's presence. God had descended and lit upon it in a certain human sense, and that was the problem for Moses, wasn't it? God was holy, and his presence had caused the ground to be holy that Moses was now standing upon, and yet Moses wasn't. He'd come close enough to ponder the holiness of God, but could not get any closer. Not yet And so the warning: do not come near. How do we enter the presence of God? Do you ponder His holiness? You might say, well, no, I haven't seen that bush on fire. But that's not the question, is it? That's not the question. Certainly, as the fire burns, we we think of that fiery furnace which removes the dross from silver. It's part of the image we have of the supernatural event that Moses observed. But the call today in this passage, I think, is to ponder, to meditate upon the holiness of God. And there's our problem, because we don't grasp it, we don't understand it. We don't understand the holiness of God. Unless we spend little time meditating upon it. How often as we confess our sins Are we meditating upon the holiness, the otherness, the separateness, the perfections of God and his righteousness and justice, his goodness, his patience, and yes, his purity? The problem is that we think lightly of our sins because we don't meditate, we don't ponder, we don't muse over the holiness of God. Pages of Scripture tell us much about the holiness of God. Brothers and sisters, let us confess this sin. that we haven't well pondered and meditated upon the holiness of God. That brings us to our third point. Removing sandals. And this now truly answers the question for us in a way: how is it possible to enter into the presence of A holy God. Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet For the place on which you're standing is holy ground. It's quite amazing that Moses was not struck down on the spot. But that was part of the event, wasn't it? The bush didn't burn, it wasn't consumed. But even more so, neither was Moses. He was the sinner. Moses was the one who was offensive. Moses was the one in danger, not the bush. The problem was solved, at least temporarily. Take your sandals off your feet. It's curious. Take off that which was common Take off that which was profane. Remove it. That which was about to come into contact With that which was made holy, the profane or the common Could not and cannot be joined to that which is holy. Sandals were common. They were for common use. Moses was using them to help them shepherd the sheep That's the way he got around. And and God said, remove it. Remove that which is common, which is profane, because I am other. I'm separate. I'm apart. Moses wasn't told to go away. Here then is the mercy. Do you see it? The bush was not consumed, neither was Moses. He wasn't told to leave. Merely remove the profane, the common And now Moses was allowed to stay. Not to come close, but close enough to hear and to see. That was great mercy. Pictorially displayed in the bush. God is a consuming fire. His holiness requires it. But in this event, in this foretelling event, neither the bush nor Moses was consumed. And bush, which didn't burn, it was a type. This event was a type of the future event, as the Lord would go throughout Egypt and destroy those who opposed him and his work of bringing his people out. God would protect and keep his children. That consuming fire, which we'll read is going throughout Egypt, would nonetheless Not burn and consume as people. Should be beginning to see now how it is possible For even Moses to step on this holy ground, how it's possible to enter into the presence of God after removing his sandals, he was able to stay. Even standing upon the place made holy by the presence of God, it was through the mercy of God. You see it. Certainly on display when the bush that was not consumed. And this mercy is now being applied, was applied to Moses himself. It was being poured out upon Moses as he was not consumed. The once holy creature, meaning Moses, who had become profane by Adam's fall, or common Was now in the presence of a holy, a completely other, a transcendent, a perfectly pure and righteous God, and yet not consumed. We know that this mercy of God comes to men, even Moses, through the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, Moses. Moses himself was kept from being consumed in God's purifying fire by and through his mercy in Jesus Christ, his son. In one sense, God Himself is looking ahead, applying that which was to be done by His Son in the fullness of time, but now applying it to Moses. Moses' feet were still filthy. Even after the sandals were removed, weren't they? His feet were filthy. He was a shepherd walking about and with the sheep in the wilderness and despite the fact that his sandals were removed, yet the filth remained upon him, the filth of his sin. And so how could Moses approach? How can he approach in his filth before a living God? It was only by and through Jesus Christ. It was only through Jesus who would and did wash the feet of Moses. That which would take place about 1400 years in the future applied to Moses on that day. Jesus, he poured water into a basin and began to wash the feet of his disciples. Do you see? Removing the profane, removing the common If I do not wash you, you have no share with me. This voice of God, the one who spoke to Moses out of the burning fire, the flaming fire, must necessarily have been the Son of God. Appearing before his incarnation, revealing himself to Moses, being the only way for Moses to commune with God in his estate of sin and misery Having filthy feet, and yet able to walk on holy ground before the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who would wash his feet on the cross How will you enter into the presence of God? Today there's a call to be holy in this passage. You need to take off the profane. You need to take off the common, the ordinary God has called us to walk before Him and be blameless. Jesus Christ taught his disciples, you therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. We read it in Hebrews this morning. Strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. No one Jeremiah Burroughs put it this way when the creature isn't able to do the will of God as the highest end And all things in subordination to him, the creature, is then said to be holy Strive for peace with everyone and for holiness. without which no one will see the Lord. Well the question still remains, how? And the good news is that the Spirit is working holiness in you if you love the Lord Jesus Christ. this morning. He is working in you this morning. I didn't read it, but If we had backed up a little bit in Hebrews 12, we would have read about the discipline of the Father, and the Father disciplines us for a short time as it seems best to him, but he disciplines us for our good. Why? That we may share his holiness. God disciplines us so that we would become holy. And he renews our minds. In true righteousness and holiness, that's what the Spirit is doing. That's why he abides in you this day. For God his way is blameless. The word of the Lord is tried. Psalm 18, verse 30. He is a shield to all who take refuge in for Who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except our God, the God who girds me with strength and makes my way blameless? It's only in the power of Christ that you can be blameless and holy. The call today is to continue trusting upon Jesus. Jesus, continue continue working by the Spirit. Continue receiving His discipline for our good, that we may share in His holiness. Continue standing upon the word of the Lord which is tried and And looking to Jesus whose way is blameless. Yes, God calls his people to meditate upon his holiness through Jesus Christ Ultimately, Moses did not enter into the promised land. He did not uphold God as holy in the eyes of Of the people of Israel. That's our call today, isn't it? Through Jesus Christ, through the work of the Spirit, to uphold God God as holy. Amen. Father in heaven, we are weak and frail We are sinful people, and yet Jesus Christ, the righteous one, the holy one of Israel. Not merely upholds us, but by and through his Spirit continues to work holiness within us. Help us, Father. Help us to be those that ponder your holiness. Help us never to think lightly upon our sins as we meditate upon your holiness. Help us to grasp the breadth and the depth of your holiness. Help us to meditate upon it. And help us, as we do, Lord God, to exalt Jesus, the Holy One of Israel. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, our hymn of response this morning comes out of the Red Trinity Hymn law, it's number 103. Holy God, we praise your name. Number 103. Would you stand and sing praises to our God?