And again if you will remain standing, we'll have the reading of the New Testament passage. From 2 Corinthians chapter 12 at verse 19 through chapter thirteen, verse 10 Second Corinthians twelve, I begin at verse nineteen Have you been thinking all along that we have been defending ourselves to you? It is in the sight of God that we have been speaking in Christ and all for your upbuilding, beloved For I fear that perhaps when I come I might find you not as I wish, and that you may find me not as you wish That perhaps there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder I fear that when I come again, my God may humble me before you, and I may have to mourn over many of those who sinned earlier. and have not repented of the impurity, sexual immorality and sensuality that they have practiced This is the third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses I warned those who sinned before and all the others, and I warn them now when absent as I did when present on my second visit. that if I come again I will not spare them, since you seek proof that Christ is speaking in me. He is not weak in dealing with you, but is powerful among you, for he was crucified in weakness, but lives by the power of God. For we also are weak in him, but in dealing with you, we will live with him by the power of God. Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves, or do you not realize this about yourselves that Jesus Christ is in you unless indeed you fail to meet the test? I hope you will find out that we have not failed the test, but we pray to God that you may not do wrong. Not that we may appear to have met the test, but that you may do what is right, though we may seem to have failed. For we cannot do anything against the truth, but only for the truth, for we are glad when we are weak and you are strong. Your restoration is what we pray for. For this reason I write these things while I am away from you, that when I come I may not have to be severe in my use of the authority that the Lord has given me for building up and not for tearing down. Lord, we pray that you will attend the preaching of your word now and our meditation upon this passage. That you'll give the help of your Holy Spirit. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. This is, I guess, uh a centennial, if I remember correctly. A hundred years ago, a book was written. By Dr. J. Gresham Machin, who had a very significant role in helping get the Orthodox Presbyterian Church started And the name of the book was called Christianity and Liberalism. And it was a controversial book, first of all, because of the title. Christianity and Liberalism. I think the title might have been actually watered down slightly from what it was originally, but the point still existed that he was making that there is Christianity and there is liberalism And these are two different things. Now, when I say that, I'm not talking about politics We talk about conservative and liberal in our politics, and I have my inclinations and you have your inclinations there. And I'd be happy to straighten you out on that, but that's not my job My job is not to tell you what to think politically. I think there are issues, moral issues that uh transcend politics that I can speak to that some people would regard as political, but even that is not The primary task that God has assigned me uh the gospel That's what Machin was concerned about. And when he said that there is two different religions, there is Christianity and there is theological liberalism. He was saying that these are two different religions. There's not two variations of Christianity. a conservative theology and a liberal theology, but there is Christianity that is based upon the supernatural working of Christ We have a supernatural religion. I know we go through our day And it may not seem like anything supernatural has happened today or yesterday or when tomorrow comes, but we are upheld By a supernatural God who has done something supernatural in raising Jesus Christ from the grave And that is the guarantee of our salvation. Christ paid for our sins, but he finished the job. And the resurrection, the fact that Christ is alive is the evidence that he finished the job. He exhausted the penalty and the power of sin and there was nothing left except to well that's been done with now it's time for him to live again In glory, in a glorious resurrection body. And so that's the faith we believe in. That's the faith that sustains us, that we have a powerful God who is more concerned, first of all, about deal dealing supernaturally. with our indwelling sin and our unbelief and our discouragement. When you look at the problems that people Deal with today, there's all kinds of confusion. Why are they so confused? Don't know the difference between a man and a woman? Any three-year-old is smarter than that. But we have confused people. Their minds have been distorted and confused. And that has all kinds of ramifications into the decisions they make and how they live and the relationships they have and how they behave in this world. And you look at it and you say, where is there hope? Well, there's hope in a God who transforms people Who does away with that confusion? Who does away with those internal confusions of feelings A lot of people are running their life on feelings that are very disordered feelings. And Christ is in the business of changing that. Doesn't mean feelings change right away, but they're under the power of Christ in his resurrection. So we have a supernatural gospel, a supernatural religion, but it Pertains primarily in this age to dealing with our own internal problems It doesn't negate the fact that God can and does heal people and provide in miraculous ways today. But uh we can sometimes get so focused on that that we want heaven on earth instead of beginning with the heaven in our heart. the transformation that needs to begin there. So Machin then entered into conflict. Back in nineteen twenty-three, when he wrote this book. And Christianity For all of the peace that it offers, and for all of the love and mercy that it offers, is something that is often found to be in conflict Because it's in conflict with the devil. There is a real devil. And his mission is to destroy the truth about the supernatural work of Christ and his gospel. His work is to destroy the church, and his work is to destroy the individuals and the instruments. That God has placed within the church to help advance its welfare. And so as we read The words that we've looked at in 2 Corinthians 12 and 13, we see Paul is engaged in conflict Now, most of us, if we're somewhat normal, want to just go to church and find peace. Isn't that what we all want? Peace of heart and mind. Have the burdens lifted, not to be fighting, not to be in conflict. And that is what God would call us to. But He also has a place for us to contend earnestly. For the faith that has once been delivered to us. And we cannot surrender in the name of peace. And so Paul finds himself Dealing with problems. And in dealing with problems, he's dealing with people, and in dealing with people, there's conflict. And so you find this manifest in various ways in some of his letters, in the letter to the Romans. We think of that as a great doctrinal treatise. And it is. Some of the most profound doctrines of the Christian faith are found in Paul's letter to the Romans. But There is an underlying situation that Paul always has in mind as he writes to the Romans, and that is that The church there has different kinds of people in it. It has Jews and it has Gentiles. You get different kinds of people and sometimes you have conflict. Well, we never did it that way. This is the the way we think it should be done. That's the way our ancestors did it. So you have Jews and Gentiles, and Paul writes to try to show how the teaching Of the gospel, the teaching of salvation, gives a place for both Jews and Gentiles. And he shows how to manage those differences. He starts right out by saying, You're all sinners anyway All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, whether you're Jew or Gentile, and you all need salvation. So start with that, what we have in common. And so that's how Paul deals with what I don't know how much conflict there was at Rome, maybe not a whole lot, but he's being preventative too. Sometimes preventing conflict is the best way to deal with it. We know in Galatians that Paul was pretty severe As he wrote to the Christians in Galatia, he's amazed that they so quickly abandoned the gospel. And so there he sets forth the truth of the gospel and deals with the problems that are there. First and 2 Corinthians, we see Paul dealing with a lot of issues. A lot of issues in that church at Corinth. Meat sacrifice to idols, immorality, how you observe the Lord's Supper, what women are supposed to or not supposed to be doing in the worship service All of this stuff, some people questioning the general resurrection, and that's just First Corinthians. We haven't gotten a second Corinthians yet And that's where we are this morning, 2 Corinthians. And we find Paul in a peculiar position as he deals with a problem in 2 Corinthians. And it's the problem of how his person and ministry are viewed. That's a very awkward position to be in. Because we want as ministers and leaders to say, it's not about me. If I'm gone tomorrow Your problem is still gonna be here. So it's not about me. And I'm sure that's what Paul wanted to say. It's not about me. But the more you read Second Corinthians twelve and thirteen, the more you say, it kind of is about him. People were having trouble with his ministry. And it was probably because of Divisive characters that for their own reasons wanted to attack Paul It could also have something to do with Paul pointing out their problems. Oh, there he goes again, pointing out our problems. Can he let it go? I just want to be at peace. And he doesn't, because there are severe problems that need to be addressed. And so we find that there are at least two ways in which Paul is put at the center. Of conflict and controversy here in 2 Corinthians. First of all, there's the rather obvious issue of his apostolic office. There are some who are, and we've gotten a hint of this already back in 1 Corinthians. I'm of Paul, I'm of Apollos, I'm of Cephas, you know. Choosing your favorite apostle or your leader to follow. Uh so there was already indications of that. But There's a question clearly being raised about his office as an apostle. And because Paul is significant in the foundation of the church at Corinth. It's hard to divorce himself. and his office from the issues because the people are questioning fundamental authority It's like if a parent says, I'm your father, you do what I'm telling you, and the kid, smart elic, answers back, how do I know you're my father? or something like that So Paul says, No, no. I've been there at the beginning and you want to look at my qualifications Maybe you're impressed by eloquence or people who uh make a big impression. Look at me, I've suffered I've gone through imprisonments, I've gone through difficulties, I've gone through poverty Weird qualifications, so some might say. But it deals with the second part of the controversy. that is, I think, behind it, and that is some people who are probably saying, Paul's only in this thing for the money I was joking with a presbyter at our recent Presbytery meeting. And uh God's always provided for me so I have no quibbles about the remuneration I have received, but I was talking about a a minister who was dealing with some really big problems and and And I just made it quip. I says, Well I guess that's because of uh the big bucks that they pay us or something like that. And he knew I was I was being facetious and joking. Uh Paul was not in it for the money, but there were certain things that he was telling the people at Corinth. That allowed them to latch on and say, how come he's always bringing up money? He was encouraging the Corinthians to be generous as the different churches throughout the area there were gathering a collection for the saints. And he says, I don't want you to be embarrassed. I don't want you to to fall behind the others. Here's your opportunity to give And, you know, those who uh give uh abundantly receive abundantly, and here's an opportunity This is an opportunity. Take advantage of the opportunity. He's positive about this. It's not Oh, you rotten people, we need more money. Get off your wallets. Uh start contributing. So That's not the way he did it. He was trying to encourage them. Because they're blessed in giving. They will be blessed in giving. But that could be misinterpreted And so you look at chapter twelve. We didn't read these verses, but at verse seventeen and eighteen. Did I take advantage of you? Through any of those whom I sent to you, I urged Titus to go and sent the brother with him. Did Titus take advantage of you? Did we not act in the same spirit? Did we not take the same steps? Uh there is a hint And uh not a very subtle one, that uh maybe Paul is defrauding the people here I will most gladly spend and be spent for your souls if I love you more Am I to be loved less? But granting that I myself did not burden you, I was crafty, you say, and got the better of you by deceit. Did I take advantage of you? Um so the question is what about this money thing? Is Paul just in it for the money? And he's making clear, no, if you look at how I've conducted my ministry, you see that there weren't a lot of big bucks or big shekels or denarii in it for me. There was a lot of suffering. And so Paul is defending himself because That is necessary to the defense of what he has taught them. He doesn't want them to lose the message. Of what he has taught them because they say, uh, we can't trust Paul. It's hard to separate the two. And so you know, whenever the subject of money comes up there are people who who uh say, oh, they're only in it for the money. I remember Billy Graham, I still heard people say, Oh, he's only in it for the money. uh he had a council established that set a fixed salary and it was a very decent salary at the time but He didn't rake off a percentage of whatever people brought. It was supervised, it was watched over. And it was carefully attended to so that that wouldn't be brought up. I know they're Kid saying, What does your father do for a living? And the preacher's kid says, Well my father works one day a week and it takes four men to carry all the money to him, you know. So It's not uh not the way it is. There's a lot of heartache that sometimes goes along with ministry as well as joy. Don't want to Single out one or the other. It's a blessed thing to be able to serve in the ministry, but there are also some strains. And so Paul is defending his ministry, and then he comes to make some statements that are very odd in chapter 13 verse 1. This is a third time I am coming to you. Every charge must be established. By the evidence of two or three witnesses. Now, we read the passage from Deuteronomy 19 that makes clear that For a charge to be proven, you can't just take the word of one accuser. You have to have two or three witnesses. And so in the early church there was a question, and I think the question still reappears from time to time. How do we apply the Old Testament today? Is there anything that continues from the Old Testament or Or can we just live off of the New Testament and forget the Old Testament? Now, granted, if you had a choice You'd say, I'll take the New Testament, because there's where the fullness of the gospel is revealed. But you don't have to make that choice. You have the fullness of God's revelation in the Old and New Testament And they help mutually explain one another. And yet there is a sense in which the New Testament puts a new perspective on the old. In the Old Testament, Deuteronomy nineteen, that principle of two or three witnesses is dealing with one narrow question. What is a sufficient basis For convicting somebody of a crime. Now you gotta have two or three witnesses. They need to agree on the essential facts of the case. As Jesus deals with Old Testament teaching, particularly in the Gospel of Matthew. You find him in Matthew chapter 18, a chapter that's real big in Presbyterian circles, but Matthew 18 Saying, if your brother sins against you, go to him privately. And if he repents, you've warned your brother. If he doesn't, take along two or three witnesses, that every fact may be established. Now, Matthew was probably written after 2 Corinthians. I know it's not in that order in your Bible. But Jesus' ministry. Took place before Matthew was written or 2 Corinthians. And so I believe that Jesus, in what we have recorded in Matthew 18, Is giving an amplified perspective as to how to think about applying the law of Moses in the New Testament era. It's not only about having enough witnesses to convict somebody of sin. But because we live in a time of God's grace, where he forgives sins, there are to be opportunities to repent. And so Matthew 18 is, I think, just as much about three opportunities, or two or three opportunities To repent as it is about establishing facts. And if you take that view, then suddenly Paul's words in 2 Corinthians 13, 1 and 2, I think, begin to make more sense. He says, this is the third time I'm coming to you. Now, he cites this idea of two or three witnesses. Well, who are the two or three witnesses? It sounds like Paul's the only witness here. Another thing you know how kids are. Yeah, who says? Me, myself, and I. Uh that doesn't sound right. It's one person But Paul, I think, in citing that, has in mind the perspective that Jesus brought to it that This is the third time. This is the third opportunity, just like you have in Matthew 18. And this will confirm something. Under the law, the facts of the crime were to be confirmed By two or three witnesses. Under the gospel teaching of Jesus, the stubbornness of somebody who refuses to repent Is being confirmed. It's not that their sin is unforgivable. And thanks be to God It's not that we only get to sin two times and then the third we're in trouble Because in other places Jesus is asked, how many times do I forgive my brothers? Seven, and Jesus says, seven times seventy, if I remember that passage correctly. And so he's saying, no, no, we constantly stand in need of forgiveness. But when it comes to dealing with an issue In the life of the church, where the church is being upset severely The gospel is under threat. The welfare of believers is at stake. There comes a time to draw a line in the sand and say, This is the third opportunity, and then it's over. Then there's going to be serious consequences. In the course of raising children, parents have been known to deal with a stubborn child by saying, I'm going to count to three. And you know how that sometimes goes. One, two, and they still haven't responded. Two and a half, two and three quarters. I'll tell you how I dealt with it, and I'm not going to advise you to do this because I made a lot of mistakes as a parent. But there were a few times where I told my son, I'm giving you to the count of three. One, two, three. And then I dealt with it. Because right or wrong, and I'm not suggesting you do that, but right or wrong I wanted to send the message that delayed obedience is disobedience. And so we ought to repent right away. We shouldn't wait till the last possible moment. We don't know what will happen tomorrow. We know that if we're forgiven, we're forgiven. But we still don't know if we're going to have further opportunity to deal with that thing that is a problem, and we keep putting it off If there is some besetting sin in your life, deal with it today by coming to Christ today. He is able. He is supernatural. Resurrection power And yes, if you need some help from church officers or counselors, by all means talk to them. But your primary hope is not in the fanciest, most expensive counselor you can find. But on the wonderful counselor, Jesus Christ, who changes lives, who gives you hope, who gives you the ability to begin anew. God is very patient and He has been patient with me for many, many years. And I'm so thankful for it. And he is patient with you. But you're missing out too. You're missing out on the joy of fellowship with him in its richest, deepest sense when you refuse to deal with those things by coming to Christ. And repenting and trusting in Him. Christ has carried our sins through many rebellious episodes in our lives. And he is still there. And he is still patient. I don't know how Paul would have dealt. with the Corinthians, if they hadn't come around, or if they came around, or how he dealt with them. I just know that he had some special power as an apostle And you didn't want to cross the apostle. But you especially don't want to cross Jesus. He's there to help you. And thankfully, his grace is there Has been there. We'll be there tomorrow, but we don't know if we'll be here tomorrow. Deal with it today. Trust in you Surrender to him. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that he took our sins, buried, carried our sorrows. Help us, O Lord, to find that a little bit of trust, even if it's the grain of a mustard seed, to believe that you will help us to make whatever new beginning we stand in need of. Forgive us of our sins and help those who are struggling, we pray. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen.