If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew We'll continue our study there this morning in chapter 7. You should find that on page 965 of your Pew Bibles. I'll be reading this morning, beginning at verse thirteen. Let's give attention now to God's holy words. Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard that leads to life. And those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus, you will recognize them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Every one then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat on that house, but it did not fall, because it had been founded. on the rock. And every one who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand, and the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew. And beat against that house and it fell, and great was the fall of it. That's fine. Amen. Please be seated. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would bless the reading of your word. That you would let it sink into our hearts now by the work of your spirit. And that Father, the Spirit Himself, would open these precious words to us this morning. That He would guide us, that He would lead us. And give us not mere understanding. But correct us of our sins. And remind us of the promises which are yes and amen in Christ. Guide us now, Lord. Help me. Help us all. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a passage in the scripture when David is being pursued by King Saul. Where Saul knows that David will become king, and yet he's trying to keep him from becoming king by killing him. And in 1 Samuel 24, we have this record of Saul and David meeting in a cave, although Saul doesn't know it. And as it happens that David is in this same cave with all of his men, and as they recognize Saul, they Tell David, Here is the day of which the Lord said to you, Behold, I will give your enemy into your hand, and you shall do to him as it seems good to you. They were urging David to kill Saul, to end this pursuit of Saul, to take the crown now. And kill your enemy. And David listened. And he arose and went, and if you remember the passage, he cuts off a corner of Saul's robe. But just at that point, the Lord strikes David's heart. He smites him. He convicts him of his sin. And as he returns to his men, he persuades them not to attack Saul. See, David had two options. There were two possibilities, two choices for David. First, he could have continued to listen to his men and actually listened to what was going on in his heart, for he wanted this to be over. Or he could have heed the word of God and preserved the one who had been anointed. The first would have placed David on the path to his own destruction. The second would keep David on the path to life. It's a bit of what we have for us this morning in Matthew chapter 7. This passage which we find in the Sermon on the Mount, which we've been studying, which has been all about the kingdom of God. The Beatitudes are all about the kingdom of God. The law is all about the kingdom of God and his nature, the practice of righteousness. Is all about the kingdom of God. Being salt and light is all about the work of the kingdom workers. This morning we come to a very powerful passage which speaks about entering into the kingdom of God. And I'd like us to see that the radical love of Jesus moved him to warn even his disciples of the wide gate open to destruction. The radical love of Jesus moved him to warn even his disciples Of the wide gate open to destruction. We'll see that in three places and three points this morning. First, two places. Secondly, the wide gate, and then finally the easy way. Some of us might be thinking this morning, why why listen, I know the way Brothers and sisters, Jesus was concerned that his disciples didn't yet Know the way to the kingdom. And if he was concerned for his disciples, I think that same concern should weigh on our hearts this morning for even ourselves. Well, first the two places. We have a bit of a headline here in verses thirteen and fourteen. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is easy, that leads to destruction, and those who enter it. By it are many. There's a break in the flow of the Sermon on the Mount This doesn't just naturally follow with what we've been reading. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened. It's different. It's a hinge, so to speak. It appears to be a headline or a theme for the remainder of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus is now expressly preaching on entering the kingdom. We know that the entire Sermon on the Mount has been about the kingdom of God. Many different aspects of the kingdom taught by Jesus, the hearts of those who are entering in, and the Beatitudes, the nature of the king as the law is spoken of and opened, the work of the citizens of the kingdom. Salt and light in practicing their righteousness. But now here at the end of the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus speaks of the way of entering into the kingdom. That Greek word is defined in one of the lexicons as as being moving into a space, entering. It's written in the form of a command. Enter by the narrow gate. Jesus actually touched upon this subject earlier in the Sermon on the Mount in chapter 5. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter into the kingdom of heaven. One commentator links these words together and and notices that he must be, Jesus must be speaking about entering into the kingdom here as he was Back in chapter five, it's the same word. It's the same sort of idea. So it appears now that Jesus speaks of and preaches of some details concerning entering into the kingdom, the way to be saved from your sin. And so Jesus preaches about two gates, doesn't he, or two ways. The narrow gate and the wide gate. And he speaks or teaches about entering through one of them. And so he teaches us about two actions or two ways. Which lead to those two gates. One way to act or to live, one path to take to enter the kingdom of God, as we would understand this, to live eternally. And then the other way, or other ways, to arrive at the wide gate and enter into eternal destruction. And so as we take up this last significant portion of the Sermon on the Mount, we'll divide it into these two gates These two paths, these multiple paths that lead to the wide gate through which one enters into eternal destruction. We'll take that up today. And Lord willing, next week we'll take up the narrow path that leads to the narrow gate, which leads into the kingdom of God or eternal life. So this week the wide gate. Lord willing, next week the narrow gate. And so as we begin, we must note that Jesus actually speaks of entering. Of going from one place to another. That's what entering means. If we enter into a house, we go from outside the house to inside the house. We go through the door. And so Jesus preaches of going from one place to another. As living, breathing creatures made in the image of God. This is the idea, this is the concept of entering As we open up either one of these two paths and thus these two gates, we must be thinking of headed into one of two different places One of these two other real and true realms of existence Jesus is teaching here that all persons made in the image of God will be going to one of these two places or have already gone. From this place, meaning life in the here and now, life on this planet, life as we know it, along a particular path. To either the wide gate or the narrow gate, and then to enter into a place of either eternal life or eternal destruction. That's what he speaks of. That's how important this passage is for us this morning. And this is not the only place in Scripture Jesus speaks of two places. Later on in this gospel, Matthew 25, he'll be speaking and saying again to those who were listening, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, meaning, give the water, give the food. You did not do it to me. And these will go into eternal punishment. But the righteous into eternal life. Do you see how he references two different places? In Mark chapter 9, we read, if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It's better for you to enter the kingdom of God. With one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell. Two different places. And finally in Revelation. We read of the lake of fire. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, Eternal life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. There's a consistency throughout Scripture. There are only two places. For us to go for eternity. Brothers and sisters, this truth must be fixed in your heart and mind this morning For if you do not grasp or believe that there will be an eternal place for your existence, that you're headed down one of these two paths, you're headed to either the narrow gate or the broad or the wide gate, then To enter into either the kingdom of God or destruction, then none of this will strike your heart this morning. None of this will have significance for you this morning unless you grasp that truth. Unless you believe that there will be eternity for you. Either in life or in destruction. Here, listen to the words of Christ this morning. Let this penetrate your heart. This world is not the end of all things. There will be eternity for us. Either in the kingdom of God Or in destruction. This passage is critical. We must grasp that truth this morning. That brings us to our second point, the wide gate. Look again at verse 13. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide. And the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter it are many. The fact that the gate is wide tells us two different things. First, The gate is wide so that many will indeed enter it If you've ever gone through a turnstile, maybe you're getting on a train or at the airport, or a revolving door. Those entrance points, those gates are narrow. Indeed, it's hard to get through them if you're carrying luggage. They only allow one person at a time to go through with the entrance points there's a restriction, almost a qualification, only one at a time. Few pass through these points at any given moment in time, but that is not the idea with regard to the wide gate that leads to destruction. It's not just for one person at a time. No, this entrance point is so broad, so wide, that many, seemingly with no restrictions, no limiting qualifications, are enabled to enter through through it into destruction, even at the same time. Many, many will enter through it. But there's a second aspect to the broadness or the wide gate, and that is that there are many ways to get to it. The gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction There are many ways to get to that particular wide gate which which leads to destruction. There's not just one way. The gate is wide. Gate and the way are really synonymous at this point. There are two words and two aspects, but essentially the gate and the way are one and the same. It's the idea that there are many ways that lead to destruction. And as we're thinking about destruction this morning, before we get any further, let's just think upon what that means for a moment. The gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction. It's a broad gate. leads to destruction. That's our English word, destruction. But what what does it mean? It's critical that we also understand the meaning of this word so we can grasp the fullness of this truth. I'm sure you've seen on until maybe you've seen it in person, the demolition of a building, a high-rise, where explosives are placed in it. And then all of a sudden the explosives go off, and the building just collapses, and there's just a plume of dust, and what's left is just rubble. Destroyed. Doesn't exist any longer. Machines are called in to remove the rubble. But that's not what Jesus is speaking of with regard to destruction. He's not talking about mere death. He's not speaking of a person whose body is merely laid in the grave. And when many people think about death, they're thinking about eternal rest. It's just a it's just an eternal resting place. It's quiet. That's not what Jesus speaks of. Eternal destruction is punishment for the wicked that comes from a Greek lexicon, a dictionary. Peter writes this in his second letter. But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire. Being kept until the day of judgment and destruction for the ungodly Or in Revelation chapter 17, the beast that you saw was and is not, and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to destruction, a place. Again, you might be thinking that destruction is mere death. It's set in contrast to life. But that's not what Jesus is speaking of. He's not speaking of a mere lifeless body. He speaks of destruction. He speaks of the removal of what we consider to be life. And that for an eternity, and yet for there to be an existence. The idea of destruction is the idea of an existence without God, the giver, the maker, the sustainer, the fountain of life. An existence without the breath of life, which only God gives and sustains. It's an existence outside the presence of God. The destruction spoken of by Jesus is elsewhere spoken of as hell. It's spoken of as the lake of fire. It's spoken of and referred to as that place where the fire is never quenched. Where there is eternal torment. Remember the rich man as he cries out to Abraham and saying, please just allow Lazarus to come with and dip his finger in water and touch it to my tongue for I'm in agony in this place. He was existing in eternal fire. That's a description of being without God. Must grasp this idea of destruction this morning. And not think of it as mere lifeless But existing without life, without the breath of God, without the presence of God, the maker and creator of life in eternal agony. This passage gives us three ways which lead to that destruction, and there are more, but these are the ways that Christ determined to give to his disciples as a means of warning. Remember, he's speaking to those who've been following him. He's speaking to those who've been listening and hearing his teaching, and now he's telling them My brothers, there are three ways that I want you to hear about that are on the path to destruction. So open your ears and listen. Because some of them might actually have been on one of those paths. The first The first involves false prophets, consumed by false teachers. Look at verse fifteen. Beware of the false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You'll recognize them by Their fruits. And Jesus goes on to describe the way in which his disciples can recognize false prophets or false teachers. Path of false teachers is one of the most dangerous paths that we see today. One of the most dangerous paths that has been created by men. This path is the one of following the lead or the persuasion of those who sound good, who look good. But are teaching lies and falsehoods. These false prophets They sound real, they sound true, and yet they are deceptive sinners. They're looking for the naive to devour them, to consume them. Look at how Jesus describes them. Inwardly, they are ravenous wolves. Outwardly they look great. Inwardly, their hearts are turned away from God and seeking to consume. They lead astray lost sinners to their destruction. These profess to be telling the truth, and yet these false prophets espouse lies and false promises. And these false teachers, these false prophets are so popular today. People are having their ears tickled. They're hearing what they want to hear, but they're not hearing the truth. They are hearing persuasive lies and untruths. Many, many are listening. You could be listening this morning. You have to be able to identify them and run from them. Because their path that they are proclaiming to you is a path of destruction, of eternal damnation. Peter refers to those these false teachers who will secretly bring indestructive heresies. Secretly. Deceptively, denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. The greatest of these is Satan himself. Think of how he presented himself to Eve. We read it this morning. He made himself look harmless, a serpent. And then he called the very Word of God, his purposes and intentions, into question. And he tempted Eve. To follow his lead. And through Adam, excuse me, and through Eve led Adam astray. Think of that. Think of how dangerous. They were pure. They were undefiled. And yet they were led astray by a false teacher. The path of destruction. The second path of destruction is being deceived by self-righteousness. It begins in verse 21. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And I will declare to them, I never knew you depart from me. And I call this wide gate the gate of self-deception. The second path leading to the wide of the broad gate is Is indeed self-deception. We see it here in this verse, this passage. It's defined by believing or deceiving yourself that you're righteous in and of yourself. Did we not prophesy? Did we not cast out demons? Did we not do many mighty works? This person who is proclaiming these things to the Lord Jesus Christ is saying, Look at all I've done. Look at my righteousness. Look at my works. And believing that these works would grant him or her favor in the sight of God such that they were guaranteed entrance But they were indeed on the path of destruction. They were headed toward the wide gate. You cannot earn your way into the kingdom of God. You can't please God with your works. You can't be righteous enough to earn your way into glory This is self-deception that you believe yourself righteous in the eyes of God. That you have become righteous in God's eyes without Christ. That's at the root of this way of destruction. This path leads straight, it leads directly into destruction. It is a path, it is a wide gate that is a guaranteed to end in your destruction. Does that describe any of you this morning? Are you believing that you have no need of Jesus? Because you have done it yourself. The greatest example of this that we have in Scripture was the Pharisee who prayed next to the publican. I thank you that I'm not like other men. Extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. I give He was relying upon himself, upon his righteousness. He was deceiving himself. He was on a path of destruction headed to the wide gate. Brothers and sisters, Jesus loved his disciples so much. That he would call out to them and warn them. The warning goes out to you this morning. And there's a third warning. Those fooled by their own corrupt hearts. Look at verse 24. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on a rock, and the rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. The rain fell and the floods came, the winds blew, and beat against that house, and it fell, and the fall was great. This may be the most prevalent path today. Casting off the Word of God Proclaiming that God's word has no relevance? Thinking that men's wisdom is king, that reason and science have been Enthroned and depending upon them for all things. But God has made the wisdom of men foolishness. Brothers and sisters, again the Lord Jesus Christ loved his disciples so much that he would warn them. about these paths of destruction. And we need to search our hearts this morning To see if any of us are headed down one of these paths because they each one lead to destruction. Search your hearts this morning. Take these words as words of warning from even the Lord Jesus Christ. That brings us to the third point, the easy way When we began speaking of these two ways, the two gates, one leading to life, one leading to destruction, now there is one more contrast set forth. in this passage by Jesus. For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, but the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. The way is easy versus the way is hard. This morning we want to focus on the easy way to be led astray. Well, as we have those three examples, we want to take those up once again. False prophets, false teachers, they are compelling, they are persuasive, and again, we only need to consider Eve in the garden. Never having sinned before, never having strayed from the Word of God before. Holding it tightly, walking with God in the garden. Sitting at his feet, hearing his teachings, knowing his love for them. And yet both of them, Adam and Eve, succumb To this false teaching, these false promises. It's easy to be led astray. It only took a few words from Satan to turn Eve to the path of destruction. The words of destruction from false teachers abound. They tickle our ears. And at times we want to listen to them. We want to believe that they are true. But they end in destruction. They are easy. And it's easy to exalt and lift up your self-righteousness, isn't it? It seems quite natural to recount the good deeds that we have done, to set them forth as evidence that we should be in glory. I'm not such a bad person, I've done good things. But our inherited, our corrupt nature, it's natural for us to boast of our good deeds in our corrupt minds. We're inclined to think that we're Just not that bad. And the good part should be able to win the day, to win the favor of God. It's easy to think that way, isn't it? And it's certainly easy to rebel against the living God. How easy was it for the rich young ruler who comes to the Lord Jesus Christ asking how he can Get eternal life. How easy was it for the rich young ruler to walk away From Jesus as he looked to his riches and found enough joy in them that empowered him to shut his ears to the very word of God, calling him to forsake the world The rich young ruler found it comfortable to leave Christ and return to his luxury and worldly wealth. What about Judas? How he longed for those 30 pieces of silver. How he hated that which Jesus was preaching and teaching. How easy was it for Jesus to betray for Judas to betray Jesus and lead the band of armed men to the place where Jesus was? There seemed to be little effort exerted by Judas in walking this path. of destruction through the wide gate. For his conscience wasn't speaking to him. Speaking against his plans or his actions as he was engaged in them. It was easy Do you see, brothers and sisters, why the Lord Jesus Christ states that the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction? All of these are part of our inherited sin, our corrupt natures. This passage should terrify you this morning. If you found yourself as having been led astray by false teachers This passage should terrify you this morning if you find yourself being deceived, thinking that you are righteous within yourself and outside of Christ. This passage should terrify you this morning. If you've rejected the very words of Christ, the Word of God, if you're in rebellion this morning and casting off the Word of God, if you're building your house upon your own wisdom and word, that's the sand. This passage should terrify you this morning. For each of these paths, each of these ways, and each of these broad and wide gates you're headed toward, unless you repent, will enter you into that place of eternal destruction. Once you pass through the gate of unrepentance, once you pass through the gate of disbelief in the Lord Jesus Christ, once you pass through the gate of unceasing rebellion, there is no turning back. There's no back door. To the place of destruction. There's no exit. And there's only one way To true life. In contrast, in complete contrast to these many ways or paths to destruction. In contrast to the wide gate, in contrast to the broad way or gate that leads to destruction, there is a narrow gate, which Lord willing will speak to next week But which I need to speak to at least in part this morning. So let us meditate just for a moment upon that narrow gate. That singular means by which one may enter into life. And that means is Christ. There is only one Christ. There is only one Savior. The ways of men, all these that we've discussed this morning, are the ways of men, these paths that men have established, these paths that men thinking that they would lean upon their own strength, their own understanding, and their own wisdom, men have manufactured, they've conjured up within their corrupt hearts and minds the ability to enter life through a gate which does not exist. But the reality is that there is no life outside of Christ. The reality is that the gate that's narrow, that leads to true, to eternal life, to the kingdom of God, is Jesus alone. It is only through his shed blood And that people may be cleansed from their filthy sins, which lead them into destruction. And all of these scenarios that Jesus sets before his disciples on that day that he preached this sermon. Are immersed in an end in sin, unrepentant, uncleansed, unwashed, unreconciled sin, which leads to destruction. But in Christ In a sincere saving belief upon the Lord Jesus Christ, there is cleansing from sin. There's washing. There is an eternal washing. And this is the narrow gate. The call this morning, brothers and sisters, to shun, to cast off every single one of these ways to the gate of destruction. And to believe upon Christ, to truly trust in the Lord Jesus Christ for your eternal salvation. You even look at this passage and think indeed upon that radical love of the Lord Jesus Christ. He loved his disciples so much that he would give them. Warn them of all these ways of destruction. Yes, the radical love of Jesus moved him to warn even his disciples of the wide gate open to destruction. David. David ultimately listened to the Spirit, who was working in his heart, not to the voices of his unrepentant men who had rejected the Word of God. Brothers and sisters, the call this morning is to be warned. Receive the warning from Christ. And fix your eyes, your hearts, your desires upon that narrow gate which is Christ and Christ alone. Amen. Father in heaven, I thank you that you love us so much, that you gave us these words through Christ. These words of warning this morning, Father, there is a wide gate. There, Father, there is a place of eternal destruction. Our God, we don't want anyone to go there. And yet we know that many will be in that place. Help us, Father. To not only receive this warning for ourselves this morning, but Father, to know that many of our friends and neighbors and family members are on these paths. Which lead to the wide gate. Give us a heart, Father, to call of them off those paths to call them out of that wide gate and to call them to the narrow gate of Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.