Please turn to our studies in Timothy, 1 Timothy 2, verses 1 through 7. First Timothy two verses one through seven. Let us rise as we read God's Word. Therefore, I exhort first of all That supplications, prayers, intercession, and giving of thanks be made for all men. For kings and all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life In all godliness and reverence. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. Who desires all men to be saved, and has come to the knowledge of and come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God, and one mediator between God and man the man, Jesus Christ, who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time For which I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am speaking the truth in Christ and not lying A teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. May the Lord bless you with the reading of His Word. Please be seated. Today we continue on in our study of uh First Timothy. And uh always remember that Timothy is a young minister, a disciple of the Apostle Paul, whom Paul has left behind in Ephesus as Paul goes on his uh journey to his trial in Rome. Timothy is instructed by Paul uh to number one set in order the things that are lacking in the church uh there in Ephesus Uh in other words, you know, get things done in a in uh you know in a decent order with the church. Anything that you see lacking, take care of it. Secondly, he charges him with the responsibility of protecting the flock of the Lord Jesus Christ from false teaching. And these are these are mighty tasks. Now, at this point, the Apostle Paul speaks to Timothy and the congregation at Ephesus about the power and the purposes of our prayer The power and the purposes of our prayer. Verse 1, I exhort that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and the giving of thanks be made for all men. The Apostle Paul is addressing Timothy first and foremost, but his words carry weight to all believers. They apply to all of God's people in Christ. As far as Paul is concerned, what he has to say is of great importance. Notice he accents that by the term first of all. One of the first of all next things I want to tell you about is I want to talk to you about prayer and how you're to use prayer in the life of the church. What is of great importance, Paul says, for every believer is prayer. Prayer. Now, as you look at verse 1, he uses, does he not, four different words for prayer. Supplications, prayers, intercessions, and the giving of thanks or thanksgivings It seems that when Paul uses these four words which, you know, quite frankly, we would generally reduce to a more generic term such as prayers. But nevertheless, if you plug the word prayers instead of these other words that are used there, you get, first of all, Paul says, I urge you that you pray, pray, pray, pray. And that's a powerful statement. It's an impressive way for Paul to say, I want you to pray. If you miss this, it's your own fault. Because I'm telling you how important it is to pray. But it is also something that we should note that he does use four different words. And each of those four different words has slightly different shades of meaning. And which are not which are reflected in the English translations, but I'm not sure that anybody here could tell us what technically a supplication is. And we would know it's a prayer, but specifically what kind of prayer? And so I thought what I would do is just mention these things to you, the differences, and then you can see a little bit how more broad this prayer request is. First of all, he says supplications. This is equivalent, by the way, all of these, all of these words When you look them up in a Greek dictionary, a Greek lexicon, they're all going to say prayer. But they will then go on and talk about A more precise kind of prayer. So the word that's used here for supplications is prayer, defined as prayer, but it's also Defined as a petition. The prayer is expressing a need Or a want, a need, or a want in the presence of God. That's what a supplication is. A the second word that he uses is prayers. This is This is the most frequently used word in the New Testament for prayer. It's the generic term for prayer. And it Often means and most often means it's used of prayer to God, and it's the most used New Testament word for prayer. So whereas uh Supplications we normally think of as being expressing a want or need to God. Prayers, the word for prayers there, always has God in view. as the one that we're making prayers to. The next word is the word for Petition in the sense, prayer or petition, in the sense of making intercession for somebody else Making intercession. Now I know that, you know, I'm kind of cutting the line pretty short here. I I know that what I'm doing, but I want you to get a sense, a feeling of the subtle differences that each of these words have, because they are different. They are different in small ways. And of course, the last word that's used, thanksgiving, is used to express gratitude or thankfulness. to God. You can easily see how a thanksgiving is different from a supplication or a petition. It is a different form of prayer. And Paul enjoins upon his audience All these kinds of prayers that a person can make. And you could say, I don't know what to pray for. I don't know how to pray. I don't know what I should say. Well, here's some very good practical uh things that a person can do in prayers. They want to make sure that their prayers are always to God. They can petition on behalf of a personal need. They can make intercession on behalf of another Or they can express gratitude and thanksgiving to God for something that God has done in your life or in the life of someone you prayed for. So Paul right off the bat is encouraging the believers there at Ephesus, but all believers to pray. To pray to God for our needs, to pray for the needs of others, to give thanks and gratitude and express gratitude in our hearts for God Now, the second part of this, Paul asks, verse 1 that I want to look at. He says, I want you to pray in behalf of all men. In behalf of all men. Okay. Does this mean, does this petition mean that we're to pray for every human being on earth? In number? That would be what would most likely be the first conclusion we would make Does all in this case mean everyone, without exception? Uh I don't believe so. I don't believe so. I don't believe so because of what immediately follows Notice what Paul links praying for all means. For kings and for those who are in authority. He targets no other group of people when he says, pray for all. The only people he singles out are kings and others who are in authority. It would be if you ignore that Then then you would go to be forced to go to the point of praying for everybody. And I'm not saying that's necessarily bad. What I'm saying is that's not what the text is saying. The text is directing us to pray for those who are in authority. That's the definition of all. In this text. Do you all understand that? Do you see that? It doesn't mean that Paul won't pray, won't ask the b the believers to pray for other people in other different situations. It doesn't mean he won't ask them as he does in Ephesus to pray for himself and to pray for those who are engaged in spiritual warfare. Last of all, I ask you to pray for me, he says It doesn't mean that he won't ask them to pray for other groups of people or for the gospel to go to the uh to the um to the Gentiles. But right here in this text His specific burden is for kings and for those who are in authority. For all those who are in authority, we are to pray to God for. To intercede for them. To ask God to meet any need that the king has. And to express to God our thanksgiving for kings and their authority. Because whether we like it or not, they impact our lives. And Paul gets at that point in the second part of verse 2, when he says that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. It is often very difficult for the church, for the believing church, to pray for its leaders, excuse me, to pray for the kings. And in our case it would be the president, or it would be the congressman. And miss the significance of this if you forget who was leading the Jews at this time. It was the Roman Emperor. It was the Emperor of Rome, the uh the supreme antagonist of the church at this particular time in history, the one who was about to begin persecution or had begun persecution against the church. This was not a quiet time. This was a tumultuous time. This was a time that fear was beginning to creep into the church because of persecution. But Paul says, I you need to pray for such leaders so that we can have Peace, a peace, a quiet and peaceable life, and live in all honesty and godliness. I I know this is difficult. I I struggle with this myself. I don't even there's part of me doesn't even like this. But I'm not called to like something before God in order to do it. And it just it just heightens the the force of this passage if you understand That Paul really put this on the backs of the people of God as something they needed to do. And how he talks about how important this is. This, of course, would dovetail with Paul's teaching in Romans 1, which is the standard passage that we turn to about how Christians are to interact with their political or governmental leaders. Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Whoever therefore resists the power resists the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? To do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same. For he is a minister of God to thee for good. For he is the minister of God to do good. But if you do that which is evil, be afraid, for he beareth not the sword in vain He is the minister of God to revenge, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth. Evil. Therefore, you must need be subject not only for wrath, but also for conscience' sake. For this cause pay ye tribute also, for they are God's ministers attending continually upon this very thing. For this cause ye pay taxes also Praying for kings, praying for leaders is an aspect of honoring God, but also honoring God Them who are in that position because God has given it to them. Honor all men, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the king 1 Peter 2 verse 17. How shall I pray for all kings? What shall I pray for them? Pray that God would be merciful to our kings, our leaders. Pray that God would reveal his truth to them. Pray that he would reveal his standards of righteousness. to them. Pray that he would give them a good conscience, easily influenced by the Holy Spirit. In chapter 67 of Psalm verse 1, I'd like to read: God be merciful unto us, bless us. calls his face to shine upon us that his way may be known upon the earth. That saving health Thy saving health among all the nations. Let the people praise thee, O Lord, let the people praise thee, let the nations be glad, and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously and govern the nations upon the earth. Pray that pray for the kings who are in authority that they might permit the church and not hinder the church From evangelizing and reaching out to the peoples of the world with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Psalm chapter 72, which we read a part of earlier, but I'd like to direct your thoughts back to that because it speaks more about What it is we should petition the Lord for on behalf of leaders, kings, and those others who are in authority. Psalm chapter 72 Give the king your judgments, O Lord, and your righteousness to the king's son. Give the king an understanding of what your righteousness consists of. He will judge your people with righteousness and your poor with justice. The mountains will bring peace to the people and the little hills by righteousness. He will bring justice to the poor. of the people. He will serve the children of the needy. He will break in pieces the oppressor. They shall fear you as long as the sun and the moon are endure throughout all generations. He shall come down like rain upon the grass before mowing. Like showers that water the earth, in his days the righteous shall flourish in abundance of peace until the moon is no more. He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river to the ends of the earth. Enemies shall lick the dust. Kings of Tarshish and the Isles will bring presents. Kings of Shiva and Siva will offer gifts. Yes, all kings shall fall down before him. All nations shall serve him He will deliver the needy when he cries, the poor also, and him who has no helper. He will spare the poor and needy. He will save the souls of the needy. He will redeem their life from oppression and violence. And precious shall be their blood in his sight. He shall live, and the gold of Sheba will be given to him. Prayer also will be made for him. And continually and daily he shall be praised. There will be an abundance of grain in the earth on the top of the mountains, the fruit shall wave like Lebanon, and those of the city shall flourish like gr the grass of the earth His name shall endure forever, his name shall continue as long as the sun, and men shall be blessed in him, and nations shall call him blessed. Blessed be the Lord God, the King of Israel, who only does wondrous things Blessed be his glorious name forever. Let the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and I am. The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended. That passage, that passage is not about earthly kings. That passage is about the Messiah, the king of kings and the Lord of Lords. Nevertheless, he is the paradigm. He's the example. He's the one who is the King of Kings. He's the one all kings should follow. Is it not the case that if you need to know what to pray for your leaders, that maybe you could pray That he be like Jesus. Why? So that you may lead a quiet and peaceable life And all godliness and honesty. And that the gospel will go forward without hindrance. And that righteousness will be prevail in the world in which we live, true righteousness. Is that gonna happen? Uh uh. But you should pray for it nevertheless. Because God wants us to. Because when kings do that, when they do it, if they do it They are reflecting the character of the King of Kings to the world. The world needs to see that The world needs to know that. Amen. Let us pray. Our merciful God and Heavenly Father, help us, Lord, to hear and appreciate your word, to do, Lord, that which it commands. To do so, Lord, so that your kingdom purposes are furthered and that you receive glory and praise from men. Help us to do these things, Lord, when we believe the conclusions or the result will be negligible with it all. We pray, Father, for your will to be done and not ours. In Christ's name, Amen.