First Corinthians eleven and I'll uh begin reading at verse twenty-three. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus on the night when he was betrayed took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body, which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me. In the same way, he also took the cup. after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Whoever therefore eats the bread or drinks the cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty concerning the body and blood of the Lord. Let a person examine himself, then, and so eat of the bread and drink of the cup For anyone who eats and drinks without discerning the body eats and drinks judgment on himself. That is why many of you are weak and ill, and some have died. But if we judged ourselves truly, we would not be judged. When we are judged by the Lord, we are disciplined, so that we may not be condemned along with the world. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, now as we come before you once again this evening, we pray for your blessing upon the reading of the word. And then we ask, Lord God, that you would guide and direct our steps tonight. And as we continue to study the means of grace, and in particular Father, the Lord's Supper, that you would illumine our path by the Spirit, and that you would uh, Father, show us the many blessings That are in the supper, in the Lord's Supper, as Jesus Christ Himself is active and provides to us all the benefits of his work on the cross and in the tomb, when indeed he has promised to return. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, so as I said before, you all are going to get tired of seeing this particular slide, but I want us to to have this point driven home. The means of grace are are that way and which God continues to work in the hearts of those who are have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. how he uh moves them uh to be that blameless, how he moves them in personal holiness And how he communes with us as believers in Christ. And so as we think of the means of grace, we're thinking of these things that work powerfully within us, the ordinary means to make us more like Christ. As opposed to maybe those in the Pentecostal church who would uh say that speaking in tongues would be the way to get closer to Christ Christ. Well, we don't believe that that gift is an ongoing gift, but we do believe that God works by and through his ordinary means of grace to make us more and more like Jesus Christ. And that's why we're studying this topic. We've broken it up into three parts, word, sacraments, and prayer. And as we studied the word, we studied how important it was to be in the word, and that the word is that which we need to attend to with diligence, preparation, and prayer, and receive it in faith. and love and laid up in our hearts, practice it in our lives. You can see just by that one uh question answer how the word is used by God to make us more like Christ as it's laid up in our hearts, the private study of the Word, but also the preaching of the Word As as Paul has said so very clearly, as he proclaimed the word, he was warning everyone, he was teaching everyone, with the goal with the goal that he would be able to present everyone mature in Christ. Clearly, the idea behind preaching of the Word is conforming more and more in the image of God of Jesus Christ and ordinary means of grace. Well then we came to the sacraments and we had a general study on the sacraments and we saw that there were holy signs and seals of the covenant of grace. But they represent Christ and all of his benefits. And not only that, but then in return, that we have a solemn engagement. to the service of God by and through them. And we studied the, in fact, there are two sacraments, baptism and the Lord's Supper And in baptism, we saw again a sign and a seal of the covenant of grace, but a sign and a seal of engrafting into Christ. of remission of sins by and through the washing of his blood, of regeneration by the work of the Spirit, of adoption into the family of God and resurrection to everlasting life. All those things are signed and sealed in baptism. And then again, remember, it's a two-way street. And as we are baptized, as we remember our baptism, as we seek to improve our baptism, we should be thinking along the lines of the fact that we are entering into and have professed. to be engaged wholly and completely to the Lord Jesus Christ in our baptism. Well, we've been studying the Lord's Supper. We started last week. In studying the Supper, and we're going to review that just a bit here. But that's where we are in our study right now. We're focused upon the Lord's Supper. We're going to have our lesson number two tonight on the Lord's Supper. Well, the first, and these are the questions that we're asking as we as we consider the Lord's Supper, the sacrament, this ordinary means of grace First, and we did this last week, what are the Old Testament's shadows and types of the New Testament's Lord's Supper? What do we look at? We're going to talk about that in a minute or just review that briefly And tonight we want to answer that question, what is Jesus doing during the Lord's Supper? Next week, Lord willing, we'll look at questions 3 and 4 What is a believer doing in the Lord's Supper? Remember, there's a two-way street in these sacraments. What is Jesus doing? Next week, Lord Willing, we're going to take a look at what the believer is doing in the Lord's Supper. supper and then finally what happens to the worthy receiver uh of the supper well Last week we did look at those Old Testament shadows and types. And uh we'll jump over this for a moment. Um W in fact we did we defined the Lord's Supper to begin with and we looked at Westminster Larger Catechism number 168, where in the Lord's Supper the death of Christ is showed forth. We're going to focus on that a lot tonight. The death of Christ being showed forth, and what does that mean? And they that worthily communicate with Christ actually feed upon his body and blood. We're going to talk about that next week. Lord willing, to their spiritual no nourishment and growth and grace, and have their union and communion with him confirmed. And again that two-way street testify and renew their thankfulness, their engagement to God, and their meeting Well last week we talked about the Old Testament signs and uh and not signs, but the Old Testament shadows and types of the New Testament Lord's Supper. And we saw that As we went back, there were two things, uh two things that really showed forth or were kind of the the the the basis upon which the Lord's Supper flows out of as Christ goes to the cross. We saw in the Passover as the Israelites were held in bondage by the Egyptians. And God was bringing plagues on Egypt. The final plague was involving death to the firstborn. And how were the uh Hebrews going to escape this death? For they all were under sin. And it was by the blood of the lamb, wasn't it? By placing that blood on the lintels and the doorposts and remaining inside their dwellings with that mark being placed on their homes so that uh the Lord would pass over, the destroyer would not enter into their place because their place, their abode, their dwellings was marked with the blood of the lamb. That's the Lord's Passover. None of you shall go out of the door of his house, and thus the destroyer will not enter in. They were protected as long as they were under the blood And the destroyer would not come in to strike the firstborn. And so we see in the Passover there's death, and we also see in the Passover there's life. Death to the Egyptian firstborn, life for the Hebrews firstborn, who were protected by the blood. What did they do inside? Well they were dressed for action. They were prepared. And once they were nourished, they went out. Let me see how that points to to the New Testament. They shall eat the flesh, and they were called clearly to eat the flesh of the Lamb. causing us to think upon John 6, whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life. They, the Hebrews, the Israelites Needed supernatural strength in order to exit, in order to get out from under the oppression of the Egyptians, just as we need supernatural strength. To get out from the oppression of sin. Well, there is that second feast that the Israelites were called to observe As we studied last week, the feast of unleavened bread, and we see in Leviticus 23 clearly a separation between the Passover and the Feast of the Unleavened Bread. Two things intimately related and connected, but separate, two distinct festivals. And the feast of the unleavened bread was to be celebrated on the 15th day for seven days and with joy. The Lord had made them joyful and turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them. And so they were rejoicing and the temple being rebuilt. But there's that idea of the Passover representing death. and life, and the feast of unleavened bread being that celebration of joy and being joyful for what the Lord had done, allowing them to come and worship him Those two things together would form then the background, the backdrop to the Lord's Supper. Well We've just gone through this one. We want to this evening now get into our second part of the Lord's Supper. The new material. Here we're going to be, as I said, taking a look at that second question. What is Jesus doing in the Lord's Supper? Now we already read when we opened up tonight 1 Corinthians 11. But as we consider the other gospel accounts, we see in Matthew 26, That other account of the words of institution that Jesus himself spoke. Now as they were eating, Jesus took bread and after blessing it, broke it. and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take ye, this is my body. And he took the cup. And when he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the cup. covenant which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. So the question for us tonight is, what is Jesus doing? What's he showing? in these words of institution, what's he showing us in the supper? What's Jesus actively doing in the supper? I listened to a sermon by Dr. David Murray, and he suggested during that sermon, as he was speaking about the Lord's Supper, that there is a thread throughout all of Scripture which is the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. He had a wonderful uh illustration. He said in the Royal Navy, he believes it it's still this way, but in the Royal Navy Uh all of the the lines, the ropes, had a a scarlet thread that went through the ropes. Every single one of them in the Royal Navy And so as they tied up ships, whatever they were using the ropes for, every single rope had this scarlet thread or this red thread that went through it Indicating that it belonged to royalty, that it belonged to the crown. Well, uh Dr. Murray's point was that the thread of Jesus' blood is throughout all of Scripture. I might say it a little differently. I might say it's the covenant of God or the covenant of grace, which is the backbone to all theology in Scripture. But it is the blood of Christ which ties the covenant together or which the covenant looks to for its fulfillment. Unless we can see that The covenant work was left incomplete by Adam in the garden, as he failed to do that which God called him to do, and needed perfect fulfillment by Jesus Christ. We see this as Adam and Eve are removed from the garden. Yet before they're removed, the bruising of the head of this, excuse me, the bruising of the heel Of the seed of the woman is referred to in the text as the Lord is moving them out of the garden But also, also the bruising of the head of the serpent. And so right away in Genesis chapter 3 We see the blood of Christ being inferred in this bruising of the heel And then if we were to turn to the last book of Scripture, Revelation, we see that the blood of Christ, book-ends scripture, where the blood of the Lamb is referenced. and the last book of the Bible, in teaching that it is the blood of Christ that fulfills and satisfies the covenant. So that brings us to that question: what's going on in the Lord's Supper? What is Jesus doing? He calls them, his disciples, to take and eat and to drink. This is not merely the disciples taking. Jesus was giving them something. He was actively doing something. The question is what? What? The focus of the Lord's Supper is clearly upon Jesus Christ and his death. Is body and his blood being expressly referenced in the signs and seals of the sacrament As we think of the body and the blood of Jesus, as we think upon his death, what then is Jesus doing? What is Jesus showing the worthy receiver and the supper? What does the death of Jesus Christ show forth during the supper? Now we've got nine things that I think we can consider. That Jesus is doing in the supper, or that Jesus' death is showing forth in the supper, or that his blood his blood shows forth to us as we take the supper First, what is Jesus doing? He's showing forth the love of the Father For his children. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life The death of the Lord Jesus Christ shows us, it speaks to us of the love of God the Father, doesn't it? That the Father's plan of redemption included, was focused, was centered upon the wretched death of his only eternally begotten Son on the cross. That was his plan. That was his divine plan. To redeem a people for himself. Do you see the love of the Father, the great love, the deep love, the broad love, the eternal desire to be in communion with his children to have eternal fellowship with them, so much so that he calls his son to go to the cross Clearly, he's willing to give up his son because of his love for his children. What else? Number two. Jesus in the Supper is showing forth his love for the Father Remember the account of Jesus and the Samaritan woman. As Jesus is engaging with the Samaritan woman, the disciples are off buying groceries, getting food. And when they come back, they urge him to eat. And he tells them so very clearly, I have food to eat that you do not know about. That's a powerful statement. Jesus was speaking about his food is to do the will of him who sent me to accomplish his work. Ultimately, Jesus' task was to go to the cross and to rise again. But in order to do that, Jesus Christ must fully and completely submit his will to the fathers. He has to align his will with the fathers. And in so doing, he is showing so powerfully his love for the Father. Jesus' death speaks of his love for the Father Being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Yes, the the the death of Christ, the blood of Christ, shows forth his father's love for the children, and it shows forth Jesus' love. For the Father. Jesus is doing all of this in the sacrament, in the supper, isn't he? As he calls us to focus our minds upon his death, upon his blood. What else? Number three, in the supper, Jesus is showing forth his dying to self, isn't he? As he tells his disciples so very clearly, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself and take of his cross daily and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will save it. And so what does Jesus do? But he denies himself The death of the Lord Jesus Christ must speak to dying to self. He is, in a sense, proclaiming that to us. Every single time we take the supper. For as Jesus went to the cross, he did not exalt himself but lowered himself in submission. He died. to himself, to his own will, which was to remain with his father. This is slightly different than his love for his father. And it speaks to how he viewed his own will, his own body, his own soul. Not that he didn't care for them But that he viewed obeying the Father as the height of all things And as he viewed the value of the lives of the children of God, we see him dying to self A humble and contrite action showing forth his heart What else? What else was Jesus doing, and is Jesus doing in the supper? He's showing forth the faithfulness of God the Father, isn't he? We referenced this verse already. God's promise in the garden to Adam and Eve is that he would put enmity between you, meaning the serpent, meaning the devil. and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring, he, being a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ, shall bruise your head, and you, being a reference to Satan, shall bruise his heel. This is a promise. This is the promise, in addition to his being our God This promise is made in the garden. This promise is made as Adam and Eve are exiting the garden And now as Jesus Christ has in fact died, he is calling us to remember his death, which in fact shows forth the faithfulness of his father. Of all the promises of the covenant This was really the first to be made. And we see that the promises of the covenant were designed to wipe away sin. to cleanse the children of God, to make them right before Himself, to satisfy His just wrath In order to allow and call the children of God who belong to Him to enter into glory. His death shows forth the faithfulness of God the Father, that he would do that which he promised to do. What else? What else is Jesus doing in the supper, and what else is he doing in the supper? He's showing forth the power of his blood. Might turn to Revelation to see the power of his blood. As John is seeing visions, as one of the elders addressed him, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes and from where they come? And John says, Sir, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Jesus' death and all that it accomplishes shows forth the power The power of the Son of God. In his death, Jesus was able to and did take upon himself the sins of the world, meaning the sins of all those elect. and fully and completely satisfy the wrath of his father, or the just judgment of his father, for eternity. You see how this speaks volumes of the power of the blood of Christ? As we go to the grocery store. And buy laundry detergent. We're looking for that detergent which will cleanse our clothes and get the stains out of those shirt collars that I put there. None of them really work completely. But the blood of Christ is so powerful. But it does work completely to purge the punishment due for sins. It does show forth the power of the blood of Jesus. What else is Jesus doing in the supper? Showing forth the purity and the holiness of his blood, isn't he? Just the power. but the purity of it. For God has has done what the law weakened by the faith could not do by sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin he condemned sin in the flesh. How could Jesus condemn sin in his flesh unless he was pure and holy The death of the Lord Jesus Christ must speak to those that partake of the supper of his purity and innocence and holiness. For the only reason the death of Christ is significant is that it accomplished all that God the Father had ordained from eternity past. And the only way that the death of the Lord Jesus Christ could accomplish. The salvation of sinners is if he goes to the cross in purity and holiness and righteousness. This means that the death of Jesus speaks to each of us, that this one, this Jesus, was the unblemished Lamb. The Lamb without defect, and moreover, the one who never sinned, who always sought after the Father's will. The supper shows forth the purity and holiness of the blood of Christ. He speaks this to us in the supper. Cut these backwards, but seventh. Jesus shows forth the true life in his blood Remember as Mary goes to the tomb, accompanied with other women The angel is already there and says to the women, Do not be afraid, for I know that you seek Jesus who is crucified. He is not here. For he is risen to come see the place where he lay. The death of the Lord Jesus Christ must also speak To his life. For as we think upon the death of Jesus, we know that his death would be again meaningless if he remained in the tomb. And if Jesus remained in the tomb today, it could only be because his father was not pleased with his sacrifice, that it didn't accomplish that which he ordained it to accomplish, that it wasn't good enough. And if the sacrifice was not pleasing to the Father, then there was no purpose, there was no fulfillment Of the death of Christ. But the death of the Lord Jesus Christ did fully and completely satisfy the Father And it enables him. The death of Christ enables him to engage in battle and achieve victory over death and sin, didn't it? It placed him on the battlefield. And so if the death of the Lord Jesus Christ means anything, it must mean his life. For Jesus Christ died to live, he died to save. And he died so that those in him would live and be raised to eternal life. And so it is death. We're given life For if we have been united with him in a death like his, we shall certainly be united with him in a resurrection like his. Romans 6, verse 5. Paul ties the two together, doesn't he? And I think Christ does as well as he works in the supper What else is Jesus doing? He's showing forth the promise of his return for his bride. Where do we see that? This is not the correct scripture passage. I apologize for that. We could go back to the words of institution that we read earlier. Jesus Christ tells his disciples that he will not partake of the of the vine. until he is joined by his brothers and sisters in glory. Meaning Jesus Christ will return, meaning that his death is part and parcel of his returning. The death of Jesus Christ must speak to his return. The death of Jesus Christ was not only necessary, but was integral. And is integral to his return. For without the death of Jesus, there would be no reason for his return. Without the death of Jesus, it would be impossible for him to return. There would be nothing for him to accomplish. He's returning for his bride, who he died for. And so his death shows forth that promise. That he is returning for his bride. And finally Finally, in the supper, Jesus is so active, he's also showing forth the promise of eternal communion. As John writes his first epistle, he writes that which we have seen and heard, we both same also to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us, and indeed our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. Isn't that the idea? And the death of the Lord Jesus Christ speaks to the ability and the gift. two sinners to enter into true communion with the trying God. On the day of judgment, the only thing that a sinner can point to is the blood of Christ. On the day of judgment, the only thing which makes a sinner blameless in the sight of God, such that he may ascend the holy hill, is the blood of Christ. But the blood of Christ not only atones for sins, but speaks to his righteousness, such that filthy sinners will be made clean and righteous. And thus Able to enter into the gates of glory. Isn't that what Jesus Christ was praying, the high priestly prayer The glory that you have given me, I have given to them, meaning the disciples, that they may be one, even as we are one. I in them, and you in me, that they may become perfectly one. So that the world may know that you sent me and loved them even as you loved me Yes. As much that Jesus is doing in the supper, there's much that's being shown forth by the death of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we fix our minds upon the body and the blood of Jesus. Yes, we're we're thinking, we're proclaiming his death But that death, that blood, strings throughout scripture and touches almost every aspect, if not every aspect. Well, we've seen what Jesus is doing, at least briefly, not completely In the Lord's Supper, as He calls us to take, eat, and drink, what He's giving to us as we do Next week, Lord willing, we're going to take a look at what were the receivers of that bread and that fruit of the vine. What they do, and then we'll do it. It's the end of part two of the Lord's Supper, Lord willing. We'll move to part three next week. Amen. Amen.