Amen. If you can open your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew We'll be in chapter twenty-one this morning on page nine hundred and eighty-two of your Pew Bibles, I believe. Jesus has ascended up into Jerusalem And now this is the first account that we have of Matthew's gospel after he has entered the city. Matthew 21 at verse 12, let's give attention to the Word of God. And Jesus entered the temple and drove out all who sold and bought in the temple. And he overturned the tables of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons. He said to them, It is written, My house shall be called a house of prayer. But you make it a den of robbers. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple, and he healed them. But when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying out in the temple, Hosannah to the Son of David, they were indignant. And they said to him, Do you hear what these are saying? And Jesus said to them, Yes. Have you never read, out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies, you have prepared praise? And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. You pray with me. Our Father and our God, as we now come to the preaching of your word, help us. There are many things that take our attention away. But we ask now that you would fix our attention on Christ. That you would use your servant, weak and frail, as I am, to proclaim your most perfect and holy word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Why did you come here? Why did you come here this morning? And what do you think of this place? What what is this place? What is the purpose of this place Maybe you watched the news this week and you saw the reporting that there has been a new pope elected. And if you watched the news and saw the the cameras rolling in the pictures of the thousands upon thousands of people who flocked to the square waiting to see who it was that would appear in the garments and the robes and the dress of the new pope of the Church of Rome. Some of the reports indicated that people ran back hearing that the white smoke was billowing. From the Sistine Chapel indicating that there had been a positive election. Why did they run? Why were thousands upon thousands waiting to see this one, this new Pope, this Who is called the Vicar of Christ We sought to see the new head of the church. You see the Church of Rome or the Roman Catholic Church has taken Jesus' place and put in his place a man And so that's why they came. That's why they were there. That's why they ran. It's a helpful picture for us as we come to this particular passage of Scripture in Matthew's Gospel. The Church of Rome had converted. They had taken the headship of the Lord Jesus Christ and now had given it if they could, to a man. As we've been studying Matthew's gospel, we've been seeing recently that Jesus has been teaching about the kingdom of heaven to his disciples and he keeps on teaching them about the kingdom of heaven, what it is and who will enter it. And now he's ascended up into Jerusalem, into that place which was the place that represented the dwelling place of God. He ascended as a king, and yet a humble king, one mounted on a donkey. Amongst the shouts of the people, Hosanna to the son of David. And now we have this passage. As he enters the temple. He drives out those who were selling and buying. He overturned the tables of the money changers. along with the seats of those who sold pigeons. He proclaims, My house, my house, shall be called a house of prayer. And then the blind and the lame come. And he heals them. And the children, repeating what they heard, cry out, Hosanna to the Son of David. There's praise. Now in the temple. And yet we hear of the indignation of the religious leaders of the day. This is the first account from from Matthew as Jesus now enters into the city. You might sum up the teachings in this passage this way, only as Jesus is in the house of the living God will there be acceptable and righteous communion and praise. for the Lord. Only as Jesus is in the house of the living God will there be acceptable and righteous communion and praise for the Lord. And we'll see that in three doctrines or points this morning. First, God is angry with unrighteous use. Secondly, God is honored with righteous use, and finally, God is pleased with his Son. Well, as we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourself that question, why am I here? What was my intent or purpose when I entered this place this morning? Well first God is angry with unrighteous use. We have to grasp this picture that's given to us by Matthew as he Writes the gospel and Jesus entered the temple. This is the first account we have in Matthew's Gospel of Jesus entering into the temple. It's quite an astounding moment. In the history of redemption, in a certain sense, God has left. He left his people At least that's the way it seemed, as Jeremiah writes the account we have entitled Lamentations. Jeremiah records the exile of the people, the southern kingdom. The northern kingdom had already been exiled and Southern Kingdom was the only one that remained. And he records their exile in his prophecy called Jeremiah. And as the people have been removed now from the city, from the temple, then he follows that with recording that book we have entitled Lamentations. And Lamentations is a lament. A lament of what has happened to the city, what's happened to the temple, obviously the people are gone And so Jeremiah records, the Lord has rejected his altar, he's abandoned his sanctuary. And he writes of the complete and utter destruction, the physical destruction of the temple, giving us the picture, the impression that God has left. The people had strayed so far from God time and time and time and time again. furnace out of Egypt and given them, placed them in a land flowing with milk and honey, given them everything that they might cling to him, had strayed so far It seems as though God had left, even though the temple had been rebuilt. Even though God had graciously allowed the exiles to return to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple, it would appear that he had still left and now 400 years since the prophet Malachi, God had been silent for that period of time. Now Jesus enters. The God man returns to sit on his rightful throne as he returns to his father's house. Think of that. He ascends the mountain. And now he proceeds to the throne room. Jesus entered the temple. We must see this picture. Just as when God looked down upon the people, the Hebrews, the Israelites, in Egyptian bondage and called Moses out to leave his home and deliver them. Now the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, had left his true home in glory to save wretched sinners like you and me. To glorify his Father, to take on that veil which we know of as the human nature, fully human nature, and yet without sin. And so we have this picture of the God man, the Son of God, Jesus, the divine nature and the human nature in one person now having ascended the mountain as Moses did, and now entering into his house. Yes, a temple made with human hands, but made to represent the very dwelling place of God Himself, and the Son now returns. He is the rightful owner of the temple. It's the place that he designed. It's the place made of stone and wood and precious metals and gems that he created. It's the place, the only place that he has designated and called out as the place where he will dwell with men. It's the place that he's designated for his divine worship. And in a sense, Jesus enters and says, I'm home. But what does he see in his home? Not worship, but worldly commerce. He drove out all who sold and bought in the temple, money changers. Those who sold pigeons. And so Jesus is righteously angry. You might be asking, w why? Didn't people need sacrificial animals? Weren't they coming from different areas with different currency and need to change their money to buy sacrificial animals? I say, yes, but what was really going on? Jesus exclaims, My house shall be called a house of prayer, but you make it a den of robbers. Why? What do robbers and thieves do? That's the way Jesus characterizes what they have done to his home Well, a robber is one who enters unlawfully into another's home or abode and takes something, deprives the homeowner of something without permission, with the intent to keep it to himself. A thief is one who takes that which doesn't belong to him, abstones with it, treating it now as his rightful owner. That's the idea. That these were selling, exchanging, and profiting, conducting business within the temple, they'd entered unlawfully. That's what Jesus is saying. Without permission, knowingly entering against and opposed to the rightful owner's purpose and intent. And they're taking that which which was not theirs without permission, denying the rightful owner of his property and ownership rights. That's What's going on? God's house is being violated by these who are conducting their business. And thus they were robbing God of the true purpose and intent of his house. Ask anyone who's had their home burglarized. How do they feel? Violated? Disrespected. Strangers have been in my home and it it's been defiled. And so these had entered for their own wicked and ungodly purposes. So you have to understand the statement. You make it a den of robbers. See, that goes beyond what those who were sitting at the tables were doing. For they had entered with permission of those who were in charge, so to speak, of the temple. The religious leaders of that day had presumably granted these cellars. access into the temple courts to conduct their business and so Jesus pronounces that you've turned my father's house into a den of robbers And he's pronouncing that not merely to those who were sitting at the tables, but to primarily to the chief priests and the scribes who had allowed them in and encouraged them to conduct worldly business there. The chiefs and the scribes were the True robbers and the thieves, the religious leaders of the day. They were the ones who had converted the temple to their own use. They had transformed the house of God into a robber's den So as the Son of God enters, the Son of David, the Messiah. The Savior. Now he begins his ultimate work of restoration through cleansing. Do you see that picture? The ultimate work of restoration. Through cleansing. See, the house of God was defiled about 4,000 years earlier, as Adam determined through his sin, his offense to God, to defile the garden. That first temple, so to speak. Adam had converted or transformed the garden to his own purposes by taking and eating the forbidden fruit. And you see, that defilement had yet to be purged and cleansed until Jesus enters his Father's house. This overturning of the tables was and seats was real. It happened. But it was also a sign, a symbol of what was coming, complete cleansing. Through Jesus' blood on the cross at Calvary. And so there's a warning here in this passage, isn't there? Satan so wants to lead you astray from God's intent and purpose in this service of worship. In this time of intimate fellowship and communion with Him. He so desires that each of us would convert and transform what God has given to us as a gift through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. into anything other than fellowship with the living God. Are you watchful for that? Are you watching for Satan's arrows and darts that he's constantly throwing at you, tempting you away from true worship? So why did you come? How do you understand this place? What's God's intent and purpose for us here? See, it's quite possible for for some of us or even all of us to convert or transform what God has given to us here in this place. It's possible to convert this house, this service of worship, this communion with the living God into something that it's not. What are the possibilities? Socialization When we enter this place for the reason of mere worldly socialization or community with good friends We've converted the service of worship into something that it's not. This is not a social club. Socialization in that way is different from true Christian fellowship, which is good and right. It's critical to the body. We need it. But even Christian fellowship comes after or is the result of the primary purpose and intent of the service of worship communing with God. What about entertainment? I find it hard to believe that someone would come here for entertainment. But there are those places where that occurs to hear things which tickle our ears and amuse us. If that's our purpose, then we've misappropriated the house of God, the service of worship. If we enter this place because it's on our calendar And we feel compelled to check off the box, I've gone to church today. We've defiled this place. And if you're a religious leader of the day, meaning a ruling elder or pastor, and you give permission or encourage any one of these things which are not the true worship of the living God Then you have taken as a thief or a robber that which does not belong to you The call is to come and enter this place, this house of God, to commune, to fellowship, to express your corporate adoration for the risen Lord Jesus. That's the right. intent and purpose of this place and it's fairly simple, isn't it? The warning, the warning is to watch for your own conversion. Your own robbery of God's house, your own taking of his house and his worship for your purposes. Holy Spirit must lead us in this, must He not, and guard us. That brings us to our second point. God is honored with righteous use. Did you notice after Jesus overturns the table of the money changers and the seats of those who sold pigeons? Do you notice who comes to Jesus? There are two different groups that come to him that day. Think of that. The temple's been cleansed now. And it stands ready to receive those who will use it for its righteous use. The temple's rightful owner has returned and he's ready to receive true worshipers. That's the picture. Now notice who comes. Those who need to be restored. They come. And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple. And he healed them. It's a confirmation of his return. The Lord opens the eyes of the blind, Psalm 146. Or Isaiah 42, I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. Is not that the idea of the blind now receiving sight? And the lame. Those who are unable to walk, those who are unable to follow Jesus now come for restoration, for healing. So that they might do just that. Follow Jesus. And then what follows the healing? It's praise. Did you notice that? Jesus cleanses the temple, he heals the blind and the lame, and then the children cry out, Hosanna to the Son of David. We learned when we heard that as he was ascending the mountain that that means save now. That's what uh one commentator translates it as, Hendrickson. But here in this instance it appears that as it was on the way up to Jerusalem, it's an exclamation of praise And the children were likely repeating that which they had heard on the way up to Jerusalem. They heard the crowds exclaiming this and now they're repeating it in the temple courts. The temple courts are filled with praise from the children. It's a picture of humble hearts coming before the one that they trust and giving him praise. Truly I say to you, unless you turn and become like children. You'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. He's teaching on the kingdom of heaven, and the children are giving him the praise that he deserves. This is the right use. You see how Matthew contrasts the sinful conversion of the house of God now with the right and holy use of his house? It's such a wonderful contrast that he sets forth before us as Jesus enters and and cleanses the unrighteous use, he ushers in the pure and godly use of his father's house. There's healing. Pointing to the healing of broken hearts. And immediately there's praise. Do you see? See how hearts are mended? And as a result, there is praise. Praise results from that, doesn't it? It results directly from healing, which only Jesus can give. Is that why you're here? Is your heart so sorrowful over your sin? Are you mourning over the ways in which you have offended the living God that you must come to this place? That there's no other place for you to go. That you must be healed. That you must receive the forgiveness that only Jesus can provide and does provide. If only you submit yourself to him in the way that these blind and the lame did, and then like these little children. Cry out, Hosanna, praise to the Son of God You must come to the house of prayer. Isn't that curious? Isn't that curious the way Jesus refers to his father's house, the house of prayer? You might think, well Why didn't you call it a house of worship or a house of service or maybe even a house of sacrifice because that's what was going on there in the temple, lots of sacrifices, morning and evening, morning and evening But Jesus referred to as a house of prayer. Think about the Garden of Eden. That might have been referred to as a house of prayer. You say, well, Adam was told to work and keep the garden. Wasn't that the purpose? And the short answer is no. Not really. That was a place of rich, deep, personal, intimate communion between God and man. It was the only place on the face of the earth where that deep and rich personal and intimate pure and holy communion took place. It was the only place on the face of the earth where God dwelt with man in fellowship until Adam defiled it with his sin. Isn't that what prayer is? Deep, rich, personal, intimate, pure, holy communion, fellowship. You see, God speaks to us. He speaks to us through his word, through his special revelation. He speaks to his people through the preaching of the word. He speaks to his people through the sacraments. And then we speak to God. He allows us and enables his people to speak to him, to commune with him through prayer. Prayer is this offering up of yourself to God. It's a pouring out of yourself. It's the most intimate, most personal, most unique means of communing with a divine holy creator God. And so while the temple was designed and built and existed for worship through the sacrificial rites, through incense and through the oil, the bread of the presence, the day of atonement, through the service of the priest yet as a place of serving the living God through those various means. But isn't that what the blind and the lame and the children were doing? They were coming to receive and commune with the God man. They were pouring themselves out, pleading with him for mercy, praising him for who he was and is. And so You see, it's all encompassing this house of prayer. It's very appropriate to refer to the temple, the house of God, as a house of prayer because it includes all that we do. Is that why you came? To commune with the living God, to fellowship with Him, an intimate person. Personal corporate communion. That's righteous use of God's house That brings us to our third point. God is pleased with his son. You may be saying, well, where is that in this passage? Not sure I see that here. And it's actually throughout, isn't it? is throughout this entire passage. We see the contrast in the reaction of the chief priests and the scribes, don't we? They saw wonderful things. They were there as the blind and the lame were being healed. They were there as Jesus first cleanses the temple and then moves on to the righteous use of the temple in healing. They were there and observed these wonderful things, and so did God the Father. And so now there's a sense in which you can hear the Father rejoicing in glory in heaven. Thank you, my son. for doing what I sent you to do, for restoring, for cleansing my house and returning it to this house of prayer, a house of communion and union with me So the fathers please. And notice the contrast with the chief priests and the scribes. They become indignant. They hear the children crying out in the temple, they see the healings that have been going on, they listen to the praise, and they become indignant Webster defines that as being affected at once with anger and disdain, wrath or scorn or contempt for Jesus There's another warning here. And it is for all who reject the Lord Jesus Christ, for all who convert the purposes of God. And to their own purposes, there will be no salvation. Not unless you were to repent of that. And you see the picture here is that these chief priests and scribes had converted the temple to their own use and they hated Jesus. so much that they become angry with the wonderful things he's doing, with the praise that he's receiving, and for them there would be no salvation unless they repented. There would be no Jesus, no Savior, and we see that in verse 17, and leaving them So you become indignant. And what does Jesus do as he engages in conversation? He leaves them because they didn't turn. This is a frightening verse. This is a terrifying verse for those of you who might be here today or listening today or listening this on the recording. For those of you who are not trusting in Jesus. For those of you who hate Jesus, who are indignant with Jesus Because he will leave. The call is to turn, to turn to Christ To repent of your sins, to fall on your knees and pray for that healing which the blind and the lame sought. And then to praise Jesus. Do you see for the children, for the blind and the lame, Jesus had not left, he had returned. Isn't that glorious? He had returned to lead them back to true worship. It's so important for us to grasp that this morning. That it's Jesus who leads us in our communion with the living God. That was obvious to the chief priests and the scribes. That's what's so ironic about this whole passage. It was so obvious to them it's Jesus who's leading all these back to the righteous use of the house of God, and we hate him for that. And so they tried to destroy him so that they could be the center, like the Pope. See, it's Jesus who leads the worship and service of the living God. Consider how he so desired to do the will of his father that he considered it to be his food. How he gone he went to the cross, how he denied himself completely, such that he would honor his father even in his death. Consider how he broke free from sin and death in and through the resurrection Bringing glory to his Father through his pure and perfect holy life. Meditate now on how Jesus is enthroned, interceding for you this morning. Such that you are even able to enter into the throne room through the torn veil, his body. All because the Father is pleased with his son. You see, he must be there. He must be in his father's house. He must be present so that you can worship. It's Jesus who leads us in the pure and undefiled worship and communion with a triune God. Without Jesus, there's no possibility of communion. Without Jesus, there's no possibility of prayer. Without Jesus, there's no possibility of worshiping the one who made you the reason that you exist. The reason you were born, the reason your heart beats. All so that you can glorify and enjoy The living God, and this can only be done as Jesus has entered his father's house and leads you in worship. But there's one more thing that Jesus must do, isn't there? He must also cleanse you. You see, in a sense, we're just like that temple, isn't it, aren't we? In fact, we are the temple. And in a sense, we continue to defile the temple, don't we? With our sin, with our unrighteousness, with our trespasses And so Jesus must also cleanse you. Don't skip over this portion of the scripture. Don't skip over this application of the scripture this morning that the picture that we're given here of those who had defiled the temple, who had converted the temple, is a picture of us. We tend to see, well, those bad men, they misuse the temple. And we forget to apply it to ourselves. Jesus must cleanse you so that he can then lead you in worship. But here's the difference. And if you don't take anything else away from this this morning, take this. Jesus is not cleansing you in righteous anger as he cleansed the temple in Jerusalem. No, he is the one who experienced the righteous anger of his father. In your place. So that as he cleanses you today, he doesn't come in anger. He doesn't come in wrath. He comes in grace and mercy. And that's how he cleanses you, the temple. So that you can truly worship as He leads you. Yes, it's only as Jesus is in the house of the living God will there be acceptable and righteous communion and praise for the Lord. This week we saw once again the Church of Rome defiling the temple. As they elect a new Pope and call him the Vicar of Christ. Brothers and sisters, Jesus is the only head of the church, and he has returned to his father's house. So that you, as you've been cleansed by him, may worship, truly worship in this house of prayer. Amen. Our Father and our God, oh, we so need the cleansing of Jesus. We thank you, Father, that that cleansing comes not in righteous anger, but in grace and in mercy. Holy Spirit, we thank you for the way you lead us, and now we ask, continue to lead us that we would use this place. That we would call this place, that we would return to this place as a house of prayer. Help us, Lord. Guide and direct our hearts. We ask all this in Jesus' name.