This morning I want to look primarily at verses six through nine, although I'll probably be touching on some other parts of what we read from in verses one through ten. Just as a reminder, verses six through nine. I marvel that you are turning away so soon from him who called you in the grace of Christ to a different gospel Which is not another, but there are some who trouble you and want to pervert the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you Let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. Lord help us. We pray. Go with the speaking of your word and our hearing and discernment. That we, O Lord, may embrace the truth of your gospel and allow it to shape our hearts and minds and behavior in faith in you, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning uh I call this sermon the apostolic gospel. Uh I will probably speak on uh the rest of chapter one next week. That could be Apostolic Gospel Part 2. You could also say this morning, uh the Gospel of God might be a suitable title, and next week might be uh apostolic gospel. There is an order. There is a direction to the thinking of Paul here in chapter 1, and it's about the origin of the truth of the gospel. Where is the fountain of the truth of the gospel? Where does it all begin? Is it that Paul is angry with the Galatians because they've rejected his authority? Well, in a secondary sense, and we can get into that next week, but his authority is nothing without Jesus Christ His authority is from God. To the degree that he's upset that people have rejected his message. He's upset because they have rejected God's message. He's just the instrument. And if people don't like the instrument, in one sense that's neither here nor there, although it is important because in this case the instrument Was chosen by God. But it is that message which comes from the instrument that is of first importance. Now This is a letter or an epistle, which is kind of an extended letter. And it's part of the interesting way In which God disseminated, got out the truth in the first century of the Christian church. And before the first century, if you wanted to know the truth, you might go to your synagogue, your local synagogue. and listen to the elders or one of the rabbis or if you were really, really fortunate to have a priest living in your little town, maybe he would be there helping read the scriptures and explaining them. But, you know, if you really, really wanted the truth, you'd Make your pilgrimage to Jerusalem. And it was more centralized With the coming of the first century of the Christian time with the beginning of Jesus Christ You see the use of letters that go into our Bible. You could say in one sense it's the beginning of an information age. We know what an information age. information ages. We're up to our necks in the information age. We're in an information age the likes of which the world has never seen before We have so much information we don't know what to believe. That's one of the ideas. Ironies, one of the difficulties about having so much information Even before there was massive use of personal computers and after that mobile phones with all the power that they have. We lived in a time when there was still a lot of information just in the 1980s. I remember I moved to Baltimore in January of 1982. Uh the idea of a personal computer was a great novelty. I think you had some gaming machines perhaps in the beginning But certainly not this idea of tapping into this thing we now call the Internet, and the vast databases that are there Not like that. And yet when I moved to Baltimore, uh after a couple of years still in the nineteen I decided to look into my family tree. I was always interested in that. You've probably heard me talk about this in other sermons. It's a little bit of a hobby. And so what I did was I got in my car and I drove down to Washington, D. C. One evening I might Go to the National Archives. Uh and another evening I might go to the genealogy room of the Library of Congress. Now what's the first problem you run into after you finally figured out where these places are and where to park your car? And how to avoid the ubiquitous ticket givers that are there in Washington, D. C. Uh what's the first problem? Well you walk into the building and you say, Where do I begin? Where do I begin? Even in grade school, you know, when a tiny little library in grade school, they would introduce us to this thing they called the card catalog. And uh I don't know, there probably wasn't more than 300 books in our little grade school library. Three hundred books. I think I have more than that in my library at home now. My wife would like to see me get rid of some some of that. But but uh you needed to look things up to find them in your card catalog You go into the National Archives, and my last name is Jones. Where do I begin? And he said, well, you need an index. Index? There are cabinets of indexes. Indices, I guess, is the plural, but I'll say indexes. Cabinets filled with indexes, you know, what state, what county, and then you open the cabinet and what's in it? Microfilm You know how long it takes to go through a roll of microfilm? A lot of trips down to Washington, D. C. Now people have these databases. consider at home. Pay money if you're so inclined. I'm kind of cheap about that and get an ancestry. com kind of thing and and and and put your data in. But the problem is a lot of the information you got out there is not accurate A lot of information. So then how do you know what the good stuff is and what the inaccurate stuff is Now that's in a large kind of data sense, a picture of a problem that Paul faces. As he writes to the Galatians, there are people who are saying, oh, well, Paul, you know, interesting fellow. some interesting ideas. He got us thinking about things. But now there are these other people over here And they have some ideas too. And some of them are pretty smart and eloquent. So, how do we know who's telling us the truth You turn on the television, listen to the news, which is depressing, I grant. Uh I'm a glutton for punishment in that regard. And and uh who's telling Telling the truth about all of these political things going on. And I'm discovering there are people that will lie to your face. Um won't bother saying who I think who the whose people are. But uh they'll lie to your face. And it doesn't matter. Uh they think they can fool you because you'll get confused. And Satan is the master of confusion. He does that here with the Galatians. Confuse the situation. Well, Paul has his version of the gospel, and here is another group of people that have their version of the gospel. And Paul says, I marvel. I am stunned. I'm amazed. That you so quickly have gone after this different gospel. It's interesting that word different Verse 6. It's a word heteros. It means it's not just different in the sense Here's another slightly edited version that is saying the same thing Another gospel in that sense, a supplement that doesn't contradict. But it is different It is different. In principle, it is a denial of the gospel that I'm giving to you. Now that's not always the way people come across. They'll say, oh, what I'm telling you is not that different I'm just adding some context, some additional information here, but the effect of what they're adding Is to change the gospel, to turn it into something that is different And that's what Paul is concerned about. I marvel that you so quickly are turning. In other words, didn't we just cover this yesterday? class, you know, when I was teaching, I'd be amazed like Paul was, you know, didn't we just go over this material yesterday? What are the three branches of government? I don't know. I talked about that yesterday. And so Paul is amazed That they've lost it so quickly. We could say that might be a reflection on our intelligence, but I think it's more of a reflection. on our spiritual disposition. A disposition to forget what is important and want to hear what we want to hear And that's what allows us to say, you know, I'm willing to be confused You know, if I can confuse myself about whether something is sin or not, then maybe I can excuse my sin and keep on doing it. And so willful confusion, willful avoidance of the clear light of God's truth That's a big problem. Now, it still comes down to Why should Paul be believed? And Paul is going to get into that. We haven't read all of those verses that He will explain more why he has the credibility that he is believable, that he will get into later in chapter one one and following. But in principle, right up front, he should be believed because he was sent Old saying about some people who want to be a preacher. He went, but he wasn't sent Well, there were people who went to the Galatian churches, but they weren't sent. But Paul says he's an apostle. That word means sent. I didn't just up and decide one day I would go to Galatia because it was such a nice part of the country to visit and while I was at it I would share some of my ideas with those people. God sent him. So that's behind the authenticity of his message. He didn't invent the message. He didn't invent his calling. He was sent. And so in principle, you have to begin there. Well, if you ask, how do you know? He was sent. And not the others. Then he'll pick up some of the evidence of that later in chapter one. But He he wants to throw down the gauntlet right away and say This is not a peripheral issue about which we can say ah you have your opinion, I have a my opinion, and it's all so confusing No, there are eternal consequences to this. And he spells those out in verse 8 and 9. But even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again: if anyone preaches any other gospel to you than what you have received, let him be accursed. Anathema. He repeats The first time it is said is in verse 8. And then he says, I'm going to say it again And he says it in verse nine. Saying it again. Now most of the time when people repeat themselves after a point, you say, why Why are you repeating mys yourself? You're getting boring here. But sometimes When somebody says something strong, we sort of let it go as rhetoric. If anybody comes teaching a different or another gospel, let him be accursed. Oh, okay, you're being rhetorical, right, Paul? No, I'm going to repeat it. I need it. That's why he repeats it. Because yes, it is easy To invoke just rhetoric, the the the language of rhetoric in a curse We hear people regularly use curses, use God's name in vain. Sometimes you'll hear somebody say with a little bit of a grin, well, I told them where they could go. And that's a little softer than just, you know, saying it right out. Hell. But all of that trivializes and desensitizes people to the reality that there is a hell. And it's not something to be joked about. It is not funny. It is not funny. It is eternal. And Paul says, I'm going to say it again. This is not just rhetorical, this is real. Now, why does he get so real? This is a downer. This actually is a different tone than you normally think of. than the tone you find in the book of Galatians. When I think of Galatians, what is my first thought? Uh-oh The letter of Christian liberty. The letter in which I learned that my salvation is a salvation of free grace. The letter where I hear about justification. I hear about it in Romans too. But uh, yes, grace. An old heretic in the church from around 140 A. D. named Martian. Martian with a C, not a T, not a little green man guy, but he he he he he liked this letter because it was about grace But here's this tone. Here's this tone that seems like it doesn't sound very gracious. Let him be accursed. I'm saying What accounts for that? There was a film, and this will not be anywhere nearly an adequate illustration of my point, but maybe it will help you. get the idea that I want to to to open up for you. There's an old black and white film called The Third Man. I don't know how many of you uh have seen it, but it's set after World War Two in kind of uh uh decrepit uh Austria, I think in Vienna, uh uh bombed out buildings after World War Two Post-war conditions of rubble and poverty and different problems. And who's the big villain in that movie? Is it some Nazi war criminal that killed millions of people in gas chambers? No. It's a a a character played by Orson Wells. Who has some uh influence on the medicine that people uh can receive. And he wants to profit because people need the medicine. Without the medicine they will possibly die or become severely crippled. And so he wants to profit off of this. And one way of profiting is to dilute it. To water it down, as it were, then you can sell more of it. And the result is that some children, some people Are gravely injured or die because of that tampering with the medicine And I believe that kind of begins to get at Paul's concern here in Galatians chapter one. There are all kinds of sins that God forgives. Paul has made that clear in verse 4. Jesus Christ gave himself For our sins, he was given for our sins That he might deliver us from this present evil age. What kinds of sins? All kinds of sins. Including Paul's sins. What were some of Paul's sins? Well, he was a persecutor of the church As he says in another place, he actually caused people to blaspheme. In his own way, he was opposed to the gospel. So you might say, ah, you're without hope then, Paul, because you oppose the gospel. Now there's a lot more teaching in the New Testament that helps us understand. understand why Paul could be forgiven. It wasn't because of his goodness or his merits But he had not fully yet been illuminated by the gospel. So when he opposed the gospel He did so with a certain degree of ignorance, even though he was a smart man who knew a lot of the Old Testament. But once he was illuminated, God illuminated him by making him blind. Isn't that interesting? You're going to be seeing by becoming blind. You're going to find out who's in control here. You're going to find out that truth doesn't depend upon your own perception. And so God illuminates him so that he can begin to see the real gospel and even become an instrument of that real gospel. Now there are people, I mean I've I've faced it as a pastor who, you know, you try to share the truth as you understand it. Then people reject it or turn away or indicate that they don't really find you that pleasant of a person. And you can sometimes take it personally. And it may be tempting for some people to say, oh Paul, you're taking this way too personally. You know, somebody's rejected your ministry for somebody else. Ministry. But it's not about Paul. It's about the medicine. I'm bringing you the only medicine. The only medicine. That will cure you. And it's not watered down. It's not diluted, and it's not contaminated with other stuff It is pure medicine that will heal you. It's the medicine of the gospel of grace. That through Jesus Christ in him alone there is forgiveness of sins and deliverance. From this present evil age. When he says, Deliver us from this present evil age He isn't just talking about, yeah, someday in the future we'll be out of this world. Because in Hebrews 6, we find out there are people who already have tasted of the age to come. And in Romans 12, we find out that we are not to be conformed to the wisdom of this present world or this present age. So deliverance from this present evil age begins now. Yeah, we're looking forward to the day when Christ comes again. And we won't even see anything of this present evil age. But deliverance from it begins now. And it begins with Christ offering himself for our sins. Often in Romans it seems to me that Paul traces the problems of this world back to Adam In Adam we all sinned. There's the imputation of Adam's sin. And there is the imputation of Christ's righteousness. But here in Galatians 1, 4 He says sins plural. Because it's not only Adam's sin, but our own personal sins as well That show that we are part of this present evil age that we need to be delivered from. This realm And we begin to be delivered from it now. We're not to be conformed to its wisdom now, but to be renewed now. And the medicine that brings that to us is the gospel, the good news, that Christ's death, burial, resurrection. Severs the power of sin and the foolishness and the striving for acceptance with God by our own works or through ceremonies. or through kind of generic religion, none of that will help because it's part of this present age. Christ's death, burial, and resurrection inaugurate a new beginning, a new creation of which we are a part. In Christ we're part of a new creation. We have a new beginning, isn't that good news? A new beginning In Jesus Christ. You looking for a new beginning? Erase all of that stuff? Jesus Christ. Erases all of those failures, all of those sins, even all of that past opposition to the gospel, to survive Surrendering to Jesus Christ that was once part of your life and makes you new in Him. Yes, that's why it's so serious. Because every sin can be forgiven, but when you reject the gospel, you've rejected the medicine, and therefore that sin has no remedy because Because it doesn't allow the other ones to be taken care of either. We have pure medicine. We have only one medicine that will do the trick. I know sometimes if you are at home and you have a problem and you you say, Oh, I'll look in the medicine cabinet. Not just any pill or salve is going to do the job. Sometimes if you get the wrong medicine, it'll make it worse. Whatever you're suffering with. You need the right medicine. Well, here we're told there's one right medicine. One medicine That takes you from this present evil age, delivers you from its power, and it's the medicine of Christ offering himself for you. And if you try to exchange that for anything else, there's also the grossest ingratitude. That God gave His Son, and that's rejected There's no hope left. There's no gratitude. There's no faith. There's only self-reliance. And we don't have Have the strength to deliver ourselves. We don't have the strength to deliver ourselves from God's wrath either That's why this is so serious. And in this information age, which we could also call a misinformation age. We should not allow ourselves to be confused by all the voices, but return to the one clear voice that shines out, the voice of the Good Shepherd. The voice that says, Come to me, all you that labor and are heavy laden. I will give you rest. You will find rest for your soul You will find forgiveness, newness of life, and deliverance from the power of this present evil age, whatever is pulling you down Christ will supply the power and the grace and forgiveness. Let us pray Our Heavenly Father, we thank you that in your Son Jesus There is no curse because he became a curse for us. Help us to embrace that medicine That cure, that unique cure, the only cure for our sins. His death as our payment for our sins. His burial and resurrection. Newwness of life. Help us to look beyond the things here that pull us down to Jesus and find in him our hope and strength.