Let's turn to the ongoing uh series of uh sermons from uh Amos chapter five, and uh we'll read from verses sixteen through twenty-seven. Amos chapter five, verses sixteen through twenty-seven Let us uh hear uh the word of the Lord Therefore, the Lord God of hosts, the Lord says this, there shall be wailing in all the streets. They shall say in the highways, woe, woe. They shall call the farmer to mourning. And skillful lamentors to wailing. In all the vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through you, says the Lord Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. For what good is the day of the Lord to you? It will be darkness and not light. It will be as though a man fled from a lion and a bear met him Or, as though he went into the house, leaned on the his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light? Is it not very dark with no brightness in it? I hate and despise your feast days. I do not savor your sacred assemblies. Though you offer me burnt offerings and your grain offerings, I will not accept them, nor will I regard your fatted peace offerings Take away from me the noise of your songs, for I will not hear the melody of your stringed instruments. But let justice run down like water. And righteousness like a mighty stream. Did you offer me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O the house of Israel? You also carried Sakuth, your king, and Chion, your gods, the star of your gods, which you made for yourselves. Therefore, I will send you into captivity beyond Damascus, says the Lord, whose name is the God of hosts. And thus far ends the reading of the Lord's word. Again, it goes without saying that as we read this section of God's Word, that there is a terrible depiction. of the upcoming destruction of the northern kingdom of Israel, a destruction that occurs in 500 and 722 BC. Amos writing ahead of that date is uh one given divine prophecy to attempt to uh uh turn uh the sinful people, the northern kingdom of the Jews, uh the people of God's own treasure, that ancestors who he brought out of Egypt and led to the promised land. The effort is to turn them away from their sin and to turn them back to God. The sins are multiple. There are there are sins against God in that they love every God there is under the sun except for him. They bow down and worship other gods uh instead of worshiping only Him. There is multiple instances of widespread failure to love one another. uh they are actively engaged in um abusing others, uh putting uh uh people into slavery, selling the poor for uh uh any way they can uh use uh make money off of people they're into that. It's a very prosperous time economically for the Northern Kingdom Uh they're rich beyond uh their imagination. Uh but it is a kingdom that is uh of of of the ten tribes, ten of the twelve tribes of Israel That's who we're talking about here. It's a group of God's people who have just abandoned God and are following their own devices. And God spares no effort to try to encourage them to come back. He just is If you go through um uh uh Amos, it's just one attempt after another to bring the the the wicked sinners uh to repentance and faith. And sometimes God has done that uh uh uh by uh uh uh pointing out to Israel in the early chapters, verse chapters one and two, five different judgments that God is going to bring upon the neighbors of Israel. The various nations that are pagan nations Those and it's very interesting. It's in a they they're there are nations that completely surround geographically the nation of Israel. And if you look at the judgments that fall upon those nations, it's all because of something heinous that they did against Israel. In other words, the nations are being judged by the Lord because they didn't love Israel, as if God is giving them five different statements. Your neighbors are going to get it because of what they've done to you. Now your part of your judgment is coming because of what you're doing to others. And failure to love. So we come to tonight's message. And by the way, Amos isn't the only one speaking to the Northern Kingdom during this time. It's not like there's just one prophet out there. There's there others. Elijah is out there in in a in a uh and and um um Elijah is out there and others are out there speaking, encouraging Israel to return to the Lord But their hearts are so dark. Now the Lord comes to them and says in the verses tonight, verses 16 and 17. or this afternoon, in these verses, speaks to Amos and tells them what the day of his coming will be like He says in verse 16, there will be wailing in the streets, and they shall say in the highways, Woe and woe. They shall call the farmer to mourning and skillful lamentors to war to wailing. The day that is coming Soon to the northern kingdom, Amos says, is a time of great mourning and wailing. How many times in one verse the You have uh mourning and wailing and woe associated. Uh it is it is a it is a very grim day that is coming. And uh, you know, if we had uh history books here, we could read the history of uh of some of the things, just some of the things that happened. They fell into the to the hands of the Assyrian Empire, and the Assyrians were well known in that world for their cruelty to people uh uh uh in in their wars. So uh i y it it it it's interesting uh uh This word that's used for wailing is like the wailing of the dead. Uh the kind of wailing that would often go on in a in a kind of the funeral where where you mourn uh greatly for someone who has passed from this life to the next. And and and and and that's what's gonna happen uh to many uh in Israel. They're the the there's the wailing is going to be That's going to occur to many people. And there will be wailing and woe. Notice it says in the streets. First of all, in the streets. There will be this uh weeping in the cities, in the big cities of uh of uh the nation of Israel. Uh people will be crying. People will be mourning the the judgment that's coming upon them. In the highways, it says They will say woe and woe. The streets and the roads that run throughout the nation. through the cities will be marked by cries of woe and cries of mourning And then it says the farmers will be called to mourn. Normally when you think about farmers, they're not in the cities. They're in the rural areas. They're on they're on their farms tending to their fields. And oftentimes the farmers are the ones who are The first ones to fall, or they're not the first ones, but they're among those who really feel the effect of the invaders first. Their farms are often devastated. Their livestock is often taken away. They're usually they're you quite usually the victims of theft involving the invading armies and of course any other atrocities that the armies want to perform. But um I can tell you this about farmers. They're not usually the ones who wail. They may endure great hardship, but they have kind of a stoic acceptance about hardship. They're not usually the ones who are going to be brought out and born. But here, things will be of such magnitude of destruction that even the farmers are going to join with those in the streets and those throughout the country. There'll be a I mean he's he's picturing a total weeping of the country over the destruction that's going on to occur. And a little bit later on, a little bit later on, I didn't look at this, but it just came to my memory. A little bit later on, Amos will depict the death toll, the death toll as being 9 out of every 10. Nine out of every ten will die because of the judgment that God is going to bring upon these people because they have sinned against him And it's not just that they have sinned against him, but every effort God has done to wake them up and encourage them and even hold out before them the promise that I will be merciful. I will receive you back. Nothing he has done will turn their hard hearts. Whereas the farmers are usually the ones who are not going to wail and complain. Nevertheless, there will be wailing, mourning, and complaining from them. As Joel in his in the book of Joel, in the first chapter and the eleventh verse. There it says, Be ashamed, O ye husbandmen, which is another word for farmers. Be ashamed, O ye husbandmen. How, O ye vine dressers, those who tend the vineyards. And the olive groves for wheat and barley, because the harvest of the field is perished. uh an another uh illustration uh n in a different situation Joel's talking about but And those uh those farmers howled because uh the food was gone. All of the harvest was gone. And and that will surely happen When the Assyrians come. Even those who are pictured as skillful lamentors Who'll be wailing. I suspect that what happened here is what we find in the incident where uh Jesus comes upon uh Lazarus uh dead in the tomb and there are people out there wailing. Uh wailing and mourning. They there were professional mourners. People would hire professional mourners to come and to weep at funerals Apparently that practice may have existed even at this time. Skillful mourners will also do their thing because death and destruction is everywhere. everywhere. I mean this is this is a horrible, horrible picture and it only gets worse. It only gets worse from here. If you go back to Amos chapter 8 and verse 10, later in the book of Amos, there's another text. regarding the mourning of the people in Israel. It says, I will turn your feasts to mourning and your s and all your songs to lamentations. I will bring up sackcloth upon all loins, baldness upon every head, and I will make it as the morning of an only son The end thereof as a bitter day, mourning for the loss of an only son Morning at the end of a bitter day. The hardness of heart From that depiction it moves to verse 17. In the vineyards there shall be wailing. In the vineyards there will be wailing. Here is a direct slap at the economic prosperity of this nation, because one of the nation's cash crops would be wine. Another would be olive growths. Uh you know if you ever go into the store and buy olive oil, you know it's not cheap stuff. Well This was one of their big exports would have been olive oil. Not in cans but in barrels of olive oils. And it was it was the just as it was expensive then as it is today There are people are wailing, obviously, because it's been destroyed, or it will be destroyed. And uh the vineyards are uh completely over overwhelmed Now notice here is uh where I I think there's quite an interesting uh uh uh uh uh idea that's brought forward here and I and it forms the basis for what I call the second Passover. Uh in the title of this sermon It says, I will pass through thee, says the Lord. All the wailing in the vineyards is because it says, God will pass through thee. And obviously, the allusion to God passing through them and causing all this wailing must be because there is some sort of destruction. that God is bringing. The destruction of the vineyards is directly related to God passing through them. Now that language passing through the as as as uh you might now suspect, is regularly uh is also translated pass over It is the same Hebrew. It's not just one word, Hebrew. It's two words joined together. It's a compound word, so it's somewhat unique. And so when you see it written in Hebrew, you know, it rings bells. And um and and and it's The the the idea here is that God himself is coming. God himself Will pass through and God will bring judgment. And brothers and sisters, that echoes That echoes what we read in Exodus 12. In that particular case, it was Israel was on God's side, or God was on Israel's side, but God is going to bring a similar kind of destruction to Egypt, the enemies of God, and now he says he's going to do the same thing to Israel. I cannot I can't think of a more um powerful statement by God that as I have passed through Egypt and caused the destruction of the firstborn of Egypt from the humans to the cattle, uh and and all of that that what the Passover did. I can't think of something that wouldn't It's just inconceivable that that would not resonate with the people of Israel, uh, and that they would get the idea that the destroyer himself is coming. And judgment is going to fall upon this country. God is promising to treat Israel at this time during the day of Amos in the same horrific way that he treated Egypt. And that's really important because these are God's people. But you see, to treat them as Egypt is to treat them as not my people. To treat them as Egypt instead of Israel is to treat them as the people who will not receive my mercy. There's no way to miss judgment here No way to miss the judgment of the Passover. The sin of Israel has been likened to the sin of Egypt. She is not my people. anymore and I will not have mercy on her anymore. And it's interesting that in Jeremiah the ninth chapter and the twenty-fifth verse In that passage where, fast forward 150 years from the time of Amos, Or maybe just a little bit more. Fast forward, now the Southern Kingdom has deteriorated spiritually to the same level as the Northern Kingdom. Worshiping the same false gods and doing the things which are evil in God's sight. Prophet after prophet has come. Jeremiah is among the last pleading for repentance. But in Jeremiah chapter 9, verse 25, he makes this statement, Behold, the days have come, says the Lord, that I will punish all them which are circumcised with the uncircumcised. Egypt, Judah That's the southern kingdom of Jews. Edom and the children of Ammon, Moab, All are in the utmost corners that dwell in the wilderness, for all these nations are uncircumcised. And then he makes this unbelievable statement, all the house of Israel, all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in the heart. And so, you see, to God, Israel, the northern kingdom, at the time of Amos, is uncircumcised in heart. People. And he will pass through them. Now this passing through these people and bringing judgment Prefigures a third Passover. It prefigures the third Passover And that third Passover is the day when Israel, as a nation, before Pilate, rejects. her King, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I say that because First Corinthians chapter five, verses six through eight Name Jesus as our Passover, the Passover Lamb It's a third Passover, it's a third rejection of three different rejections, but in reality, it's a rejection of one God. Whether it's Egypt doing it, or Israel doing it, or the Jews doing it the day Jesus was crucified. They didn't want their king. They didn't want this messiah. And so what happens is Their rejection, God takes their rejection and brings judgment, but he gives the kingdom to another people. And Peter writes about this, this whole rejection and giving to another in 1 Peter 2, verses 6 through 10. It says in Scripture, Behold, I'm laying a stone in Zion, the cornerstone chosen and precious, and whosoever believes in it shall not be put to shame Therefore, its value is for you who have faith. But for those who are without faith, the stone which the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. And a stone that will make people stumble, and a rock that will make them fall, they stumble by disobeying the word. It is their destiny. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation a people of his own, that you might announce the praises of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were no people. Remember who Peter's writing to? Gentiles. Once you were no people, but now you are God's people. You had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. There's much judgment coming to Amos. But at the same time There is yet in that judgment hope. Hope that Israel will yet believe. Yet repent, will yet turn from their sinful ways and live. Turn ye, turn ye, O house of Israel, why will you die? O house of Israel. Thank God for the prophets and for the Word of God. Thank God for His mercy, who He warns his people ahead of time. Repent. and believe. The kingdom of God is at hand. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, the mercy, your mercy is new and amazing each and every day. Lord, it is beyond our comprehension how how faithful you are and how long-suffering you are. O God, we in our foolishness and in our simplicity would wish that people who would hear your word would turn. And would bow down and worship you. But at the same time, Lord, we we have to factor in, Lord, your Your eternal plan, that it is not your plan that all who hear would be saved. But it is your plan that only those who hear by your grace will come to know you. And that is at the in the one on the one hand it's confusing and it's frustrating, but on the other hand It is the very reason why we continue to keep proclaiming your word. Because, Lord, that is The way in which you bring conviction and saving to the hearts of sinful men. Our sin Is of such we are s our our hardness in sin is of such degree Lord, that no amount of your no amount of of your pleading with us Will motivate us to come out of the darkness and into the light Lord, you must pull us out. And Lord, when we come to understand that We we we see you pleading, pleading for sinners to repent and and we rejoice, Lord, that you didn't give up on us. And more so that you pulled us out of our own hardness of heart. We thank you for your grace. And we thank you, Lord, for helping us to believe in your Son and in His saving work. To God be all glory. Amen.