Turn with me now to the scripture passages on which the sermon is based today, from Hebrews chapter 11. Verses 17 through 22, though the focus will be on verses 20 through 22. Let us hear God's word. By faith, Abraham, when he was tested, offered up Isaac. And he who had received the promises offered up his only begotten son of whom it is said, In Isaac your seed shall be called, concluding that God was able to raise him up even from the dead, from which he also received him in a figurative sense. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, blessed each of the sons of Joseph and worshipped, leaning on the top of his staff. By faith, Joseph, when he was dying, made mention of the departure of the children of Israel. And gave instructions concerning his bows. Thus far ends the reading of God's word. Please be seated. I probably will succeed today in showing why I should have broken this down into three sermons. But I am invigorated and excited to be sharing these words with you today, as we focus today on the faith of the patriarchs the uh the children, uh, the grandchildren and the great grandchildren of Abraham. Uh Isaac, Jacob, and Joseph, the early fathers of the nation of Israel. And the fathers of continuing faith in Jehovah, like Abraham. We know their stories. We probably will remember some of these incidences. And we certainly will recall that each of them. We're not without sin. But it is God's choice To emphasize instead their commitment to Him. It is God's choice To focus on their love of his promises, instead of focusing here in Hebrews 11 on their sin. The message today is directed at answering this question. How do the actions of these menifest manifest or show? The faith of Abraham. Again, we notice that the use of the words by faith. precede each man's actions in each verse And I cannot help but draw the conclusion that God's desire is to have us see The significance of God-giving believing faith in our lives as well. So let's begin by looking at verse 20 first. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. This refers to an incident in Genesis 27, verses 26 through 40. And for sake of brevity, uh just summarize it. It's the story of how Jacob, the younger son. Deceived his aging father, Isaac, in order to receive a blessing that normally would have gone to Esau, his older brother. Esau, the older brother of Jacob is described in chapter 25 as a cunning hunter, a man of the field. While Jacob is described as a plain man living in a tent. It is possible That with the elaborate ruse that Jacob used to deceive his father into getting the blessing, it's possible to say that Jacob at least had some interest in getting this blessing. Maybe not the best of motives, and certainly not the best way to go about it But it does look like he had a desire for this blessing And the blessing that Isaac gave to Jacob was this, recorded in Genesis 27, 28, and 29. That God give thee the dew of heaven and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine. God would give to Isaac productivity And fruitfulness. And then he added, Let the people serve you, and nations fell down to you. Be Lord over thy brother, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee, and cursed be every one that curses thee And blessed be he that blesses thee. So to the promise, the blessing that Jacob uh gives our uh uh excuse me I knew I was gonna get this wrong. I keep getting all these guys wrong and mixing them up. But the b the blessing that Isaac gave uh to Jacob. Productivity, fruitfulness, and dominion. Even over his brother. Isaac, giving this blessing, fixes both of his sons' lives before God in covenant relationship. One as a covenant keeper, the other as a covenant breaker. Isaac's blessing contains something else. It contains what is known as the blessing to Adam. The command to Adam, which is referred to as the cultural mandate, namely, Genesis 1. 28, be fruitful and multiply. Replenish the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moves. So Isaac's blessing contains the Adamic uh uh command given to Adam from God, and it also includes The promise given to Abraham in Genesis 12: I will bless them that bless thee, I will curse him that curses thee. And in thee shall all the families of the earth be blessed. That's a pretty amazing confluence of two powerful blessings Isaac's, even after Esau, when he figured out what had been done, even after he cried bitterly Over the loss of his firstborn blessing unto Jacob, Isaac would not alter his words, and he would not take back the blessing. From Jacob. And he made it clear in his words to Esau that Esau would serve Jacob, his younger brother. Genesis 27, 29, and 40. We can but wonder Why Jacob the supplanter, that's what his name was, meant when he came out of the womb, which another derivation is deceiver. Not kind of a great name, you know, the deceiver, the supplanter. We can but wonder why Jacob Would deceive his own father to get this birthright blessing. Surely the deception of Jacob and his mother, Rebekah Is not admirable and it must be called what it is. It's sin Yet, is it not the grace of God in his justification in Christ that shines upon Jacob? And triumphs over all his sin? Is his grace not the same grace for you? It is amazing to ponder if Jacob's heart desired God's blessing. To Adam and to Abraham more than anything else in his life. By faith, Jacob, when he was dying, this same rascal, the same deceiver, the same rascally character. When he is dying, bless both the sons of Joseph and worship leaning on the top of his staff. You remember that story. How Joseph wound up in Egypt, and how after a long absence Jacob and the rest of the sons of the tribes of Israel, the sons of Jacob, come down and meet the second in command of Pharaoh, Joseph. And you remember it's that it's that period of time that we're talking about in what I read earlier in Genesis 48. Elderly Jacob is dying. He can't even see. He's so old. But he has lived long enough to see his grandchildren. Joseph's grandchildren. Children. Ephraim and Manassus. Ephraim, the first blessed, even though he is not the firstborn The greater blessing Jacob gives to Ephraim, even resisting Joseph's efforts to have Jacob bless Manasseh first Herein we see the grace of God's adoption. As Jacob includes Joseph's two sons among his own sons. He made Joseph's sons heads over the two tribes of Israel. Excuse me, heads of two tribes of Israel He prays for God to bless them. He praises the grace of God, again shown to us through Jacob's blessing. As Jehovah adopts you into his family, into his eternal family. Allows you to call him the father And has given you an inheritance by faith in his son, which you do not deserve. We see a pattern emerging in this blessing. And throughout the early patriarch period. Where a pattern of blessing is established, Isaac over Ishmael. By Abraham, Jacob over Esau, by Isaac Joseph instead of Reuben, the firstborn. Genesis 29, 49, and and verse 1. Resisting all convention, Jacob follows an established pattern, which seems to be God's way. And God's way is the way of grace, meaning that God will enable his children to receive eternal blessing when by normal means they would never be entitled. To receive such a rich blessing. All this exalts the inscrutable wisdom of God. As we read this morning, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts your thoughts Does anybody know what the next verse is? For as the rain comes down from heaven. So the word of God comes down and accomplishes God's purposes. All those wonderful three verses are right there together. Jacob's blessing comes when he is near death. There's a touching picture given here of Jacob, old, can't see, dying And he gets up and he leans on his staff and he worships God. Just the picture is unreal. Because in worshiping God, Jacob praises God for all his mercies to him And he prays for God's will to be done. Which in this case would mean that God would honor Jacob's last will and testament. Which by coincidence or by divine design just so happens to be the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham. That in thy seed all the nations of the world will be blessed. I believe there are two other significant points made by the text in the words leaning, in the word leaning on the top of his staff. The two points are leaning, portrays Jacob's weariness with this world and his eager anticipation of the next, of his eternal rest with God. And leading gives us the picture of the elderly great Saint Jacob. Weak and frail. But trusting in the mighty arms of God to accomplish his purposes and bring Jacob home And so Jacob lived by faith, and now he dies by faith. Resting in God's grace and promises for all ages Trusting in God to work out all that comes to pass. And then there's Joseph. By faith, Joseph, when he died. Now he wasn't really dead yet, he was still alive when he said this. But Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel and gave commandment concerning his bones. I always wondered about that. What is what is so significant a matter of faith that it's included here Who wants to talk about dead men's bones? Well, this of course refers to Joseph's um Story in Genesis chapter 50, verses 24 and 25, and also it's fulfilled with Moses in Exodus chapter 13, verse 19. You see, how does Joseph know that Israel's going to leave Egypt? They just got there. How does he know that there will be a time called the Exodus when Israel leaves Egypt? Joseph's wish to take my bones with you demonstrates his faith and his commitment. To go wherever God goes with his people So that Joseph might truly be with God and be one of God's people. For I will be your God and you will be Of course he could do that. He could do that in Egypt. But he prefers to do it in Canaan because Canaan is Is symbolic of the promised land. And the promised land is symbolic of our glorious home in heaven. His bones must go to the Promised Land. It shows to us the believer's commitment to the sanctity of the body, but also to the Abraham-like promise. Who was looking for the city whose builder and maker is God. For in that city, Joseph will dwell with God. For Abraham, Canaan wasn't it. For Joseph, Egypt isn't it either. And for both of them, the city is heaven. Joseph, you see, desires temporally A simple grave in Canaan, and to be with God and his people, than a magnificent tomb in Egypt. See, that's faith. It's the same faith as Abraham One matter that ought to give us, and this is the final point, one matter that ought to give us great joy as we contemplate the faith of the patriarchs is this question. Where did the patriarchs find such faith to act in such praiseworthy ways? Well, the answer is twofold. First and foremost, from God's word and from God's promise by his grace And secondly, it argues very strongly for the fact that the parents of each generation Were committed to God and gave priority to teaching their children the truth of God's word. And the reality of God's promises. Teaching them by rote, teaching them by memory, teaching them by example. So that all of God's children might live by faith in God alone. Amen. Let us pray. Most mighty God, we uh continue to come before you and to plead and to plead with you, O Lord. Not that you would give us Not that you would give us, Lord, faith that we might do these kinds of things, but Lord, that you would give us Faith that rests securely in the promise of God, understanding, understanding, Lord, that God is the one who is the creator and the Redeemer, that God has an eternal plan of redemption, that God is busy executing that plan, that God's plan cannot be thwarted by human design That God is busy about getting glory for himself and reigning forever with his people. Lord, keep working in our lives, we plead, to strengthen that faith in you. in your son. For it is by his blood that our sinful thoughts of trusting in ourselves are washed away And that through his spirit, the thought of utter dependence upon God for all blessing Resides. Nourish us, O Lord, with your spirit and your word. That is all we have. All we have is you. All we have is your revelation. All we have is your son. All we have is your Spirit, but most assuredly, we have all we need. Thank you. Amen.