I want to start by saying good morning, dear brothers and sisters in Christ. And at this point I will ask you to please stand and we're going to be reading From the epistle to the Galatians, it's on page 1155 in your Pew Bible. 1155. It's Galatians chapter 2. Galatians chapter 2, beginning at verse 11. And I'll just give you a little heads up here. Cephas. Is the Aramaic version of the name for Peter, the Apostle Peter. So this is the Word of God, Galatians 2, starting at verse 11. But when Cephas came to Antioch, I opposed him to his face, because he stood condemned. For before certain men came from James, he was eating with the Gentiles. But when they came, he drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. And the rest of the Jews acted hypocritically along with him So that even Barnabas was led astray by their hypocrisy. But when I saw that their conduct was not in step with the truth of the gospel I said to Cephas before them all, if you, though a Jew, live like a Gentile and not like a Jew, how can you force the Gentiles to live like Jews? We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners, yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if justification were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. That's the word of God. Please be seated And let's pray. Dear Father, we thank you every time we have an opportunity to look into your word and study it together Because, Lord, how precious are your thoughts to us. And we come this morning asking, Lord, that from the Scripture we might hear your voice, the voice of the living and true God. And that we would find your word to be a lamp to our feet, a light to our path, and a consolation to our souls. And so we pray, Father, that your word would be carried into our hearts. By the power of the Holy Spirit. For we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Confrontation. Confrontation is not something we like to see. And we've seen some of it recently. And confrontation is not something we like to be involved in ourselves. Because it's it can be very upsetting, it can be hurtful, and it can be very divisive. And when confrontation of the wrong kind occurs within a church. People try to get away from it. And you even see people going to the point of leaving the church. I have seen that happen. Perhaps you have too. It's very unfortunate. But here in Galatians chapter 2, we have the description of a confrontation, a major confrontation because it involves two of the major leaders of the early Christian church, Paul and Peter. One of the commentaries refers to this confrontation as the clash of the titans. The Clash of the Titans. I think there was a movie some years back with that title. But this particular confrontation is very important. And actually it was a healthy kind of confrontation because it preserved the truth of the gospel. The truth of the gospel. You see that in verse 14. The truth of the gospel. And if you turn back a few verses to verse 5, Again, the truth of the gospel, this phrase is used. This is very, very important. What is the truth of the gospel. Why did Paul stand up and oppose Peter in public, right to his face? Paul was a junior apostle. And here he confronts Peter, his senior, a senior apostle, a disciple who had been with Jesus for all those three years, one of the original twelve. And the disciples whose confession had been highlighted by Jesus as the stone on which the church would be built. What is this truth of the gospel? Why is it so important? And I'll define it in terms of some other verses of the Bible that I think you know very well, Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. By grace, you have been saved through faith. That nut of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works lest anyone should boast. And that is the truth of the gospel that Paul wanted to preserve here. So how was Peter denying this truth of the gospel? Well, it wasn't what he said, but it was the way he acted. He acted in such a way that he implied that the Gentile, that is the non-Jewish Christians in Antioch, were not fully Christian. Unless they were circumcised, ate kosher food, and kept all the other ceremonial laws of the Old Testament. That's what he was doing. And that was so, so wrong, so totally wrong. Paul begins this epistle, chapter 1, uh, verse 9, or verse 8 and 9. Paul says, if anybody preaches that kind of a gospel, works righteousness gospel where you try to earn your salvation by yourself. Let him be anathema. Let him be accursed. This is so really, really wrong. Now, in church history, of course we have this confrontation, but throughout church history, if you think about things. . There have been other major important confrontations. So in the fourth century, there was a man named Athanasius. And we have this Athanasian Creed, Apostles' Creed, Nicene Creed, Athanasian Creed. Athanasius was one of the early church fathers. He was in fact the patriarch of the congregation in Alexandria, Egypt. Okay. And he confronted another man who was kind of a big shot in the church named Arius. And he confronted Arius, he confronted his followers, which included several Roman emperors even. And he said this What you're preaching, Arianism, is a heresy because it denies that Jesus was divine. And so, thanks to Athanasius, we preserve the truth that is given to us in the Nicene Creed. I think we'll be using it tonight. For Confession of Faith, where it says Jesus was very God, of very God. Moving forward a few hundred years, the sixteenth century, Martin Luther confronted the very powerful Roman Catholic Church, which had perverted the doctrine of justification, how you become righteous. And in fact, that confrontation then turned into the Protestant Reformation, which we know about. And Luther studied the Word of God and said No, the way you become righteous, the way you're justified before God, is not by your own actions. It's a free gift of God's grace. By grace, you are saved through faith. And that what happened at the Reformation sounds a lot like what happened here in Galatians Very similar. In fact, Luther wrote a commentary on Galatians. It was one of his favorite books. And if you read it, there's a paragraph explaining the text of Galatians 2. Followed by a paragraph commenting on the situation in his day with the Roman Catholic Church, back to Galatians, back and forth, right in parallel, because the situations were so alike. And then more recently, the twentieth century, there was a man named J. Gresson Machin. You may have heard of him. And he confronted the mainline Presbyterian church in the United States of America Because that denomination had gone into serious doctrinal error, liberalism, and modernism And uh salvation, yeah, by Jesus, but also by other means and ways. And his very forthright stance on what the Bible says led him to be suspended, if you can imagine that And he finally had to leave that denomination, and we are very fortunate, blessed, that he started a new denomination, which is called the Orthodox Presbyterian Church So we should be very, very thankful to God for these heroes of the faith who confronted false teaching. and preserved the truth of the gospel. But it was often at the cost of great scorn and persecution, and even for Athanasius, exile. He had to go somewhere else. So this morning, as we think about the truth of the gospel, let's look at this confrontation in Antioch. What happened? Why did it happen? And then what resulted from it all, both for them here in Antioch, but also for us today. It's very relevant. So, first of all, what exactly happened? Very simply, Peter, uh sorry, Paul, I'm going to get my peas mixed up, Paul strongly and publicly opposed Peter. Because you're, Peter, you're not in step with the truth of the gospel. That's verse 14 But you know what happened here in Antioch didn't just come out of the blue. It didn't come out of nowhere. There were some other recent events right before this. And let me just summarize them quickly. And we read them in the book of Acts, chapter 10. Peter had a vision, a revelation from God. He saw this enormous sheet on which were all kinds of animals and reptiles and birds of the air. clean ones and the ceremonially unclean ones. We read in Leviticus 11 about clean and unclean animals. If you read further in that chapter, it would talk about clean and unclean fish, birds, and even insects. They eat insects in those days. And God said, everything now is clean. What I make clean don't call common. So right there we see that the kosher diet ceremonial law regulations have been finished, done away with Then immediately after that, Peter, Cephas, received an invitation to go to the house of a Gentile, a non-Jew, this Roman centurion named Cornelius. And God said, accept that invitation and go. And he went. He got there, and there was Cornelius, his household, close friends, all gathered together. And Peter preached salvation in Jesus. And as he was preaching, the Holy Spirit fell on them. And the same signs and wonders that happened at the day of Pentecost happened right there. And so Peter did not stop and say, you must first be circumcised. Right a million. Immediately he baptized them into the Christian church. Acts chapter 11. He then returns to Jerusalem. And he reports exactly what happened. And the church leaders in Jerusalem finally concluded that To the Gentiles also, God has granted repentance that leads to life without circumcision. So it's at this time that the Christian church is realizing that the Old Testament ceremonial laws are finished, done away with Abbrogated, if you like, a nice big word on that. The the animal sacrifices in the temple every day, repeated over and over and over, but which never took away sin. are now no longer necessary, right? Because Jesus has offered for one time, for all time, a single sacrifice for sin. And that's it. It's the ultimate sacrifice. No more needed. And the kosher dietary regulations, Peter has learned. They're gone. No more clean and unclean. No more division. Everything's clean. You can eat. Whatever. Gentiles, who were formerly considered unclean people, are now welcome in the church. And this Old Testament sacrament, bloody sacrament of circumcision, is replaced by the New Testament. bloodless sacrament of water baptism. But old habits die hard. And for centuries the Jewish people have very carefully, very scrupulously followed these ceremonial laws, the kosher diet, the circumcision, and all that. And uh you know uh uh they just had it drilled into them. It was just like part of their DNA. When Jesus met the Samaritan woman at the well And uh asked for a glass of water, she said to him, Sir, do you really mean to ask me? Isn't it the case that Jews don't associate with Samaritans? And Jesus put that to rest. And even Peter, when he had the vision of the big sheep with all the animals, and God said it's clean, God had to tell him three times. And when the invitation came, Peter still needed a word from God, you must go, go, and he went. So uh old habits die hard. That's that's all we can say. Because until then it was considered by the Jews to be positively wicked to associate with, let alone eat with, a Gentile. And even in the Jerusalem church, there were those who still thought it was necessary for Gentiles to first become Jews before they could become Christians. And Paul here calls them the circumcision party, and elsewhere they're called Judaizers. And they followed Paul around and gave him a lot of problems. So Let's uh bring ourselves up to date. At this point, Paul is living in Antioch. So what happened, we learned from Acts 11. Many of the Christian believers left Jerusalem fleeing persecution. They went to Cyprus, they went to Antioch and elsewhere. Antioch was a major Roman city up in Syria. Nowadays it's in southern Turkey. And those pi those people preached Jesus. And lo and behold, Gentiles started believing. Many of them. They turned to the Lord. And the church in Jerusalem heard about this and they sent Barnabas up there to check it out. And what he found was the Holy Spirit was doing a marvelous work. Barnabas needed some help. And so he reached over to Paul, who was in Tarsus. Paul came to Antioch. Help me And for a whole year they taught the church together. And apparently it was during that year that Cephas came to Antioch. And this happened. It's recorded here in Galatians 2. So as Paul records it in Galatians 2, initially Peter was fellowshipping with the Gentiles. He was on great best blood terms. He was eating with them even, ham and bacon and sausage and pulled pork, good stuff. But when this visiting delegation came from Jerusalem, he did a 180. He flipped around totally. He withdrew from the Gentile Christians. He only associated with the Jews. And this was public. It wasn't just done in private. It was totally public in front of people. It was insulting. It was offensive. And it was so serious that Paul says, I oppose him to his face. Because he stood condemned. He rebuked Peter in front of them all. You can imagine the scene. If something like this were to happen, everything goes quiet. Everybody's mouth is open. Uh the air is full of tension. Very, very dramatic. So that's what happened. And I just want to say there are times in our lives as well when we have to take a stand for Jesus. And oppose error. Our culture says abortion is fine. Uh homosexuality is fine. And there are even churches that say the same thing. But the Bible says differently. And if we stand up for Jesus and say what the Bible says, undoubtedly we will be scorned and even hated. Stand up, stand up for Jesus, you soldiers of the cross. That's a little song I learned back in Sunday school a few years ago. So that's what happened. Now, why did this happen? Because it's kind of hard to understand why Peter did what he did. After all, Peter was the one who had the vision of the big sheet and the revelation. Peter was the one who went to Cornelius and he saw the work of the Holy Spirit. Peter was the one who went back to Jerusalem and convinced the leaders. that Jews and Gentiles are being received into the faith on equal footing. And they agreed with him And so you wonder, what in the world is going on here? Why did he flip-flop so dramatically? And Paul explains in Galatians Verse 12. He drew back and separated himself, fearing the circumcision party. Fear of men. Now, these the circumcision party says certain men from James. And just so we don't get confused here, this is not James, one of the twelve disciples. That James was the second martyr of the Christian church, killed by King Herod. This is James the half-brother of Jesus. And at this point, he's become the leader of the Jerusalem church. If you read history outside of the Bible, you'll find James mentioned. He was called James the Just. And he's the one who wrote the epistle of James, right. Peter separated himself fearing the super for the circumcision party. So what's going on here is fear of other people, fear of men, peer pressure, people pleasing, craving for the approval of others, that's a very powerful influence. John Bunyan, you know that he wrote Pilgrim's Progress, one of our all-time favorite books. He also wrote a book entitled A Treatise on the Fear of God. And in it he contrasted fear of God, which is a good thing, with fear of man. And he said, Well fear of man is the fear of losing the favor, the love, the goodwill, the help, the friendship of other people. And he pointed out that seek always seeking the approval of others can in fact become an idol. It's it's idolatry. So what was going on here? Was Peter afraid of losing favor with James? You know, Peter initially was the spokesman for the Christian Church. He stepped out, he gave the Pentecost sermon, and now James is the head of the church. And did Peter feel like he was losing status? He needed to do something to gain some faith. We don't really know. We don't really know. But we do know this was not the first time Peter stumbled because of fear. So we remember that three times he denied being a disciple of Jesus. He was afraid of a little servant girl. And you have to wonder, was fear the Achilles heel of Peter? Now, let me just Say for the those of you who don't know Greek mythology, Achilles' heel is the one vulnerable place of someone who's otherwise very strong and invincible And, you know, what was this Peter's Achilles' seel? When you read the life of Peter in the Gospels and in the first half of the book of Acts, We're so impressed with this man. We love this man. He was bold. He was forthright. He stepped forward and said, Jesus, you are the Messiah, the Son of the living God. Where else can we go? You have the words of eternal life He was the one who stepped forth and preached at Pentecost. And 3,000 people were converted. It's just amazing. You know, sanctification is the process of becoming more and more holy as we live our Christian lives and time. And uh okay, I'm kind of mathematical, so if you plotted sanctification on the y-axis and length of life on the x-axis. Generally sanctification goes up thanks to the grace of God and the internal working of the Holy Spirit. But It's not a smooth linear curve. There's ups and downs. When I think about my sanctification, it I it looks like the stock market, ups and downs, two steps forward, one step back. Peter's sanctification curve had some very big ups, and when he stumbled, some very big downs. But Peter always repented. And Jesus restored him. And dear friends, we have the same forgiveness for our sins. Now you might ask why Was it necessary for Paul to oppose Peter publicly? Why publicly? How did he dare contradict a fellow apostle publicly uh with my job in the government I would never do such a thing. I would wait later and talk to my boss about something. But here he is, publicly before them all, right to his face. Well, let me give you reasons that were not the real reasons. It was not the case that Paul had an irritable personality and he just couldn't control his tongue. He had anger management problems. Absolutely not. Absolutely not. It was also not the case that Paul was very argumentative and liked to attack people. Not the case. And it was also not the case I'm giving all these non-reasons, right? It was also not the case that Paul saw Peter as a rival and he wanted to take him down a notch. No, absolutely not. So what was the real reason? Well he acted out of a deep concern For some doctrine that was so important, this truth of the gospel. No trivial matter at all. Peter was out of step. He was out of line with this. And Paul just couldn't wait. He needed immediately and forcefully to confront this Problem. He didn't think to himself, well, should I refrain from washing dirty theological linen in public? He didn't think to himself, well, maybe Peter and I get together just the two of us and work it out and then we'll issue a joint press release. No, it needed to be done right then and there. It was a public scandal. It had to be opposed in public with this head-on in his face kind of confrontation Paul was hoping to shock Peter into realizing this was really wrong. Really wrong. In fact It was so important to defend this truth of the gospel that salvation is by grace alone, that Peter, sorry, Paul, here I am again, Paul wrote it into his letter to the Galatians. Which means not only was it public in Antioch, but now it became very public and widely known because Paul's letter okay, he sent it to the church in Galatia Then it was handed around, circulated, everybody read it. Kind of embarrassing for for Peter. And yet it's interesting that in the book of Acts, this episode is not recorded Galatians was written after Paul's first missionary journey. Acts was written after Paul's third missionary journey. Acts uh was written on the basis of information that Luke got from Paul. He was Paul's companion. And also on the basis of interviews that he did with other people, including, I think, Peter. But at that point did Luke think, well, it was publicized in this letter to the Galatians some years ago, and enough is enough? W we really don't know. But let me just say that in the church today, when there are issues that come up, serious issues, we follow generally the practice that Jesus gave us. It's in Matthew 18. First, you go talk to the person who committed the offense one-on-one. If that doesn't work, you meet with that person again, but you bring two or three witnesses And if that doesn't work, then you bring it before the whole church, and of course, at that point it becomes public. And then other kinds of matters that are not so critical. We try to bend over backwards to accommodate what Scripture calls the weaker brother, the weaker sister. It's fine, we can do that. But when something occurs that's significantly in error. Either doctrine or behavior, we need to confront it. We need to be bold. We need to do it right away because if we don't say something or do something it will look like it's okay. It will look like we don't disagree. So, you know, in situations like that, I might be tempted to say, well, I'll leave it for the minister to handle. And sometimes that may be the right thing to do, but sometimes you, we, I have to stand up and say something or do something and confront this error. Mordecai said to his niece, who was by then Queen Esther, Who knows but that you have come to this royal position for such a time as this. Esther, you need to stand up and do something. What happened, why it happened, what resulted from it. So Paul says, verse 12, that first Peter was eating with the Gentiles. And very likely this is a reference to these agape feasts that the early churches would hold. The members would bring food to the meeting place where they were going to worship They'd share all the food together, just like our potluck lunches. And at the end of that, they would often celebrate the Lord's Supper. But now Peter has drawn back. He's separated himself. And so what you have are There's celebrating the Lord's Supper over here and over here, but they're not together. And to Paul, this was just unthinkable. Because something else that happened from Peter's Separation, his separatist behavior was other Jewish Christians in Antioch did the same thing. Because after all, Peter was a leader in the church, recognized And other people would be prone to follow his example. Even faithful Barnabas, Paul's friend Barnabas, was led astray by their hypocrisy. Oh dear. And I'm sure this was tough for Paul, because they were such good friends, and Paul owed such a debt to Barnabas. Barnabas was the one who, after Paul's conversion, Brought him to Jerusalem, introduced him to the church leaders, and vouched for him, saying, You can trust this guy, even though he he used to be killing you all. Now you can trust him. Barnabas was the one who reached out and brought Paul to Antioch and put him into this ministry leadership position. So Paul owed Barnabas a lot, but Paul was such a good friend, a true friend, that he could not let this kind of behavior go unrebuked. I think you know this verse in Proverbs 27:6. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. Faithful are the wounds of a friend. And we all hope that we have friends like that. Now, twice in this passage, Galatians 2, we see a reference to hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is when what you do contradicts what you say. Your actions are not consistent with what you say you believe And Paul asks Cephas, Paul uh Peter, verse 14, are you forcing the Gentiles to live like Jews? Which is exactly what these Judaizers, the circumcision party, exactly what they wanted to do And Peter's behavior, whether he realized it or not, is just playing right into their hands. And so Paul asks him really Wake up, wake up, this is wrong. So we've seen what resulted from Peter's unfortunate actions, but what resulted from Paul having the courage to confront Peter Eventually was the Jerusalem Council. So that's in Acts chapter 15. All of the apostles, the elders of the church gathered together and discussed this one big burning question. Must we require that Gentile Christian believers be circumcised? And at that meeting, to Peter's credit, he stood up and gave an impassioned speech against And he said, no, no. God gave the Holy Spirit to the Gentiles just as he did to us. Peter saw it. God made no distinction between Jews and Gentiles. He cleansed their hearts by faith. He cleansed our hearts by faith. Now therefore, why are you putting God to the test by putting a yoke on their necks? Which we were not able to bear. In other words, the ceremonial law. We believe that we will be saved through the grace, through the grace of the Lord Jesus, just as they will. And also, to his credit, James gave a speech, and he quoted a number of verses from the Old Testament agreeing with Peter. And so the conclusion of the Jerusalem Council was no, no necessity for circumcision. That's part of the ceremonial law, that's done away with, that's passed, and the age of Jesus is now here. So Peter got back in step with the truth of the gospel, namely that God justifies Jews and Gentiles on the same terms. through faith alone, in Jesus alone. And Peter basically said, how can we impose this extra condition that God does not impose? And so he won the day. Now, just now I've been using the word justify. And you see it in verse sixteen. In fact, in verse 16 here, chapter 2, verse 16, is the first time that the word justifies used in the epistle to the Galatians. And it's used here in this verse, not just once, but three times. Then it's used also in verse 17, and then in verse 21, at the end of the chapter, the noun form justification is used. But verse 16 is such a key verse. We know a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified. Paul says the same thing three times. Now, in the Bible, when you see something repeated, for example, when Jesus said, verily, verily, I say unto you, that's emphasis, that's the Hebrew way of emphasizing something. And when it's repeated three times That is extreme emphasis. Isaiah had a vision of the Lord High and Mighty lifted up. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord Almighty Three times. Extreme emphasis. All caps. Exclamation marks. Bold font. And that's what Paul is doing here. Not justified by works of the law. What is justification? Well, you've memorized it, right? Schroeder Catechism No. 33, an act of God's free grace. An act. Done. Over with, whereby he pardons all our sins, accept us as righteous in his sight, only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. Only. Alone. Justification is the heart of the gospel. Now, 1500 years after the Jerusalem Council occurred the Reformation. And we are so thankful Martin Luther and others recovered the true meaning of justification from the Bible And Luther wrote a commentary on the book of Galatians. I've already mentioned it. We just quote something from that commentary. Luther wrote. Justification is the truth of the gospel. The truth of the gospel. It is also the principal article of all Christian doctrine. Most necessary it is, therefore, that we should know this article well, teach it unto others, and beat it into their heads continually. Luther was very plain spoken. I like that beating into your heads. You'll notice the the last Paul gives an explanation here from verse 15 to 21. It's just six, seven verses. Which he expands in other epistles and in particular in the book of Romans, chapters 3, 4, and 5, this truth of the gospel, verse 21, I do not nullify the grace of God. For if justification were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. What he's saying is, we know that God is gracious. He revealed himself. Gracious and merciful. Full of loving-kindness, forgiving, iniquity, and sin and transgression. And if you insist on earning salvation for yourself, by yourself, through your own supposedly good works, you are saying, God, you don't need to be merciful to me. I've got it. You nullify the grace of God. And furthermore, you're saying to Jesus Christ, you need not have bothered to die. Because I'm doing it myself, and that is so, so very, very wrong. And yet, so many people today are committing this tragic mistake. I meet people all the time. And they think it's very noble to earn their own way to heaven. And they're very proud of how good they are. And they want to contribute something to their salvation. Something Just a little something for which they can take some credit and retain some kind of self esteem. But brothers and sisters, uh, that's wrong Let me tell you a little story. My wife told me that when she was a little girl, she once asked her mother, will unbelievers who do good things also go to heaven. And her mother said, No, because they don't do the one good thing that really counts. which is to trust in Jesus. So I'm really sorry to have to mention that the Roman Catholic Church today has fallen into this grievous error of Works righteousness. I want to be careful. Yes, they say that we are saved by faith in Jesus. But they deny that it is faith in Jesus alone, by grace alone, by Christ alone. They want to say that our works of merit have to contribute for us to be saved. We earlier sang this well-known hymn, Rakhaves, and stanza number three starts out, Nothing in my hands I bring, simply to thy cross I claim. And Dr. Derek Thomas in his commentary says that the works righteousness perspective changes those words, and they become something in my hands, I bring Also to your cross I claim. In other words, they say faith in Jesus is necessary but not sufficient. And that denies what the Bible tells us about ourselves, that until God changes our hearts We are dead in sin. There is no merit, no righteousness in us at all that we can contribute. And it also denies giving God all the glory for our salvation. He deserves it. And it does something else that's really destructive and that was pointed out by the reformers like Martin Luther and John Calvin, and that is that works righteousness perspective totally undercuts assurance of faith. You have no more assurance of faith because if my salvation depends on, yes, a little bit of faith in Jesus, but also my good works, I'm worried because the next minute I could commit a sin and lose it all. Then I have to get it back. And then I could lose it again. And there's no confidence unless my salvation is based on the good, righteous work done by someone else. objectively done by Jesus Christ, the perfect God man on the cross. Free grace, totally. If you were asked Who in the 20th century was probably the most famous doer of good works? You might think Mother Teresa The Roman Catholic nun who worked with the poorest of poor in the slums of India for decades, and yet her letters, which were published after she died. Reveal that for the last fifty years of her life, she felt no presence of God. Instead, she felt dryness, darkness, loneliness. And this is what can happen to a person who's trusting in themselves for salvation. They trust in their own good works rather than the free grace of God. Now Paul ends his explanation of the truth of the gospel with this famous verse, verse 20. I'd like to have this inscribed on my tombstone, if there's room. And it begins this way, I have been crucified with Christ. So Paul, in the first part of his life, lived as a strict Pharisee, and he labored with might and man to win God's favor through his good works. And now his spiritual eyes have been opened. And he sees the cross of Christ, and it is the killing blow for his pride. His self-esteem is is absolutely slain. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live. But Christ who lives in me And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, and who gave himself for me. Now that's, dear friends, the truth of the gospel, and we have it. Amen. Almighty God, we praise you and we praise you, Lord, for your marvelous attributes, that you are a God who is merciful and gracious and for giving us and all through the work of Jesus Christ. And we confess, O Lord, not what my hands have done, not what our hands have done, can save our guilty souls. Only Jesus, his work alone, his blood alone, his grace alone, and his power alone. Lord, we were unlovable. And yet, while we were still sinners, you loved us. And you gave yourself for us. You brought us out of darkness into your kingdom of light. And for that we thank you and we praise you and we want to serve you and we want to obey you and be in your house forever. In your presence, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.