Amen. She's turning her copies of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel. Once again we'll be in chapter thirteen as we continue to study the parables in this chapter. And I'll be reading beginning at verse forty-seven. I believe that's on page nine hundred and seventy-four of your Pew Bibles Let's give attention to God's holy word. Matthew thirteen, beginning at verse forty-seven. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers, but threw away the bad. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes. And he said to them, Therefore, every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven is like a master of a house. Who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old. That's part of the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we ask that you would give us tender hearts this morning. To receive all that you have for us. Convict us, Lord God, of sin. And encourage us. Encourage us with all the promises of Christ. Guide us this morning, Father, as we open your word. Help us by your Spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As we went through the Sermon on the Mount earlier in Matthew's Gospel, Jesus came to a point where he was describing those who would enter the kingdom of heaven And he began by saying that those who do the will of the Father who is in heaven will enter And then he contrasted that. He said, on that day, meaning the day of judgment, many will say Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And Jesus said, then I will declare to them I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness We know that Jesus was not only speaking of people of his day, but he was also speaking of people of our day. And so the thinking goes something like this: I am safe. I'm in the church. I'm a member. I go to worship. I give money. I do good works. I'm safe. Jesus was saying to his disciples that that just wasn't the case. And that there will be a separation. As we come to this parable this morning, we see Jesus revisiting that idea Of there being a separation. We know that as Jesus was teaching in the Sermon on the Mount, he was teaching in part on righteousness. He was calling his disciples to let their light shine before others that others would see their good works and give glory to the Father. He was telling them to lay up treasures in heaven He himself was reclining at tables with sinners, seeking to call them into the kingdom. Told his disciples that the harvest was plentiful. He sent them out to gather. Not the righteous, but sinners. Today as we come to this particular parable, it's all about the church. It's all about gathering and then separating. I want us to see this morning that the Lord will separate those gathered into the visible church at the end of the age. It's a very simple truth. The Lord will separate those gathered into the visible church at the end of the age. See that in three points this morning, the gathering, the separating, and the warning This is an important passage for us. This is a critical passage for us to grasp the truth of this this morning. So listen, hear what Christ is teaching. Well first the gathering. Once again, we've got to note the simile. Look at verse 47. The kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea. Kingdom of Heaven is like a net. Jesus likens the kingdom of heaven to the act of Fishing, not with a pole and line and sinker and bait. No, no. Fishing with a net A net that's thrown into the sea. It simile includes that picture, doesn't it? An action, a work. The net is not idle. He doesn't say the kingdom of heaven is like a net set on the shelf. Not sitting sitting idly. It is a throne net. It is an active work of fishing, purposeful, knowing. It's a work. It takes muscle, it takes skill. It takes understanding and experience to throw the net such that the fish will be collected, gathered. One needs to know where the fish are. And how to throw the net in such a way that the fish will not be scared off, but taken up and caught in it. It's an active picture. Once thrown, assuming that the fish are caught, it's difficult to pull the net up through the sea. It gets harder and harder as fish are caught up in it, but the pulling, which is necessary for the gathering, goes on. It's active And then what was to be caught? Usually fishermen are are looking for a particular kind of fish, but that's not what Jesus gives us in this parable. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net that was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind And God made fish. We read this in Genesis 1, let the waters swarm with swarms of living creatures. Great sea creatures. Every living creature that moves With which the water swarms according to their kinds. Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the sea. That was God's command. That was what he spoke, and that's what happened. The psalmist in Psalm 104 writes this, here is the sea great and wide, which teems with creatures innumerable. How many how many fish are in the water? The World Register of Marine Species, I have no idea what that is. It's on the internet. They estimate or they state that there are 242,000 known and described marine species living in the ocean of this world. I don't know if that's right or not. Noah has estimated or quotes the estimate of the number of fish species is at least 20,000 and thinks that there may be 20,000 more. The point is there are a lot of different kinds. And the net is thrown to gather fish of every kind. indiscriminately thrown into the sea. Meaning the fishermen weren't making any distinction between the kinds of fish. All species, every kind to be gathered. We know that Jesus was talking about the church. This would have been an earth-shaking revelation to the Jews They thought that only Jews would be gathered. They thought that only Jews would be in the kingdom. The Jews thought that only Jews were the people of God. But here in this parable, Jesus repeats that which they missed in the Old Testament. And just as fish of every kind were gathered in the net, all were to be circumcised. Everyone. In Abram's house, Abraham's house. Every male throughout your generation, whether born in your house or bought with your money from any foreigner. Meaning anyone who who wasn't your biological descendant, you bought them. They came from someplace else. And you're to bring them into the covenant. People of all tongues, tribes, nations to be gathered. Isn't that what we read in Revelation? After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no one could count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne, before the Lamb. All peoples to be godly The net seems to parallel the universal call. Isaiah Isaiah sets forth the universal call. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters, and he who has no money, come buy and eat, come buy wine and milk without money, without price. Universal call, Jesus. In a sense, repeating Isaiah at the end of chapter 11 in Matthew's gospel, come to me all who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. You can see that net just going throughout the sea, gathering, that universal call, going out. Jesus telling all, come to me. The sea paralleling the world As the net goes throughout the sea, it's like the call, the universal call, going throughout the world, gathering those that Jesus would gather into the church. This is the work of the church. The kingdom of heaven is like a dragnet thrown into the sea. The church thrown into the world. It's a significant part of the work of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ Isn't that what Jesus told his disciples as he was about to ascend to glory? Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Not just Jews, not just Israel, all nations Westminster Confession of Faith on that chapter, which is entitled Of the Church, states this, under this Catholic Visible Church Christ has given the ministry oracles and ordinances of God for the gathering and perfecting of the saints Gathering. That's the first task of the two parts of the work of the church. Got to gather first. And then perfect, not making people perfect, but teaching them all that Christ has taught us. Gathering people from all nations, tongues and tribes. Question this morning is, are you involved? That's the work of this church. Part of it. When the church is not merely the pastor The church is not merely the elders. The church is not merely the deacon. The entire church Every member should be involved in gathering. Consider the church and the Apostles' Day at the end of chapter 2 in the book of Acts. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and fellowship, breaking of bread and prayers. And awe came upon every soul. Many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. All who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling her possessions and belongings and distributing to the proceeds to all as any had need. And here's the catch. Praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. That's a description of the church. And what the church was doing. It was being the church. They were being a light. Selling your possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. See, involvement doesn't necessarily mean evangelism We might we might think that, but that's not true. Evangelism is good. We should be engaged in it, but we don't necessarily have to be engaged in it to be engaged in the work of gathering. If my involvement in the church Does mean more than attending upon the services of worship. That is important. That is central. That's critical to our lives and the body of Christ. But there's more to being the church. Let me go on a limb this morning and state that if the entire church is not involved in gathering, then we are not being the church. Indeed, if the church is not involved in gathering, if the whole church is not involved in gathering, we will not gather in the way that God has intended and planned and purposed us. to gather. Are you involved? Are you engaged in the work of gathering? We've got to meditate upon that. We've got to ask ourselves. We've got to examine ourselves. We've got to ask for Spirit's help. That brings us to our second point, the separating. Well once the gathering was over, once the net was full, look at verse 48 Men drew it ashore and sat down. The parable continues as the picture of that fishing act is is complete with regard to the gathering. Then that was filled with capacity And the time for gathering was over. The next step in the fisherman's process was then to separate out the good from the bad. And sorted the good into containers, but threw away the bad. This is what we would expect. The fishermen had a purpose in casting the net. It was not merely to catch every fish. No They needed to catch every fish, to bring them up, to see them, to evaluate, to sort. They sought good fish which would bring a good price at the market. They sought fish that others would want to buy and eat. And so these fishermen were experienced and proficient in identifying those fish which would bring a good price at the market and those which would not. Until we see the picture absorbing. The good fish, identified, selected, placed into containers. The bad fish thrown away. Notice, they're not thrown back to be caught another day. The bad were thrown out And just like the first parable of the soils in this chapter, Jesus now explains this parable to his disciples. Without hesitation, Jesus tells his disciples about the particular aspect of the kingdom of heaven that is represented in this parable, that it was intended to open up for them. This final step of the fishing by net sorting was designed and intended by Jesus to point to the day of the Lord, the day of judgment. He was describing to his followers what was to come at the end of the age. And he said it forth this way. Look at verse 49. So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Jesus is speaking of the day of judgment. He's speaking of those that were evil being sent to hell. And he's telling us that this is angelic work. Think of it, the fish were passive. The fish were not involved in being gathered, they were not involved in being sorted. Someone else was doing the gathering, someone else was doing the sorting. And you might be thinking, well yes, obviously. But it's not so obvious when you consider the kingdom of heaven. And Jesus now sets forth the work of the angels on the day of judgment. Angels will come out and separate. Separate the evil from the righteous. Remember the fisherman, experienced, proficient. And sorting the good fish from the bad. Angels, experts now in identifying the evil and the righteous, they will separate, they will establish a barrier, they will draw a line, they will bring about a separation, a separation of an eternal Nature. All would agree But there will be a separation of the world from the church. Indeed, that's pictured to us as the net is drugged through the sea separating the fish, the other fish of the sea, from the fish who are gathered. That's the picture. All would agree. The church will be separated from the world. But what about within the church? What about all the fish that are gathered? Jesus is speaking about a separation within the church itself. And that's nothing new. Consider Ishmael, Abram's first son. The Lord calls all males within Abraham's house to be circumcised, to be brought into the covenant. That's what circumcision did. It brought them in. It was the sign and seal of the covenant of grace. And they were being brought into the covenant. And Ishmael, his first son, was circumcised. But he wasn't the son of the promise. Yet he was brought into the covenant. A separation. A separation between Isaac and Ishmael, between the son of the promise and the son of who wasn't of the promise. Consider the chief priests, the scribes, and the Pharisees, all members of the visible church in Jesus' day, indeed revered members by all the people, and yet they were separated. Those who hated Christ. Jesus is really in a sense teaching us about the visible and the invisible church. Westminster larger catechism defines the visible church this way as a society made up of all such in all ages and places in the world that do profess the true religion and of their children. That's the visible church, those who profess the true religion. Are they all saved? Who hear the gospel and live in the church The answer is no. All that hear the gospel and live in the visible church are not saved, but only they who are true members of the invisible church. And describes the invisible church as the whole number of the elect that have been, are, or shall be gathered into one under Christ the head. You see he's describing in this parable What will happen to the visible church at the end of the age? We may be asking ourselves this morning, who are the evil, who are the righteous But that will be the dividing line, won't it? And we might describe the evil this way. All those Who refuse to believe in and submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we might describe the righteous this way: all those who are covered with the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. By and through the gift of faith. Isn't that what we see throughout Scripture? Jesus is not talking about people who are good in of themselves. He is talking about those who are good in Christ, in himself. This is the way that Moses put it with regard to Abram. Then he believed in the Lord, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. That's the difference. That's the dividing line. That's what the angels will be looking at as they separate in the end of the age. It brings us to our third point, the warning. There's a great warning here in this parable, the last in this series that's preached by Jesus in this chapter 13. And in a sense the gospel is incomplete unless a warning is given, unless Unless the good news is set against the bad news, the reality of our sin. That's exactly what Jesus provides here to his disciples and to us, in fact. And to all who have ears to hear this parable. There are actually three warnings given in this parable. They're all related. I'd like to break them down very quickly for us this morning. The first warning is that there will be an end to the act of fishing or dragging this net Look at verse forty-eight. When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down. That was it. No more fishing. The net was full. The fish to be gathered were gathered. That was it. There may have been a fish close to the net. But if it wasn't pulled up, it wasn't gathered. The fishing was over. The end of fishing. The parable sets a time line on the act of the work of the fishing net. At some point the net will be hauled up and the gathering will be finished. And this clearly points to the fact that Jesus will return On the day of the Lord, and the time for being gathered into the church will be over. The day of Jesus' return will be the end of that time of gathering period. The time when men, women, and children can and are able to and are given the opportunity to come and place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and trust in Him alone for their eternal salvation, there will be an end, a date certain, a time certain when the door is closed and shut. See, many today have a false understanding. That they have an endless amount of time to consider their eternity Many today, especially our young people, believe that their demise, their death is so far in the future that they don't need to spend any time today considering spiritual things. They don't need to set their mind upon their standing before a holy God today. They would consider that there are many other important matters for them to dwell on today, and that they're eternal souls. will wait. But then you see this parable speaks of nothing of a long period of fishing It speaks of an end to that work, to that activity of gathering, dragnetting for the fish. Jesus speaks of a day when he will return, which no one knows. It could be today. It could be tomorrow. It could be next week. It could be next year. No one knows. God alone. And death, even as we saw yesterday, death comes at the time when God is ordained. So the warning here is that there will be an end to the gathering. And that we need to be zealous to tell them that there will be an end. And we don't know when. The second warning is that there will be a an end of the age and at that end there will be a separation Angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace. On that day and that time chosen by God, Christ will return and separate the gathered. A sorting, a separation of those who are gathered. Not of the fish that were not caught up in the dragon. Now this speaks of those who are gathered, those which were brought to the shore in the net. The work of angels Remember the parable, the wheat and tears. The Son of Man will send out his angels and they will gather out of his kingdom and cause all and all causes of sin and lawbreakers and throw them into the fiery furnace. This is a repetition. Jesus wants us to hear that there will be a separation and those who are the evil will be cast into an eternal hell, an eternal damnation, an eternal fire. Repetition of the same event. And this is not the last time in Matthew's gospel that Jesus will speak of hell and damnation He repeats the same warning. Why is that? It's because we need to hear it. We need to hear it again. And we need to hear it again. This is what our sins deserve. This is what we have earned. This is what we have merited. And it's only because of Christ that we will be not pulled from the fiery furnace, but we will avoid the fiery furnace because he went into the fiery furnace for us. Yes, there's a warning. But there's also a great blessing that's set forth here That you have taken a path not to the fiery furnace, but to Christ. And He's giving you life and you'll have that eternal But you've given life so that you can tell others about the fiery furnace, which they might be headed to. There's a third warning here. And the warning is that the church is not a safe zone. We would all agree with those who wrote the confession of faith Again in chapter 25, who wrote, out of which, meaning the church, the house and the family of God, out of which there is no ordinary possibility of salvation, the church is that place that God has given to us where the ordinary ordinary salvation takes place where people hear the word of God, where people are convicted, the convicted of their sins and And of a Savior who's Christ Jesus as it's preached. There is no ordinary possibility of salvation outside of a church, and we know that it's a blessing. But Jesus is saying here very clearly to us, it is not, it is not a safe zone. Saying a person is not saved by their membership in the visible church. A person is not saved by giving offerings or tithes to the church. A person is not saved by attending upon worship services. No one will be able to say to Jesus on the day of judgment or on the day of his or her death, I was a member of the church. Let me into heaven. Do we believe that membership is called for? Yes, of course. We see it throughout Scripture, the call to be part of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. But it does not say rely upon your membership in order to have eternal life. Relying upon membership is akin to the Pharisees and the Israelites, relying upon their being biological descendants of Abraham. Remember the Word of God. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. And not all are the children of Abraham because they are his offspring. But through Isaac shall your offspring be named. Paul is saying to his friends, the Jews You can't rely upon your biological descendants from Abraham. You're not saved because you are an Israelite. You're not saved because you are a Jew You're saved by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. So, brothers and sisters, we need to ask ourselves this morning, where is our safety this morning? Is it in your righteousness? Run. Is it in your church membership? Run from that. If your safety, if your hope, if your salvation is not in Jesus Christ alone, run. Run to Christ. He is the Savior. He alone. Yes, the Lord will separate those gathered into the visible church. At the end of the age. As Jesus taught The Sermon on the Mount, he wanted us to hear that message. As he taught about those who who thought, who believed that they were in a safe zone because they did good works Jesus said on the day of judgment he will tell them, Depart from me, I never knew you A warning this morning, brothers and sisters, is don't let the church itself be that safe zone for you. Let your faith in Christ Jesus alone Be that which gives you confidence and assurance that indeed you have been saved, and that you will be saved on the day of judgment. Father in Heaven Jesus' teaching is so powerful. In a few words, in a few sentences, Lord God, He is able to set forth so much truth We thank you for the warnings this morning. We thank you for this parable. And Father, we pray that you'd help each one of us to heed the warnings given to us by Jesus. Father, if any here are are trusting in something other than Christ this morning for their eternal salvation, please, Lord God, lead them away from whatever else they trust in. And draw them to Christ. And Father, for those who are trusting in Christ, truly trust trusting in Christ this morning, Father, increase their assurance. Increase their hope and cast off their doubts. Father knowing that at the end of the age If they're truly trusting in Christ Jesus, if their belief is sincere, if nothing else is standing in the way of their trust in Christ Jesus. But if the angels will separate them. For glory. We praise you with