If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, Well we turn to chapter twelve. I believe that's on page nine hundred and seventy-one of your Pew Bibles. The preaching of the Word this morning will be on verses 14 through 21. I'm going to be again reading at verse 9 to give us a bit of context. Well Pharisees have been questioning Jesus on the Sabbath day. And it continues in the synagogue. Let's give attention now to God's holy word. Matthew 12, beginning of verse 9. He went on from there and entered their synagogue, and a man was there with a withered hand. And they asked him, Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? so that they might accuse him. He said to them, Which one of you who has a sheep, if it falls into a pit on the Sabbath, will not take hold of it and lift it out? Of how much more value is a man than a sheep? So it is lawful to do good on the Sabbath. Then he said to the man, Stretch out your hand. And the man stretched it out, and it was restored, healthy like the other. But the Pharisees went out and conspired against him how to destroy him. Jesus, aware of this, withdrew from there, and many followed him, and he healed them all. And ordered them not to make him known. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased, I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break And a smoldering wick he will not quench until he brings justice to victory. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. Let's try in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God. We thank you for your word. We thank you for this gospel recorded by Matthew. We ask now, Father, by your Spirit, that you would move us. If you would convict us of sin and Father, then cause us to remember all the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus. Comfort your people this morning, Father, and Increase our faith in Christ. Feed us now with the bread of life. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the book of Numbers, there is an account set forth Where certain men come to Moses and Aaron and they complain. A certain leader was named Korah, and he brought with him 250 chiefs. Leaders within the congregation, and they bring themselves together against Moses and Aaron, and they say, Why do you exalt yourselves above the assembly of the Lord? Who put you in charge? Who chose you? Look at us. And so Moses falls on his face as this challenge is now received, this question as to who the Lord had chosen. And Moses being inspired, so the Lord will show who he's chosen, who's holy. Who he brought near to himself. And if you know the rest of the account The Lord opens the earth and swallows up Korah and all those involved in the rebellion. Demonstrating so very powerfully that indeed Moses was the chosen one to lead the people to the promised land, Korah. Refusing to follow the one who had been chosen by God, God's man himself. Two paths set forth in that account The one path headed down to destruction, taken by Korah and those he took with him. The other path headed to the promised land. led by the chosen one of God, Moses, pointing us obviously to the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning, as we continue in our study of Matthew, we have already seen That Matthew records that Jesus taught that the people of God are to be shining. They're to be a light set before others. Jesus has called his disciples. Tax collectors and sinners have come to Jesus, and he's teaching them. He's identified himself as the bridegroom he's been healing. He's told the disciples the harvest is plentiful. He sent them out into it. And he's been questioned by John's disciples. Are you the expected one? Are you the one that the scriptures speak of who is to come? And save us. And Jesus has answered. And now the Pharisees are challenging Jesus, especially on the day of worship, the Sabbath day. Today, as we continue in a sense in that context, I want us to see that Jesus was sent in meekness to display mercy. And proclaim justice. Jesus was sent in meekness to display mercy And proclaim justice. We'll see that this morning in three points: the meekness of Jesus, the confidence of Jesus, and thirdly, the power of Jesus. Well let's begin then. The meekness of Jesus. In a sense, this scene begins with the Pharisees' question Is it lawful to heal on the Sabbath? Desiring to accuse Jesus And if you remember the account that we went over last time that we were in Matthew, we see that Jesus uses reason. He points to those who would pull their sheep out of the pit. And save it on the Sabbath day, and how much more valuable a man is than a sheep, and so it is thus lawful to do good on the Sabbath. And he also answered by action, didn't he? By restoring the withered man's hand. This is all in keeping with Jesus' prior statement, I desire mercy and not sacrifice. An allusion to Hosea, the prophet, who wrote, I desire sack steadfast love and not sacrifice the knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. And so Jesus was healing on the Sabbath. He was demonstrating the steadfast love of the living God. And that's what prompts the Pharisees now in verse 14 to go out. Think of this, they're all in the synagogue together. Jesus is likely teaching, he's certainly teaching about the ability to have mercy on the Sabbath. the right way to act on the Sabbath to have mercy. And now as a result the Pharisees leave. That's their response. The Pharisees went out. They left the presence of Jesus. But they not do not merely leave the presence of Jesus. Now they conspire. They join together in an agreement to do harm to Jesus, how to destroy him. Just think of that as setting the backdrop now to our passage. The Pharisees conspiring, coming together, because of Jesus' mercy, because he's speaking the truth, because he is indeed from God, displaying the steadfast love of God. Who wants not sacrifice but the knowledge of God? And so the Pharisees leave. And Jesus himself withdraws. Look at verse 15. Jesus, aware of this. Withdrew from there. He was aware. Jesus knew what was going on in the hearts of the Pharisees. He knew what was on their mind. He knew why they had left. He was knowing of the Pharisees' conspiracy. He presently knew of their plan to destroy him. See, the Pharisees were not going to argue with Jesus or present their understanding of the Word of God. They weren't going to join Jesus and digging into the scriptures and seeking the will of God concerning compassion and mercy. They weren't trying to understand the nature of the Lord. Trying to get a true significance of the Sabbath or worship and obedience to the living God They weren't joining together in the praise of Jehovah who had sent this one, Jesus, to heal and save sinners. No. Jesus knew that the Pharisees' departure, the purpose of their leaving, was to join with others to destroy him. They hated what Jesus was preaching. They hated the truth that he was proclaiming. They hated what he was doing. Having mercy and compassion in violation of their oral traditions. They hated so much that they joined themselves together with those who sought the same thing, death to righteousness. The Pharisees desired one thing, to silence the truth and mercy of God spoken and demonstrated by Jesus Christ. And so how does Jesus respond? He withdrew. Aware of this, Jesus withdrew from there And many followed him. And don't miss this. And he healed them all. This is what the Son of Man was sent to do. Their sin that had afflicted each of those who were following Jesus It's causing their bodies to fail. They were in need. Each one was returning to dust, just as Adam was told by God. And so Jesus was healing them. This one Jesus, who was under attack, certainly by Satan and now by men, supposedly spiritual men, pours out compassion. Mercy and grace, demonstrating the divine power and love of God his Father to each of those who were in need of healing. And then he calls for silence. And he healed them all and ordered them not to make him known. The implication was that they did know. That those who were being healed supernaturally by Jesus, the Son of God, they knew who He was. They knew He was the Messiah, the expected one, the very Son of God. Even while those who should have identified Jesus as the Messiah, the Pharisees, the one they were supposedly looking for, who were refusing to identify Jesus as such, these sinners Knew who he was. And so Jesus tells them affirmatively, don't cry out, don't reveal my true identity. Did you notice what Jesus didn't do? Are you grasping it from this context yet? He doesn't seek to stop the Pharisees. He doesn't call down a host of heaven to thwart their conspiracy, their plans to destroy him. He doesn't proclaim his true identity, the beloved one of God. He doesn't stop his ministry. But he continues to heal, possibly while it's still being the Sabbath. And you should be asking yourself at this point why? Well Matthew reveals that for us. Look at verse seventeen. This Meaning everything that's gone before it, Jesus' acts, and Jesus' silence Jesus' mercy, this was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. It's interesting. You must be asking yourselves this question. I asked myself that question. Why would Matthew now at this point in recording this narrative inject this quote or this allusion from the prophet Isaiah, from what we now have as chapter 42? It's because the acts of Jesus demonstrated that he was the one that Isaiah prophesied of. You might be asking, now how is it that these acts of Jesus We're fulfilling Isaiah's prophecy. Well, first and foremost, we must see that Jesus was sent to model the humble and contrite heart. That the Father sought his children to pursue and have. And so that's what Jesus was doing. He's modeling the humble and contrite heart. Brokenness, mournful, a sorrowful heart, not over his own sin. But over the sins of those whom he was sent to save. And Jesus' attitude was so filled with the things of God. That there was no need for him to quarrel or cry aloud with the Pharisees, but every need to show forth the mercy and compassion and love of God the Father. So jump down to verse twenty for a moment. A bruised read: He will not break. A smoldering wick, he will not quench. Until he brings justice to victory. Now I'm going to argue that that's exactly what Jesus was doing. When Matthew writes, this was to fulfill Jesus was not breaking the bruise reed, he was not quenching the smoldering wick. As he healed them all, as he didn't pursue the Pharisees and argue with them, but healed them. Those sinners who needed healing. Well, who are these then? Who is Matthew speaking of as he quotes Isaiah, a bruised reed, and a faintly burning wick? What were they referring to? Who were they referring to? You think of a reed for a moment. It's not a strong plant. It's thin, it's long, it's slender, it's easily broken, snapped in half. It's not a tree. And Isaiah writes that these reeds have been bruised, seemingly close to breaking in half, but not yet. And then a faintly burning or smoldering wick is one that is still lit, but not by much. Think of a wick in a bottle of oil. But the oil's running out. Indeed, the oil might be completely gone, and it's just the residue within the wick itself. And so the wick is not burning brightly. It lacks sufficient oil. It's nearly but not quite snuffed out. And these two things represent one and the same thing. These images, these metaphors, represent those who have not yet received justice. It seems that the bruised reed and the smoldering wick are representing those who have been oppressed, who are being persecuted. They seem both to be a reference to those who are contrite or humble of heart or meek, those who have suffered for the name of righteousness. Those who have suffered for Christ, those who are longing for and seeking for the righteous justice of the King, those who seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, Matthew 6, 33. These are the lowly These have been nearly snuffed out by the wicked, such that they're merely smoldering. These have been bruised by their own sin and by the sins of others. Isaiah writes this in chapter 57. For thus says the one who is high and lifted up, who inhabits eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place, and also with him who is of contrite and lowly spirit. I say saying God is dwelling with those who are contrite, to revive the spirit of the lowly and to revive the heart of the contrite. That's why Isaiah is saying God dwells with them. To revive them. That's what Isaiah is referring to. In chapter 42, that's what Matthew is Pointing us to in this passage, Jesus has already referred to those who are poor in spirit, those who mourn, those who are meek. And that's who Jesus is serving. You see, the the bruised reed will not be broken. The faintly burning wick will not be snuffed out. Because Jesus is present. See, these two paths have been set forth for us here by Matthew, just as they were set forth in Korah's rebellion. The Pharisees have left the synagogue and taken the path of wickedness, malice, hatred, envy, and destruction. Jesus has also left the synagogue on the opposite path. He won't break the bruised reed. But he'll build it up. He won't snuff out the burning wick that's faint. But he'll add oil to it. You see, as he is pouring out compassion and mercy, as he's healing them, that's exactly what he's doing. Those are the two paths. Korah was fixed on destruction. Moses. Moses was leading those faintly burning wicks, the bruised wreaths to the promised land where they would dwell with the living God. Are you bruised this morning? Are you bruised, Freed? Are you faintly burning, wick, nearly snuffed out? Are you under attack by Satan? Are your sins within you Causing you to be lowly and mournful If you're seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, then indeed you are under attack. You must be. Satan is accusing you. He understands and knows that you're weak, that you're slender, that you're bruised, and he continues to attack, thinking that he will snap you. He sees that you're faint, that your light isn't what it could be. And so he accuses you. He's continuing to tell you you're guilty. You deserve condemnation. You're not worthy. You're not worth saving. He's accusing and condemning you and the world is. Doing the same. It mocks you. You who are seeking the righteousness of God. You're seeking to follow Jesus. You're foolish to believe in a book that is 2,000 plus years old. And you're blind to trust in a dead man called Jesus. Yes, if you're trusting in Jesus this morning, you are a bruised reed, you are a faintly burning wick. But Jesus will not break you. No, he break Build you up. He has mercy upon you. He heals you. He stays with you. He doesn't go off and follow the Pharisees. No, no, no. He departs, he withdraws, so that he can be with you and heal you. And many followed him, and he healed them all. Praise be to God. That brings us to the confidence of Jesus. Our second point, we have to be asking ourselves that question now, how is it that Jesus was able to leave the synagogue and continue his ministry? Isn't that what the Pharisees were agitated about? Isn't that what caused them to leave and to want to destroy him? Isn't that why they left to conspire with others? Because they didn't like what he was doing So much so that they planned with others to kill him. So how is it that this one, this Jesus, would continue this ministry How did he have the ability, the heart, the intellect, the emotion, the stamina to continue this mercy ministry, this compassion, this grace of truth, this in the face of such hatred and opposition? Where did his confidence, his assurance, come from? Well Matthew tells us, doesn't he? He tells us by reaching back to that inspired prophet Isaiah. In chapter 42 of Isaiah, Isaiah prophesied. He was talking about one who would come, one who would be chosen by God. One who would do all these things, who wouldn't break a bruised reed, who wouldn't quench that faintly burning wick, who would provide and proclaim justice, who would make sure That those reeds and those wicks would survive and prosper until justice had its victory. He was saying that this is coming. He was foretelling the future. That's part of what prophecy is. But now Matthew tells us that Isaiah's prophecy had now been fulfilled in Jesus. That's important for us to see this morning. That Isaiah foretold, and Matthew said, now look and see. The one that Isaiah told us was coming is now here. So that truth set forth initially by Isaiah reveals why Jesus was so confident to continue his work and how he did so. Look at verse 18. Behold, my servant, whom I have chosen, my beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased. You see, Jesus is the chosen servant of the living God. He withdraws. With the fair from the Pharisees. He's not seeking approval from the Pharisees. He wasn't seeking approval from the religious leaders of the day. He does not go to the priests and the scribes and say Men, listen to me. See what I have. No Now he's chosen by God the Father. The Father has set his love upon Jesus. This is his beloved servant and son, and Jesus needed no other approval. My beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased, the expected one, would be the very servant of the living God, chosen by God Himself, the beloved of God. The Pharisees had gone off to their conspiracy, and Jesus simultaneously knew that he was loved of God, that he was chosen by God. He knew that he was serving the living God, that he had been sent as the chosen, the beloved one. to do all that was in the heart of the Almighty Creator for his children. And that God was well pleased with him. Those are big words. Used in scripture really with reference to only two. First, the creation. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. But now with regard to his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, my beloved, with whom my soul is well pleased. Not because there was no other choice. See, Jesus was able to continue his ministry, not because there was no other choice for Jesus, no, but because he was loved. And the father was well pleased with him, not well pleased with his work, not well pleased with him. With his son, with his heart. His contrite, his humble heart, his heart that so desired to do the will of his father. See, that's how he's able to continue. That's why he desired to continue his ministry. Because the Father loved him. And Jesus has been provided for, hasn't he? Because he was loved and beloved by his father, he was provided for by his father. When we think of provision, we usually think of clothing and food and shelter, but That is true. In this case, the greatest provision that the Father provides for his son, Jesus, was his Spirit. Look at verse 18, and I will put my spirit upon him, and he will proclaim justice as Gentiles. It's almost as if Matthew had written, Because I put my spirit upon him, he will proclaim justice. You see, God had provided his spirit in abundance on Christ, on Jesus. And so as a direct result of being filled with the Holy Spirit, Jesus is not fearing men. He doesn't withdraw because he's Fearful of the Pharisees, he withdraws because he wants to do his father's will, because his father loves him, and because the father has given him the spirit. It's overflowing. So Jesus doesn't fear men. No, he fears his father in a familial way. He fears him In such a way that he so desires to do all that the Lord has given him to do What does that mean for you? Yes, Jesus was confident. He's confident because of the love of the Father. He's confident because of the filling of the Spirit. He's confident because He's chosen. He's confident because he's been sent to serve. You might be thinking, well, that's great for Jesus. Praise God. Yes. Of course. And we do. But don't those words sound familiar to you this morning? Chosen by God, beloved, called to serve If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, all of those words apply to you. They describe you. You have been chosen. You have been set apart. God has set his love upon you. And as a result, you've been called to serve. And it's not because you were lovable. It's because he loved you. And so that causes us to think, even ask ourselves that question, then how should I serve? How should I serve Christ today? Knowing that I am loved by God, knowing that I've been chosen by God, that I've been set apart by God. Knowing that I'm provided for by God, as He has sent His Spirit, and His Spirit dwells in me Does it make a difference this morning? Does it cause you to desire to pursue his will? Just as Jesus did? Does it give you confidence? Even in the face of the world that hates you because it hates Christ Things for us to meditate upon and pray over. Blessings that the Lord has given to each of you this morning. as you trust in Christ. That brings us to our third point, the power of Jesus First, the power of Jesus is set forth in his ability and desire to proclaim. Look at verse 18, I will put my spirit upon him and he will proclaim justice to the Gentiles. Jesus' voice will be heard. Isn't that amazing? You will be heard by those who have ears to hear. Jesus' voice will be heard over the shouts of others who are headed down the path of destruction. Think of Korah. And the rebellion, 250 others coming with Korah, basically to the doorstep of Moses and Aaron, just two men. Just two. And somehow their voice was heard over the accusations, over the criticism, over the hatred Of Korah and the 250. And Jesus' voice will be heard. Because his voice is powerful. Do you see the contrast in this passage? He will not quarrel or cry aloud, nor will anyone hear his voice in the streets. A bruised reed he will not break, a smoldering whisk he will not quench. Yet he will proclaim justice and it will be heard. He he won't defend himself But he will proclaim justice to all those who need to hear it. And the power doesn't begin or doesn't stop with a mere voice, with a mere proclamation. A bruised reed he will not break, a smoldering wick he will not quench, until he brings justice to victory. He will proclaim justice, and then he will bring justice to victory to victory, to all those who are bruised, to all those who have become smouldering wicks, who are oppressed and persecuted, He will bring justice to victory for them. Think of the Israelites in Egypt just for a moment. Scripture tells us that they were oppressed. Smoldering Wicks, bruised reeds. The Egyptians had put them into slavery, they had put them into bondage, and they had cried out for rescue. to the living God. Hear their cries, come up to God and he hears them and he remembers his covenant. And then he sends Moses He says, I have surely seen the affliction of my people and have heard their cries because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings. I've come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. We oppress those who are unrighteously afflicted. Jesus will bring justice to victory Pointing to all those who are suffering spiritually. Isaiah writes this in chapter 58, is not this the fast that I choose to loose the bonds of wickedness, to undo the straps of the yoke, to let the oppressed go free and to break every yoke That's God's will for his people. And that's the work of Jesus. He is bringing forth, he will bring forth Justice for the poor and needy, for the oppressed. He will break the bonds of wickedness. He will undo the straps of their yokes. He will let the oppressed go free. He will bring justice. You see the power of Christ set forth by Isaiah first, and now as Matthew repeats it, so this is the one who will do it. This is the one who will bring justice to victory. And we know that it will be done through his sacrifice. Jesus' sacrifice on the cross as he brings justice to victory as he crushes Satan. Through his shed blood. As he achieves victory over death and sin in the tomb, as he rises from the dead, he is Achieving justice. He is bringing justice. Not that you are just this morning, but in Christ you are just. That's how he does it. He does it through his sacrifice. He does it through his atonement. He does it through his righteousness. He does it through his power expressed so perfectly in the empty tomb. We see that power in this last verse. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. That word Gentiles could be translated to the nations. The idea is that Jesus will cause, he will lay upon the hearts of those who are outside the nation of Israel the hope in himself. Isaiah 42, he will not grow faint or be discouraged till he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands wait for his law. Do you see how Matthew has put it in a very interesting and different way? Isaiah said, the coastlines will wait for his law. Matthew said, this is how we should understand that. And in his name the Gentiles will hope. Consider these to be those without the scriptures, these who are not Israelites, these who are not related to Abraham by blood, these who were outside the nation of God. These would hope in the name of Christ, those sinners, those tax collectors and sinners who would come to eat with Jesus Christ, who the Pharisees asked, Why does your teacher eat with them? The inspired apostle Matthew says this. In his name, the Gentiles will hope Remember when Matthew wrote this gospel, Jesus was not walking on the earth, he had ascended, and so the Gentiles or the nations hoped not in a man who is physically present on the earth, one that they could see. And so how would they hope? It's only by his word. The tax collectors and the sinners who are listening to the words of Christ. Those who were reading the words of Matthew were hearing truth and redemption and life in Christ. They were hoping because of the truth of the Word of God, and that's what we're given this morning. Aren't we? Because Matthew points to Isaiah. And Matthew says, look, Isaiah's words were true Isaiah's prophecy was right. It was from God. And now it has come to pass. And that's what Matthew is saying in part. It's the truth of God's word that brings the Gentiles, that brings you to hope in Christ Jesus. That's the power of Christ. And there it is. This great irony and contrast, Jesus serving in meekness and gentleness and kindness and love. And then in power. It's all together, and it's all Christ Yes, Jesus was indeed sent in meekness to display mercy and to proclaim Clora's rebellion set forth that great contrast, those two paths. Path to destruction and the path to life. And in this passage this morning, we have the same. The path of destruction that the Pharisees were headed on, rejecting the Word of God, and then the other, the path to life. Through God's very word as proclaimed and fulfilled by his Son, the Lord Jesus. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. It is the A lamp into our feet, a light into our path. We thank you, Father, for the truth of your word. It is Absolute truth. We thank you that Isaiah's word has been fulfilled, at least in part today, by Christ. And it will be. Completely fulfilled in Christ as He returns. We thank you, Lord God, that our hope is not uncertain, but it's a certain hope. And the one who came in meekness and proclaimed the power of your word. And Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We thank it that it is the power, the power of salvation The power of the empty tomb, the power of the resurrection. Help us, Lord God. Help your people. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.