Brothers and sisters, if you'd please join me once more in prayer. Lord God, your word is so precious and it is so powerful. We know that it is true and we confess it throughout the course of our lives, but we often forget that it is also beautiful. Delight in the heart is like honey upon our lips And we forget that it is also powerful, that it does not return to it. It divides bone from marrow. It cuts to the very deep of us. It exposes what we ourselves don't even know about our own hearts, our sin. the grace yet to be revealed. And Lord, we pray that you would equip me your weak vessel to show forth your strength, your great strength Your glory. Help us, Lord, to catch anew a vision for your saving purposes in your church throughout all of history. And grant us confidence, not discouragement. Hope, not to miss For those that are the things that belong to us even amidst our suffering, as people with broken hearts and a broken world. Grant us these things we pray for the sake of your beloved Son and our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. You know, when I think of the Church of Christ, I often think of a young Air Force captain I knew out in Afghanistan. A young captain named David Lyon. Dave was a young believer that I happened to meet in God's providence when I'd flown north at one point to visit some of my soldiers. Uh I had no idea who he was, but at one point we were waiting for a meeting between people much, much higher ranking than ourselves, and so you wait as long as they want you to wait. And uh I was waiting in his office. He was the aide to a general in that meeting. He said, when I found out you were flying up here, I was so excited. You see, I don't have a chaplain up here in this part of the country. I don't have any of the I don't have a fellowship of believers up here. But I only know that I've been a believer for just a couple years now Still really yelling in my faith. It could really use some encouragement. So he spent time talking about the faith, time in prayer, time in God's Word. He talked about what it was like to convert from Mormonism Uh he talked about the role that his young bride has played in his faith. Uh she grew up in the church and less to be despised those who actually are raised within the church, which is more rare nowadays. God used her mightily and his wife to nurture him with those basic Sunday school truths that most people don't even remember anymore. My wife still struggles with calling Haggai Haggai. She often says Haggai Uh she didn't know that because she didn't grow up in Sunday school. But uh, you know, this guy had such great zeal and love for the Lord and love for his wife as well Now, we talked a good part of the night, and this was his plan. When he left Afghanistan, his wife was going to get out of the Air Force. She was actually in Air Force II The vast majority of their marriage thus far have been spent with one or the other on deployment. At this point, on top of that, right now, or at that point, both of them were deployed in Afghanistan. Uh he up in the north, she down in the south. So the plan was that when they got back, and she was due to get back a couple months after them, she would get out of the Air Force, they would start a family. Um and so around Christmas, well he was supposed to go home a couple weeks before she did, and I or a couple months before she did, and he begged and pleaded his way into staying in Afghanistan. He refused to leave Afghanistan without his wife. By God's grace, some folks up above relented Uh and he was able to stay for a couple more months, even closer to her, uh where we were in Kabul. And uh on top of that, in God's grace, he was able to spend Christmas Day with his wife in the middle of Afghanistan. Christmas Day in the middle of Afghanistan. How many soldiers, airmen, sailors, marines can claim that? The next day, twenty-sixth, it was my birthday. Thankfully I I hate my birthday, so I love being overshadowed by Jesus And on the then Dave Lyon was supposed to fly out that day on an on a chopper back to his post to get to work, but the cloud cover was thick. He couldn't fly out So on December 27th, the next day, he kissed his wife goodbye and jumped on a convoy with a couple of our Czech friends, and a couple minutes later, the post shook. And Dave Lyon, our young brother in the faith, just starting out on the road of faith, was taken from this earth and brought into glory, having just said goodbye to his wife. He was taken out by what all of us feared in those city areas, which is a vehicle packed with explosives driven by a sewage side driver. There's nothing you can do against it about it except make your peace with God in those final seconds you see them coming Dave and Dana did go home together in a sense to the to the States. When that happened, she accompanied his body back home, uh, arm draped around his flag-draped coffin. Something that has forever, of course, left a mark on me. We often tend to think, or I tend to think of the church in the same way that I thought of Dave Lyon's life A man full of zeal, man full of courage, who wouldn't go home without his wife. A man who is also still very sloppy, immature, reckless, all the things that come with being a young believer. So you see on the side by side the beauties and the virtues, as well as the hardships, the fragility, and even though he was a very buff man, the weakness. And then also sometimes I'm prone to cynicism. And I think of the church in the same way I think of Dave Lyon. That is a church that for all the beauties, the glories, the hardships It's kind of doom to death. It's easy to get that cynical, isn't it? To think of our life and our and the Christ Church and his purposes in that respect. We look around us and it's very easy to get cynical, isn't it? Not that the culture here ever belonged to the church. But they're making pretty sure right now that we have no that we're under no illusions. They guys prayed about the Supreme Court decision. But I tell you what, they tear down the institution of marriage, so be it, they can't tear down the church. Uh we do not need to feel what's going on in this culture. We act as if it's a mortal threat to the church. Yet in a place like China where the church is under incredible persecution There's approximately ten thousand people coming to Christ every single day within the Underground Church in China. As our best counts uh approximate There are millions more believers in China than there are members of the Communist Party. You can't stamp out the church. It's impossible. The reason why we get cynical is because we lose this focus We lose the fact that Christ is Lord of his church. It's still building it, whether we see it or not. We think our own experiences and feelings somehow are the real story. And we're dead wrong. We're dead wrong And we hear what people say about the church and they continually malign it and assault it. We're intolerant, we're bigoted, we're self-righteous, we're hypocritical. Yes, we are, but we're also saved by grace. It's a big boat. The difference is it's whether or not you're saved by grace or need to be saved by grace. But there's no doubt, so we can't argue Against those basic facts that yes, indeed, we are still sinners. We're going to struggle with self-righteousness until we are in the grave and resurrection and glory So they're right. But then we still we get cynical about the church as well. Because you see the direction which some of our ministers go and some of our prominent figures You think of one minister who has a church in a former basketball arena and preaches to people every week that they can have their best life now. I hope that's not the case, because this life at many points real really stinks. Really stinks. You have another church or another pastor who says he feels called by God to have a $10 million jet. And if you know you name it, you can claim it. This is for the glory of God, so I'm gonna have this superjet to go around and spread the gospel of Jesus Christ around the world. And apparently God doesn't do that when you ride in coach We get very disillusioned by our ministers and by other prominent figures within the church. That makes us cynical too. We get cynical by the state of our own hearts too, do we not? I'll know better than any of those guys. You look into your own heart, a heart at a time, zealous. You want to have a name like Jonathan Edwards, and yet you end up with a name like John Doe Man, the Christian life can be incredibly disappointing. And it's so easy to get cynical. And we view the church through this lens. Continual disappointment, the gospel under assault from outside the church, from inside the church, from inside my own heart. And so I'm prone to get cynical. I'm prone to get discouraged. I'm prone to think that right now this is the darkest day in the history of the church. Forgetting China. Forgetting the fact that South Korea, a small teeny country in the bottom of Asia, not without more missionaries than any other country in the world. Forgetting that in random remote incredibly impoverished African countries like Malawi, uh where by God's grace I've had I've had a chance to do some work, a country aside of Pennsylvania, and just one-third of Of that s of that country, you have approximately one million one million confessional Presbyterians alone. They do it in their own beautiful African way, but they have a liturgy and they sing hymns. Like they sing hymns like call and response Pimps. One million special Presbyterians, that's approximately more than the entire West combined right now. And just one-third of a country the size of Pennsylvania and Africa, one of the five poorest countries in the world In times of famine, even after times of famine, they'll sell the f or they'll give the first fruits of their crops to the church, because for them the bread of life is more important than the bread of the land. Praise the Lord. And yes, yeah, we get discouraged and we get cynical. Because we're so consumed by our own present-day experiences. Forgetting that there's an entire narrative, an entire story that transcends all of this. But again, we get lost in our own petty feelings and experiences. That's about to go to a passage like this today. Hey, he talked about a reason to be cynical. Alright, Stephen, like they had chat. That was a wonderful presentation of the gospel, but uh now he's dead Not a very uh super conclusion, unless you consider his presence then in glory. You think of the church? Alright, sure, they might have applauded Stephen for a few moments until I realized, oh wait But these guys are now coming after us. And all of a sudden you have men and women, thousands of them fleeing by foot out of that area, potentially awaiting a genocide. Remember these guys are the ones who just murdered Stephen? We were potentially looking at the genocide, the wiping out of the church of God in its very infancy. You think we c you think today's a dark day? You look at this passage, those first couple verses in chapter eight, and if you look at that through worldly eyes, in fact if you look at that the same way you look at our own lights today and the life of the church, then you're gonna think that is the the worst day, a miserable day in the history of the church. church. Thankfully, we understand that we can perhaps set our cynicism aside when we read God's Word. And so we go back to reorient ourselves. What is the true story of the church? What is the true story of our lives? The reality is the church is not dictated by our experiences nor our feelings. The church is not involved in any of our petty storylines in terms of its ultimate meaning, its purpose, its trajectory, and the glory that awaits it Christ Jesus. It is not dependent upon our political structures, our social achievements, is not dependent upon our culture. It is not dependent upon any worldly circumstance, as much as we try to make it so It is dependent upon the grace of God, through Christ Jesus our Lord, the power of His Word, and the power of His Spirit. Acts chapter 1. See before you ever get to the Acts 754s through 883s of our lives, uh you need to first go to Acts 1. It is there that you find what fundamentally gives reason and purpose and hope to later chapters of Acts. In Acts chapter 1, Jesus Christ prepares to ascend. And with this, he would usher in a whole host of problems for his people down below who couldn't cope with his absence. And so they went out and reached out for a pope to grab hold of, or the pope of their own experience, the pope of their own reason or logic. They were poping everything they could pope In order to try to compensate for the absence of Christ Jesus on earth. Thankfully, Christ does not leave us to try to seize at these sad straws of hope In this world. But he says in verse 8, But you will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and you will be my witnesses in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and to the end of the earth. Here's the deal. Christ Jesus said, yes, I'm leaving. But there's no reason to be discouraged. No reason to be cynical. I'm giving you my Holy Spirit. And my Holy Spirit's going to have you do something. You're going to be my witnesses. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, ends of the earth. Well, if you're a witness, then what are you witnessing too? What are you sharing? The very word of God. And thus you find here the picture of what the church is supposed to be about. And this is what we get wrong. This is not the Acts of the Apostles. That is a horrible, horrible title for this book that was given to this book of Acts. This is the acts of King Jesus through the power of his word and his spirit to build, preserve, defend his church to the very end of the age. That is the story of Acts, and that is the story, that is the narrative of the church today, and yet we forget this. Yet the book of Acts doesn't let us forget this, does it? In Acts 2, God, through his inspired word, fulfills his promise. The Holy Spirit has poured out upon his people. And what do his disciples immediately do? They proclaim his word. They proclaim his word. Which by the way, side point. God's word and God's spirit always work in tandem. God does not speak with a forked tongue Speaking out of his out of this word sometimes and out of the Holy Spirit at other times. There's those who claim they have a word of God that doesn't reconcile with the Holy Word of God, and they are liars. There's only one fork tongue in this world that belongs to the serpent. If we claim that God speaks with a dual tongue, then we ourselves are following his training, not in the Lord's. The two go together. In Acts 4, the believers pray for greater boldness. Well how does the Lord respond? He strengthens them with the Spirit so that they are equipped to speak the Word of God with boldness. Verse 31 of chapter 4. They were all filled with the Holy Spirit to continue to speak the word of God with fullness. In their hour of need, they cry out to God and King Jesus and minister unto his people Strengthen them with his Holy Spirit and gave them his holy word, both on their hearts and on their tongues. That's what we do when we cry after the Lord as well. We're crying for exactly that sort of thing. Strengthening. That's why that one clause of the Apostles' Creed is so important. What so many other believers are missing out on to their own discouragement. When we say, I believe in the Holy Spirit People somehow claim that reformed Christians have a weak view of the Holy Spirit because we're not falling down in the aisles I believe in the Holy Spirit. We don't get any grace from God apart from the Holy Spirit. The reason why we are believers is because Jesus Christ said, And I will pour out my spirit upon you. When we come before the ordinary means of grace and ordinary preaching of his word, that is a powerful, incredibly powerful time in which God speaks to us, the word of Christ by His Spirit We get the sacraments. This is my body broken for you. It is the Spirit who makes those elements true and real for us that feeds us by faith. I believe in the Holy Spirit. And so naturally you continue this storyline through the book of Acts and you look about you look at the person of Stephen. Stephen was not a superhero. Let's get this straight. We tend to look at people like Stephen, and we tend to look at him in the same way that we do, let's say, the Apostle Paul, Jonathan Edwards, John Piper, John Calvin, about 40 other different Johns. And uh And we think, wow, what super folks. That's not the point here. Stephen was an ordinary broken sinner like you and me. When he was called out to be a deacon, we're told the reason why he was called to be a deacon was because he was full of the Holy Spirit And full of wisdom. And uh what does that wisdom look like when the Holy Spirit's giving you that wisdom? It looks something like believing in and sharing the Word of God, which is what he did. So much so that he confounded the wisdom of this world and got people really, really angry. And there's a lesson to learn in that too. As you see, God, or Christ through his word and through his spirit, leading Stephen up to this appointed moment. Notice that simultaneously, Christ is driving Stephen by his word and by his spirit, and at the same time, Christ is driving other other people into confrontation. There is no neutral ground in this world. There is no standing standing one place, you're going in one direction or the other In fact, we should accept it as a basic fact about life in this world that your culture is going to rebel against the truth of God that you believe and will proclaim. If the if you're finding it qu uh comfortable to be a Christian within a culture, then something's probably wrong with your Christianity. And something's probably wrong with the culture too. They're probably buying into this moralistic nonsense that Christianity is about being a good person. We should expect hostility. Otherwise something is a misfiring with regard to God's word and God's spirit within his church. And so God is bringing Stephen to this point, this point of great suffering and great confrontation. Notice that it's the word and the spirit under the lordship of Christ that brought Stephen to this moment in Acts chapter 7. Notice that it's Christ through his word and his spirits that provokes the opposition of the people against Stephen and brings them into this great trial where they're ready to condemn him as a blasphemer against the living God. Notice that it's Christ's word and Christ's Spirit that equips Stephen now in this great decisive battle to turn the tables on his persecutors and to put them before the bar of God's justice, the true judgment seat of God. Say guys, I've got a story to tell you. And it doesn't reflect too nicely upon you. Over and over as he is sharing with them the very word of God, equipped by the Spirit of God, he comes to a certain conclusion, one that reaches its climax toward the end. Verse 51 of chapter 7. You stiff-necked people, uncircumcised hearts and ears, you always resist who? The Holy Spirit. As your fathers did, so do you. Which of the prophets did not, did your fathers not persecute? What did the prophets carry? The word of God. And they kill those who announced beforehand the coming of the righteous one whom you have now betrayed and murdered. You who received the law is delivered by angels and did not keep What is the death sentence pronounced upon mankind when considering Christ and His Word and His Spirit? You rebel against Oliver. You're in one camp or the other. Either saved by grace or you desperately need to be saved by grace, because otherwise you are still in full scale rebellion. For those who claim that, oh no, I'm earnestly seeking, or I just I don't really know, I'm agnostic. No, you're not. Christ sold the light of all this. He came upon this earth, God in flesh, God with the miracles, God with the profound, God-inspired teachings, God in every form. We have him there in the flesh. And we murdered him. Don't tell me, well, if only Christ was here in the flesh. No, if Christ was here in the flesh, you would kill him. That's what you would do. Don't tell me you have a problem with all these hypocrites in the church, because you had the one perfect person ever to walk the face of the earth and you murdered them. And sisters. And so you see this great battle really extends below this sermon. This great titanic battle between one person who was carried by Christ through his word and through his spirits and his ordinary grace. Against those who just could not stand it. Because they hated Christ and they will hate everyone who follows in the line of Christ. Because they hate his word, they hate his spirit, and they will fight him, kicking and screaming down to the very depths of the grave. Different storyline than we're usually used to, right, with regard to Christ and his church. And that's what brings us to this point The point of Stephen's martyrdom. Now let's get something straight here, because I think this is something that contributes to our misguided cynicism. Stephen's suffering here is not an accident. Nor is it somebody that God is merely permitting. As if, oh, you know, I didn't I didn't want this to happen, but I'll go ahead and work in and through it. Romans 8. 28 No, God commissioned Stephen for this suffering. His suffering is not an accident. If you truly believe that Christ is Lord of this church and that it is moving by the power of his word and his spirit, there are not accidents. Which means our historical moment right now in this country is not an accident. Yet we feel like we're being defeated by it. This is a plate that we must use. Amen. This is not a time for falling back on our butts. This is a time for getting up and going because Christ has called us to this point. He does not make accidents. He called Stephen to this point by his word and by his spirit. Suffering is not an accident. Brothers and sisters, you know about suffering. I know some of you have lost the closest people to you in your lives. Others of you have suffered extreme poverty. Others of you others of you have incredible humility uh humiliation and shame. That suffering is not an accident. You know, I love the title of John Piper's book, Don't Race for Cancer. Since when have we thought that suffering is merely something to be endured? Yes, we will sin in our suffering because we are broken sinners and we're gonna mess it up. But at the same time, let us not think that it's merely a time for gritting our teeth and bearing That's when you get up and move. We had one sister within our church uh who had cancer within the past year or two. And she made it her goal to use that cancer. answer to the glory of God and relate to other people who are also suffering under terminal illnesses. And share with them the grace and glory of God even to weak suffering sinners like ourselves. This time was not an accident. It's to come up to Stephen's martyrdom. And we find a couple of friendly faces that, hey, guess what we've seen before in the book of Acts We see his word and we see his spirit at work. They heard Stephen, they heard the word of God, the Spirit of God, and they were enraged and they ground their teeth at him. But he, full of who? The Holy Spirit. Amen. Gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus stayed at the right hand of God. You know, it's perhaps not always so neat and clean when somebody dies. But here we are given a certain degree of comfort with how the spirit strengthens us. at the hour of our death. Whether it really is beautiful and poetic, you know, we're lisping hymns to the very last, or whether it's pretty ugly and traumatic. The reality is the spirit has strengthened us in this moment. moment. He's drawing us nearer to the vision and glory of God. We might not have the literal visions like Stephen had here of God and his glory, but we have something like that when we have the grace and glory of God at work in our hearts through his holy word and his holy spirit. See and full of the Holy Spirit, gaze in heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing at the right hand of God. Let this be of comfort to you, brothers and sisters Sisters, we often stand before the bar of our culture's judgment as they condemn us for having the gall to say that we are desperately wicked and desperately need a Savior, that no, you are not a good person. No, not even one of you. We all need the perfect person, sent by God, fully God Himself, to live a perfect life. We cannot live and die the death that we cannot there. That is who we need. And we stand under the bar of their judgment and their wrath because of that. Stephen was the same way. In fact, our Savior was put under the bar of the wrath of mankind as well. But Stephen, by God's grace, is able to look up into heaven. See Jesus stand at the right hand of God. You see, there's really only one time We like to think that we can all stand up and play the part of judge. Even as believers we do that. But there's really only one throne in this world. That is the throne of Jesus Christ. Is before that throne that God was now in his grace showing to Stephen, show him what awaited him. Not a throne of judgment for Stephen, but a throne of grace. You see, this is the one time in all of Scripture when you see Jesus Christ standing at the right hand of God. What does that posture of standing beside the throne of judgment mean? Well that is a posture typical of that of a witness. You see, Stephen is about to shed his own blood for the gospel, but he's looking up in the glory And seeing he who shed his own blood and offered his perfect righteousness, standing in heaven as his witness, Christ, in a sense ministering to his soul in that moment, saying, They might be condemning you, but the true judge, though true one who can condemn, he's at the right hand of God interceding. for him. He looked up the glory and where most men will meet their judge, he got to see his justifier. That was the Holy Spirit who enabled him to see that. But of course the Holy Spirit doesn't go forth without the Holy Word. And so he began to talk. Behold, I see the heavens open and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. How much do you think of people like that? But they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him. Uh likely in this time, stoning was it's not just we think of it as helping somebody with stones. Uh no, in this time it would have been something more along the lines of throwing somebody off of a small cliff over a ledge. Uh probably break a bunch of bones when they hit the bottom. And then you start rolling the giant rocks and boulders over to crush them. Not just throwing a bunch of stones. like we're in some kids in a rock fight. And so they stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. Don't forget that name. And as they were stoning Stephen, look, this is the grace and glory of our God. At this point, he is just not, the picture of him is not simply suffering and crumbling and falling from view. As they were stoning him, as they were stoning him, not before they were stoning him, as they were stoning him, as they're heaving the giant rocks on top of him, he called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit Does that remind you of words uttered before? Perhaps by Jesus Himself upon the cross. The beautiful thing is Jesus Christ transformed that prayer for us. Jesus cried out to the Father, Receive my Spirit. But because Christ offered that prayer on behalf of his people, now when we cry out to God, we cry, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. The same one who offered that prayer on our behalf is the same one that we pray to Do now. Lord Jesus, receive my spirit, and falling to his knees, still spirit equipped, who never deserves us in our in our hour of trial, he cried out with a loud voice, Lord, do not hold this sin against him. Again, still Mirroring the words of his Savior. Pay attention to those words as well. They will come into use in a few moments. And when he had said this, he fell asleep. Again, death is not always pretty. In fact, death at times is horribly Horribly ugly. It's drawn out. There's years of suffering. And it's not even pretty at the last. There's pain. There's trauma. Death is always not always pretty in this world. We know that But at the same time, whether you're dying with hymns on your lips or dying in incredible pain, remember this. Scripture, when it describes death for us, calls it sleep. It says this, the good shepherd closes his hand upon us in this life merely to open it to another. Whether this life is like a dream or a nightmare to you, it's still just a dream or a nightmare. We're being prepared for the reality. Glory with God. Whether our closing days were like a dream or like a nightmare, Christ will close that hand and open it again in front glory. That is like sleep for us, because we're guided by Christ the Good Shepherd, as He guides us to the valley of the shadow of death by the rod of His Word and the staff of His Spirit. So it's a different story, at least for all intensive purposes, as we so see so far, than what we in our cynicism normally assume. That still doesn't change the outcome of this story, does it? 'Cause as far as we know right now, well Stephen's dead and the people are fleeing for their lives. So it's all it's it's beautiful to see how Christ has been at work through his word and through his spirit through all this But how does the story close? Is it really off or not? Like we celebrate it for a time and then it's over? Like I sometimes feel with regard to people like my friend Dave Lyon Remember those promises that Jesus gave in Acts chapter 1? So let's talk about the people of God. They think, they think, that they are flaming for their lives. I mean, you think we're crying penny penny the sky's falling nowadays? At this point, they're fleeing for their lives. Men, women, and children. You better believe they're muttering some stuff at this point, saying, uh, God, what is happening here? You better believe that they think this is the worst day in the history of the church. But again, look back on those promises. What does it say they are going here in Acts chapter 8? They're being scattered, they're being persecuted, possibly facing genocide, and where are they going to? Judea and Samaria See uh that's probably the heart of the missions movement right there. It's not a bunch of self-righteous, self-glorifying heroes of the faith going out to the middle of nowhere and spreading the word it is a bunch of people with the sword of God at their back. This isn't merely the sword of man, it was a sword of God at their back, driving them to the nations Their darkest day was actually their brightest day and they couldn't see it. They like us were blinded by their own petty experiences. What they didn't realize is what they perceived as the darkest day, the day in which the church might have been wiped out, was the day of the next great movement of missions throughout the world. This was one of the greatest days in the history of the church. This was Christ showing, you know what, it's not just gonna be Jerusalem. I was serious when I said Judea, Samaria, and the ends of the earth Their darkest day was actually the brightest. So much for our experiences and our ability to read God's providence through the tea least of our circumstances. How about Steven? Still seems like a pretty dismal result for him, just from a worldly perspective. I mean okay, bravo Did a good job sharing the word of God, but now he's dead, dead dead, about as dead as he can get. In Acts chapter 8, devout man buried Stephen and made great lamentation over him So good for him. But even so, he gave a good testimony, but with his death in vain. I think we'd have to conclude not as well. And I would like to offer you guys a possibility that I believe Suggested in Scripture. The great church father Augustine said he believed that we owe the conversion of Saul of Tarsus to the prayers of Stephen. Augustine argued it wasn't at the Damascus rogue that Saul's conversion began. It was when Stephen, with Saul overseeing his death, cried out, Lord, do not hold the sin against them. Prayer is an appointed means of grace given us by God, and He does not hear our prayers in vain. We do not offer our prayers in vain. Prayer is a powerful tool given us by God for Him to execute in accordance with His sovereign and gracious will. What better way to respond to Stephen's prayer here at the point of his death? And to go after the closest we've seen in Scripture to the Antichrist. Someone who's trying to put the church to death and to go and take him for his own But don't you guys see that in Scripture? Think about this big picture. Here, in a sense, you see the gates of heaven closing upon Stephen, that vision. Stephen dies. When do they open once more for another heavenly vision? Actually that's a few chapters later. But Saul, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me It's as if the gates of heaven close upon one vision of one man's prayers and open upon another man to answer those prayers. For those of you who think, man, my kids, my grandkids, you see them in the rebellion, or other people in your life, and you're wondering, am I just praying? Am I crying out day and night in vain It doesn't even matter if you die. Even after your death, when you die, God doesn't die. Your prayers don't die with you God is still working in and through his ordinary providence, through King Jesus by his word and by his spirit to accomplish the fruits of those prayers. Stephen didn't see the fruits of his prayers in uh on earth, but you better believe he saw it in glory and with the angels rejoiced. So you see that in Stephen's conversion, this is imagery there We also see that way, see that in the way that Paul lives his life. You see, he knew, first of all, that his he was not living for earthly pleasures anymore once he became a believer He told the people in Colossus, the Colossus 3, chapter 3, verses 1 through 4. He says, For you have been raised with Christ. Your life, or if you've been raised with Christ, set your mind on the things above, not on things below, for your life is hidden with Christ and God For you have died with Christ. And when Christ who is your life appears, so you will appear with him in glory. Set your minds on things above? Where has he ever seen that before? Well it seems like there's some guy who's saying just a few years before, hey, I see the gates of heaven open up and Jesus standing at the right hand of God I think he had an example before him of somebody kept their eyes fixed on the throne of grace until the very end. But you also see that in the way in which he prepared to conclude his life Acts 2024. He's speaking to his dear brothers, the Ephesian elders. Think of these as some of the dear people within your own pews, your brothers and sisters. And you know you're going through martyrdom. And they know it too. And so he's there weeping with him in an incredibly sad scene. I consider my life worth nothing to me, if only I may finish the race and complete the task the Lord Jesus has given me, the task of testifying to the gospel of God's grace. Like Stephen, but equipped by God's Spirit, she merely wanted to proclaim God's word to the very end and exalt his Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Well, was that fulfilled? Some of the final words that Paul ever wrote at the end of 2 Timothy, that's his last letter before he's martyred. He's giving his final instructions to Timothy and through Timothy the whole church of God and all the millennia to come He says in that final chapter, in essence, I have finished the race. I have completed the course, I'm being prepared to the drink offering to be poured out. Now I await the crown. And his life has come full circle and he's preparing to end it in a fashion similar to the same man he martyred. We owe the conversion of solid Parsons to the prayers of Stephen Lest you believe that your prayers lack power. Brothers and sisters, all the way in the darkest days of the church, you guys know that's That's not true. Do we really have any reason to be cynical or discouraged? No, not at all. The political storyline, the cultural storyline, that's not the church's storyline. The church's storyline stands over and above all of that Which means that at every single point of adversity, we don't wither before it we use it to the glory of God. We never retreat All right, so they take away some uh from take away the institution of marriage from us? Alright, well in our marriages we will live them to the glory of God. You know, I grew up in Montgomery County, Maryland, right next door to here. We live in a state that has the horrible statistic of being the state uh that more than any other state in the country that uh the number of people who have had four or more abortions. More that's more Maryland than any other state in the country. People have had four or more abortions Tragic and I what gave this book high school. Uh and I better believe that I looked to left to right and thought about who wasn't there That said, that kill people in the most vulnerable stages of life, can we not create more of them? Can we not uh embrace the ones who God has knitted together in the wombs of our people and raise them to the glory of God? We respond to death with life. We respond to harassment with love and courage. A lot of soldiers come back from deployment And they have babies. In fact there was three of us, uh all young officers in the in the army who agreed if we came back from Afghanistan we would all keep the baby trainer rolling. It's really cool. It's the it's the US Army as you see it nowadays. One guy is from the Ivory Coast, one is from China, and there's me. And all of us declare in our various stages of life that we're gonna do this. And now all three of us have had baby girls since returning from deployment. Uh you respond to death with life, you respond to hatred, like you see in the deployment, like you see here in our own culture, with love. And you do not relent. Again, those circumstances do not define our life Every single day we have a chance to live our lives to the glory of God, to offer our lives as living sacrifices. And Christ, by His Word and Spirit, equips us to do this. Why get discouraged? Where is the sting of death? Where is the victory of the grave? They are gone. So we live as those who have been given life and life to the full in Christ Jesus. our Lord and Savior. I'll close on this one final short story. So Dana Lyon, dear widow of Dave Lyon, she was one of the people within our my pews in our chapel out in our Afghanistan even as she was flying across the ocean alongside the casket of her husband, Dave. Her best friend, her warrior, her defender, one who she's about to start a family with torn from her life for the rest of this worldly existence. She put out on Facebook, the Lord gives life, the Lord takes it away. May the name of the Lord be praised. Christ. Can't imagine it, but again, uh I wouldn't ne like I think I wouldn't necessarily do that in that moment, but all of us wouldn't none of us would do that in that moment except by the grace of God through Christ Jesus by the power of the You know, it's just a couple short months ago, around the one year anniversary of Dave, that is included in a random email string. Where uh Dana Lyon had been going back and forth with a number of senior officers at the Pentagon. They were planning on naming a ship after her husband Dave. A wonderful tribute uh to the life of this man. Um so they're gonna have a ceremony, the secretary of the of the Navy is gonna be there, the secretary of the Air Force, a bunch of politicians, and uh they weren't planning on having a chaplain So Dana, who happened to be the VIP for such an uh an event, said, wait a second, this chapel or this service is really in honor of Dave. I want a chaplain to be there. Not only that, but I haven't known a chaplain area. I want my chaplain and Dave's chaplain to be there. And so all of a sudden I was looped into this event. And I had an opportunity to offer the invocation for this event before the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary of the Air Force, the two most politically correct branches of the military. And I got to rejoice. They were all celebrating Dave the hero who sacrificed himself for his country. I celebrated David Dave the hero who didn't stay there for his country, stayed there for his life. Because we wanted to follow the example of a Savior who gave up his life for his church, for his bride. I celebrate the fact that Dave, who had hoped in Christ just a few short years before, now got to enjoy his Savior in glory. And I asked the Lord to take that same fulfilled hope of Dave and to shower it to Pondana on her present suffering, knowing that indeed he is faithful and he would. A prayer in which the gospel is clearly set forward. And afterwards I saw Dana for the first time since Afghanistan, when she has whisked away alongside the casket of her husband. And she said, that's exactly why I wanted you to hear. So people knew what Dave was about, what I am about, so that people would hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. This isn't a epicenter of one of our politically correct institutions. in our culture. But God still gives us opportunities. Christ is still upon the throne, at least the last time I checked. He is still working in his church by his word and by his spirit. And that means that we are never on the defensive We are always on the offensive because we're living to the glory of God in and through every earthly circumstance. Brothers and sisters, that is the true story of the church. Stop being cynical, stop whining and crying about the culture. For Christ stands above all of it. Let's pray. Lord God, we confess that we indeed are the worst of sinners. That if it were up to us, your church would be in a shambles. And oftentimes we do our best to make it into a shambles, considering how often the self-righteousness and hypocrisy of your people, myself included, get in the way of your gospel. Lord, we talk often, superficially, in a culture like this, that we are those who are suffering for righteousness' sake. A lot of times we're not doing anything of the sort. The only righteous righteousness that other people are seeing our is our own self-righteousness. And we we suffer, but if we're truly doing so for righteousness' sake, then we're doing so with gratitude in our hearts and for the glory. of your name and for the name of your Son Jesus Christ to be exalted over every name. Lord, we rejoice in this historical moment. We rejoice over the fact that our feelings, our experiences do not dictate the story. Line of your church. We are wrapped up into the storyline of your church. And Lord, though we recognize that we are the worst of sinners, we recognize that it is through the worst of sinners that you chose to work so that the world might see. Your unlimited patience as an example for those who might believe and have eternal life. May people see us in our weakness, in our sin, in our suffering, and God willing, our repentance. See in our brokenness the grace and glory of our God. That instead of looking at us and wondering who sinned, they or their parents, they look at us and see the works of God on display. Lord God, we pray it's because we do so often grow discouraged. We so we do so often grow disheartened. product of our own despairing hearts, which are not finding their rest in you. Lord, you have placed your son upon the throne, and one day you will place all things in a His feet. Through King Jesus, you've given us your word and your spirit. The spirit whose grace is irresistible. The word whose power never returns avoid. We have no reason to fear. As we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, equip us by the staff of your word and by the by the rod of your word and the staff of your spirit To remember that you are with us, that you comfort us. One day we will enjoy eating in your presence. And hopefully those who attempt to harass and persecute us now will join us. at that great wedding supper of the Lamb before the throne of our God. Lord, may you slay us a million times over in life and in death, that more might believe in the glory of your name. might be extolled now in repentance before the day when it's recognized in judgment. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.