Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Proverbs, we'll continue our study there tonight. Proverbs chapter 2. Sunday we read verses 1 through 5. Tonight we'll continue at verse 6. And read to the re end of the chapter. Let's give our attention to God's word once again. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He's a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice and watching over the way of his saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path. For wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul Discretion will watch over you, understanding will guard you, delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech who forsake the paths of righteousness to walk in the ways of darkness. Who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their ways. So you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress with her smooth words, who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God. For her house sinks down to death, and her paths to the departed. None who go to her come back, nor do they regain the paths of life So you will walk in the way of the good and keep to the paths of the righteous. For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it. But the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. Would you pray with me? Father, as we come tonight to a important, even critical, passage in Scripture. We ask that you would quiet our hearts. That we, Lord God, would set aside thoughts of the week, of the other six days that you've given us That we might fix our attention wholly and completely upon you, upon Christ. That the Spirit would work powerfully now to illumine our hearts. Father, that we would consider your wisdom tonight. And that indeed, you would gift us with it, as your word is preached. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. How can you be preserved? Or what is self preservation? Is that even possible? On a NASA website, I'm not sure if this is a current website or a historical website, but it's on the internet They ask the question: Is space exploration really desirable at a time when so much needs doing on Earth? It's a good question. The answer that they come up with is obviously yes. They argue that exploration should be undertaken for the most basic of reasons Self preservation. Tonight, we have a very different view of preservation, which is given to us by the Lord our God. Who gives us truth as to how you can be preserved tonight for even all of eternity? Last week we learned from the first four verses in this proverb as the king, as Solomon was calling out, wooing the young, wooing the naive, wooing all of us. to spend precious time searching out, seeking understanding, seeking knowledge, seeking wisdom. If you receive my words, if you call out for insight, if you seek it as silver and search for it as hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Tonight, we have the other side of that coin. Solomon urging us to seek out this wisdom, and now he gives us an equal truth. That God gives us this precious commodity His wisdom. Tonight, our second part of the treasure of wisdom, the Lord gives wisdom which guards and keeps each child of God for eternity. The Lord gives wisdom, which guards and keeps each child of God for eternity. Three points tonight: the gift of wisdom, the work of wisdom, and finally the effect. of wisdom. And let's begin, the gift of wisdom Interesting that Solomon uses that word, that little word for, as he begins here in verse 6, for the Lord gives Wisdom, many times in Scripture, it's those little words that you really need to pay much attention to. And here that word for is so important, it explains how it can be that if you receive the words, treasure up the commandments of God, if you call out for wisdom or for insight, if you seek it as silver, How it can be that then you will understand the fear of the Lord? The word for is now that explanation. How can it be that you will understand? How can it be that a fallen, a corrupt, a sinful, an image-bearer of God can come to understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God? These were all lost at the fall. Indeed, as we read this particular proverb, there's a temptation to stop at verse 5. If I do these things, then I'm done. I will have all of this. I've earned this knowledge, this understanding. But what right do we have to understanding the fear of the Lord? What right do the fallen, the corrupt, have to find the knowledge of God? What right do we Who have rejected God now have to come to know Him. We have no right. We cannot earn these things. But what does God do? He gifts them to us. He gives them away. Wisdom is given by God. That's what that word for is there for. For the Lord gives wisdom. We're tempted to say that it's through my efforts that I've gained these things. We're tempted to say it's through my my hard work that I've earned these things. But no, the answer is the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. Think of that. The most precious gift that we can have. It's not found in outer space. It's found right here in God's Word. And He gifts it to us. He doesn't sell it. He doesn't sell it to us. He doesn't require that we earn it. He does not auction it off. That which is commanded to be searched after as hidden treasure, as silver, is more valuable than all of the gold in the world? That which is like riches and honor, enduring wealth and righteousness, the fruit which is better than gold, even pure gold. That coral and crystal are not to be mentioned, and the acquisition of wisdom is above that of pearls. This is what the Lord gives. Wisdom, understanding, discernment. So precious. More valuable than worldly treasures of kings and emperors, and yet he asks for nothing in return. He gives away that which has greater value than anything we can contemplate to each person here. To all who are willing and desirous of having it, exactly what the prophet Isaiah speaks of. Come by wine and milk without money, without cost. Listen to me carefully, and eat what is good, and delight yourself in abundance. There's only one requirement. And it's not money. It can't be purchased The only requirement is that you be hungry for it, that you be desirous for it. That's it. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who gives Generously. Isn't that how Solomon began his proverb? If you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding Solomon should know he asked God for it, and it was given in abundance Wisdom is not just a gift, it is a continuous gift. It's a continuous fountain. Isn't that what James just told us? Let him ask God who gives generously to all It's a fountain which doesn't quit. The depths of this well are deep, indeed, infinitely deep This is an inexhaustible gift. This wisdom, this instruction, this understanding That's given by and through his mouth his very word. You might say, well, his words seem limited to me. There are only sixty-six books. Oh brothers and sisters, there is no limit to the wisdom found in these scriptures. I was speaking with one of you this morning and And we agreed that there's no possible way that any of us can come to say, I found it all. I found it. Yes, you have found it. Keep searching. There's more depth. There's more breadth to it. It's an unquestionable fountain Think of that image. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding as he opens his mouth every time. It's filled with knowledge of understanding. It will take eternity For us to more fully grasp and plumb the depths of God, of his knowledge, of his wisdom In eternity. And even then, we won't be like him. Indeed, wisdom is given out of his storehouse. Look at verse 7. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. You think, how can God give away that which is so precious? The impression that Solomon gives is that God has this storehouse, this bank, this vault, which he continues filling up with wisdom to be given out for our benefit. But it's not like that because God is the storehouse. He knows all things exhaustively. The trees that surround this building are known by God exhaustively. As he made them. Each of us were known in our mother's wombs as he was knitting us Together. The depth of God's knowledge is beyond our imagination. He is the storehouse. He is the place of wisdom. And thus there is no limit to this storehouse as he continues filling it up, as God himself is infinite. No limit upon his understanding, upon his wisdom, upon his discernment. He can give, give, give, and never exhaust his supply. I think that's where Paul got his words from, when he said, Oh, the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. Thus, as we ask for wisdom, there should never be a concern, never a second thought That God may cut us short, that His wisdom supply may dwindle, that the shelves may be dry because we're all going to it at the same time? No, never. The teaching is clear. The storehouse of God's wisdom cannot be exhausted. And there should be great encouragement for each and every one of us tonight That as we go to God, that as we request wisdom, as we search for it as silver, he is going to give it and there will be plenty. We have a distributor in our God who is willing and able to continue to give to you as you ask. As much and more than you desire. So ask The only question is, are you ready to receive it? Certainly there's a great need for prayer in this pursuit. Asking you shall receive. And we see this week that is a free gift, and he is ready to give it out. But are you ready to receive it? Because being ready means that you expect to receive it. James speaks about asking, but asking with Which means that you're expecting that God is going to grant it to you, that He will provide, and that you're ready to receive it. One commentator said that you have to trust not only that you will receive it, but that what you will receive is good and right. For you, that it will be a great blessing, that it will build you up, not only in his knowledge and understanding, but then in wisdom And thus you have to make room for it. You have to push other things out of the way. If you're ready to receive this gift. You have to see those things which are in your life which are not true gifts, which you need to purge. Our closets are full. Indeed, if you have an attic or a basement, I'm sure it's full as well. We need to remove those things To make room for the volume that God is ready to give you. And to make sure that those things which don't mix well with God's wisdom are cast out. This world is ready to fill you with ungodly thoughts, with things that are not true wisdom. And those don't mix well with God's wisdom. You have to be ready and you have to clean house You have to get rid of that worldly wisdom. You have to rid your mind of that which conflicts with the knowledge and the understanding which comes from the Holy One. Apparently Eve was not ready. She was not prepared. She had received God's wisdom, and then what she did was she removed that and made way for that unholy word. From Satan. She willingly received that understanding from Satan because she made room for it by removing God's word from her heart. Brothers and sisters Be ready to receive the wisdom of God as you ask for it. Purge yourself From that ungodly untruth, that you will make room for all of the wisdom God has for you, all of the understanding. That fountain that is inexhaustible. Be ready. Ask for it. That brings us to our second point, the work of wisdom. And now we begin to see as Solomon opens up to us the portion of the value of wisdom, why this is so important. To obtain. Look at verse 5. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. Verse 9 is very close and seems to be a parallel. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity and every good path. As God pours out his gift, after you have sought for it, after you have desired it within your heart, as he is worked by the Spirit within you to cause that desire to Rise up, and as he gives you that wisdom from his mouth, that knowledge and that understanding, ultimately then you will understand righteousness and justice. See, God defines these things. He is righteousness. He defines what is just. Because he is the Holy One, He's pure, He's light, and thus justice is His to declare. What is right and good is only that which is declared by God to be so And so in his wisdom, he grants this to you. He gives you this value. You're able to discern righteousness and justice. He leads you in it. Indeed, as this world now places before us once again the issue of abortion. And as God has granted you wisdom, you are able to see so very clearly the wrongness Of putting unborn children to death in the womb. You're able to discern righteousness and justice You're able to see that the laws of this land are defiled. You're able to see as God sees. As injustices are being committed day in and day out You're able to grasp equity, true equity. And as Webster's defines it, is the treating of a person according to justice and reason, and that's what God gives you. The idea, the truth of justice, he gives you his own reason, and now you're able to treat others. using that justice, that reason that He's given you, that He's poured out upon you through His wisdom. Indeed, in every good course. Every good course. Think about that for a moment God's wisdom isn't given to you just for this particular case or that particular case. He doesn't give you something that's too hard So that you can't apply his wisdom, his discerning, his understanding to it? No, in every day, every instance, not merely the big things, but the little things. Not merely the life-changing, life-altering situations, but those little decisions that need to be made day in. And day out there included. That's the practical value of this wisdom, this understanding from God. It's to be used and can be used and is to be used in every case. How do I respond to that cashier who has now given me back five more dollars than I should get? What do I do? God's wisdom, his understanding now applies, and you know, oh, this is what I do. What path do I take when someone honks their horn at me when the light turns green and I don't immediately go through the intersection? How do I respond? God's wisdom, his understanding, his discernment helps me. Yes. Wisdom changes us, doesn't it? Isn't that how God does it? Isn't that how he gives us that discernment, that righteousness, that justice? Isn't it because he changes our hearts? Look at verse 10. For wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. You see, wisdom is not just given in a box, just to be set up on the upper shelf in the closet and stored. No, he unpacks it for you. And now he brings it into your heart Think of that. Wisdom enters. By the Spirit, God unwraps the gift of wisdom and then supernaturally, surgically implants it. in that central organ of your very being. It enters, it penetrates into the heart where it works. I don't know much about the heart. But my understanding is that somehow it moves the blood around our body And that seems important in the way that Solomon is describing wisdom. It comes into our heart, and then the idea, I think, is that blood just takes it around. Our whole body is filled with it. If your eye's good, then your whole body's good. Right? By the Spirit, God unwraps the gift of wisdom. He sends it throughout our entire being. Seems to be the idea. So that we can begin to discern righteousness and justice as God knows it, as he gives it to us, as he penetrates our heart. So much so that knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. The Spirit causes this cataclysmic shift in your heart from rebelling against God and rejecting the things of God to receiving and loving his knowledge. Some of you don't have a testimony where you can say, oh yeah, this is the way I was before God changed my heart Some of us do. And we can say before God changed my heart, I did not love the things of God. They were not pleasant to me. His wisdom, his knowledge was an anathema to me, because I desired to do the things that were against God But now as his wisdom has come into the heart, and his knowledge is pleasant, that means I desire it, more of it. I can't get enough of it. It changes the heart And then the work of wisdom is involved in guarding and watching over. I'm not going through this. In numerical order, so please forgive me. But verse 7, he stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice. And watching over the way of the saints. Verse 11, discretion will watch over you. Understanding will guard you. All those words, shielding, guarding, watching, indicating protection. In a sense, wisdom as she is imparted, is given to you, as she penetrates your heart. Will shield you from injustice as you walk on the path of integrity, and will act as that guardrail to keep you on the path of justice and righteousness. Seems to be a bit of placing in a protective bubble, that a gift within a gift This is not to eradicate Christian persecution or suffering. No, that's not what King Solomon is saying. He's saying something different. Followers of Christ will suffer. They will be, we will be persecuted. But in that suffering Wisdom keeps a believer on the path of integrity. I think that's the idea. I think that's what Solomon is getting at. A guardrail. A shield against those things which would take us off the path of following Christ. Wisdom keeps us on that path of following Christ Jesus. Indeed. It's Christ who stores up for us sound wisdom. It's Christ who is the shield. Look at that pronoun used in verse 7. He stores up sound wisdom. He is a Shield. I think that must be ultimately a reference to the Son of God who does these things. Even the triune God, who is at work protecting and ultimately delivering, delivering from the way of evil That guarding, that watching over. This is the end in the sense of wisdom in a powerful, in the life-giving way, the life-saving way that wisdom works within the believer. Now I'm hoping that you're beginning to see the value of wisdom, wisdom of God Understanding, receiving it. Now we see the deliverance which occurs, the work of wisdom Verse 12, delivering you from the way of evil. We could just stop there. Wisdom delivers you from From the way of evil. There are two paths, the path of Christ and the path of evil. And wisdom takes you off of that path of evil, that path of destruction. that path of perverted speech, the path of those who forsake the path of Christ, who forsake uprightness, who rejoice in doing evil, who delight in the perverseness of evil, those crooked paths, those devious path, you're taken off, you're delivered from that path. And you're put on the path of integrity, the path of Christ. Wisdom draws you away. It delivers you like the Israelites were delivered out of Egypt, out of bondage, out of slavery, out of oppression. And you'll be delivered from that forbidden woman, the adulteress with her smooth words. Now there's a sense that maybe you women are thinking, I can just turn my ears off now, this is not for me. I don't think that's the case. I think there's a broader application here. Because as Satan calls out As wickedness seeks to sink its teeth into you, we can think of that forbidden woman that adultereth with her smooth words. Wooing, trying to draw you back. Her house sinks down to death, her past is departed None who go to her come back, nor do they regain the path of life. That's what wisdom does. It brings us out It delivers us, it saves us from death itself, not magically, not by incarnation, no Because you've been enabled to understand, you've been enabled to receive because that wisdom has been placed in your heart, and now you desire the knowledge of God. Christ has granted you a new heart, a tender heart, which is now receiving and cherishing his word, and it's leading you away from evil as It's leading you away from the strange woman. It's leading you away from sin. It's leading you away from eternal death toward righteousness. You see the power of wisdom? You see its value More than gold, more than all the treasures of this world. Yes, the work of wisdom. That brings us to our third point, the effect of wisdom. And here I'll deal firstly with the negative of not having wisdom. What is the effect of not having that wisdom, of rejecting the wisdom that's been offered, that free gift? What is the result? Verse 22, the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. You can't help but think of that parable of the weak and tares As that wheat is planted, good wheat, good seed. In the field the the servants of the master come back and say, The tares have grown up. Should we Tear them out now, should we rip them out now? And the master says, no. Let them grow together. At the harvest time. At the harvest time. We'll gather the wheat, and we'll root out the tares, and we'll burn them up. That's the idea. Ultimately, the wicked will be cut off from the land, the treacherous will be rooted out. Those that were previously described even here in this proverb Men whose paths are crooked, who are devious in their ways, the forbidden woman, the adulteress with her smooth words These who refused the words of Christ, who rebelled against treasuring up the commandments of God who did not see seek it out, who did not cry out for wisdom, who rejected the wisdom of God, who denied to cry out for it, who've been offered the gift but have rejected it, who've tossed it aside, who've made no room for it The box never opened, these wicked, these treacherous will be cut off from the land. What's he talking about? Remember the promise, the covenantal promise to Abraham was a people and a land. A people to worship and a place to worship. A place to dwell with God is throughout Scripture here, even in Proverbs, that idea, that truth is set forth, that the wicked will not enter into glory, they will not live with God, they will be rooted out and destroyed. Cut off from the land. The new heavens and the new earth will not be filled with the wicked. They will be cast out of the camp, no longer identified as or with the people of God uprooted, means to be torn out, the root system, not merely damaged. But that which was needed to soak up the nutrients is no longer there. Torn up. Rooted out. Let me ask, does this ascribe you tonight? Does this describe your rebellion? Does this describe your hatred of God, of his word, of Christ? If it does, it is not too late. Call out to him, cry out to him that he might save you. Ask for that gift of wisdom. Ask for that gift of salvation in Christ. Ask for his blood to cover your sins. Ask that he would change your heart. That you might receive his word, receive his wisdom, and live. But if that doesn't describe you tonight. There is great encouragement in this proverb for you as you trust in Christ. Look at verse 21. For the upright will inhabit the land. And those with integrity will remain in it. Remember that string, that theme throughout scripture of a people and a place, a land. in which we can dwell with God. Here referenced again so very clearly by King Solomon, the upright will inhabit the land and will remain in it. Here is the end, the great value of Wisdom. Not that we work our way into the land. No. But because God has chosen Changed your heart because ye Christ is your all-in-all tonight, because he is your Savior, because His blood has been shed And because you claim his blood for your salvation tonight, he is granting you that wisdom so that you might remain a child of his. Who will inhabit the land and remain in it? In the house of God for all those who hear His words, for all those who come to faith in Christ, for all those who repent. for all those who love his words and seek to do his will. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth. The holy city, a new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, made ready as a bride adorned for his for her husband. Brothers and sisters, you are the bride. And Christ is using that wisdom to adorn you tonight To dress you, to make you ready to inhabit the land. That's what King Solomon was looking toward. That's what he wants you to see tonight. That these proverbs are not just do that, do that. These truths are not just given one here, one there. No, Solomon was looking to the end. He was saying this wisdom that I'm teaching you about, there's a purpose to it. It's valuable, it's precious, it's going to bring you into the land. And you'll remain there forever. Think of that Christ Jesus, as we think upon him, we think upon the cross, as we think upon Christ, we think upon the empty tomb, we think upon his resurrection. Indeed, we might even think upon his resurrection, but then our thoughts might stop there. We might think he's done. But brothers and sisters, he's not. He continues even tonight to work for your salvation, for your sanctification. He's that good, that diligent workman, that timeless intercessor who continues to work And grant you this wisdom and bring it to you and place it in your hearts, changing you Giving you that desire for it, that longing, that love for God's word That you might be made more like him and dressed and ready for his return. Even as we cry out for it tonight, Christ, come quickly. He is yet dressing each one of you tonight. That you'll be ready for his return, just like those five virgins with the oil, not like the five without. You need this. You need this wisdom to be dressed and ready for Christ's return. And brothers and sisters, here's the good news. By grace, he's giving it to you By mercy, He's filling you with it. So that you won't be like that one at the wedding feast without those clothes on. You will have the clothes on because he continues to give them to you. Through his wisdom. An infinite gift. Yes. The Lord gives wisdom, which guards and keeps each child of God for eternity. Space exploration will not lead to self-preservation. Only God's word, only His wisdom. Praise be to God. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father and our God, we thank you for your word. We thank you, Lord God, for your wisdom. We thank you for Christ. Who continues to pour it out into our hearts, changing us hour by hour, day by day, making us more like him. Oh Father, we thank you You and praise you. Help us. Help us to purge out those things which get in the way of your wisdom. Help us to receive it with joy and adoration. And help us, Lord God, to be made more like Christ. O Jesus, we pray. Return quickly and make us ready. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.