If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, we'll continue our study there in chapter 7. We are at the end of the Sermon on the Mount. Last Sunday we went over this passage and focused upon the wide gate. Sunday we plan to read the same passage and focus on the narrow gate Let's give attention to the reading of God's Word, Matthew chapter 7, beginning at verse 13. Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. And those who find it are few. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You'll recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew and beat on that house, but it did not fall. Because it had been founded on the rock. And everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat against that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. Would you pray with me? Our Father in Heaven, we come once again to this passage, a passage of two ways. And we pray this morning, Father, that you by your Spirit would guide us along the narrow path. to the narrow gate. Father, to life. Help us now, Father, by your Spirit. Work powerfully in us. Change our hearts. And glorify yourself. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. A few moments ago we read that passage concerning the flood. In Genesis Chapter seven, we have an account Of God's saving work of one family If you remember that account, Noah was commanded by God to construct an ark, that a flood was coming, and that God was going to destroy all life on earth. And as Noah was instructed to build the Ark, there was an instruction to make one door in the ark, a single entrance point. No others. And as we read that passage this morning, we read that Noah and his family and the animals that were to be saved entered through that one, that single door. And they were saved. All other life on earth was destroyed. If you remember back to the account of the garden earlier in Genesis in chapter three, as Adam and Eve sinned against God and they were Cast out of the garden, there was one entrance back into the garden. One way to the tree of life that was guarded by the cherubim and the flaming sword. If you remember, as we studied in Exodus the tabernacle, a dwelling place of God with his people. At the base of Mount Zion. As God called Moses to consider Constructed in a particular way, and it was constructed in a particular way. There was one entrance into the tabernacle, and there was one entrance into the Holy of Holies behind the veil. Only one. Throughout Scripture, we're seeing one way, one means of entrance, one gate. And that's what we have set before us this morning as Jesus is preaching to his disciples and he gets to this end of his sermon on the mount, setting forth two ways. One way of destruction, which we meditated upon last week and now this week, one way of life through the narrow gate. The Sermon on the Mount has been all about the kingdom. We've been recognizing that as we've gone through it. The Beatitudes talking about the hearts of those who were in the kingdom or who will be in the kingdom, the law which governs those who will be entering in through that narrow gate. The way that the disciples were to minister to those who didn't know of the narrow gate yet being salt and light, and how they were to practice their righteousness before others. This morning I'd want us to see that Christ, the Narrow gate is found by grace through faith alone. Christ, the narrow gate, is found by grace through faith alone. We'll see that in three points this morning, the wrong way, the hard way, and finally the narrow way. Brothers and sisters, this passage is critical for us this morning. That we would realize the way to life is only through Christ. Let's begin then the wrong way. Jesus sets forth a clear contrast for us as he begins this last section of the Sermon on the Mount. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction. The gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life. This morning we're going to meditate upon that narrow way, that narrow gate, that singular. Hard way. And Jesus clearly sets forth the way to the wide gate is easy. He plainly states that the way to life is hard. It's not a difficult word for us to understand, hard. We don't need the dictionary to open it up to understand what is meant by Jesus. But it comes to us as a contrast. And last week we saw the ease of entering into destruction, listening to men who would lead you astray in heresies and false teachings. Boasting in ourselves of our own righteousness And then finally the easy path of rebellion. Casting off the Word of God, hating the Word of God, and building our houses on our wisdom, our corrupt A rebellious wisdom. But the way to life is set in clear contrast to the easy way of destruction. Jesus said it's hard In contrast to all of those ways that lead to hell or destruction. But what does he mean by it? What does Jesus mean when he tells his disciples that the way is hard, that leads to life, to the narrow gate? Was Jesus saying that it's hard to keep God's commandments? He's been preaching About the commandments of God. He's informed his disciples how much harder it is than they actually thought. Adultery was not just the physical act. It happens when you lust in your hearts. Murder was not merely the physical act, it was unrighteous anger. Was Jesus saying that the keeping of God's law is very hard, and only if you do it will you enter through that narrow gate into glory to the living God? Remember, Jesus had said to his disciples that unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you will never enter into the kingdom of heaven. You must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. Is he now saying that that's hard? That you have to keep the commandments perfectly Is that what God was saying through Moses? As Moses wrote in Leviticus? You shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules. If a person does them, he shall live by them. Some would argue that's exactly what Jesus was teaching in this passage. Some would argue that's exactly what Moses was teaching the Israelites. Brothers and sisters, it's possible to misunderstand this passage concerning the narrow gate. Many have. And many take the action words within this passage, the verbs. And say, there it is. Jesus is speaking about being righteous in yourself. Consider the opening verses. Enter by the narrow gate. The way is hard. Those who find it are few. Finding, searching, looking, pursuing One must be looking in order to find. One must be seeking in order to find. Remember, Christ is teaching his disciples concerning prayer, and ask and you shall receive. Seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be opened. And actions required. You must seek out that narrow gate. It seems to be exactly what the Apostle Paul was doing when he sought to know Jesus Christ and him crucified. And then we have the false prophets. Every healthy tree bears good fruit Clearly. Jesus was telling his disciples that they need to be ones who were bearing good fruit. And they could tell the difference between themselves and and those who were bearing that bad fruit. So there's an action. An action of bearing good fruit And then there is that picture, that picture of building a house with rock solid foundations. Everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them We'll be like a wise man who built his house on the rock. The one who does the words of Christ, the one who heeds the commands of Jesus, this one will survive the storm, this one will live. There's a wrong way to understand this passage. In the wrong way is to take all those action words and and believe that we can do them in our own strength. The wrong way is to believe that we can be perfect and that we can keep God's law perfectly, and that that's exactly what Christ was calling his disciples to But Jesus knew. Jesus knew then, and Jesus knows today that it's impossible for the children of God to perfectly keep the law of God. And so he was not calling for his disciples, nor you today, to be those who perfectly keep the law, to earn life, to enter through a narrow gate. He wasn't preaching that you're the narrow gate. He wasn't preaching that your strength, your righteousness is the narrow gate. Indeed, there's no one who's good. No one is righteous before God in their own person and strength. We only have to turn to the rich young ruler. And Jesus' response to see the truth of the matter. If you remember that passage in scripture that one comes to Jesus Christ calling him good and and Jesus turns and says, Who's good but God alone? The rich young ruler thought that he was good. He had kept the law as far as he knew. But when Jesus told him to go sell his wealth, give to the poor, and come follow him, the rich young ruler turns and leaves. He leaves Christ behind. He takes his wealth with him. And as Jesus responds to his disciples after he tells them how difficult it is for those who have wealth to enter the kingdom of God. Comparing it to a camel going through the eye of the needle, the disciples were beside themselves, thinking, who is it that now can enter? And Jesus told them. With men, it's impossible. But with God, all things are possible. Jesus knew that it was impossible for men to keep the law, for even men to desire to follow him. He knew it was impossible given man's inclination to sin and man's corrupt heart. The heritage from their first father Adam. It was impossible for men to say themselves. He knew that. And so he wasn't teaching that. Brothers, you see the problem that we encounter when we read these action words When we read these action words and fail to take in the rest of Scripture And try to apply them in such a way that we are the ones in our own strength who are able to enter into glory. It's impossible. We had a young man come to the food pantry yesterday. And he professed to be righteous. He professed to know the way to glory. He professed to know that he was going to enter into glory. And when I shared with him the truth of God's word, he turned and he left. He left without food. He left without spiritual food. He left without the truth. Because he was righteous within himself. I don't believe that he was reading this passage and thinking that Those are action words that I need to do, but that was the idea. That's the concept behind it, brothers and sisters. We need to read this passage rightly, and we need to see that the wrong way is to understand that we can earn our way into glory That's not what Jesus was preaching and teaching. That brings us to the hard way. What then does Jesus mean? What does he mean? When he tells his disciples the gate is narrow and the way is hard. That leads to life. If he's not saying that the way is hard because you have to earn it, and it's really hard for you to earn life, if he's not saying that, then brothers and sisters, what is he saying? Let me suggest a few things. First I think Jesus was saying that it was hard for the sun. The hard way is pictured by the sun's condescension. God, very God, taking on a human nature Leaving, leaving his dwelling in glory, and coming to take on a nature like yours with the exception of sin. How he lowered himself so that you might have life. Though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men. The hard way is pictured by Jesus' prayer in Gethsemane, isn't it? As the Son, as Jesus knows where he's headed, as he knows the Father has sent him to go to the cross, and he's praying three times, Father, remove this cup from me For he knew that the end result would be separation. He prays so earnestly, it's as if drops of blood were falling from him. He couldn't bear to stand the thought of being separated from his father. The hard way is pictured by Jesus as betrayal, by Judas, and by the denial of Peter. Judas had been with him three years. Jesus had been teaching him all things, performing miracles before him, loving him, even to the end. And Judas was the one for thirty pieces of silver who turned him over, who turned him in, who led those with swords and clubs to arrest your Savior. His friend. And then think of the denial by Peter. Even having been warned that he would deny him Peter, yet saving his skin, denying his Savior as the Savior as Jesus looked on. The hard way is pictured by Jesus as crucifixion, isn't it? All of those things I just mentioned seem to pale in comparison to the hard way of the cross It provides for us a graphic of a horrendous and indescribable picture of the hard way of earning life. The narrow gate is pictured in the cross. It gives us graphic details of the hard way that Jesus took, that he would, did, and did earn life for all of the children of God. The cross includes all aspects of Jesus' suffering. It was the pinnacle, the height, the culmination of his suffering. His walking the hard way. Having been scourged by Roman soldiers, having his flesh ripped from his body, physical suffering beyond our imagination, nailed to the cross, the cursed tree. The suffering included the insults, the mocking, the wagging of heads, the disbelief of all those who were shouting condemning words at the innocent one of Israel. And then the eternal wrath of God was poured out upon him for your sins. Surely he's borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him the chastisement that brought us peace. And with his wounds we are healed. The hard ways was taken by Jesus. But there was also the hard way for the Father. It was the Father who decreed that the Son would be the one to be sent to save sinners. It was the Father who had that definite plan and foreknowledge that Jesus was to be crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. The Father knew As he sent his son to save the world, that he was the one who planned it. That he was the one who actually desired it. The wretched death of his son on the cross at the hands of filthy, sinful men. That's the hard way of the narrow gate. And then while the plan was unfolding that he had implemented, he watched He watched as his son was disrespected, unbelieved, mocked, even hated. He watched in apparent silence, at least from our perspective, as his son cried out in agony, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? It was as if the father had stepped away, so to speak, and turned his back on the one that he had loved from eternity past. As the wretchedness, as the filth of your sins were laid upon Jesus. That's the hard way of the narrow gate. The hard way of granting life to a people of sin. Think of the Father's love for the Son. This is my beloved Son, with whom I'm well pleased. The Father loves the Son and has given all things into his hands, and yet He pours out His eternal wrath on this one. The one that he's loved perfectly and purely for eternity. That's the hard way. Nothing of the Spirit. How hard are the hearts of sinners The wickedness of man was great on the earth that every intention or the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. The heart is deceitful, above all things, desperately sick. Who can understand it? How hard is it to change the heart of a sinner? Who can bring a clean thing of an unclean? How hard is it to change a heart from one who is lusting after the world to one who longs to be in the house of God? How hard it is to change a heart from one who hates God and his son to one who desires to do the will of the Father and the Son. How hard is it to change your heart from one who loves himself so much more than others to one who is willing to and does suffer and sacrifice self for the sake of lifting others up? How hard is it to change a heart from one who's running, running from Christ, to one who wants nothing else but to know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. That's the hard work of the spirit. He takes a a stone-hard heart, which is far from being tender to the things of God, a heart which wants nothing to do with the things of God And supernaturally changes and converts the heart. It's hard work. It's referred to as that which is even greater than the creation out of nothing in six days. And then think of this. There's more to this hard way. Because the Holy Spirit is the one who dwells in each and every person whose heart has been changed from stone to flesh. He dwells, he abides, he lives. In you, with you. You're God's temple, and God's Spirit dwells in you. How hard is it for the Holy Spirit to dwell in a person who continues to sin? Have you thought about that? And if you question that that's possible, just open up Romans chapter 7 this afternoon. As Paul confesses: nothing good dwells in me, that's my flesh. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing, and the Spirit keeps on dwelling in that person. How hard is that? How many parents have thought of of giving up on a rebellious child Of thinking you can't continue. This child is too stubborn, too obstinate. And yet the Holy Spirit continues to abide. Even as you sin against the triune God, the Spirit dwells, he continues that work of sanctification within you. He loves you so much that he's never growing tired. He's he's never complaining, he's never moving to consider going someplace else. Never Jesus Christ said, I will not leave you as orphans, I will come to you. I will never leave you nor forsake you. You see, brothers and sisters, the Hard way of Christ, the hard way of the Father, the hard way of the Spirit, that stands in such contrast to the thought that the hard way is the work that you need to do. No, the hard way of life is the Son of God condescending and taking on a human nature. The hard way of life is his suffering under the law and and upon the cross the hard way of of earning life is the breaking of fellowship between the triune God. So that all of his children, his sinful, wretched children, could be cleansed and dwell with him forever. That's the hard way We finally come to the narrow way. And again, a contrast is set forth because we all know the way to the wide gate. Each of us have been on that path, headed to the wide gate, the way gate of destruction. Each of us are familiar with it. We know false teachings, we know false teachers. We know of self-righteousness because we have proclaimed it. We know of our own rebellion or refusal to hear the word of God and heed it. We know this way. But the narrow way? The narrow gate Hopefully you've seen this morning that The narrow gate is Christ. He is the way to enter into life. It's Jesus. You enter into life through this single, through this narrow gate of Jesus, just like there was one entrance back into the garden, there was one entrance into the ark, there was one entrance into the Holy of Holies, there was one entrance into life, and it's Christ. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by His grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. The gate is Christ, and the way to get to the gate is through faith. Even faith is a gift. And so there lies the contrast. The wide gate requires no seeking. Did you notice that Jesus never used the word seeking with regard to the wide gate? You know it. He knew that his disciples knew it. They didn't need to seek it out. It requires no seeking, but the narrow gate, which is Christ. It must be found. It must be sought out. That's what Paul wrote of as he was writing to those in Philippi. For his sake, I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ. That was his heartfelt desire. That was his only desire to gain Christ. So the question that's presented this morning to all of us here, have you found the narrow gate? If you're not this morning on the narrow path and you have not found the narrow gate, then friend There's only one solution. You must cry out to Christ. Because you're not going to find it by your own strength. You're not going to find it in your own seeking. He must lead you to it. Ask, and it will be given to you. You seek and you shall find, knock, and it will be open. That's why Jesus included this passage in the Sermon on the Mount Because he knew that they couldn't find it on their own. He knew that they could not become perfect. He knew that they could not become more righteous than the Pharisees and the scribes. He knew it and he knew that they needed to Come to him. They knew that they needed they needed to come through him in order to get to life. Until this morning, if you are not on the narrow path, if you have not found the narrow gate, ask Plead with the Lord Jesus Christ who says, Come, everyone who thirsts, come into the waters. He who has no money, come by and eat, come by wine and milk without money. Jesus is offering to you this morning life And so the plea is to come and ask for it from him. But if you're saying to yourself, no, no, I'm on the path. I found the gate. Then are you praising God? Are you recognizing that this is all by grace? That you can't take credit and say, yes, I I've been intelligent, I've been reading the scriptures, and by my own strength I've found the narrow gate. No, no, it's all by grace. If you're on the narrow path, it's by grace. If you know Christ as the narrow gate, it's all by grace. And so the only response this morning is to rejoice. On this path, you'll never be able to say, look at what I've done. But you will be able to say, look at what the Lord Jesus Christ has done With God all things are possible. With God's grace poured out upon you by through his spirit, you can stay on the narrow path. By God's grace, he'll lead you away from false teachers. By God's grace, he'll enable you to identify those false prophets by their fruit. By God's grace, you'll be able to perceive the truth of his word as it's preached. And run from heresies. By God's grace, you will not deceive yourself. But understand that you're righteous in Christ, and only in Christ, by God's grace, you'll be clothed with the righteousness of Christ. And you'll not be called a breaker of the law or lawless, but you'll be called righteous in Christ. By God's grace, you'll treasure the words of Jesus. His pure commands longing to know more And knowing that you've been given these commands, not as a burden, but as a blessing, by God's grace, you'll be made more and more into the image of the Lord Jesus. As he sanctifies you and your love for his word. Do you see See all of those action words that were given this morning accomplished only by grace. Because Jesus is taken the hard way. And as a result, He gives you the ability by grace Then to find the narrow gate and to stay on the narrow path, and to build your house upon him who is the rock. Yes, Christ, the narrow gate, is found by grace through faith alone Brothers and sisters, there's only one entry point. There's only one entry point into the garden, there was only one entry point into the ark, there was only one entry point into the Holy of Holies, and there's only one point into glory. And it's through Christ. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for your grace. We thank you so much for Christ. We thank you for his willingness to take the hard way. We thank you, Father. that you, from a human perspective, suffered. It was hard. We thank you, Holy Spirit, that you continue to abide with us, even sinners. We thank you for your grace. Oh Father, help us to rejoice. Help us to show others this light of Christ, which is so precious to us. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.