If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Leviticus, we will continue our study there in chapter 5 this evening. I believe that's on page Ninety nine of your pub idols. Leviticus chapter five, beginning at verse fourteen, this describes the guilt offering. Let's give attention once again to the Word of God. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, if anyone commits a breach of faith and sins unintentionally, In any of the holy things of the Lord he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation a ram without blemish out of the flock, valued in silver shekels according to the shekel of the sanctuary for a guilt offering. He shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to the priest. And the priest shall make atonement for him with the ram of the guilt offering, and he shall be forgiven. If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the Lord's commandments ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then He realizes excuse me, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity. He shall bring to the priest a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent for a guilt offering And the priest shall make atonement for him for the mistake that he made unintentionally, and he shall be forgiven. It is a guilt offering, He has indeed incurred guilt before the Lord. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, If anyone sins and commits a breach of faith against the Lord by deceiving his neighbor, in a matter of deposit or security, or through robbery, or if he has oppressed his neighbor, or has found something lost and lied about it, swearing falsely in any of the things that people do and sin thereby if he has sinned and has realized his guilt and will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression or the deposit that was committed to him, or the lost thing that he found, or anything about which he has sworn falsely, he shall restore it in full. And add and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to him to whom it belongs on the day he realizes his guilt. And he shall bring to the priest as his compensation to the Lord a ram without blemish out of the flock, or its equivalent for a guilt offering. And the priest shall make atonement for him before the Lord, and he shall be forgiven for any of the things that one may do and thereby become guilty. Would you pray with me? Father and our God As we come before you once again and seek to understand more of these offerings, these specific offerings, and tonight the specific offering of the guilt offering. We ask, Father, that you would move powerfully in our hearts. That you'd open your word to us by your Spirit. Father, you would give us understanding That you would allow us to leave this place, knowing more of you, more of Christ. That we would see your glory, Father, even in this passage. Work powerfully in our hearts, Holy Spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. In Elisha's ministry, if you remember, a man called Naaman He was the commander of the army of Syria, not a friend of Israel, and he had leprosy. And he was told that there was a man in Israel that could heal him. And so he goes and ultimately sees Elisha. And if you know the account, Elisha tells him to go and wash in the Jordan. And Naaman is offended by that. Because he considers the Jordan to be a filthy place, and he didn't have to come that far to merely go to a river and wash, and yet his companions convince him to go. And as the word tells us, he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan according to the word of the man of God, meaning Elisha. And his flesh was restored, like the flesh of a little child. He was clean. Naaman was afflicted And God restored him. He brought him back to where he had been prior to the disease of leprosy. There's a sense in which the passage that we have before us tonight in Leviticus is all about restoration. As we have been studying this particular book, this book in the middle of the Pentateuch. The first five books of the Bible, the law, the Torah, we've seen that God has got to provide another means for access for the people of God into his dwelling place. That he's provided the dwelling place through the tabernacle, that he's provided all the Accoutrements around the tabernacle. He's provided the priests. They've been consecrated. Now there needs to be a way for the men, the priests, to get inside. To draw ever closer to the very presence of God Himself. And so, in a sense, all of the offerings that we've been reading about up to this point. are about that approach, about enabling mere sinful men to come into the presence of God. And as we read through the various offerings, we're seeing aspects of Christ within each of them. We're seeing aspects of our sin in each of them. The need for us to be cleansed wholly and completely by the blood, the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. We've seen the burnt offering. We've talked about the grain offering, we've looked into the peace offering, and last time we were in this book we dwelt dealt upon the sin offering. Tonight, we'll look at the guilt offering. And I want us to see as we go through this passage That through his loving, obedient sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ restores the loss caused by sin. Through his loving, obedient sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ restores the loss. Caused by sin. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, restoration in the guilt offering. Secondly, restoring divine loss. And then finally Restoring worldly loss. We can get a bit lost in the text as we read through it and don't quite understand what is happening, what the inspired writer speaks of what the Israelites actually did. But yet, brothers and sisters, let us not look beyond the text, but look into the text and see Christ present there. Well let's begin. Restoration in the guilt offering. We're learning that the titles for these various offerings, these sacrifices. uh lead us in our understanding. They give us clues as to the purpose of each of the individual sacrifices. Now we have to understand that we can't neatly divide these sacrifices, that that the burnt offering was just for this, that the Sin offering was just for this. The peace offering was just this aspect. No, no. There's overlap. We see that. We can't neatly divide each one. In fact, as commentators consider the guilt offering and the sin offering, many have trouble distinguishing between the two. We can't neatly divide them. There's atonement in the burnt offering. There's atonement in the sin offering. There's atonement in the guilt offering. We can't say that just one is for atonement. Unblemished animals are required in each one of the offerings, even though we might not read it specifically. And the guilt mentioned in the sin offering is certainly mentioned in the guilt offering Yet we know that the burnt offering was wholly consumed by fire, pointing to the consumption of Christ Jesus completely. Under God's wrath. The grain offering. We saw that portions of that were given to the priests as their food that God provides for us to feed upon Christ Jesus. In the peace offering, we read about a pleasing aroma to the Lord. The blood thrown against the sides of the altar, just as in the sin offering. But our worship is to be that pleasing aroma. Our prayers are to be that incense wafting up to the Lord God. And then the sin offering. Which mentions the priest who brings guilt upon the people, but it emphasizes the need for blood to be shed and brought close to God. And now we have the guilt offering. Look at verse 15. If anyone commits a breach of faith and sins unintentionally in any of the holy things of the Lord, he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation a ram without blemish out of the flock valued in silver. Verse sixteen, we read he shall also make restitution For what he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to the priest. In verse 19, we read it's a guilt offering. He has indeed incurred guilt before the Lord. There are certain aspects of this offering which set it apart, which make it unique amongst all of the offerings. We read in verse 15 that this is to be, this animal is to be brought as the sinner's compensation to the Lord. That's how the ESV translates it. Others translate it as the guilt offering. We read in verse 16 this word restitution. We don't read that in any of the other offerings. And shall add a fifth to it. There was an addition, in addition to restitution, meaning giving back, there was an addition, a penalty added to that. And then in verse 19, he has indeed incurred guilt before the Lord. As we go on in chapter 6, there are very specific items set forth, very specific sins. Breach of faith against the Lord in verse 2 of chapter 6, by deceiving his neighbor in a matter of deposit or security through robbery, or if he's oppressed his neighbor, found out something, and lied about it, swearing falsely. Verse 4, took by robbery, or what he got by oppression. There are certain things in the guilt offering that set it apart. Certainly a ram was to be used. Commentators point to the ram as being unique. And so we see we really can't lump it into the sin offering and say, well, it's just an expansion of that same type of offering. God has a different purpose within this. And so we might want to just begin and ask what it is to be guilty. Well, what is guilt? As we think and meditate through this guilt offering, it's good for us to begin there. What is it to be guilty? Well, the Hebrew lexicon doesn't help us a lot. The word that the ESV translates as compensation Can also be translated as a debt, a fine, a guilt offering, a gift of atonement, restitution. It has all those meanings within it. Webster's 1828 defines guilt as that state of a moral agent. That means human beings. Which result from his actual commission of a crime or offense, knowing it to be so. The guilt of a person exists as soon as the crime is committed. It must be proved by confession or conviction. But it implies both criminality, meaning an offense has occurred, and liableness to punishment. You see, the idea is that guilt refers to you broken the law and therefore you got now this title, you are guilty. And you have thus brought punishment upon you. It's not referring to an emotion. As we think of being guilty, many times we think of an emotion we might feel within ourselves. We have to acknowledge that Moses here is not speaking of an emotion. He's not writing about a human feeling of guilt. If you go on psychology today on their website, I'm not recommending it, but if you were to, you'd see guilt is defined as aversive and like shame, embarrassment, or pride. It's been described as a self-conscious emotion involving reflection on oneself. Moses isn't speaking of that. I don't even think that exists He's not speaking of feeling guilty. Now we can certainly be sorrowful That is an emotion. We can mourn over our sins. We can grieve over our sins, and we should. But that's not what Moses speaks of. Jesus speaks of it. At the end of chapter 11 in Matthew's Gospel, come to me all who labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. Now he's speaking, I believe, about the guilt that weighs upon each of us as we sin Against the holy God. We have earned punishment. We have earned a penalty by sinning against God. And therefore that penalty weighs upon us Unless and until we come to Christ. Come to me, all who are who labor and are heavy laden. That's the idea. There is liability for breaking the law And that's what this guilt offering seems to be all about. In this context, in this particular passage of scripture, as Moses is recording For us the guilt offering, he's speaking of that which comes upon a person as a result of committing sin Guilt is that which arises as a result of our breaking God's law. It's becoming liable. It's earning a punishment. Or a penalty as a result of breaking God's law. It's being condemned. If you remember that passage in John's gospel where the scribes and Pharisees bring to him a woman who is caught in the act of adultery. And they bring him to her and tell him that she's been caught in this and remind him of Moses' command to stone such a woman and say, What do you say? And Christ responds by saying, Let him who is without sin among you be the first to throw a stone at her. And if you have read this passage before, you know that everyone leaves. And the woman's remaining. And Jesus said, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? And she said, No one, Lord. And Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you. Go and from now on sin no more. And you see there the opposite of earning that condemnation, the punishment, the guilt. Jesus does not condemn this woman. Now we're not getting into that passage tonight, but I just want to use that as an example to show what comes on us as a result of sin sin and because Jesus was present, he provides forgiveness to this woman, and thus the guilt does not come upon her Because of Jesus. We can see this concept clearly as we consider the criminal courtroom, can't we? One who has stolen something, a thief, and is found to have committed that crime of thievery will receive a penalty, will be punished by the judge He'll be condemned. In the United States that might include some time in prison or jail. It may include a penalty, a financial penalty for breaking law. It should include restitution, giving back that which was stolen. We would say that the thief will be found guilty, meaning he's broken the law, but he will also be liable for the punishment. And he will be guilty in that sense as well. And it appears that Moses here in Leviticus, with regard to the guilt offering, as he writes about that, the liability for punishment that's been earned by the sinner, so to speak. It's exactly what he speaks of, it's exactly what he writes of. That places the guilt offering, I think, in the right perspective. That Moses is writing about that which comes upon the sinner as a result of his or her sin. The punishment, the penalty. That's the guilt that I believe Moses speaks of. The sinner has now become liable to make payment and to suffer punishment for his sin. That brings us to this idea of restitution. He shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss. And add a fifth to it. Webster defines restitution as the act of returning or restoring a person or something. Which has been unjustly, which he has been unjustly deprived of. Restitution is made by restoring a specific thing taken away or lost The act of making good for any loss, damage, or injury. That's the idea. Giving back what was taken, making the person who has suffered a loss as a result of your sin whole again. Addressing the damage, addressing the injury, so they're brought back to the place that they were before you committed your offense. And that's what the guilt offering appears to address, at least in part. Remember, I said that there's an overlap between the offerings, the different offerings. And so in the guilt offering there is atonement, there is a forgiveness. But tonight, tonight I'd like us to focus upon that loss caused by sin, the restoration. Of the one who is suffering as a result of the loss caused by sin. And our our need to see those restored that we have sinned against So now as we speak of this, of this restitution, of this making payment, of this compensation, we must necessarily speak of those who have been wronged. by the sinner's sin. There's a victim, so to speak. There are one who has suffered a loss as a result of a commission of sin. And in this passage, we actually see two victims, don't we? The worldly victim and the divine victim, God Himself. It's brought to light as we read verse seventeen If anyone sins, doing any of the things that by the Lord's commandment ought not to be done, though he did not know it, then realizes his guilt, he shall bear his iniquity. In Numbers we read in chapter five, and he shall make full restitution for his wrong, adding a fifth to it, and giving it to him to whom he did the wrong. Brothers and sisters, usually as we think of sin, sin offering If we didn't read this passage and we just thought of a guilt offering, we'd think of Jesus Christ on the cross. It's ultimately pointing to him. And that wouldn't be wrong. I think that's right. But here we're reading is another aspect of our sin and what our sin does And ultimately, how that loss that our sin causes is addressed by Jesus Christ That brings us to our second point. Restoring divine loss. Now you might be thinking to yourself, that's an interesting head. Divine loss. What is that? Let me take you back to verse fifteen. If anyone commits a breach of faith And sins unintentionally in any of the holy things of the Lord. He shall bring to the Lord as his compensation a ram. Verse 16, he shall also make restitution for what he has done amiss in the holy thing, and shall add a fifth to it, and give it to the priest. Who is to receive this compensation? Who is to be the recipient Of this added fifth as a penalty. Indeed, who owned the holy things? Seems to be it was the Lord. It seems that Moses is writing about the things of the Lord. That the sin has been committed. A breach of faith has happened. And someone has done something against God's things The holy things, the things that have been set apart. We know that he sets things apart for his purposes, for worship And so this sin, this offense is against those holy things which belong to the Lord, and this compensation is brought to the Lord. And so we have that idea set forth that there's been a loss, that the Lord has suffered a loss, so to speak, as a result of This person sinned against the holy things. And as a result, he was to do certain things, bring compensation. Bring that guilt offering. Make restitution. Make the Lord whole again. And add a fifth to it as a penalty. We get this idea that the Lord was to be restored or compensated. And that's a interesting thing to even say. We know that the Lord is grieved by sin. Isaiah 63, they rebelled and grieved his Holy Spirit. Therefore he turned to be their enemy. In Acts chapter 7, we read this: you stiff-necked people, uncircumcised in heart and ears, you always resist the Holy Spirit. Chapter 4 of Ephesians, Paul warns his readers: do not grieve the Holy Spirit of God. God is grieved by our sin. And the grieving of God needs to be placed in a different category as we think through what we need to have in order to enter into his presence. We think initially we must have the punishment for our sin dealt with. God's justice must be satisfied, and we know that in Christ Jesus, his death counts for us. He took God's eternal wrath upon himself, so we would not need to suffer that. That's the satisfaction of God's justice. But this punishment that is meted out here, this compensation spoken of, this restitution This added fift seems to be different than satisfying God's justice. You see, if a person is found to have committed the crime of theft and is sentenced to a year in jail to satisfy a justice or to satisfy the judge's orders, someone must spend time. One year behind bars. And if that happens, the judge's justice is fully satisfied But that's where that illustration falls short with regard to God, our judge. Because the judge in the criminal courtroom has not been personally harmed or suffered loss from the crime committed outside of his courtroom. The justice is fulfilled, but the judge has not been personally affected. God, on the other hand, has been. He's grieved over your sin Now, as we speak of God being grieved, we all must remember that we serve an unchangeable God. We have to keep that in mind as we use these words, being grieved, needing to be restored, having suffered a loss. We know that God doesn't change. He's not a man that he should lie, or a son of man that he should change his mind. Or in Malachi, I the Lord do not change. Or in James, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to Change. God doesn't change. And we can't change him But he's a personal God. And so while we know he doesn't change, while we know we can't change change him, we also know that the scriptures speak to us in such a way that we have an understanding that our sins in a sense, in a human sense have an effect upon our God, and He grieves over them. And that's different than satisfying his justice. And so the question is, how is the living God restored to a non-grieved status? If he's grieved over your sin. How does Scripture portray to us That the living God is restored. I'm using human terms, obviously. Consider the garden for a moment. This I think will help us picture the need for restoration Consider the grief of God as his first son Adam offends him. He had given him everything. He had placed him in the perfect He was with him. He was walking with him in the garden. He was communing with him. He had given him everything in the garden to eat. He'd called him to Care for it with one exception, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, which you shall not eat. And he does. Think of the grief of God as he comes and discovers Adam hiding. As he speaks to the woman, what is this you have done? Think of the grief in God's heart. And as he says to Adam, Because you've listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I command you, you shall not eat of it, cursed is the ground, because of you in pain you shall eat all the days of your life. Can you hear the grief of God as he speaks to Adam From a human perspective, there's a sense that God suffers an injury as a result of Adam's sin. He suffered a loss. He made Adam perfect, and now Adam has defiled himself. And the very good garden, all of creation, man has despoiled. And there's a loss. And a need for restoration. Think of Cain's words to God Am I my brother's keeper? How grieved was God when Cain said that and then as the Lord looks down upon the earth and sees man and it grieved him to his heart. Because his constant thoughts were wickedness, even before the flood Do you see, as God speaks to us in such a way that we as finite creatures are get a glimpse into the divine realm, we would see a great loss. From a human perspective, as God grieves over our sins. And then we must understand that restoration does take place through his son. The Lord Jesus Christ. As we just compare the first Adam and the second Adam. Think of what happens at Jesus' baptism As he's beginning his earthly ministry, as Jesus is baptized, as the Spirit descends upon him like a dove and rests upon him in a voice from heaven. proclaims, this is my beloved son with whom I'm well pleased. Think of the transfiguration as as Jesus is now clothed in this whiter than white robe and the voice from heaven which overshadows all those who are there. This is my beloved son with whom I'm well pleased. Listen to him And then think of Paul's letter to the church at Philippi. urging them to be like Christ, to see Christ as their example, as one who did not count equality with God as a thing to be grasped. And found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross, therefore God has highly exalted him. You see, the first Adam refused to obey, even with regard to justice. the forbidden fruit, to the second Adam, then who longed to obey even to death on the cross. Do you see There's a sense in which the Father is restored through his son from being grieved to now being being well pleased, from being eternally offended by his first son's refusal to love him in obedience to being eternally restored and appeased by the second Adam's vicarious atonement on the cross at Calvary. You see how the guilt offering points so very clearly to Jesus Christ. And I know that it's difficult to speak in these terms, but as the Lord has given us His word, he speaks to us in this way. He's grieved over our sin, but in Christ Jesus, his son, he's well pleased, he's restored To that place he was at, in a sense, before Adam fell. Jesus Christ, his very and only eternally begotten Son. Restores Kim. That brings us to our third point, restoring the worldly loss. Well in chapter 6 we see some very specific sins that the Lord addresses in this guilt offering which are committed against A man's neighbor. If anyone sins and commits a breach of faith against the Lord by deceiving his neighbor, in a matter of deposit or security or through robbery, or if he has oppressed his neighbor, or has found something lost and lied about it, swearing falsely, if he has sinned and realized his guilt And will restore what he took by robbery or what he got by oppression. He shall restore it in full and shall add a fifth to it Now, as Moses moves through the guilt offering He has addressed the fact that there needs to be restoration. He has addressed that restoration needs to begin with God Himself. And now he addresses that as a result of that restoration with God through Jesus Christ That there can be restoration in this world between brothers and sisters This is what sin does. Yes, we have offended God. He is grieved by our sin. sins now, as we bring the sin down to our level, as we sin against one another. There needs to be restoration as well. As we deceive others, as we oppress others, as we rob others As we take what doesn't belong to us, we are hurting, we are harming, we are injuring those around us. And the call is that we would restore that which has been taken. Certainly that the only way for us to fully and completely restore or affect what has been disaffected by our sin is through Christ. But this passage indicates that in addition to the Christ's work of restoration Which is that which we lean upon, which is that which we must have first and foremost, then as Christ restores, we have work to do In terms of pursuing that worldly restoration And it's good for us to meditate upon that for a moment So one who has become a victim or fallen victim to a sinner is to be restored to that position that they were in prior to the loss experienced as a result. So if the sinner has stolen a sheep, the sheep must be returned. And the owner of the sheep must be restored to that position that he was in prior to the theft. And then there's to be a fifth added to it. So there's this restoration, but there's also this recognition that the owner of the sheep has suffered loss beyond just the fact that that sheep was gone for a time. That they've been invaded, so to speak, that their privacy has been broken into. Restoration is the justice of God. The one who has been wronged is to be satisfied. Do you see the picture that's being painted? by the guilt offering, this broad concept that our sin dismantles, it causes destruction and affliction, certainly for ourselves, but then also for others. Think of the Israelites in Egypt. They went down to Egypt as friends, welcomed by the Egyptians, so that they would survive the famine. Mercy was given initially, but as the Israelite nation grew, there was a change of heart. The position of the Israelites in the eyes of the Egyptians changed. It spiraled downward They went from becoming welcomed neighbors to becoming oppressed slaves without justice. And so there was restoration pursued by God in his justice. Whereby he brought the Israelites out from bondage under the Egyptians back into freedom. He restored the Israelites. He brought them back from being under the sovereign, wicked hand of Pharaoh to being under his good, loving, caring, just. Sovereign hand. And we see restoration there as part of the concept of God's perfect justice Which carries all the way through this guilt offering. Isn't that what God is doing to his plan of redemption? Is he not pursuing justice? Is he not pursuing this act of restoring? You see, as he restores us to that Communion, that fellowship with him through his son, the Lord Jesus Christ, that then allows us to pursue restoration with our brothers and sisters here. And even those outside of the church. That's God's plan of redemption. It includes his justice, which includes the act of restoration. Taking sinners like you and me, through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, to pursue restoration. Is he bringing you back to that position that you were in prior to Adam's fall? Isn't that what God is doing? Through redemption, isn't he restoring even through his justice? You see, the Israelites had work to do As they sinned, as they recognized it, as they confessed it, as they came to be made right with God through their sacrifice, they had work to do. They had to restore the person that they had offended because God had restored them. Do you see the picture? Because Christ Jesus has worked powerfully in your hearts, restoring you Taking away your heart of stone and granting to you a heart of flesh, He has restored you in that. He's restored you to communion and union with your Creator God. And now you have a role to play in that expanded restoration here on earth. The call. The call to the Israelites was to restore what you've taken, to make your brother or sister whole. They had a role to play. And tonight, I think we have to meditate upon this and consider. We have a role to play, We're not just those who sit back and say, Christ has done it all, I'm doing nothing. Well, he has done it all. But he's given you an opportunity to participate. to restore what you've taken from another. Now be thinking to yourself, well I haven't taken anything. We need to meditate upon that and examine ourselves. It may not be material You may have taken trust. And you need to restore that trust. It may be love that you've taken. And not given back. It may be kindness that you've removed and you need to display. It may be gentleness. It may just be listening And it certainly may be tender words. You see, as you sin against another person, this passage calls you to remember that Christ Christ has done the actual restoration. He calls you now as you've been restored To seek after the restoration that you can pursue To restore a relationship that you participated in breaking. Yes, through his loving, obedient sacrifice, the Lord Jesus Christ restores the loss caused by sin. Naaman. Naaman at first didn't want anything to do with Elisha's call to wash himself. That he might be restored. But he was persuaded. And ultimately was restored. Brothers and sisters, as we meditate upon even this passage which might seem strange to us tonight, let us ask the Spirit to work powerfully within us. He would cause us to desire not only restoration with the living God, but also restoration Here, in this place, before Jesus returns. Amen. Father in heaven, we are a broken and sinful people, saved only by grace. And Father, those words are so powerful and Father, so precious to us. And at times we think we have really no role to play in restoration. And yet this passage would speak to us tonight and say there is much to do with regard to restoration. Christ has done it all. And yet He calls us even tonight to be participants. In it, to be yoked to him as he continues to pursue restoration. Holy Spirit, help us To be those that desire to see more and more lost sheep reconciled to you And help us to pursue that restoration of broken relationships here in this place at this time for your glory and for the exaltation. of Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.