If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Luke, we'll continue our study there this morning. Reading from now, chapter 11. We've been in chapter 10 for the most part. Finished that last week, and we're now moving on briefly into chapter 11. Jesus Christ continues to teach his disciples. In this passage, he teaches them how to pray. Let's give attention to God's most holy and perfect Word. Luke 11, beginning at verse 1. Now it came to pass as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said to him, Lord. Teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples. So he said to them, When you pray, say, Our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day Excuse me, give us day by day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins. For we also forgive everyone who is indebted to us. And do not lead us into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. And he said to them, Which of you shall have a friend? And go to him at midnight, and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves, for a friend of mine has come to me on his journey, and I have nothing to set before him He will answer from within and say, Do not trouble me. The door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. I cannot rise and give to you. I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him because he is his friend, yet because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as he needs. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be opened to you For everyone who asks receives, and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks, it will be opened If a son asks for bread from any father among you, will he give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a serpent instead of a fish? Or if he asks for an egg, will he offer him a scorpion If you then, being evil, know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Praise be to God. Amen. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Father in heaven, as we now come to a passage which might be very familiar to us, even as we prayed the model prayer this morning. We ask Father now that you would help us to wait upon you, to wait upon the Spirit, to listen. As the Spirit teaches us. Lead us, Lord God. Open our eyes. Open our hearts. That we might see The power of prayer. That we might see the personal, the intimate communion that we are called to have with you. through this prayer. I pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Jacob, Jacob was returning home. After living and serving with Laban for many years, it's going back And Jacob knew that as he returned, he needed a blessing. He was about to meet his brother, Esau. And if you remember, Esau was the older son. He was the one who was to receive the blessing. He was the one who was to receive the birthright, both of which were taken by Jacob. Which Which resulted in his leaving because Esau had threatened his life many years ago. But now Jacob was returning and was fearful of going and Seeing his brother, who was on his way to him, with I think about 400 men. Jacob was the son with the blessing. It was through Jacob that the seed of the woman would be born. Through Judah, Jesus would come. So it was spiritually significant. That Jacob and Judah survive. So the night before Jacob meets Esau, he wrestles. Wrestles with God, persistently seeking a desperately needed blessing that Esau might not kill him and his family. Jacob Was persistent. Let me go. For the day breaks. But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. It's a graphic picture of our striving with God in prayer. It might be that Jesus Christ had this in mind, this event. as he teaches his disciples about prayer. Well if we've gone through this very short portion of the Gospel of Luke, we've seen that Jesus Christ is taught about the filling of the kingdom, the scope of the harvest, the method of the harvest, the task of the harvest, and the result of the harvest, the destruction of Catan Satan's kingdom. joy and blessing. We've seen the foundation of the kingdom. Foundation, as the lawyer asks about eternal life and seeing the impossibility of keeping the law Disciples were shown that the foundation of the kingdom rested in the mercy and the grace of God alone. And we saw the focus of the kingdom, didn't we? is Martha. Martha focused upon worldly things, upon hospitality, in contrast to her sister who was sitting at the feet of the Lord Jesus Christ, who had chosen the good part. which was not taken from her. Jesus the God man, the focus of the kingdom. And so Jesus has been teaching of The filling of the kingdom, the gathering of souls, the foundation of the kingdom, and the mercy of God, the very nature of God It's appropriate now that he would be teaching his disciples as to how they could be in union and communion with this one, their heavenly. Father. So this morning, I want us to see that the Lord pours out his grace upon believers as he leads them to strive toward purpose and persistence. and perfection through prayer. See that in three simple points. The grace of purposeful prayer, the grace of persistent Prayer, and then finally the grace of perfection through prayer. One quick note, don't think that I'm going to be teaching this morning that we can be perfect in this life. We cannot It's not what I mean when I write the grace of perfection through prayer Well, let's begin with the grace of purposeful prayer. And as we do it, it's good for us to remember what happened in the garden, the garden of Eden. When Adam sinned against God and fell from grace, ultimately what happened was a separation was created between the created being, Adam and Eve. And the Creator, God, a great chasm between the Holy God And the one that he was in fellowship with, Adam and Eve, Adam breached or broke the covenant by his sin, his sin against God. And humanly speaking, Adam had created this unreparable gap between himself and the one who had made him. It was if a telephone line of of communication had been severed And there was not for Adam any electrical tape to put it back together again. It was broken. And now the disciples are being taught about that kingdom, about entering back into that kingdom, back into communion with God. They're being taught now how to live in anticipation of that kingdom. But the problem is that they were focused, like Martha, upon the world, upon themselves. And so the question is, how would they change? How would they do what the law required if they were going to earn life? How would they have mercy like the Samaritan? How would they have a desire to sit and hear the word when the world was calling them to focus on it? How would they or anyone enter the kingdom and live? How could this chasm be crossed? So the disciples asking a very interesting question. Teach us how to pray. Jesus Christ has just concluded a session of prayer with his Father. And so now they approach him and they say, Lord, teach us to pray. It's quite amazing that Jesus did not respond impossible. Consider the essential difference between the disciples and the people in Judah in Jeremiah's day. Remember, Jeremiah was told at least three times by the Lord, do not pray for this people. They've neglected God. They've turned away from God. They've turned towards idols. They haven't restrained their feet from following after their own desires. And Jeremiah was told, do not pray for them. Do you do you see? Do you see the problem? This people you're not to pray for because they're sinners. Well, what was the essential difference between these people in Jeremiah's time and the disciples? They were all deserving of death because of their sins. None had earned the right to come before God and enter into it. to communion with him. And Jesus states this much later in the passage, if you then being evil But no, Jesus invites them to pray. To have intimate communion and fellowship with the God of creation. The one who was offended by Adam's sin, the very one who justly and righteously cut off his communion such that he could not and would not be near or in communion with such sinners as Adam and Eve Jesus invites them to pray. Indeed, he directs his disciples by grace to enter into purposeful prayer. By grace, purposeful prayer begins with a confession of who God has become through his Son, Jesus Christ. Christ, our Father. So he said to them, When you pray, say, Our Father in heaven. Now, this idea of God being their father was not a new concept. It is throughout the Old Testament. As God forms Adam and Eve, Adam from the dust, Eve from the rib of Adam, and breathes life into them, he is clearly their father. But that's not where it stops. Throughout the first five books of the Bible, Israel is referred to as the Son of God. Moses refers to your father who has brought you out. David calls God, the Lord of Israel, our Father. Isaiah refers to the Lord as our Father. We are the clay. You are our potter. We are all the work of your hand. Throughout the Old Testament, there's a recognition that God is their Father. But this, while it's not a new idea or concept, Jesus brings it out and he puts it in front and he gives it emphasis and he says this is very personal. There's a sense in which the Old Testament was collective. Collectively, he's the Father, but now Jesus is saying, personally, for you, he is your father, and you should speak to him in that way. Jesus was telling his disciples that they were to consider and commune with the Creator of the heavens and the earth in intimacy. His care and his love. Their purpose in prayer then was to join in his communion and fellowship with their creator God as their Father. How? How could these men do this as sinners? How could they enter into such intimate communion with one they would not even say his name How could they call him Father? Only by the grace of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. Only through his person and his work could they call him their father. That changed everything. Doesn't this really show forth the purposefulness of prayer? That as these disciples prayed as As a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ praise, one of the great purposes is to draw near, to draw intimately close to the living and true God of creation as your father, one who knows you. He knows the hairs upon your head. Not just the color. How many? He knit you together in your mother's womb. He knows your thoughts before they hit the tip of your tongue. But more so, the one who truly cares for you and loves you as your father. The purpose of prayer then is to commune to fellowship with your Father, addressing God as Father. Reminds us of this great privilege and purpose. Jesus didn't stop there. He said, Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done. Hallowed. We don't use that word very much today. In fact, I don't think we use it at all. It's an imperative verb, means it's a command. It's in that kind of shape, that form. The name of God is to be hallowed or sanctified or set apart as holy, to be revered. You might think that this is Us, this is what we do in prayer. But it's God. It's God who has made his name holy and set apart. And revered and hallowed. Part of the model prayer, then, or the way in which the disciples were taught to address the Father. was to begin with that confession or that proclamation that God has indeed hallowed his name. And that the disciples were rehearsing with themselves as they prayed, remembering that he has done this, and then for those who were listening, revealing to them the holiness of God. Purposeful prayer then begins with the knowledge and confession that this one that you are communing with and praying to, this Creator God has become your heavenly Father. Through Christ Jesus by grace, and whose name has been sent apart as holy and undefiled and righteous and revered, this one is the center of your prayer. Well that speaks to the person, doesn't it? Our Father, his name is hallowed. What about the rest of the prayer? It speaks to the work of the Father. God is the center. He's the focus of the kingdom. We learned that as we studied Martha and Mary. While Martha was distracted with much serving, Mary chose the good part. And here in the model prayer given by Jesus, that idea that truth is just reinforced. Purposeful prayers are centered upon God Himself Not upon man. We've seen the person and now the rest of the prayer is all about the work of God, his kingdom coming, his will being done, his providing for the physical needs of his children, daily bread, forgiveness, his deliverance from evil. Do you see it? His person and his Work. It's all focused upon God. What greater or better purpose might there be in our prayers than to focus our communion on the very works? and person of God, to petition our Heavenly Father to continue such works which fulfill his promises, his covenant Let's just take up one of those. Your kingdom come Remember how this passage began. How we began in Luke chapter 10. It began with Jesus Christ sending out the seventy and teaching his disciples how the kingdom was to be filled. It was the filling of the kingdom, and simultaneously the destruction of Satan's kingdom. Filling it with those who will worship, truly worship the Triune God. And now the disciples are taught that the kingdom is not going to be filled through their preaching. It's not going to be filled through their teaching without prayer. This is the way in which you will continue my work of filling, of building the kingdom you must pray. You must ask God the Father. You must call upon his hallowed name and long for it. May your kingdom come. This week, during a pastoral visit, I was asked for my plan for evangelism. It was a good question. It was an excellent question. I was asked about proclaiming Jesus as crucified, dead, buried, risen, ascended to a world lost in darkness. But I failed to give the right answer. I talked about sending out postcards and meeting people, all good things. But I made a colossal mistake. I didn't talk about prayer. So what's my plan? It's to pray. Action will come, but first, much prayer It's a significant part of our purposeful prayer. We seem to be surrounded by spiritual forces of evil and wickedness. The fight to abort children just seems to be increasing. At times we resort to the wringing of our hands as opposed to entering into purposeful prayer for the kingdom to come, for the kingdom to be filled with sons of peace. Well, what is the purpose of man? What is the chief end of man? Alright, we know. Man's chief end or primary purpose is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. We kind of get the glory part. Kind of understand that. But how do we enjoy him? Did you notice in the model prayer, in Jesus' prayer, the Lord's Prayer? That it really includes a complete confession of dependence upon God the Father for everything. For our physical needs, for our spiritual needs, to defeat our enemies, everything. We're just setting it before Him and saying, God, we are completely dependent upon you as our Heavenly Father, whose name has been hallowed It's certainly grace-filled, purposeful prayer, but is also part of enjoying Him. You think of it that way. Do you think of your complete dependence and prayerful dependence upon God is part of enjoying Him? Today. Brings us to our second point, the grace of persistent prayer. When we were in California for a short period of time, one of the places that served up hamburgers was called In N Out Burgers. It was very popular. But the name tells you a little bit about the place. In and out. You get in, you get out, you get your food. We can learn a lot about ourselves by considering advertising slogans and names of businesses. America has become a culture of Now. We want what we want and we want it now. Fox News reported in 2014 that Burger King had replaced its 40-year-old slogan, have it your way, with Be Your Way. Not sure they I know the difference. But Burger King said to Fox News that their new model was intended to remind people that they can and should live how they want any time. That concept is not found in the pages of Scripture. In fact, as we study the word, we find just the opposite. Indeed, this parable given by Jesus Christ teaches something very different. As Jesus now seeks to open up his teaching on prayer to his disciples, he gives them a parable. It's interesting. First we want to recognize that Jesus was not teaching in this parable that God is like the man inside the house with his children. That's not what Jesus was teaching. It's not teaching that Jesus that God is unfriendly, that his father is one who needs sleep and who shuts the door and doesn't want to be disturbed. That's not the teaching of this parable. Let's get that out of the way. What then is the thrust of this parable? Because we look for it. We look for that one solid teaching that's contained within each and every Parable. Let's look at the circumstances. First, the men are friends. They're not strangers. This one who's knocking on the door is not a stranger. They must be neighbors, you'd think so, because he's going to his house at midnight. He probably didn't travel a long way to get there. Probably neighbors, good friends, members of the same community. The man seeking the bread was seeking to serve another friend who had come from a foreign land, some distance. He wants to provide hospitality. Apparently, he didn't plan for this. An unannounced friend, which is very common in that culture, come in, let me serve you. He doesn't have any bread. So he goes to his friend's house And he knocks on the door at midnight. What does he receive as a result of the first request? An emphatic no Go away. Literally, do not trouble me But the man, implicitly, even though it's not stated, keeps on asking. He doesn't go away, so that he may serve his friend So that he may provide that hospitality that he was out looking for. And Jesus says very clearly: I say to you, though he will not rise and give to him because he is his friend yet. Because of his persistence, he will rise and give him as many as he needs. So what's the teaching? What's the single principle here that the Lord Jesus was teaching his disciples? It has to do with prayer. We know that This is sandwiched. We have the model prayer before it. We have, so I say to you, ask and it will be given. Seek and you will find. Knocking will be opened. After it. It's sandwiched between. We know it relates to prayer. What's he teaching? It's only one reason that the man's request was answered positively because he was bold, going at midnight, because he knew the man, and he went to him as a friend And thus, because of his boldness, he was persistent. Do you see the two? He was bold because he knew this man as a friend. And his boldness works its way out in persistence. For he was seeking a good work of the kingdom. Do you see the model of prayer there? We're bold in prayer because we know the one we're going to. We're going to him in the name of Jesus Christ, who has taught us that this is our Father And thus in our boldness we can be and should be persistent as we're seeking good kingdom work. The main thrust of this is also reinforced. Verse 9 seems to be the centerpiece. We have four verses that come before it, four verses that come after it, right in the middle, is verse 9. So I say to you, ask, and it will be given to you. Seek, and you will find, knock, and it will be opened here. It's kind of a chiasm. Verse 9 is being the center, the thrust, the summary of the parable. We might conclude that God hears and answers, and God is good, all of which is biblical. But there's more. Why persistence? Why multiple requests? Why not answer the first go round? Certainly, boldness is involved. Boldness is being taught in Christ. But let's consider another aspect. How is our first prayer? How is our first request presented? How might our first request be tainted with Sin. How might we react if the Lord were to give us the things we request the first time? How are our prayers reformed and refined over time as we wait? upon the Lord. This call for multiple persistent asking, seeking, knocking appears to be a means of changing our hearts. It appears to be a way used by the Lord to move us, to transform us in part, our minds, away from ourselves. away from the things of this world, away from our lustful desires to Him, to focus on the Lord Jesus Christ and upon His will. How will the disciples enter? How will the disciples' hearts be changed to have mercy? How will they focus on the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you see it now Through persistence in seeking the will of God It's not our will, but the will of God that we should be seeking and pursuing. Isn't that what the model prayer includes? Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Not my will. Constantly, persistently seeking again and again and again that the Lord's will be done It's his plan, it's not our plan. A man's heart plans his way, but the Lord directs his steps Persistence in prayer begins with the object, persistently seeking the Lord's will. There's another part to that. The persistence continues in submitting to his timing. You see, it's not our timing. Do you get that idea with the multiple requests? It's not our timing. It's the Lord's that we should be seeking out. His timing is perfect. Our timing is corrupt and tainted by sin. If you have time this afternoon, open up Psalm 27. The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Whom shall I be afraid? Of whom shall I be afraid? Though an army may camp against me, my heart shall not fear. What are the first three verses? How does it end? Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord. Do you see how the waiting upon the Lord is geared, is intended, is designed by God? The asking, the knocking, the seeking, the waiting to strengthen you. It's not to frustrate you. It's not to say, why God, not the first time. No, it's to strengthen your heart, to build you up in courage, to wait upon Him. Those who wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. Isaiah 40, verse 31 How is the kingdom of God built? Through prayer Through asking God the Father, through being consistent and persistent in prayer, such that our hearts would be first changed, be more Christ-like. Do you see how the Genesis passage now comes to play? Do you see how now it fits in as Jacob was wrestling with God? Likely a pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a clear picture of persistence, isn't it? Let me go for the day breaks. But he said, I will not let you go unless you bless me. Jacob was blessed. Wasn't he? Esau came and didn't destroy him. Oh, he welcomed him. Welcome him back home. And Jacob was changed. Remember that socket of his hip? Jacob was blessed. He was changed. As he was persistent with God, are you being changed through your prayers? If not, if you're here this morning you're saying, No. Help persistent are you for spiritually significant matters, for kingdom matters, for the will of God to be done, for his timing, his timing to be worked out. Are you persistent in seeking his will? Are you persistent in submitting to his timing? That brings us to our third point, the grace of perfection through prayer. Remember what I said early on, I'm not talking about being perfect in this life. Well, there's clarity in this particular account, this particular gospel. We know that the model prayer is also set forth in the Gospel of Matthew. But only Luke includes this parable about the friend coming at midnight. And Matthew's record stops Where Luke's record continues in a rather significant fashion. Both of them have the ask, and it will be given to you, seeking, you will find, knock, and it will be opened to you. But look carefully at the end of Luke's record. If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children is referring to that analogy. How much more we the Heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him I think both Gospels are really pointing to the same thing. You might think, well, Matthew speaking about physical things. Luke is speaking about spiritual things, but I don't think that's the case. Matthew wrote, Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added to you. I think both Gospels are pointing to the same thing. Luke happens to make things crystal clear for us that the best gift that can be requested, the best gift that can be given Is the Spirit, Spirit of God. It's through the Spirit that the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ is applied to our hearts. And so we clearly see the parallels. The fish, the bread, the egg, the food necessary to sustain physical life is given by earthly fathers to their children. And Luke says, how much more then if you being evil give those good things to your children, how much more will the Holy Father give you the Spirit? To those who ask him. Spirit, then, is necessary to sustain spiritual life. Now we have to ask that question: what's the connection then between the Spirit and prayer and the kingdom? How do these all fit together such that Luke's record would end with this very powerful statement? The Heavenly Father will give the Holy Spirit to those who ask, and it seems to be the focus, the central idea of asking and seeking and finding, and the door being opened, seems to be the Spirit. What's the connection? Well, it's the Spirit who is preparing you to enter into the kingdom, to be flawless. Kingdom is flawless. Glory is flawless. There is no sin in glory. There are no more tears. There's perfection in worship. But the helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, he will teach you all things and bring to your remembrance all the things that Jesus said. Do you see what the Spirit does and how he perfects us? How he perfects the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ? He's bringing to remembrance the things that Jesus taught. He's bringing them before you consistently. Persistently. That's how he works. That's how he refines. That's how he purifies. The writer to the Hebrews said that it's impossible for those who were at once enlightened and have tasted the heavenly gift and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit. And have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, is look at the work of the Spirit. He is the one who enlightens. He is the one who gives you the taste of the heavenly gifts. He is the one who causes the good word to become tasty within your mouth and allows you to see the powers of the age to come. It's the work of the Spirit. Preparing you for glory. What did Peter write? He referred to the Spirit as the sanctifier The one who builds us up in obedience in the sprinkling of the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the Spirit who takes all the work of Christ and applies it to you. Building you up in sanctification, obedience, washing you clean. It's the Spirit who perfects our hearts And you've got to pray for him. And he's the one who prepares you for the kingdom. You see the connection Lord, who may abide in your tabernacle, who may dwell on your holy hill, he who walks uprightly and works righteousness and speaks the truth in his heart, that's what the Spirit is doing. He works in you. To hear the word of God and to keep it, we need to pray for the Spirit Spirit's work. We need to be persistent in praying that He would be, that we would each individually and as a church be more and more conformed to the image of Christ. The filling of the kingdom involves much more than merely opening the door and issuing tickets. Now those who are invited must be prepared to enter. We need wedding clothes. Remember the one who came to the wedding feast in Matthew 22 without a wedding garment. What happened? He was cast out into the outer darkness. We need the garments. Yes, we're clothed in the righteousness of Christ, but as the Spirit comes as he fills us. He is giving us, he's clothing us, he's making those wedding garments and wrapping us in them Yes, to participate in gathering with the Lord Jesus Christ and the building of the kingdom of God, we need spirit-led, perfected prayer, which shapes us and molds us confectively. Forming us more and more to Christ, preparing us to enter into glory. Yes, the Lord pours out his grace upon believers as he leads them to strive towards purpose, persistence, and perfection through prayer. Jacob wrestled, he struggled, he was blessed, and he was changed. We don't enter into physical wrestling with the Lord. But through persistent, intimate, spirit-led prayer, we do strive. With God the Father. And like Jacob, we're being prepared to return home. Praise be to God. Oh Father, we We need help. We are feeble. We are frail. We neglect prayer. But Father, we've seen this morning the significance of spirit-led prayer, of the abiding of the Spirit, of the prayers that the Spirit would continue his work within us. Father, help us, lead us, guide us, that we would be more faithful in our prayers. That by and through our prayers you would be working submission in our hearts. By or through our prayers, you be changing us to be more like Christ, that you prepare us to enter into glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.