Continue to stand, turn in your Bibles to the sermon text from 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verses 18 through 25, continuing our study in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 Hear now the word of the Lord. For the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and I will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world through wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For Jews request a sign, and Greeks seek after wisdom. But we preach Christ crucified To the Jews a stumbling block, and to the Greeks foolishness. But to those who are called both Jews and Greeks Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men And thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated. We recently began this study on the book of 1 Corinthians, and some of what I say today will overlap with the message I gave two weeks ago. But there's some matters just in verse 18 that I wasn't able to cover the last time, and so I'm going to try to address them today before us. I want us to think about verse 18 under the title of the sermon, The Meaning of the Cross. And verse 18, of course, reads, for the message of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing But to us, to those of us, being saved, it is the power of God. Do we know what the message of the cross is This message is said to be one that one category of people declare to be foolishness. We may think we understand what the message of the cross is, but do we really I'd like us today to think a little bit more on this subject and come to a better understanding of how revolutionary. How radical the work of Jesus Christ upon the cross is. I say that because there was nothing like it that existed before it happened. And there is nothing like it existing since The work of Jesus upon the cross is unique. In all the annals of human endeavors, there's nothing like it. Nor will there ever be anything like it. In the incarnation of your Savior and all the events of his years on the earth Especially culminating with his death and resurrection, they have no parallel. Nothing in terms of humanly generated love Or justice or compassion or mercy comes close Yet to these momentous acts of our Savior that he accomplished on the cross, the sinful world of men says or declares it is foolishness. Do you believe that? Do you as a believer in Christ Jesus think the cross of Jesus is foolishness? Uh I know to whom I speak, and I know you don't think that, but you and I are in a decided minority in this world in which we live Why do people disparage the message of the cross and call it foolishness? What is this message that the world reacts so scornfully to? What is a cross? On one level, the cross is simply two pieces of wood. That happened to intersect. One vertical, one horizontal Yet the text before us says the cross of Jesus Christ conveys a message. When you think of conveying a message, you think automatically of something speaking. From the world of men, the cross speaks as an incredibly vicious means to accomplish capital punishment But from God's world world, the cross speaks a different tone It's a symbol. But what is it a symbol for? What is its message The translation for the Greek of the word, the message of the cross, is the word you're familiar with. It is in Greek logos Which normally translated in the Bible is Word, the Word And you think about words, words when they're spoken by someone who is living, are used to convey a conception or an idea. Words can't be collected together to continually speak a message Or a teaching or a discourse, as a sermon does. Words can be thoughts or a declaration Or a weighty saying. They can be an instruction. They can be narratives. They can be stories used to tell stories. Of course, in John's Gospel, the word Lagos denotes the person of Jesus Christ. He is the Word of God, from the beginning of John to the end of John. He is the personal wisdom and power He is personal wisdom and power in union with God. The Lagos Jesus Christ is God's minister in creation and in the government of this universe. He is the supreme cause of all the world's life, both physical and spiritual. He is the one who procured man's salvation. He is the second person of the Godhead. His being shining forth from his words and his actions When we seek to know the message of the cross, all of those thoughts kind of play into when it says the message of the cross is foolishness. That's what the unbelieving world is thinking about the Lord Jesus Christ, whom you hold dear and love, and who loves you. To me, it's amazing that God has pecked so much meaning into two pieces of wood. And yet, for the past 2,000 years, the message of the cross, the work of the divine Christ dying on the cross, is rejected by men. And dismissed with an arrogant human declaration of foolishness. And probably at one point in your life When you were not a believer, you thought it was foolishness too. What's changed in your life? It's not that the message of the cross is somehow deemed foolishness by man because it's unclear or it's uncertain. On the contrary, it's very plain. It's very clear. The Word of God. Connects the cross to the gospel through the person of Christ. The cross means death It's a form of execution. But death in the Bible is what we all earn as the wages of sin. Somebody died on the cross. Somebody died to pay those wages. Somebody died to pay your wages for sin. Paul Here in 1 Corinthians, divinely chooses, divinely inspired, chooses to connect the message to the cross. So how do most people hear this continuously speaking word of the cross? That reveals God's plan for salvation. This instruction, this narrative about Jesus Christ the eternal Son of God, the ultimate word of God. The personal wisdom and power in union with God, this Ladas God's minister in charge of creation, God's minister in charge of its governance, and God's minister in charge of redemption. Christ is the cause of all the world's life, both physical, spiritual, and ethical. In order to gain man's salvation, he put on human nature in the person of Jesus the Messiah. And I know I'm not telling you anything new. But why do people react with such disdain and such scorn to those thoughts? The text tells us that there are two responses to the cross, to the message of the cross. There are two responses to Jesus. There are two responses to Jesus' death on the cross, paying the wages of sin. One is said to be foolish, is said to come from those who are perish. They view the cross as foolishness. All men perish because of sin's wages, and our minds are clouded by our sinful rebellion Because we have rejected what we know God is and who God is, because we have rejected that, God has given us up to a foolish and sin-darkened mind. And heart. As Romans chapter one, verse twenty-one puts it, because that when they knew God They glorified him not as God, neither were they thankful. But they became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to become be wise, they became fools. The verdict of those who are perishing is the verdict of those who have rejected what they can see about God in creation and have rejected what they can see about God on the cross And the message of redemption that permeates the scriptures. It's not a great place to be. Because those who are proclaiming the message of the cross to be foolish are also identified as those who are perishing. Their souls are perishing. Though they are alive now, their eternal souls will perish. Because They have seen the cross and at a given point in their existence they consider it foolishness. Now the question is going to be, are they going to continue in that mindset? Said or not. Are they going to continue to declare the cross of Jesus Christ foolishness? And, brothers and sisters, thank God that God didn't leave you there. Or leave the rest of us there. If you know Jesus, he didn't leave you in the foolishness of your darkened, sin, depraved heart. Because you have rejected what you know about him from creation, you've rejected the cross. But for some, God did not leave us there. And he did it in a variety of different ways, in a multitude of different ways. But ultimately it comes down to allowing us to hear his word and to begin to understand. Think about this. With the cross of Jesus Christ God has given to all men the symbol of life, defeating death. Did you notice that on Paul's cross There's not a dead body. He doesn't describe it as there being a dead body there. He's just simply talking about the cross. You can make the connection. There was a dead body there. But the Bible doesn't leave it there either, does it? The Lord Jesus Christ wasn't on the cross, but he didn't stay there. And that empty cross foreshadows an empty tomb of Christ's resurrection. And that's important. Because the resurrection of Christ symbolizes the newness of life, of eternal life. A life that speaks of hope and peace with God, that sin has been conquered for weary and heavy-laden sinners. As Paul writes in 1 Corinthians 15, later in his epistle, he said, the first Adam was made a living soul, the last Adam was made quickening spirit or a life-giving spirit And as we read earlier in Romans 6, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of God the Father, even so we should walk in the newness. God has thrown out to foolish men Drowning in the sea of sin and despair and degradation, God has thrown out to such then a lifeline. A lifeline called the cross of Jesus Christ. But sinful men who are perishing reject that lifeline. Reject the cross. They refuse to believe in the death and resurrection of Christ for their sin. And even more, those who are perishing seize God's lifeline of Jesus as such foolishness that it's not even worth their time to consider. Of course, this is said. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit, for they are foolishness to him. Man's rejection of God's lifeline of the cross of Christ, calling it foolishness, is said to be, by Paul, the defining act of the wisdom of the world. Rejection is because they are perishing. They are being destroyed. Body and soul Devoted to eternal ministry in hell. Excuse me, eternal misery in hell. To perish, to be lost, to be ruined. To the perishing the cross is foolishness. That's one reaction. The second begins with a but But to those who are being saved, it is the power of God. Some people must apparently be able or begin to see the message of the cross and understand it. Having said that, I need to carefully describe who those people are and how they're able to understand. Who can understand the message of the cross? The answer is in the text Us being saved. Us being saved. Think about this. That verb there is a present passive. The implication of that is that only those who are being saved can truly understand the message of the cross. It's only when you're saved and being saved that you can understand the message of the cross. Everyone who is not saved cannot understand it and will deem it to be foolish. But for you, it is not foolish. For you, it is the greatest of all of God's blessings and gifts. You don't understand it on your own. It's not because you're so wise and so gifted and so smart and so intelligent. that you understand it, it's because God has worked to save you and put you in a different mindset and put you in a different light. Newness of life. Not the old man, but the new man. Not the old creature, but the new creature. Now with the mind of God, now with the heart of Christ. You can only understand the cross. of Jesus Christ when, put it another way, you were born again. Because you see, these two sticks of wood, metaphorically Represent the power of God for those who are being saved It takes divine power, the divine power of God expressed on the cross. To overcome your innately foolish heart The cross. It is the very heart of the gospel of Jesus. The message that God declares over and over again in the Scripture, a sinful man's scorn as foolishness that God would come and be incarnate, take on human flesh, and would come to die for sinners. There maybe is ways of expressing it differently. That message permeates all of Scripture from the beginning to the end. And unbelievers have come and gone. And they've rendered their verdict as foolishness. They've rendered only what they can render because they're not being saved. They're perishing. See, this should if you're numbered among the children of God, your heart should be Thrilled right now. Because you've found hope. You've found life. You found life forever And and it wasn't something really you were seeking. But God chose to give it to you. From before the foundation of the world. in Christ by faith. As Paul would proclaim over and over again, how great the grace of God is to Sinners. He said in Romans chapter 1, verse 16 that he was not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. For it is the power of God. Unto salvation to everyone who believes. It's only two responses to the cross of Jesus. There isn't an in-between between foolishness and faith. There just isn't Because there aren't two different types of people. There are sinful men and sinners being saved The perishing and the redeemed, the spiritually dying and the spiritually living Which view of the cross is yours? And which person are you And which person do you want to be? Amen.