Like those who have gone before me, let me take this opportunity again to express my condolences to the family on the loss of your beloved one. And uh I am uh Reverend Gerald Taylor. I was uh Damos pastor for close to 25 years And he has been a member here at this church for uh approximately thirty years, but now he's a member of the church in glory. And um I'm thankful that I've been asked to uh share some words from Scripture and some remembrances of uh of our our brother, my brother in Christ. And uh thank you for that opportunity. We're going to look at one of the Gospels, the Gospel of Luke, and we're going to direct our attention to chapter 17 And beginning our reading at verse 11 and continuing on through verse 19. Luke chapter 11 Excuse me, chapter seventeen, verses eleven through nineteen. And let's hear God's word. Now it happened as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. Then as he entered a certain village, there met him ten men who were lepers. They stood afar off. And they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on me. So when he saw them, he said to them, Go, show yourselves to the priests. And so it was that they went, and they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, returned and went with a loud voice And with a loud voice, glorified God. And he fell down on his face at his feet. Giving Jesus thanks. And he was a Samaritan. Now Jesus answered and said, Were there not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? Were there not any found who returned to give glory to God except this foreigner? And Jesus said to him, Arise. Go your way. Your faith has made you well. May God add his blessing to the reading of this his most holy word It always helps to try to set the uh give the setting where this event occurred. And though this event occurred in an area that's known as Samaria, which was a northern region, north of, a region north of Jerusalem This actually happened that we read about. There was a man named Jesus who met these ten lepers in Samaria. And he actually cured them all. This is history. Our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, entered into human history. To come to save his people from their sin. The Lord Jesus was traveling Through Samaria. Now, on the surface, that doesn't seem like a very significant idea. However, in those days, Jews didn't do that. Because Samaria was a prophecy, a province, that the Jews considered the people who lived there half-breeds. They wouldn't go they wouldn't dare step through Samaria. They would go around it. They'd go out of their way not to go through Samaria. But Jesus went And as he goes, he is suddenly met by ten lepers. Now, when you think about it, When you've gone through, if you have any familiarity with the gospel, the Lord Jesus is often healing somebody. And usually We see them healing maybe one, maybe two lepers at most. But now we've got ten And can you imagine? Can you imagine the sight that this created in this little town in Samaria? You know, I I'm very confident that everybody was standing far away. They did not want to have anything to do with lepros because it was a very contagious and a fatal disease. Right. But that didn't deter Jesus. Because you see the Lord Jesus is all about healing sick people. These ten men cry out to Jesus. I imagine With ten dice, they had a loud voice. They could be heard very easily. And notice what they said In verse um thirteen, Jesus, Master, have mercy. By this time, the ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ and the things that he had done The word of that had gotten around. Not just in Judea and in Jerusalem, but apparently also had gone into Samaria Where they heard about this guy, this guy Jesus, this man, who could do amazing things Now Jesus doesn't say to these men, after they've asked for mercy, he doesn't say, um, okay. You're cleansed. That's not exactly what he said. He said, go, go and show yourself to the priests. Go and show yourself to the priests. And the reason for that had something to do with the provisions in the Old Testament law. That the priest would have to verify a cleansing of a leper in order that they could come back into fellowship in the church. In the synagogue. And at the same time, can you imagine, can you imagine the impact that ten former lepers going to the priests and telling them and showing them we're clean Can you imagine what that meant to the the priests? What in the world is going on here? But you see, it's really just another string of miracles that the Lord Jesus performed. He was confirming through these miracles his messianic identity. That he is the Savior of all men who come to Him in faith, in repentance and faith. Well that that would be a good story, wouldn't it? And it is a good story. It's a great story. But the story gets even better. One leper returns. And notice the leper's posture before Jesus. He cries out with a loud voice. But this time he doesn't say, clean cleanse me, because he's already cleansed. He says, first of all, before he says He fell on his feet. It fell on his face. Excuse me. He fell on his face. That is a posture of worship. He's bowing down before God, before his Lord, before the one who had made him clean. Thank you, Lord God. Amen. He fell on his face. He worshipped God, verse sixteen, and he gave thanks. Thank you, thank you, God, for doing this amazing thing in my life, for cleaning me from the curse of leprosy. Notice, you wouldn't notice this, but in the in the original Greek, it it um the giving of thanks was kind of an ongoing thing The tense suggests it was ongoing. It wasn't just one time, but he was constantly Thank you, Lord Jesus, thank you, Lord Jesus. Praise the Lord for what you've done. Couldn't shut him up. Chris, you didn't know how relevant this text was going to be when you picked that up. And then that you have this detail that he was a uh a Samaritan, verse sixteen. We'll talk about that briefly. But Jesus first of all says, were not ten healed? And now one, only this one, this foreigner Has given glory to God. Given glory to God. Praise the Lord. Now, this story is also meant to bring a contrast with the attitude of the religious leaders in Jerusalem. And those who have looked at Jesus with disdain. And that's, of course, in spite of all the blessings that he had given to them. There's no thanks for what God has done for the leaders of Israel at this time. There's no gratitude. There's no one saying glory to God. As a matter of fact, they want to kill Jesus. They want to kill God's only son. And so it would be that they would succeed. But in the process, the kingdom would be taken from them and given Thank you, Lord God. A generation of faithful. Hallelujah. Who would not just include converted Jews. But converted people from all over the world. Samaritans, foreigners, everyone who has sickness, a disease Everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord and repents of their sin and asks him for mercy. And the Lord Jesus ended this conversation by telling the leper, arise, go your faith. Go y go excuse me. Arise and go. Your faith has made you well. The leper, you see, had faith in Jesus. Faith always needs an object, a person. It wasn't a kind of a wishy-washy kind of faith, you know, uh I have faith in this is going to happen or that's going to happen. I have faith in you. Jesus. Thank you. I have faith in you, Jesus. And that's what made him well. He could not make himself well. Amen. Amen. But it was not difficult at all for Jesus to make him well. And as I thought about this today, and I was supposed to make a few remarks about Adamo, and here's one of those remarks. Our brother Adamo was a lot like this grateful Samaritan. He liked us before we came to know Jesus was sick. He didn't have leprosy, but Adamo and all the rest of us are beyond being sick with leprosy. As Ephesians chapter 2 verse 1 says, our problem is not that we are sick. Our problem is that we are dead. Dead in transgressions and sin. Dead in transgressions and now do you know any dead men that come alive? Do you? Do you know any dead men who are made new from the grave? Don't happen. It only happens with Jesus. It happened during his ministry with a person named uh Lazarus. It happened by one of his prophets named Elijah in the Old Testament Where they brought a dead man to life. But Jesus is the one who has the power over life and death. And he exercises that destroying the power of sin in our life and giving us instead forgiveness from our sin. Turning away the wrath of God upon us for our sin against him, our ingratitude, our lack of love, our love of everything else, our worshiping other gods All except worshiping him, he, when a person comes to know him, when he repents of his sin and believes in Jesus Christ, all of that is gone. All the suffering, all the pain of sin, all the guilt, all the bondage to sin. Just as the leper was cleansed, our God metadamo In Jesus. And he re he removed all of his pain as far as east is from west. And he made Adamo a new creature. He made Adamo, a new creature, and the Holy Spirit lived with Adamo. And in Adamo. And helped making him more and more a new creature in the image of the Lord Jesus who saved him. Our brother Adamo figurative figuratively lived his life on his knees before his Lord. He worshipped Christ, he gave glory to God, and he was always telling others what Jesus had done for him. If you had met Adamo and if you knew Adamo, he never stopped talking about Jesus. He was he was he was kind of like a a bubbling fountain bringing forth words regarding Jesus. And sometimes sometimes He wasn't perfect in what he had to say. Sometimes I think He had a lot of things on his heart that he wanted to say and on his mind, but he struggled with how to get them out clearly. Now, as pastor, I guess you can probably imagine that there were a couple of times when life with a Damo and me could be a little hard. So we had a few struggles, but I can tell you, I can tell you truthfully, he never stopped trusting in Jesus. And even after we had struggles, he always came back to the church. He always treated me and the brothers and sisters here with the love of the Savior. And he took up his place over there. I'm so happy That Brother Adamo is now fully in the presence of his Lord. The one who loved him. And gave his life for him. I cannot imagine the joy he now knows. As he that holds the face of his beloved Savior, the one who cleansed him from a more horrible disease than leprosy, cleansed him from death itself. And as I picture Adamo, he is now wearing the white robes of Jesus' righteousness. And he is telling everybody clearly, concisely, perfectly how much Jesus loves him. Brother Adamo, go your way. Your faith in Jesus has made you well. Oh man. I uh all of us love the Lord is my shepherd. The hymn, the song the the the the the Psalm twenty-three upon which it's based, The Lord is my shepherd, and we will now sing that. It's uh selection number 23 and B, selection 23B in the Psalter Hymnal. So if you'll turn there, uh we'll see. We're staying seated at this point. He makes me don't do why the impact is bringing at me. Quiet orders, why so it's more again And need to walk not make within the past of righteousness Even for his own name's sake walk in that stark veil Yet will I fear not ill, for thou art with me and thy rod. And staff become forward still I table thou shed And presents of my post with oil annoy And my couple goodness and mercy all my life Shall surely fall If you get a copy of God's word, if you turn it to the Old Testament Reading there first morning from Isaiah chapter fifty-three. As you're turning there, my name is Chris Cashin. I am the uh Neophyte amongst these men who shepherded our dear brother Adamo from many many years I had the plever pleasure of knowing him and pastoring him for the last almost three years now. Isaiah fifty three. Let's give attention to God's word. Who has believed what he has heard from us? And to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed For he grew up before him like a young plant and like a root out of dry ground. He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God and afflicted. But he was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him the chastisement that brought us peace, and with his wounds we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed and he was afflicted. Yet he opened not his mouth like a lamb that is led to slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shears is silent, so he opens not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence And there was no deceit in his mouth. Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring, he shall prolong his days, the will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. And then if you turn to the New Testament, to 1 Corinthians, find that on page 1142 of your pew Bibles. Chapter fifteen. I'll begin reading there at verse twelve. Once again, let's give attention to God's holy word. Now, if Christ is proclaimed as raised from the dead, how can some of you say that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, then our preaching is in vain, and your faith is in vain. We are even found to be misrepresenting God because we testified about God that He raised Christ whom he did not raise, if it is true that the dead are not raised. For if the dead are not raised, not even Christ has been raised. And if Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile and you are still in your sins. And those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in Christ we have hope in this life only, we are of all people most to be pitied. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead. The first fruits of those who have but fallen asleep. For as by a man came death. By a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ Shall all be made alive. That's fine. Amen. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, as we come now to your word to open your word, we ask, Lord God, that you would add your blessing to the reading of it. That your word would pierce our hearts this morning, convict us, Lord God, of sin, and then comfort us with the comfort that surpasses all understanding. Father, we are grieving this morning. We're mourning the loss of our dear brother. And yet, as already has been spoken this morning, we rejoice at the very same time. Help us now, Lord God, to fix our eyes, our minds, our hearts upon the one who has caused us even this morning to rejoice, the Lord Jesus. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. There's a passage in Scripture, and I'm pretty sure most of you know it, where the Lord Jesus goes. Because Lazarus is dead. And as he goes He encounters Mary, his sister. Mary comes to Jesus and she said, Lord, if you were here, he wouldn't have died. And she's weeping And it's not only Mary that's weeping. It's all the Jews around her that have come with her and they're all weeping over the loss of this one, over Lazarus. They loved him so much, and then what happens? Jesus himself weeps. He was seeing the result of sin. He was seeing that this one, Lazarus, had died as a result of sin. He sent by the Father To save those who were in sin now was seeing the result of sin. He was seeing the separation that had occurred. Lazarus now, gone. Mary. weeping over the separation that she was experiencing and now Jesus seeing all of it in its fullness, so to speak. Sin separates, doesn't it? It separates us from each other. We see it in our relationships. As we sin one against another, we see the separation occurs, but now we see it even most pointedly in death. As our dear brother Adamo is gone. So hard. So hard to lose a child. So hard to experience that separation. And the fact is that unless Jesus returns first, we will all experience that separation, that death, won't we? It brings us to our passage this morning in 1 Corinthians. Paul wrote this letter to the church to encourage them. This is one of the churches that Paul himself planted, and there were a lot of problems in that church. Just like there are today. Divisions and contention, strife, envy. Pride had taken hold, sexual immorality. It was full of problems. And Paul was writing to them. And now he addressed the most important truth that he could at the end of this letter. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. This morning I want us to see that the powerful resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ defeats certain death for all who are in Christ. The powerful resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ defeats certain death for all who are in Christ. We'll see that this morning in two very simple and short points. First, the problem of death. And secondly, the hope of life. Well, first the problem of death. Why was Paul writing about the resurrection as he comes to the end of this letter? We didn't read it this morning, but he begins chapter 15 speaking about the resurrection, the truth of the resurrection. Jesus Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scripture, he was buried. He appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve, then to more than five hundred brothers. Last of all, as to one untimely born, he appeared also to me. So Paul is now addressing the biggest problem in the church at Corinth. Some were denying the resurrection of Christ. Some were denying the resurrection of the dead, and so now he saves the best, so to speak, for last. He wants to address this problem as those deniers are listening. So he saves this most important topic to stick in their hearts and minds For the resurrection assumes that death is coming for all. And Paul was concerned that the church at Corinth had forgotten his teachings on the resurrection. And so he brings them this message. That there is a possibility of everlasting life. Because you know that death is certain. And that resurrection is the only solution to that problem of death. Paul knew that death was certain. And he knew that it wasn't merely a matter of your body wearing out. It wasn't a matter of something outside of your body coming into it and bringing you to death. No, he knew that it was a matter of something inside. He knew that it was foundationally a spiritual problem. He writes about it to the church at Rome, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin. He wrote that you present yourselves to either one as a slave to sin, which leads to death. Or a slave to obedience, which leads to righteousness. And then very pointedly he wrote, the wages of sin is death. The wages of sin is death. Paul knew that sin was an internal problem. He knew the teachings of Jesus that nothing outside of a person by going into him can defile him, but it's that which comes out. Which comes out of the heart. From within, evil thoughts, sexual immorality, theft, murder, adultery, evil things come from within, not from without. So Paul knew the death is the result of sin which comes from within. Sin is that which flows out of our hearts. And Paul didn't make this up. Adam, even Adam in the garden knew That death was certain if he disobeyed God. Adam was created very good, which meant that he was sinless. God's creation was all very good. There was no death Adam was made to live. The tree of life was in the garden, and Adam was called to keep it. A symbol of enduring and everlasting life. But then he was also given that covenant, wasn't he? The words of God were given to him. As he was placed in the garden. You may surely eat of every tree in the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat. For in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. Adam knew. Adam knew that death would certainly follow his disobedience Adam and Paul alike knew that death was certain as a result of sin. It actually brings us back to our passage. The last two verses. For as by a man came death. As by a man came death, for as in Adam all die. There it was, and there it is. Adam, the first man. Given the covenant of works by God Himself, called to perfect obedience, given the ability to obey perfectly because he was sinless. And representing the entire human race. All of you today, all of us today, represented by Adam in the garden Many died through one man's trespass Do you see as Adam was the first man, as Adam was given the covenant of works, he represented each one of us in the garden? If Adam had obeyed, each one of us would have had life eternally But you know he didn't. And so all who are in Adam That includes each and every one of us this morning. Descending from Adam by ordinary generation, Adam earned death Through his sin, and as a result of his earning death through his own sin, we have inherited the same. We've earned death in Adam, in Adam's fall from grace. And that's what Paul is saying here in this passage this morning. For as in Adam all die. It's a problem this morning, isn't it? All who are in Adam have earned death. Spiritual death, eternal death, the wrath of God for unrepentant sin poured out without end. That's the death. Which is in Adam, an eternal death from which there is absolutely no possibility of recovery. And that's what Jesus describes, as he describes hell, a place where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched, eternal torment. That's what he's speaking of. That's what Paul is referring to here as death in Adam. And this is why the resurrection was so important for Paul to write about and preach about. The greatest problem that each and every one of us face is eternal death in Adam. And then the only solution. The resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. That brings us to our second point, hope of life. And so we have that great contrast, don't we, in verses 21 and 22? For by a man came death, and by a man has come also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die So also in Christ shall all be made alive. But what is the resurrection? You're thinking most likely, it's the raising from the dead. Lazarus was raised from the dead by Jesus. But Lazarus died again. So while we might think of Lazarus as being resurrected, it was only temporary. The resurrection that Paul writes about here at the end of this portion of Corinthians is different. You can think of the valley of the dry bones in Ezekiel. The Lord God calls Ezekiel to go out and see the vision of dry bones. Lifeless. And what does God call him to do? He calls him to prophecy, to speak the word over these dry bones. And what happens? The bones come together. And they ultimately become an exceedingly great army. Life has been put back into them by the breath of God. The dry bones were a picture of Israel. They were dead. The people of God were dead in their sins, and the dry bones represented them, and the bones coming together as God's voice, his very word, is poured out into them. It's a picture of the resurrection. Truly the resurrection is defined by the empty tomb, isn't it? A tomb that held the lifeless body of the crucified Lord Jesus Christ. He was buried. His lifeless body was w wrapped in linen cloths. Even around his head, he was fully encased in death clothes. Death had truly taken hold of Jesus, hadn't it? Until the third day. As Mary comes, as she sees the young man sitting at the right side dressed in a white robe, who proclaims, He is risen, he is not here. See the place where they laid him. Mary testifies To Peter, they've taken the Lord out of the tomb. She doesn't know what's happened yet. And what happens? Peter and John go to see for themselves and they see the death clothes lying. They've been cast off, cast aside by Jesus Himself. He defeated sin. In the tomb. As death had its grip on Christ, he defeated sin. He defeated death. He overcomes it by the power of the triune God That's the resurrection, the defeat of sin and death by the Lord Jesus Christ in the tomb. That's what Paul writes of. By a man has come also the resurrection of the dead, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. Jesus did rise. Paul refers to him as the first fruits. Why? What relevance, what meaning does the resurrection of this one have for you this morning? Does it? Does it matter? Look at those words. In Christ shall all be made alive. Look at the contrast. All are dead in Adam. Friends, if you remain in Adam this morning, there it is in the passage, all in Adam will die. An eternal death A death from which you cannot recover, a death which lasts forever outside of the presence of God, not with Christ in torment. If you're in Adam this morning. Which means you're clinging to your sin. Which means you're loving your sin. That you're rejecting Christ Jesus, the one who was resurrected. But if you're in Christ, if this morning you are in Christ, all will be raised. Isn't that the promise? No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him and I will raise him up on the last day. Thank you, Lord. All those who are in Christ will be saved. And we've already heard this morning of what that means to be in Christ. It means to have faith in him it means to trust in him it means to say the Lord Jesus take my soul because I know I know you can raise me up on the last day. Wasn't that Obama's confession? Yes. Praise God. That hap was his confession. The question is, is it yours this morning? Are you trusting in Christ for your very soul? Are you laying aside the things of this world? Are you saying, I can't do it? I can't defeat sin and death. It's ravaging me. Jesus Christ, take hold of me, change my heart that I can believe upon you. I be saved. Yes, the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ defeats certain death for all those who are in Christ. We weep and mourn as we are separated from our dear ones, but we rejoice as we trust in the Lord Jesus, knowing that He has raised up Adamo, and knowing that he can raise you up if you are in Christ this morning. Praise be to God. Amen. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we are so very thankful this morning for Christ. We're thankful to for the tomb that was empty. We're thankful, Lord God, that He has defeated sin and death. We thank you, Lord God, that you have placed in Adamo's heart that trust and faith in Christ. Father, we look forward to the day when Christ will return and take his bride, the church, to be with him for eternity. We thank you that you've taken Adamo. We look forward to that day when we will be reunited in glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.