To the Gospel of Luke. We'll continue our study there in chapter ten. This passage comes and follows on the heels of the parable of the Good Samaritan. And Jesus is continuing to make his way toward Jerusalem. Let's hear now God's very word, Luke ten, starting at verse thirty-eight. Now it happened as they went that he entered a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha welcomed him. Into her house. And she had a sister called Mary, who also sat at Jesus' feet and heard his word. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she approached him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me alone to serve? Therefore tell her to help me. And Jesus answered and said to her, Martha, Martha, you are worried and troubled about many things. But one thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. My Father, as we come now to the preaching of your word, be with your servant. I am insufficient for this task. But by your Spirit, Father, help us. Guide and direct our hearts this morning That you might convict us of our own sin. That you might cause us to repent. And that you would give us, Father, comfort and assurance in Christ Jesus alone. We pray this in his name. Amen. Well in Clarkston, Georgia, there are many refugees. Refugee is one who's had to flee from his or her country. Because of persecution, they've left everything behind. So in Clarkston, there are people from Syria, Afghanistan, Africa, Central America. Lost everything. And as a result of this congregation, so to speak, of many refugees in a very small place There are many Christian organizations that have come to serve. Many. Almost as many Christian organizations there present as there are refugees. And many are doing good work of serving those who have been forcibly displaced, those who have lost everything. But many are doing it without the gospel. Without a gospel focus. They're bringing the deed without the word. So much so that one worker said, we can't take their religion from them. It's the only thing they have left. You have to recognize that many of the refugees were Muslim. It's a bit of what is happening in this passage before us today. There's a focus upon the deed. As opposed to a focus upon the word. As we come to this fairly well known passage of Martha and Mary, We have gone through a few bits of Luke, haven't we? We've seen the filling of the kingdom as Jesus Christ sent out the 70. We saw the scope of the harvest. He said that the fields were white. He actually said that in the Gospel of John. But here in Luke, he said the harvest was plentiful. And he used sinful vessels, men, seventy, going out with power to shine forth the power of God. To find the sons of peace, to destroy Satan's kingdom. The filling of the kingdom was shown so very powerfully. And then we saw the foundation of the kingdom. As a lawyer tested Jesus Christ and asked him what the law was or how he could earn eternal life. And Jesus then points him to the law and he tells him to do it. The lawyer then, seeking to justify himself, asks, Who's my neighbor? And so Jesus gives him the parable of the Good Samaritan. Showing him that he could not save himself, that it was impossible. That the foundation of the kingdom was really based upon God's mercy and his grace. Today, in this short short passage about Martha and Mary, I want us to see that I've got it wrong in the bulletin, so you have to listen to this one, I'm sorry. A believer's love for the Lord Jesus Christ includes submissively listening to his words. And then serving faithfully in accordance with them Let me say that again. A believer's love for the Lord Jesus Christ includes submissively listening to his words and then serving faithfully in accordance with them. Three points. And this is correct in the bulletin. The relevance and significance of Jesus. Secondly, the necessity and goodness of the word, and then finally the place and importance of loving. And serving. Now, as we go through this portion that which you've heard probably many times, I want you to be asking yourself: well, what is my focus? What is most important or significant to me? Or what am I willing to give up to listen to Jesus? Jesus. Well, first the relevance and significance of Jesus. Now Martha here welcomes the Lord Jesus into her home. She is having hospitality. He's a guest. And remember, he's traveling to Jerusalem, so he's probably got more than just himself there. He's probably got his disciples coming along with him. And Martha is at this point presented with what we might refer to as a fork in the road. There are two ways that she could Continue to walk. One was to recognize who it was that just stepped into her house, into her dwelling, to sit down, be quiet, and listen to his voice The other way was to continue in her preparations, her serving her hospitality This other way was in a sense to bypass that which was set forth before her, Jesus And to purposefully and intentionally divert her attention wholly and completely back to her work, back to her labors. It was a bit like the priest and the Levite in the Good Samaritan parable, who chose to bypass the man in need of help so they could continue on their path of self- Righteousness. Well, we know what path Martha chose, don't we? Martha was distracted. That's what the scriptures tell us. Martha was distracted with much serving. This word distracted in the Greek means to draw off or away. To be engaged in business, so to speak, Webster defines distracted as being drawn apart in different directions, diverted, perplexed Even confounded. In essence, this serving It's having hospitality and entertaining guests in her home from Martha, that had become her focus, this event. Have become for Martha more significant or more relevant than listening to Jesus. It's the definition we just read provided Martha had become drawn apart. The serving, the hospitality, the event had drawn her away Such that she was unable to focus on Jesus. She had been diverted. And was, in a sense, perplexed and confounded. How is that possible? How is it possible for Martha to be distracted? Well, who was Jesus? Who was Jesus to Martha? Her questions or more accurately, her statements to Jesus reveal much And allow the reader to really see how she could be distracted when the King of Kings and Lord of Lords was in her home. As Jesus comes in as she welcomes him, verse 40. Martha says, Lord, do you not care? That my sister has left me to serve alone. How could Martha think that and say that Do you not care? It was a rhetorical question, I believe. And usually rhetorical questions are used to make a strong point. Jesus, can't you see that I'm working hard and need help? I'm trying to serve you. And if you have said nothing at all to my sister, it's clear to me that you just do not care about my well-being. Do you not care? How could she make that statement? It's only if she failed to recognize Jesus as the only one who truly cared for her eternally. Who is the one who cares? Who is the one who first Who is the one who provides for his children for their every need? Scripture is full of the kindness, the watch care of the Lord. If you have time this afternoon, just open up Psalm 121. Just read through it with the thought of, I want to see God's watch care over me. I will lift up my eyes to the hills from whence my help comes. My help comes from the Lord. He who keeps you will not slumber The Lord is your keeper. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord shall preserve you from all evil. Martha was, at the very least, forgetting these verses. More likely, she didn't understand that these verses had come to life in the one that was standing before her, Jesus. It doesn't appear that Martha saw Jesus as the God man. Let me just take a break here and ask the do you ask that question? Do you think that at times? Lord, do you not care? When you're feeling or experiencing physical pain, do you say, Lord, do you not care? When you're lonely, Do you ask, Lord, do you not care when you've lost a loved one to the enemy of death? Do you say, Lord, do you not care? Brothers and sisters, if we haven't spoken those words, my guess is that most of us have thought it And when we're tempted to do so, we would do well to remember the prophet Isaiah It tells us in chapter 54, for a mere moment I have forsaken you, but with great mercies I will gather you. With a little wrath I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting kindness I will have mercy on you, says the Lord, your redeemer. Martha doesn't stop with asking the Lord Jesus, do you not care? Then she said to Jesus, Tell her to help me Apparently, in Martha's heart, Jesus was merely a good teacher, and he was conducting a class in her home. And he, as a teacher, he could direct his students to stop listening, go help. And as the hostess Martha was in charge. Jesus was having class in her home, and hospitality was first. Teaching the class was a distant second. All because of who Jesus was to Martha at that very moment. Martha could be and was distracted because of who Jesus was in her eyes and in her heart. She became distracted with much serving because she was failing to see and to hear who Jesus really was, the Son of God, indeed the God man. God stood before her. She knew Jesus as a good teacher because she did not seem yet to know him as her Lord and Savior. Therefore, she allowed serving to get in the middle of her relationship with Jesus, such that if the serving became more significant than Jesus He was really not relevant to her life eternal. She was not interested in listening. Because Jesus was not significant. Jesus was not the focus of Martha's life. Jesus was not the one whom God had placed all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge in. We read that this morning in Westminster Confession. Jesus was not the one who was united to the divine. He was not the one that the Father had placed all fullness in, who was holy and harmless, and undefiled and full of grace and truth. Jesus was not a focus of the kingdom of God for Martha. For she was not seeing clearly. Remember the backdrop to this passage as the lawyer quotes the law. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's got to be the backdrop to this passage. And the language of that command necessarily makes God the focus, the central focus, the only focus. the center of attention and the core of the kingdom. Jesus was not relevant to Martha as in her eyes he was not God Paul helps us a bit in putting this in perspective And how he saw Jesus Christ. He tells us in Philippians, for to me to live is Christ. Do you see the focus that Paul had on Christ? His life was Christ. He couldn't define his life outside of Christ. He had a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Do you see his focus on Christ? If you're here today and you're thinking, I really don't have a focus on Christ. But when I get to heaven, then I can focus. Then I'll see him. It's a problem with that kind of thinking. And it's prevalent today. If Jesus is not your focus today, if he's not the center of your attention today, if you're not loving him with your whole heart, mind, soul, and strength, then you will not enter into heaven. Your focus is on the world. This command to love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your strength, all your mind. It's a command for today. It's not a command for after death. If you're thinking that way, you will not see Jesus. Martha needed to see Jesus then. as one who was relevant, as one who was significant, as one she loved so much that she could do nothing other than sit at his feet and listen to him The same applies to us, to you today, if you're saying my focus is not on Jesus. Pray. God would open your heart That you would love and follow him who is the focus, the center of the kingdom. Well, how does one make Jesus the focus of his life. That brings us to our second point, the necessity and goodness of the word. The necessity and goodness of the word. Now, look at verse 42. But one thing is needed. And this is Jesus' response. To Martha, as she demands that Mary be sent to help her. One thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be taken away from her. Here now is a complete contrast between Martha and Mary. Martha, who's continuing her preparations, her hospitable preparations, and Mary who determines to take off her kitchen apron And seated herself at the feet of Jesus and listened. She heard the word of God. I want you to note two things here. First, Mary was not pre-programmed. She was not a robot. She was made in the image of God, and she made a choice. So did Martha. Different choices. Mary made a decision to listen. Martha made a decision to be busy We make that same decision every day Every day you presented with a choice to make. Should I spend time listening to Jesus, or am I too busy Brothers and sisters, this passage is speaking to us today. We need to ask why. Why was it that Mary made the choice to listen to Jesus? Why did she sit? Why did Mary choose the good part? Well, secondly, it was because Mary was given ears to hear. How else would she have remained at the feet of Jesus? It's the Lord who makes one mute or deaf, seeing or blind. It's the Lord who gives the hearing ear, the seeing eye. It's the Lord who places in our heart that his word is the power of God. For Mary, the words of Christ had become words of life. Mary must have seen and heard that the words were indeed good and necessary. Isn't that what Jesus says? As he responds to Martha gently, You want to see that. As a response to her gently, he says, one thing is needed. The word is needed. We tend to think that there are many things in our lives that are needed or necessary. Martha thought it was hospitality. And from a purely physical perspective, that's true. We need food, we need clothes, we need shelter. But the Father knows your needs. And provides according to his wisdom and his will. And thus Jesus Christ can truly say that one thing from a spiritual perspective is needed for true life. And Mary has chosen that good part. You see, the one thing and the good part are the same thing They're one end of the same. Mary chose to sit at the feet of Jesus. She chose to listen to him. She has chosen the good part. And we can understand this good part as Jesus Himself, I think. That would certainly be accurate. It falls in line with Scripture. Jesus is good. There is no other. All others have fallen short of the glory of God. Jesus is the righteous one of Israel, pure and holy. All others are defiled, unrighteous and impure. Jesus is beloved of God No other is beloved of the Son. No other is the beloved Son of God. And so Mary sat at the feet of this one. This Jesus. Certainly she had chosen the good part. But this can also be a reference to the Word of God, can't it? The Son is referred to as the Word. Just open up John chapter 1. It is Jesus Christ who reveals God. And thus to speak of Jesus as being the good part, well Not at the very same moment speaking of the Word of God as being the good part would be silly. They can't be separated. Jesus is the Word. So Mary sat and listened and submitted herself to the very Word of God. It helps us apply the passage to ourselves, doesn't it? We can't sit at Jesus' feet right now. We will in glory But we can sit and listen to that which He's left with us, His Word. The word then, this passage. As it's applied to our hearts today, the word is the good part. The word is the one thing which is needed. Indeed, we cannot live without the Word. This afternoon we're going to look at John chapter 15. And in John chapter 15 we see that That it's necessary for us to abide in Christ. And Jesus Christ in John 15 takes the abiding in him Meaning in part that his words abide in us. Do you see the connection? To abide in Jesus is equivalent to his word abiding in us. So back to the question, how does make how does one make Jesus the focus of his life? How does Jesus become so relevant, so significant that one cannot live without him? Isn't it through hearing the Word of God? It's through setting a priority to listen quietly to Jesus, allowing his teaching, his words to surround us, to penetrate our hearts, to indwell us. That which we need for life. His words abiding us is that which we must place ourselves under. And we see that in the Psalms. In contrast to the one who is not listening to Jesus in Psalm one We see the one who does listen. In his law he meditates day and night. What's the result? He shall be like a tree Planted by rivers of water that bring forth his fruit in season, whose leaf shall not wither, and whatever he does, he shall prosper. It's a picture of life, isn't it? Abundant life. Life in Christ. Blessed are those who keep his testimonies. How can a young man cleanse his way by taking heed according to your word? Open my eyes that I might see wondrous things from your law. What's the connection between all of these? The psalmist is saying, I'm in your word. I'm studying your word, and I'm seeing your wondrous works, and they become my delight because I'm in them. That's the way. That's how Jesus becomes Really relevant and significant in the focus of our lives, it's through the word abiding in us There's a call to us in this passage. Call to action. Call to be in the Word. But there's also a praise in this passage, isn't there? Look at the end of verse 42. One thing is needed, and Mary has chosen that good part which will not be Taken away from her. We might skim over that, but we shouldn't Jesus will never forsake nor leave those who trust in him. He will never lose one that's been given to him by his Father. And here we can see that this good part, Jesus Himself and His Word, Will never be taken away. Never. What a comfort for those who love the Word of God. To know that it will be never taken away from you. Praise God Yes, the relevance and significance of Jesus Christ, and then the necessity and goodness of the Word, and then finally our third point, the place and importance of serving. Hospitality is a type, a kind of serving, of loving your neighbor, isn't it We see that exemplified in Acts chapter 2. The church broke bread from house to house daily. Together. Hospitality. Exemplified. And hospitality is even commanded. If you look at the qualifications for an elder A deacon? They're to be hospitable. It's what all Christians are to be. Specifically called out. Hospitality is a subset of the overarching command and call to love your neighbor as yourself Hospitality is thus lawful. It's good. It's well pleasing to God. Remember, the parable of the Good Samaritan precedes this passage. Comes right before it as Luke lays it out. Chronologically, we're not quite sure. But as Luke lays it out, he lays it out for a purpose. The disciples failed to understand that the foundation of the kingdom was in the mercy and compassion of God. But the lawyer The lawyer needed to see that he gave attention to theology. He knew the commands, but he didn't put them into practice. Westminster Confession, chapter 90, excuse me, question 90 asks the question, how is the word to be read and heard that it may become effectual to salvation? The answer is that the word may become effectual to salvation. We must attend thereunto with diligence, preparation, and prayer, receive it with faith and love, lay it up in our hearts, and practice it in our lives. The lawyer certainly wasn't practicing it in his life. Jesus said to him, after he correctly identified who had mercy, go and do likewise. Invite people into your home. Have hospitality. Love your neighbor. So why does Jesus rebuke Martha? Wasn't she doing exactly that which she had just taught about in the Good Samaritan? Why doesn't Jesus say, Of course, Martha? You clearly need help in doing that which I just told the lawyer to do. He says nothing of the sort. These passages are related. They show even now the emphasis or the priority or the focal point of the kingdom Jesus said to her, You are worried and troubled about many things Martha had taken that which was lawful, which fell under the umbrella of loving her neighbor and elevated it. To a place beyond that reserved for it by Christ Serving had become so significant, so relevant, so important to Martha that it in fact supplanted Jesus, even God Himself. We need to see this. Martha became the center. As Martha makes hospitality the center, her focus, she in essence replaced Jesus with herself. She became the center. Her reputation was at stake. Now you have to understand a little bit about the importance of hospitality. In the Middle East. It's paramount. We can look throughout Scripture. We see Abraham. having hospitality. We see Lot having hospitality. It's set out. It's clear. It's important. It's significant. Her reputation was at stake. For Martha, how well she served would likely bear upon how she was seen in the community. The hospitality was not about serving the guest. It became that which would be Martha's earthly. Reward. And so now Jesus looks into her heart and he knows that she's worried, she's troubled. She's not chosen to sit at Jesus' feet, but to sit at the feet of her community. Seeking out their applause, their adoration, she necessarily becomes worried and troubled. And Jesus sees that. Admonishes Martha, leading her back to the good part, away from the world, back to himself. Jesus was not rebuking Martha for serving, no, he was rebuking her for neglecting him, for neglecting God, and for replacing the Creator with His creation. Hospitality is a good thing. We need to be hospitable But when it becomes the major thing, that which becomes our highest priority, then becomes that which takes us away from Jesus. It takes you away from communion with the Father. It becomes that which which leads us to set our minds upon the world and ultimately upon ourselves. This kind of thinking, this kind of doing makes the Christian not more Christmas. Christ like, but more unlike Christ and more like the world We never read of Jesus placing serving or healing or even teaching before communion with his Father The gospel accounts again and again reveal Jesus' priority of prayer or communion with the Father. Jesus was and is in constant communion with the Father That's exactly what he calls his followers to do. There's to be a priority in following the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ to living the Christian life in anticipation of His return, the expectation of eternity and glory with the Triune God. There are two tablets of the moral law, the Ten Commandments. The first four concern our relation to God. They come first. As the lawyer summarized, the law loving God came first. The last six are not insignificant, but they must be done in subject to the first four. There's a priority. Here's an illustration. The eighth commandment states, you shall not steal. Part of that commandment is positive, calling us to work. To labor, to support ourselves and support others. So work, labor, employment is good. It's a lawful endeavor. We're called to pursue it, to keep the eighth commandment. But even though work is good and lawful, we're also called to rest from that work on the Christian Sabbath, the Lord's Day. You see, what is good and lawful work is also subject to the first four commands. Martha Martha was breaking the third commandment as she was, at least on the surface, seeking to keep the sixth commandment. What's the third? We read it this morning. Third commandment requires that the name of God, his titles, attributes, ordinance, words, sacraments, prayer, oaths. Vows, lots, his works, whatever else there is whereby he makes himself known, shall be holily and reverently used in thought, meditation, work In writing. Jesus Christ was before Martha. And there's no indication that she used his name. In a reverent manner. There's no indication that whereby God made himself known in Christ That Martha was revering that as she meditated upon who he was. She was breaking the third commandment so she could keep the sixth commandment, you shall not murder, which includes, requires doing good to others. For those who are following Jesus today, for those who are focused upon Jesus, this passage does contain a warning for us While you seek to keep Jesus at the center of your attention, the world, the world is calling you away from that Our hearts may be diverted at times to hospitality. But this isn't really about hospitality It could be having a clean and neat home, it it could be your schoolwork, it could be work work, it could be keeping the yard up for the neighbors to see there are so many things in this world which tempt us to replace our focus upon the center of the kingdom, the Lord Jesus Christ, with a focus upon the world, His creation. Ultimately, the question for us is: are we keeping the third commandment? Are we meditating in thought in word? Upon the one who has made known God the Father Are revering are we revering his name, his attributes, his word, his works? While you have hospitality, while you labor at work, while you keep the home neat and clean, while you're diligent at school, are you guarding your heart? Such that you at the same time keep your heart focused upon the center of the kingdom. In other words, are you using the name, the ordinances, the word of God as works reverently in your thoughts? your meditations to the glory of God. Yes, a believer's love for the Lord Jesus Christ does include Submissively listening to his words, and then serving faithfully in accordance with them. These Christian organizations, some of them in Clarkston, doing good work. They've lost their focus. And sisters, that's a constant temptation that's set before us. Let us be in prayer, petitioning the Spirit that He would keep our focus. Upon Christ, center of the kingdom. Amen. Could you pray with me Father and our God, we are weak, we are frail, we are feeble. Temptations that surround us, Lord. We pray that by your Spirit you would keep our hearts and minds, our meditations, our thoughts reverently fixed upon Christ. The center of the kingdom. We pray this in Jesus' name.