Been studying tulip or what we call the way of salvation. The last several weeks We've been digging into this. And tonight we're going to continue kind of. Next slide, please. Then talking about total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace. We haven't yet gotten to perseverance. And so tonight Tonight we're going to take a little bit of a next slide. Next slide. So if you're on a highway, you're headed somewhere, you're on the interstate, you're going in a direction, you're still going there even when you get off, even when you get off at a rest stop Still headed there, but they're taking a bit of time, a break, and that's what we're doing tonight. We're still on the Tulip Highway, we're still studying the way of salvation, but we're to take a little break to dig into some other things. I'm not going to take this really away, but we're not going to go to Perseverance tonight or willing next week we'll jump in So think of this like that rest stop highway. So we're asking tonight, why does it matter? I don't care about tulip or the doctrines that are encased in that acronym of that box. were to us why did it matter to those who originated? Why does it matter over the centuries that it's been around. How does it matter? Tonight, next slide please Matter then? Why did it matter yesterday? And why does it matter? Next slide please. How did it matter then? We're talking about now in the 1600s. Two years ago. Why did it matter then? 16. Sounds great. So we'll break this up into three questions or three heads. The problem, the solution, the reason. We'll do that for each of them. We have to think of that man who came up with some teaching It wasn't really in accord with the scripture. He had some different ideas. In fact, they were false ideas of what the scripture taught. He taught his students. It's this false doctrine arose, the students were hearing it, they were grabbing on to it. These students that followed their teacher Love this doctrine. And they thought the church was wrong in what it was proclaiming. And so ultimately they bring what's called remonstrance to the church and they say this is the correct doctrine and we want the church not only to adopt it but this should be the teaching Well, what was the solution? Church calls a council, they want to study this issue, and the issue really was the way of salvation. What we've been studying. A council is when the entire church comes together in sixteen Students of the followers of Armenius, the ones who were teaching the false doctrine, they were asking the church again to accept this doctrine This is reviewing it, looking at it, considering it, we found that this was heretical. So those who brought this were ultimately excommunicated, sent away. They said, you're not even part of the church. That was the solution. And then they Way of salvation. Man is totally depraved. There's unconditional election by God's grace alone. There's limited atonement in Christ Jesus. Irresistible grace and next question. Who was the reason? Why did they Come to this conclusion. They didn't have 1 Peter. That's the verse you see in front of you, what the verse is. But this really formed the basis for what they did, the reason why they did. They wanted to honor Christ. 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 14. But even if you should suffer for righteousness' sake, you will be blessed. Have no fear of them, nor be troubled. In your hearts, honor Christ. In reviewing what these men brought and finding that it was false and proclaiming it that way, they were honoring Christ. They were setting forth the true doctrine and publishing it to the entire church. They were honoring Christ Jesus. In a sense, they were making a defense. We're called to do today. Back then, in the 1600s, 1619, they were making a defense by proclaiming the truth And they were reviling or putting to shame those who brought the false doctrine. But in your hearts, honor Christ the Lord as holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone. He asks you for reason. Hope it is in. This passage ends up by saying, having a good conscience so that when you are slavery, those who revile your good behavior in Christ, they were reviling Christ. And so they put those to shame who brought the false doctrine. If we're reviled, Christ is certainly reviled. You see. It did matter, then happens. Excellent. Why did it matter yesterday? By yesterday I mean from 1619 up to 2021. Yesterday, actually Well that time period, why did it matter before us? Again, we'll look at next slide please. The problem, the solution, and the reason. Well, what was the problem during those 400 years? That false teaching didn't go away. They were able to sit where they sat in that time period and look and saw what happened As a result of that all star not going away as it continued continued to be taught That doctrine continues to become that people were not totally corrupt It was a wrong understanding in that teaching of the sovereignty of God. But he wasn't the one that that drew people and and by grace brought people into the kingdom. There was a a lack of a complete lack of assurance as a result of this false doctrine. What could you rely upon? Did you trust him? Could you really be sure that you were going to enter into glory? No, not based upon that false doctrine. And as a result, there was no faith, a loss of faith. And if there's a loss of faith, there was a loss of salvation. They could see that, what could use? So what did they do? They continue to teach the truth. They continue to proclaim against the false doctrine, to lead people in the right way. Calvin's name becomes associated with these five points of points of Calvinism. And then that acronym, TULULAP, is assigned so that people can remember. Do you see how the teaching was now sought to be fixed within the minds of those during time? Take a look at the number. Excellent. Well then what was the weast? They do this. Why does it matter? Consider Ephesians chapter 4. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints. The work of ministry. In those 400 years, these were the ministers of the gospel. They knew that God had raised them up to do justice, the work of ministry. That's what they were doing When they were continuing to proclaim the truth, when they were continuing to show others that this false doctrine led to damnation, that led to no salvation, but the truth. Truth led the light. in Christ Jesus. They knew that that was their work and they knew that God had given it to them. Why? The building up of the body of Christ. They pursued this to build up the church, to build up the to build up Jesus' pride. We all attain to the unity of faith, of the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, the measure of his statue of the wholeness of Christ, so that we may no longer be chosen tossed to the world. You see? It's exactly what they were doing. As they were teaching, what they were doing is making sure that those in the church and around the church would not be tossed to and fro by this false doctrine. Every limb of doctrine by human cunning, by backups, and deceitful spirits. Ministering against those human doctrines, deceitful schemes, ensuring that the truth is proclaimed. Next slide. So why does it matter today? And to by today, I mean 2021, October, what is today? It's funny. It's a matter of today. It's a matter of us. It's a matter of the future. Next slide. Some of the same thing is the problem. We still have the problem, don't Today, the families, your children. We're subject to attack. That's the solution And that's the reason. Now you can return to the next slide. I think this particular verse helps us and guides us. This is the passage about the talents, the master who leaves and gives his three servants talents to use fatigue so that his wealth would grow. When he returns he asks them what they've done with it and he wants to see what the results are. What is Christopher? And he's going to be asking king us, what have we done? And as we think about today, as we think about tomorrow, as we think about our children It matters. This doctrine matters. As we are sending them out, whether parents or the church, we are sending the children out Anders that they have the truth. They have the right doctrine because they are going to be attacked At college, at universities, when they get their first job, constant attacks, and they need to have the truth. Satan's going to be throwing arrows and darts in the forms of false doctrine. and they need that sort of spirit and truth and knock it down and give that to them. That's why this matters When Jesus returns, we want him to say, well done. We want to be able to be those who can profess to Jesus Christ. We loved your word. We told others about your word. We knocked down those false claims and lies of Satan. Jesus will say that I will set you over a much. Even as we consider these doctrines and teaching, it's necessary for our children and for our children's children and as they they grow up and children of their own and we're dead but they're continuing to proclaim the faith Jesus Christ I was such a watching it. Excellent. Brothers and sisters, that was a a side trip or West Stop. But that was encouraging. It was just some food for thought. Sometimes we get into teaching and we get immersed in it and we're so immersed we don't Take a step back and look at the forest, so to speak. Why are we here? We're understanding the the one verse, but why why are we here? That's a little bit of what is about this is why we're keeping. This is why we're saving us. Basically God has given us the truth. To teach telling us about next week, Lord Willing, we will jump back in Perseverance that would be the last of the five. And then the following week we'll probably have a time for questions. So be writing down your questions if you have them. We'll spend more time two weeks from now Fielding your questions, getting answers, and having just kind of an open discussion about where you are.