Turn in your copy of God's Word now to Exodus. Continue our reading there in chapter thirty-two. Verse 15 and go through verse 6 of chapter 33. If you recall from last week, this is the passage in which the Israelites have made the golden calf. This is following that fabrication of an idol. Begin reading at verse fifteen of chapter thirty-two. Let's give attention to God's Word. Then Moses turned and went down from the mountain with the two tablets of the testimony in his hand. The tablets that were written on both sides, on the front and on the back, they were written. The tablets were the work of God. And the writing was the writing of God engraved on the tablets. When Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said to Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp. But he said, it is not the sound of shouting for victory or the sound of the cry of defeat, but the sound of singing that I hear. And as soon as he came near the camp and saw the calf and the dancing, Moses' anger burned hot. And he threw the tablets out of his hand and broke them at the foot of the mountain. He took the calf that they had made, and burned it with fire, and ground it to powder, and scattered it on the water, and made the people of Israel drink it. And Moses said to Aaron, What do this people do to you that you have brought such a great sin upon them? And Dared said, Let not the anger of my Lord burn hot. You know the people, that they are set on evil. For they said to me, Make us gods who shall go before us. And for this Moses, the man who brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we do not know what has become of him. So I said to them, let any who have gold take it off. So they gave it to me, and I threw it into the fire, and out came this calf. And when Moses saw that the people had broken loose, For Aaron had let them break loose to the derision of their enemies. Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Come to me. And all the sons of Levi gathered around him. And he said to them, Thus says the Lord God of Israel Put your sword on your side, each of you, and go to and fro from gate to gate throughout the camp, and each of you kill his brother and his companion and his neighbor. The sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses. That day about 3,000 men of the people fell. And Moses said, Today, you've been ordained for the service of the Lord, each one at the cost of his son and of his brother, so that he might bestow a blessing upon you this day. The next day Moses said to the people, You have sinned a great sin. And now I will go up to the Lord. Perhaps I can make atonement for your sin. So Moses returned. To the Lord and said, Alas, this people have sinned a great sin. They've made for themselves gods of gold. But now, if you will forgive their sin But if not, please blot me out of your book that you have written. But the Lord said to Moses Whoever has sinned against me I will blot out of my book, but now go, lead the people to the place about which I have spoken to you. Behold, my angel shall go before you, nevertheless, in the day when I visit, I will visit their sin upon them. Then the Lord sent a plague on the people because they made the calf the one that Aaron made. The Lord said to Moses, Depart. Go up from here. You and the people whom you brought up out of the land of Egypt to the land of which I swore to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, saying, To your offspring I will give it. I will send an angel before you, and I will drive out the Canaanites, the Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites. Go up to the land flowing with milk and honey But I will not go up among you, lest I consume you on the way, for you were a stiff-necked people. When the people heard this disastrous word, they mourned. And no one put on his ornaments. For the Lord had said to Moses, Say to the people of Israel, You are a stiff necked people. If for a single moment I should go up among you, I would consume you. So now take off your ornaments, that I may know what to do with you. Therefore the people of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments from Mount Horeb onward. This is far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we add that you ask that you would add your blessing now to the reading of your word. That you would send your Spirit to illumine our hearts this morning. There is so much in this passage. Help us not, Lord God, to leave any of it behind. I pray that the Spirit would lay it up in our hearts. That we would be convicted indeed of our own sins of idolatry. And that you, Lord God, would purge us. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. The command to forsake idols occurred early, was given early to the Israelites. We see it in the ten words of the Ten Commandments. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything. We see it in Leviticus. Do not turn to idols. You shall not make idols. I will destroy your high places and cut down your incense altars and cast your dead bodies upon the dead bodies of your idols. But that's not where it stops. That's not where scripture stops and its reference to idols. There are nine references, if my computer is correct. in 1st and 2 Kings to idols. Most of these are references to kings who fabricated idols. With regard to Ammon, king of Judah. He walked in the way in which his father walked and served idols or Josiah. Josiah put away the idols of his father. But there's even more emphasis placed upon idols in the major prophets. Isaiah contains 25 references to idols. Remember, Isaiah was sent to warn the people to turn back to God. What may be even more amazing is that there are 39 references to idols in Ezekiel. Ezekiel was written to the people who were in exile, who had already suffered because of their idolatry, and who were continuing to suffer. You see the pattern? The record of the history of kings? Nine references regarding the fabrication of idols, the worship of idols. And then the warnings against idols in Isaiah 25. And then, even as the people were in exile, even more references To idols. Ezekiel writes, thus says the Lord God, repent and turn away from your idols, even as they were in exile. Suffering of being taken into and living in exile had not done away with idolatry. Consider the first epistle that the Apostle John wrote. It's full of good doctrine. And at the end of his first letter, he writes, Little children, keep yourselves from idols. What's the problem with idols? We also see that throughout Scripture, don't we? Psalm 97: all worshippers of idols are put to shame. Psalm 106, they served their idols, which became a snare to them. And then in 2 Kings they went after false idols and became false Those who make them become like them. Psalm one fifteen And the prophet Jonah, as he prays to God, he repeats that which he knows. Those who pay regard to vain idols forsake their hope of salvation. Excuse me, hope of salvation. Steadfast love, which really are equivalent, aren't they? Moses has been on Mount Sinai forty days and forty nights. The Lord has given him this pattern for the tabernacle. He's told them about the priests and how they should be dressed, how they should be consecrated. He's told them, he's given them names of those who are to build the tabernacle. He has reminded Moses of the Sabbath. Now the question has become whether or not any of this will actually be used because of the great sin. Of the Israelites? Whether the tabernacle will even be constructed? And if so, would it be of any use? Would God dwell with his people? The people have ascribed to this golden calf it's leading them out of Egypt, and it's ascribed to this golden calf the leading of them into the promised land. They've fallen before it and worshipped. But God has relented. He's relented of wiping this people out. We read that back in Verses fourteen of chapter thirty-two. As Moses pleads with the Lord that he would turn away from his burning wrath, he does so. But we know that it's not over yet. The effect of their idolatry is yet to come. And that's what we're going to read about this morning, which we have read about this morning in the remainder of chapter 32. In the beginning of chapter 33. I want us to see this morning very simply that God will not dwell with the unrepentant idolater. God will not dwell. With the unrepentant idolater. Three points this morning. Seeing the wretchedness of idolatry, secondly, separating from the people of idolatry, and then finally, sacrificing for those in idolatry. Idolatry. As we look at this passage this morning, I think you're probably getting the idea that this is going to be much about idolatry. We should define that quickly as we begin to s study. I think simply we can define idolatry as the worship or adoration or longing of or for anyone or anything. that stands in the place of God. The worship or adoring or longing of or for anyone or anything that stands in the place As we go through this passage this morning, we should be asking ourselves if we see our own idolatry And if we understand the effects that that has upon us. Well, first, seeing idolatry, this passage opens up with Moses and this description of his carrying these tablets down the mountain. He's told to go down. God had given him the pattern for the tabernacle, but the central thing within the tabernacle would be the Ark of the Covenant, and within the Ark of the Covenant was going to be these two tablets. carrying the word of God, the very word of God, to the people of God. And that's how this passage begins. Sin has been committed. And Moses is carrying the word down Now I want you to note that this is actually the second time that we read of the tablets being given to Moses. We read of it first in chapter 8, excuse me, 31. At the end of thirty-one, we are told at the end of giving the pattern to Moses, the pattern of the tabernacle, that he gave to Moses when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets. Then we read of the sin of the people of God. And now, before Moses descends the mountain, we read again that he receives these tablets. It's not that he receives them twice. It's this idea of this bookend around the sin of the people of God, isn't it? We've got the Word of God before their sin, we've got the Word of God after their sin. The Word of God binds or bookends. The sin of the people, as Moses has recorded it. It's important for us. We'll come back to that later on. So as Moses walks down the mountain, he's carrying the ten words, this fixed document which represented, which pointed to the full covenant of God with his people, that which described included and promised this way of salvation. Told the people that God had himself had bound himself to this covenant, bound himself to save a people, to save an inheritance for himself. These are the two tablets that Moses carries in his hand. As he descends. As he goes down, we have to remember that Moses himself had not yet seen The idolatry. Remember, when he is on the mountain with God and God describes to him what the people had done in making this golden calf and how his anger was burning hot. And how God wanted to consume the people and raise up a new nation for Moses to lead. Moses implores God, and God relents. Moses sought the face of God, and God relents from bringing on this disaster. But Moses hadn't seen The idolatry yet. As they descend, as he and Joshua descend, Joshua notes that he hears a noise of war in the camp. They're still not close enough to see what's happening. But Joshua is confused. Because it doesn't sound like a war dance, a victory dance. It doesn't sound like a defeat dance. It sounds like singing. They're near, but only near enough to hear, not to see. They're getting close And now Moses sees. He sees the corruption. Verse 19: As soon as he came near the camp and saw the calf and the dancing. Moses' anger burned hot. He saw the corruption. He saw the outward display Of that which was in the hearts of the people. It had come to the surface. It was no longer hidden. He could actually see. God saw the filth that was buried deep within the hearts of the Israelites, of his people. And now Moses So a portion of that wickedness, that hatred, that hatred for God, that evil which had burst through the inner and now was exposed from Moses to see for himself. There is a righteous anger that Spews forth from Moses as he truly sees the idolatry in its fullness And as a result, he breaks the tablets. He doesn't really drop them, he throws them. He threw the tablets out of his hand and broke them at the foot of the mountain. Moses' righteous anger now morphs into action. He breaks the covenant. It was broken by the work of the people, and now this symbolism is so pointed before us, he breaks the tablets, the very word of God. Grinds the calf and causes the people to drink it. Now we might not be surprised at Moses' anger But what I think we should be surprised at is Aaron's lack of anger Aaron saw it all. And yet his reaction is so different to Moses' reaction. There's no note here of anger rising up in Aaron's heart There's no note of righteous anger. There is no indication that Aaron was aware of what was actually going on, what he was participating in. As they called for him to fabricate an idol, a god, that they might be led by this one, that they might worship before this one. We read nothing within Aaron that this inclination, desire to participate in idolatry was wickedness and should be stopped. Aaron appears so distant. He even distanced himself from the act of the people. I threw it in and out came this calf. Clearly Moses understood what had happened in verse 35. The Lord sent a plague on the people because they made the calf the one that That Aaron made. Moses saw it as he entered into the camp, but Aaron was blind to it. Because he was in the middle of it. Let me ask you this morning, can you see it? Make no mistake, brothers and sisters, we all make idols. That should not be a controversial statement this morning. It is throughout Scripture We've rehearsed it already. So the question is this morning, can you see it? Or are you blind to your own idols this morning? You see, other problems arise when we don't see them. We become callous to them. These become natural for us or normal. They're anything but. Think of David and his sin with Bathsheba. He couldn't see that he had made an idol out of Bathsheba He couldn't see that he made an idol out of his own name, not wanting others to know that he had committed adultery, so much so that he would send a man into battle, that he would surely be killed. See, if we don't see the idols within, we can't deal with them before they have an effect upon us. This morning I think the call is for us to pray. Pray that we would be given eyes to see the idols that we have made. David was only able to see the idols that he had made when Nathan brought God's word to him. And then as we pray, we should add to our prayer, God, give us strength to have the right response. That righteous anger should be welling up within us. And we should want to purge, just as Moses purged that calf, he ground it up. As opposed to Aaron, who did nothing. We must pray. We must ask for God to work in our hearts. Yes, that's seeing idolatry. That brings us to our second point, separating from the people of idolatry. As Moses engages with Aaron, he sees that the people had broken loose. Look at verse 25 just for a moment. Moses saw that the people had broken loose. New American Standard translates it this way: the people were out of control. They've indeed broken loose from the covenant, hadn't they? That which they had professed they would obey, but now these had determined not to be bound by the covenant. Not to be bound by the ten words, not to be bound by the book of the covenant, not to be bound by the will of God. They were breaking loose. And that's what we see as Moses casts off, throws down the tablets they had broken loose from the covenant. But then we see this question. As Moses comes down, as the tablets are broken, he recognizes what's going on, this righteous anger is burning within him. He asked the question, we seemingly have the entire camp gathered before him. We don't know that, but he asked that question, who is on the Lord's side? Who's on the Lord's side? Come to me. And what's surprising is What we read next, all the sons of Levi gathered around him. There is this separation that occurs as he asks that question: who's on the Lord's side? Separate yourself. Come to me. And it wasn't merely this stepping over a line that Moses was calling for, yet that is exactly what has happened. Now he calls them, once they have made this confession, we are for the Lord. We are on the Lord's side. Now each of you kill his brother and his companion and his neighbor. See, that might be more surprising to us than even the creation of the golden calf. Sending out the Levites within the Israelite camp. Instructing these men who had declared themselves to be for the Lord to take their swords, strap their swords on, and go throughout the camp to and fro from gate to gate. And slay your brother, your companion, and your neighbor I think it's safe to assume here that those who were to be slain were those who were not on the Lord's side. Those who were saying within their hearts, I am not on the Lord's side. The problem is that this shouldn't surprise us this morning. In the garden, as Adam and Eve committed that sin and Against God, he tells them that I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. There is a line drawn by God Himself. There is a work that's being done by God Himself in placing enmity between the offspring of the woman and the offspring of the serpent of Satan. And this is merely a carrying out of God's work of placing enmity. And Jesus Himself said if you were listening As the New Testament was read this morning, as we read it this morning, our responsive reading. Do not think that I have come to bring peace to the earth. I have not come to bring peace but a sword. Whoever thinks that there is no link between the Old and the New Testament is mistaken. The main problem with this passage might be that it is somewhat sterile. Look at verse 28. The sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses. And that day about 3,000 men of the people fell. We probably don't appreciate what happened that day. This great separation that occurred within the Israelite camp. Those who were for the Lord were on one side, those who were not were on the other side, and yet they were all part of the same community. Hebrew men, brothers, fathers, sons within this community, a large community yet of one common ancestry. They had been together in bondage in Egypt, together in the Exodus from Egypt, together in the camp. They were at a minimum neighbors They were likely blood relatives, and the Levites were called to slay them because they were for the Lord. You're putting your confession into action. Those who were not for the Lord were put to death. We know that God Himself spoke of this separation as Adam and Eve sinned against him in the garden. And we know that Jesus Christ spoke explicitly of this. The separation. This passage in Exodus 32 brings Jesus' words to life in a sense. Causes us to contemplate that Jesus said what he would do, what he came to do. And when he comes again, he will come to separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates. The sheep from the goats. Separation occurred in the garden See, that separation was not merely a brother from a brother and a father from a son. But this separation was also God from his people. Consider all the similarities we have to the garden. The Israelites had been freed, freed from bondage to the Egyptians, and Adam and Eve were free from sin. The Israelites at the base of the mountain were in the presence of God. He had descended, he had spoken to them directly, and Adam and Eve walked with God in the garden. And Adam broke the covenant of works. And the Israelites broke the covenant of grace, or attempted to break the covenant of grace. And they were being separated from God again, or on their way to it, just as Adam was ex communicated from the garden. You see that separation. Again, not only from father from son, but now God from his people. This idolatry, the effect of idolatry, was to separate God from his people. We certainly read, as the Lord said to Moses, Whoever has sinned against me, I will blot out of my book, and the Lord sent a plague on the people because they've made the calf And those are difficult passages to read. But possibly the most difficult to read is in verse 1 of chapter 33, the Lord said to Moses, Depart, go up from here, you and the people. I will not go up among you. Consider that Moses is with God himself, and he tells Moses, depart, go up from here, that place where God was Where he was dwelling for the time the Lord was telling Moses to leave, leave that place with the people, depart from me Don't miss this. The Lord included Moses within those who were to depart. And he referred to all of you, meaning Moses included a stiff-necked people. All of you depart. I will not go up among you. God was separating himself from those, even those who were not slain by the Levites nor the plague. He was separating himself from those who survived. Even from the Levites who went to the camp slaying their brothers and fathers. Now, as this portion of the passage comes to an end, let's consider for a moment what it would have been for the Israelites if God had not gone up amongst them to the promised land. That was what set before us at this point. And that was exactly what the Lord was proposing. Well, indeed, it wasn't really a proposal, but an unequivocal statement. Take these people, your people, up to the land flowing with milk and honey without me. Now, some of the Israelites might have said, certainly, it's exactly what we desire. Life in a land flowing with milk and honey, without the oversight, without the supervision, without the sovereignty of God over us. Isn't that why they made the calf? And that was and is the effect of idolatry, isn't it? The ultimate effect of idolatry is having that which the idolater considers in his own heart and mind to be good. That's what the Israelites wanted. We want to go up to the land flowing with milk and honey. We just don't want to go with God. In reality, That is the very definition of hell itself. Idolatry, or the effect of idolatry, ultimately is receiving that which the idolater perceives in his or her corrupted heart to be good. And in reality, it is that which is the most wretched and abominable existence imaginable. An existence without God, an eternal existence outside the presence of God. Now, why would this be wretched Very simply. Brothers and sisters, if you get nothing other than this this morning, please understand this. There is no good outside of God. Let me say that again. There is no good outside of God. This must be understood. The truth here is just that. There is no good outside of God. Imagine your most favorite thing. in this world in creation. That thing that you've experienced, that thing that you desire to experience, it could be time with your family It could be a wonderful vacation on a sandy beach in the Caribbean with crystal clear blue waters. It could be spending time doing that which you enjoy. Maybe sports, maybe crafts, maybe cooking. I don't know. Now, consider removing from God whatever it is that you have imagined within your mind. Whatever you might consider to be enjoyable Just like a land flowing with milk and honey. It all becomes unbearable when God is not present in it. You may be thinking, well, that's very spiritual. I think I could still enjoy a sandy beach in the Caribbean if God were not with me. Not only unspiritual, it's completely unrealistic and just plain false. God is Good. Anything we consider to be good in his creation is good only because of God. You see, once God is removed, if we can speak that way, Nothing is good. Do you understand? The only reason that God saw that which he made and declared it to be good was because of his presence. God called the dry land the earth, the waters that were gathered together, he called seas, and God saw that it was good. It was only good because of his presence. Indeed, we can think of the creation as reflecting the glory of God, and it does. The heavens declare the glory of God, the sky above claims his handiwork, but once God is removed, again if that were possible, it's not, there can be no reflection It reflects him. It reflects his glory. Just as if you step in front of a mirror in the morning, you see a reflection. Once you step away, that reflection doesn't exist. Creation is only a reflection. And thus creation can only reflect or be a mirror of God's goodness. And even though the Lord described the land which flowed with milk and honey, if he were not to have gone with the Israelites, That land, while truly flowing with milk and honey, would no longer have been good. And that's the effect of idolatry. Unrepentant idolatry. In other words, unrepentant sin will ultimately separate one. From God. Not only from those who are following Jesus Christ, it will separate from God. And while the idolater thought that He was headed toward that which was good without God, without the sovereignty of God, without rules, without moral law, a place of freedom to do whatever he desires, none of it will be good That idolatry will indeed be headed to a place which is a type of hell on earth, place without God. Separating. Our second point. Finally, sacrificing for sin. Moses now returns to Mount Sinai. He told the people you've sinned a great sin, and now I will go up to the Lord. Perhaps I can make atonement for your sin. Verse 30 Notice a couple of significant things here in these verses. First, that there is only one who is able to do something about the golden calf. Moses recognizes that. Grinding up the statute, the golden calf, making the Israelites drink it, did not appease God. Moses knew that. The slaying of three thousand sinners, idolaters, would not appease God. In short, recognizing that God could not be appeased by the works of Men, Moses returns to the one who could truly effect a reconciliation. And Moses knew that that atonement had not yet been accomplished. Perhaps I can make atonement. If atonement were to happen, it would only be by God. If atonement were to happen, it would only be if Moses could appear before God and make his request in his presence. Moses had to go up to God, the only one able to heal, the only one able to atone for sin. Secondly, there's an immediacy of action here. Moses doesn't wait. He doesn't wait. He doesn't say, let me give you the pattern of the tabernacle. He doesn't even mention the tabernacle. He doesn't wait. He doesn't delay in returning to God, given the idolatry he has seen. The next day. Moses returned to the Lord. And Moses makes this confession before the Lord. The Lord knew all of this, didn't he? And yet Moses felt compelled to confess. It wasn't that the Lord was unaware. Moses comes humbly before the Lord and confesses sin. He tells the Lord that, Lord, I've seen it, and I now I know. Now I know why your anger burned hot. They've made for themselves gods of gold. And now this last surprise in this passage Seemingly Moses seeks to atone for this sin. Look at verse 32. But now, if you will forgive their sin But if not, please blot me out of your book. That's why Moses went up. Perhaps I can make atonement If the Lord would not offer forgiveness, Moses offers to join himself with the people of God in their unforgiven estate. Moses offers to suffer the same punishment that the people of God would suffer for their idolatry. Yet even this offers Offer was not sufficient to change the course. Even after Moses offered up his own name to be blotted out of the book of life, The Lord orders Moses to depart without him. See, Moses' offer wasn't enough. It wasn't sufficient. It would not atone. It could not atone for the idolatry of the people. And so Moses tells the people. It appears that Moses now descends from the mountain once again to bring the word of God to the people. And when the people heard this, verse 4 of Chapter 36, they heard this disastrous word that God would not go with them, that he knew that they were stiff-necked. They mourned And they remove the ornaments as God had commanded them to remove the ornaments, those things which they throw into the fire, and out comes the calf. Jesus said that if your eye causes you to sin, pluck it out. And it seems to be that concept here where this gold that was in their ear That they use to make the golden cap, this is tossed away. So it wouldn't tempt them any longer. This passage seems to end in mourning. Moses was unable to accomplish an atonement of sufficient That would have caused God to remain with the people, that would have uh covered their sin, that would have resulted in the forgiveness of sin for these people. See, the effect of their idolatry continued as God was not going to dwell in their midst and the people mourn. Brothers and sisters, there's a sense that we might do the same this morning. Because we don't consider our own idolatry enough, and we certainly don't consider the effects of our idolatry. Usually when you think of idolatry, we're thinking of this calf, this physical thing that they did. As opposed to that which we do. The words of Paul to As brothers and sisters in Corinth rings true today. Therefore, my beloved, flee from idolatry. See, as we come to a close this morning on this passage, it should not be in mourning. We should mourn over our sins. We should be convicted over them. We should acknowledge them before God. We should ask God for eyes to see our idols that we might destroy them. But we shouldn't end this morning in mourning. For Moses provided the solution to the ailment, the disease of idolatry. Remember, he carried it down the mountain. Remember the Word of God bookended the sin of the Israelites. The Ten Words, the Ten Commandments, referenced before the Golden Calf and referenced after the Golden Calf, giving us this picture that it is the Word of God. That must prevail within our hearts, that is that idle destroyer. And it is Christ who is the Word of God He is the word, he is the atonement, he is the cure for our idolatrous hearts, and if we cling to him, if we open his word, if we read, if we pray, if Father. Brothers and sisters, we see that the word is the cure, that it will destroy our idols. And that our end will not be God not dwelling with us, but that God will dwell with us if we cling to Christ. The very Word of God. God will not dwell with the unrepentant idolater, but in you Jesus Christ, God will dwell with sinners who are saved only by grace and who have crushed those idols by and through the work of the Spirit. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you so much for your word. As we see Moses carrying it down the mountain, Father, this is the the cure to our ailments, to all of our sins, even our idolatry. We thank you for Christ this morning. We thank you for his person. And for his work, we pray, Father, help us. Help us with our idols. Help us to see them. Help us to crush them. Help us not to suffer the effects Of being in idolatry. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen