Please continue to stand. Turn to Hebrews chapter 9. And there we will read verses 11 through 15. And this will be the focus of the sermon remarks today. Let us all hear now the word of the Lord. But Christ came as high priest of the good things to come, with the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is, not of this creation. Not with the blood of goats and calves, but with his own blood, he entered the most holy place once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer sprinkling the unclean sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ Who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God And for this reason, he is the mediator of the new covenant by means of death for the redemption of the transgression under the first covenant. That those who are called may receive the promise of in of the eternal inheritance. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. We have been uh journeying through the book of Hebrews, and I say it's a journey because uh I haven't really realized how long this has been going on. Uh it's almost a year ago today we started our study of Hebrews. This marks the 40th sermon. In Hebrews. And in our dis in our efforts to look at the book of Hebrews, I hope that our time has uh showed you how Jesus is depicted as the final Revelation of God and the great redeemer of God's people. He's even been, we've even seen in the last several chapters beginning in verse five uh chapter five how Jesus is referred to as a high priest of his people, and understood what that means, but also we understand how he is superior to all the other Old Testament priests or any other priests that have come before him Or ever will come. The verses today, however, that are before him, once again bring to mind, to the forefront, the idea of Christ as a high priest. But in this case, he's spoken of as high priest of the good things to come. Of the good things to come. And I thought it would be helpful for us today to give some thought as to what those good things are that are coming. Not only what those good things are that we have because of Christ. But what are the good things that the scriptures implies are coming? So Let's look at verse 11 again, and we'll read it. Christ came as the high priest of the good things to come. with the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is not of this creation. That translation Christ came, the use of the word that's used there in Greek to come uh to arrive to uh to uh uh appear or to make a public appearance that That word is translated in a way that denotes a fact, not a possibility, not something that Is exclusively limited to the past, but something that has ongoing meaning and emphasis. It might be better translated as Christ has come as high priest. He has made public appearance, which we call his incarnation, which we celebrate At Christmas, the birth of the Lord, the time which is reputed to be the time when the holy God became flesh and dwelt among us. We know that our with Jesus who the Jesus who came conducted a three-year public ministry. During that time, he testified with signs and wonders to God's divine goodness. A goodness which has come to our aid. Because we are pictured, you see, throughout the Gospels and throughout the scriptures as people who are sick. Or oppressed, or deaf, or blind Christ has already come to aid us in our afflictions. Now, those afflictions that I've just described can certainly be physical, but in reality, they're more spiritual. We are blind because of sin to the truth of who God is. We are deaf to hearing his word. We are overcome In our soul, by the afflictions that sin has beset upon us. Christ has come to our aid As the high priest of the coming good things Some have questioned Jesus. Some have questioned who he is. Some who even put on the clerical garbs have done this questioning. See, it's hard to understand what the Bible teaches Without being changed in your own thought processes and in your heart. It's hard to get around the fact that the scripture presents Jesus as God with us. Can you deal with that Can you I mean why would he come in the first place to this place? Why would he come to us? Why would he even care? Why would he even want to be with us? I know we all think that we're very pretty and we're very nice people And maybe we do treat others nice, and maybe we are physically attractive. But the problem is not with our outward appearance, the problem is with our heart And the scripture says numerous times in various different ways the heart is desperately wicked. Who can know it? God has a plan to redeem his people through a Savior who is Christ the Lord. He is God with us And God with us comes to live and to die in human time and history. You may not agree who Jesus is, but you cannot deny that he exists. You may deny and believe that he isn't God with us, but you can't deny his death, and you can't deny his resurrection. Events that are testified to throughout the scriptures, and even prophesied. Millennia before they happened Christ has come, the text says, as the high priest of the good things to come. He has been made incarnate, and they especially he is a high priest. And there are Two primary functions that priests in general and high priests performed. One They make intercession on behalf of people. Two. They offer sacrifices In the Old Testament, those sacrifices were animals. In the New Testament, those sacrifices are not animals. But a God man, Jesus Whom John describes in John 1. 29 as behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Embodying all of that sacrificial language, John is now attributing that to Jesus. The one who takes the sin of the world away. This is part of the good things that Jesus brings. To those who believe in him and to those who know him. He is high priest of the good things to come. We need such a high priest. We need such a high priest. We need a high priest, you see, before God, because we're in need of salvation. We're sinful in the eyes of God Well I know you shouldn't say that, Pastor. Why not? It is true You have to be blind not to see it. You have to be blind not to see it in yourself, and you have to be blind not to see it in others. It's on the pages of every newspaper and on every televis television t cast, every newscast, every dight. Man's inhumanity to man. And it's not just to our brother and sister Christians around the world who are suffering. for their faith. They're being slaughtered for their faith that I speak about. It's those other things where People run through the streets of our own country trying to sell drugs to other people to get them hooked for the regardless of what that does to people. It's um it's the um it's the way in which So many in our culture suffer from abuse of one form or another, verbal, social, sexual. See, at the heart of all these things is a is it it ain't a good heart It's not a good heart there. It's a bad heart. It's a heart that wants to go its own way and do its own things. Doesn't want to acknowledge God. Let me be free. Let me be free. Let me be free to indulge whatever I want. And then we add the caveat, just so long as it doesn't hurt anybody else We need a high priest. And Jesus is the only one who works. Because he is God's high priest sent to us. He has come for this appointed purpose. to save his people from their sins. Hebrews chapter 2 verse 17, he has been made like his brethren. That means he took on human flesh that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in all things concerning God. Why? To make reconciliation for the sins of his people. Why did he become human? Couldn't he have just come as God and done this? Now the scriptures have an answer for that too. Hebrews 4, 15. See, we need a high priest who can identify with us. We need a high priest who can sympathize with our weakness. We need a high priest who has come, who knows what we go through every day because he went through it first. So that when we come to God and we pray and we petition God, we have someone who can relate. Relate to our existence and our struggles in this world. And that's Christ. The God man, the God with us. Two natures in one person. Don't ask me to explain how. I can't. But that's what Scripture teaches. You may not have ever heard that Jesus is God But that's what the scripture teaches. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Jesus writes in John, I and the Father are one. We have seen Thomas, who didn't see Jesus resurrected the first time from the dead, says Unless I can put my fingers into his hands, into his nail prints, I won't believe. The Lord indulges Thomas And he comes back again, and Thomas gets to see Jesus with his nail prints. And Jesus invites him. Okay, come on, put your finger in my in my hands, in my nail prints. And Thomas's response is what? My Lord and my God I know it sounds unbelievable that this kind of thing would happen, but that's what God has done. I am not making this up. I am not dreaming this. I am not spinning fairy tales. Look at the Bible, will you, please? For your own sake. Pastor, I don't know where to go. I don't know what to look at. I don't know where to begin. I've read the Bible from page one in Genesis to the end. Or I got sidetracked at the bigass. Do what Lewis and I did. I I challenge you Go to Mark. Go to any of the Gospels and read. And just read without any preconceptions. I just ask you to be objective. Can you be objective? Maybe you can't, but try. Just look at what it's saying, who Jesus is And look and see what Jesus did. That's all I ask If you're a genuine searcher and you want to know about the high priest who has come, you will find him. I guarantee you. Because God will draw you to himself. And he will make things that were never clear to you in the past. He will suddenly, you know, the light will go on. And it will be, it won't be just a uh it won't just be like a fluorescent bulb. It will be a spotlight that goes on in your mind. I'm understanding this. God works through His Word and His Spirit to help us understand understand more and more about who the high priest who has come is. But it also and and and and I've just, at this point, I've just talked about some of the things that we enjoy as a result. Of Christ coming. But it says in the text, he is the high priest of the good things to come, which implies some sort of future benefit. Of having a high priest. Yes, we can say about Jesus now that he has removed God's wrath from us as far as East is from West, Psalm 103, we can say, yes. Jesus has overcome the truth of Scripture that all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, Romans 3. 23. Yes, we can say that Christ has united us to him in his death and resurrection. Yes, we can say that we're now in Christ's new creatures, that we have new hearts, as second Corinthians 5 says, yes, we can even say that Christ has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places in Christ. Ephesians 1, verse 3. And Ephesians 2, verse 6, he has raised us up together and made us to sit together in heavenly places in Jesus Christ. Now. But I want you to think just for uh the last remaining minutes of What are some of these good things that are coming? What could those things be? Well, first of all, when we talk about good, what are good things, we need to define that from God's definition. And if I can, I will take you back to a sermon I preached a few weeks ago about the rich young ruler. Remember? He came to Jesus and said, Good teacher, Mark chapter 10, what must I do? Good teacher, what must I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus immediately took him and said, no one is good but God alone. And the point I want you to appreciate is that high priest of the good things to come has to have reference to our relationship to God. God, who is good. It has to be connected to something about God's goodness. You know, we don't just have a life here. But the scripture teaches that we are flesh and soul, and that our soul will live on. It lives on either in damnation or it lives on in glory with God. If I'm if we, because of faith in Christ, are going to live on then what what it means is we're going to be forever in the presence of pure goodness We're going to be in the presence of the Father God. Who after he created everything pronounced them good? What will it be like to never Spend another moment seeing evil There is no evil in heaven. There's no evil where you're going if you know Christ. What will it be like? What would it be like not to be blinded by our own sinful hearts or the sinful hearts of others. What would it be like never to see the darkness of sin? Never to see death. Never to see death These, I think, are some of the good things. And the reason, again That these good things are coming to you, brothers and sisters in Christ. It's because of Jesus your high priest and because of where he is now. He is, as the text goes on to say, he is in the greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not a building. We believe that Jesus is in heaven. We believe he's at the right hand of God the Father. We believe he is there interceding on our behalf. He is in the presence of Almighty God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. He is a minister in the sanctuary of the true temple, as Hebrews chapter 1. Excuse me, Hebrews chapter 8, 1 and 2 present. A temple that the Lord pitched, not men. It's the very temple that Revelation 22, verse 1 declares where we will be. And as we are there, we will see this image. He showed me a river, a pure river of water, of life, clear as crystal proceeding out of the throne of God and in the Lamb. When it says he showed me, that's John, the author of Revelation. But that's you. It's you too. Because John believed too. And all who believe, he shows me this river. Proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb, and in the midst of the street of it, on either side of the river, there's the tree of life. which bare twelve manners of fruits, yielded yet yielded her fruit every month. The leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And there shall be no more curse, but the throne of God and the Lamb shall be there, and his servants shall serve him. They Not he, notice, singular to plural. They shall see his face. Who? The servants of God. His name shall be on their foreheads. There shall be no night there. They will not need candle. They will not even need the light of the sun, for the Lord gives light And they shall reign with him forever. That's some of the good stuff. That's some of the stuff we don't have yet, but that's where we're going. What does this text mean to you? We can all rejoice in that the infinite blood of Christ covers our sins. Salvation is not by our hands, but by God's hands and by Christ's work. If you believe in Christ as your Lord and Savior, if he is your high priest, That is eternal. It's not going to be taken away. It's a good thing. The power of God. Means it can't be taken away. It means that Christ for you is always with you. He's always in glory. And you're there in spirit with him too. You're there now, and one day you'll be there. With your glorified body and your resurrected spirit. There he intercedes with the Father for us, and there he pleads for your behalf. Whatever you ask according to his will, he will do. But that's a good thing. It's a good thing that his coming. Our high priest Jesus is at the same time being a high priest, he's also your good shepherd. He is your shepherd who leads you through the valley in the shadow of death He anoints your head with oil. He enables your cup to runeth over. His rod and his staff comfort you. Christ encourages you to believe that I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And that's a really good thing. Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father apply through your Spirit the words. We rely upon your teaching and your training. May these words be in conjunction with you. May they be true. And may you uh bless us with even further understanding. May you bless us with greater faith. May you give us the gift of faith and repentance in the name of Jesus Christ. We pray it in his name. Amen.