And now the reading of the preaching text from the New Testament, 1 Corinthians 11, 23 through 26. This very familiar words of institution from the Apostle Paul. 1 Corinthians 11 beginning at verse 23. Hear the word of God. For I received from the Lord what I also delivered to you, that the Lord Jesus, on the night when he was betrayed, took bread, and when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, This is my body which is for you. Do this in remembrance of me In the same way also he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as you eat this bread and drink the cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. The Word of God. Let us pray. Lord, again, we thank you for these precious words that you caused to be written down by the Apostle Paul, sent to the church in Corinth. We pray now that as we consider them, that your Spirit who inspired them will also help us to understand them and receive them and apply them in Jesus' name. Amen. May be seated. Well it's a small passage, so uh easy to come by. Um I wrote two words here on the board that uh will be in focus. Verse 23 says, puts the context, it says, on the night in which he was betrayed. Now, what night was that? Was the Passover night. They're gathered around to celebrate Passover. So he does this institution of the sacrament of his body and blood, as the Westminster Confession says. Called the Lord's Supper, he institutes it in this context on the night of Passover celebration. That's important. That's what we read from Exodus 12. And then verse 24, Jesus took bread, so he takes it up in his hands. He broke it. And said, This is my body which is broken for you. Or this is my body which is for you. There's variations there. in different translations, but very much the same. Then he said, Do this in remembrance of me, or as my memorial. Now let's unpack the word memorial. It's the word in Greek anamnesis, which I wrote at the top of the board. It is more, by the way, and importantly, more than simple cognitive recall. Cognitive recall happens when we look at photographs from perhaps vacations past. You know, you get the shoebox out and you see all those photographs and you just start going through them and you see the vacation from a long time ago and another one here and another one there. And and you remember where you were and who was there and what happened, some of it anyway, right? Um I have a photo of my family in Bermuda. It included all of our children, all eight of them at the time, and my parents who went too. We had a great time. My children are now grown, and my parents are now with the Lord. So looking at that picture is cognitive recall. It's precious, it's good, but it is cognitive recall. It's something like the like the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, or the Iwo Jima statue of soldiers raising the flag on Mount Surabachi. uh. . for those who would remember such a saying anyway, um similar recall. The Greek word ananesis Carries much more meaning, however, than simple cognitive recall. So that's not what Paul is saying. Have a cognitive recall about the death of Jesus. It's more than that. Memorial, in this biblical sense, not only recalls, but activates the past. so that it is a present experience in its real effects, so that the real results of Christ's death as a sacrifice are communicated to you That is the forgiveness of sins, union with Christ in his perfect obedience, including all the blessings of salvation Membership in the redeemed people through faith, which is in turn nourished and sustained by the sacrament that Christ ordained for his church as a perpetual gift. Perpetual nourishment. My son-in-law, um and his father and his brothers Have taken part in Civil War reenactments at places like Gettysburg or Antietam or some other battlefield. They go out on these reenactments and they set their camps up. They set the camps up in the place of the original battle. They they know where those camps were because of the journals of the people back then. And they use these old canvas tents. And they use the old campfire cooking utensils wherever they can. And then the troops get into position. The positions, again, recorded in the battlefield journals of the soldiers and the commanders. And they load their weapons, but without shot. And they charge across the battlefield firing guns and cannons, without cannonballs. And some of them are captured, and some are even designated to fall on the field and play dead. It's a very dramatic reenactment of events long ago. For those who participate, I am sure that this is much deeper in experience of the battle than just reading about it in a book, or even just seeing pictures if there were pictures, there are a few. But no one actually dies. No one dies in these reenactments, and no battle is won or lost. It is a dramatic memorial, but it does not affect the present. That is not biblical anamnesis. Another way to try to think about anamnesis is this way. I recall a story about a wife whose husband died in a tragic accident. She was deep in grief. And at times she would go into the closet and grab bundles of his clothes. She couldn't part with them quickly. She would grab bundles of his clothes just to smell the lingering scent of his body on the clothes. And the memories would come flooding back into her mind with sweetness as well as sorrow. Memories of their being together would come into the moment That's closer to anamnesis, but not quite there yet. Because this memorial that Jesus ordained for us is even more dynamic than that. This memorial ordained by Jesus Is attended by him through the Holy Spirit. In this memorial, Jesus is not absent. He rose from the dead. He ascended to heaven. And he said Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. So he's present. He you see is present to transcend the 2,000 plus years since his death, and he is here to bridge the distance between here and heaven, whatever that is. And he is here present to make his sacrifice as a present experience in its real effects for you. His glorified body and blood are not present at the table, but he is present by the power of the Holy Spirit in that gathered worship ordained by him to make his presence real. And its effects real. That is the continual flow of the forgiveness of sins. That comes from his death for us. And constant union with him in his perfect obedience, which is ours by faith. This is a dramatic representation, a splendid memorial. Because the one memorialized is actually present. Anannesis. Looks back to the event, brings the present forward to the moment, but it also looks forward. And I want to show you that even the original event, the Passover, had a forward focus as well. It was the belief of the Jews that the Passover not only looked back, but forward to the time when Messiah would come. The rabbis said, quote, on this night they were saved, and on this night they will be saved. That's Rabbi Joshua bin Hananiah. It's also echoed in the Midrash, the ancient commentary on the Old Testament. Quote On that same day Joseph too was released from captivity. For this reason did this night become one of rejoicing for the whole of Israel, a night of watching unto the Lord In this world, the miracle was performed at night because it was a transitory nature, but in the messianic age, night will become day. Why does he call it a night of watching? The Midrash asks. Because on that night he performed great things for the righteous in Egypt On that night he saved Hezekiah, Hananiah, and his companions. On that night, Messiah and Elijah will be great. So Israel has eagerly awaited salvation since the rising of Eden, Edom, which is Rome God said, Let this sign be on your hands in the day when I wrought salvation on that very night. Know that I will redeem you. But it if it is not this night, do not believe, for the time has not yet come. That's Midrash Rava. Now, of course, that's not the word of God, but that's what they thought. They believed that Passover looked forward. So what I'm saying by reading that is that Anamesis looks backward to the past events of redemption, but also looks forward to a fulfillment in the Messiah. They believed that the Passover would have a greater fulfillment. So now we can see why Jesus took the Passover event. That meal, that night, and caused it to look forward with his disciples to a future time. Because he said, for as often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death. Until he comes, forward looking. This Passover, this memorial, this thing that Jesus ordained looks forward to the time when he comes again. In summary, anamnesis recalls the past so that it is a present experience in its real effects. So that the results of Christ's death as a sacrifice are communicated to you by the living Lord who is really present. And Anamnesis looks forward to the consummation when Christ returns, and we will have him physically present with us. So that's what it means, as well as I can explain it to you. It's not simple cognitive recall. It's a dynamic thing. Don't miss it. Receive it. Receive what Christ gives you in it as He is present and gives Himself to you by faith. The second word is also important. The word much more common to us is the word koinonia, which means communion or participation. And what it really shows us, one of the things, is that you're not simply a single passive observer in this sacrament. Presbyterians anyway don't go around handing out communion individually to people. We gather together as the church. in corporate worship and celebrate what Christ has done for us and has ordained for us in the sacrament. So it is a gathered Reception. It is corporate. It is participatory. So what do you do at the table when the elements are distributed? You personally take and you eat and you drink. You are not a passive observer, but a participant, but you are a participant with others who are gathered with you. At the Passover that Jesus refers back to in Egypt, they ate and drank in the company of others, didn't they? Exodus 12, 7. They shall take some of the blood and put it on the two doorposts and the lentils of the house in which they corporately eat it. They shall eat the flesh that night, roasted on the fire, etc. They're participating in the wonderful meal of redemption. And so putting some of these things together, Paul in in the previous chapter, 1 Corinthians 10, says, he uses the word koinonia there, not in the text that we read, but in chapter 10, he says, in discussing things, he says, the cup of blessing that we bless, is it not a participation? That's the word koinonia. Is it not a participation or communion in the blood of Christ? We are participants and recipients. Paul goes on and says, the bread that we break, is it not a participation or koinonia in the body of Christ? And then he says, because there is one bread, we who are many are one body, for we all partake of the one bread. And he refers back to verse 18, consider the people of Israel, are not those who eat the sacrifices participants, koinonia, in the altar. So there's something wonderful going on there too. It's a gathered participation. It is a reception together of what Christ has ordained for us. Now, as the confession of faith said, we read it earlier, I will also quote John Jewell, born 451 years ago, where he says, there is not a change in substance. So we don't want to get that confused. Listen to what he says. But that he might rather change us. We're the ones who get changed. We get transubstantiated in a sense. And then he goes on, and in speaking thus we mean not to abase the Lord's Supper or to teach that it is but a cold ceremony only. And nothing to be wrought therein, as many falsely slander us, we teach, for we affirm that Christ doth truly and presently give his own self in the sacraments. So in the supper that you're going to celebrate next Lord's Day evening, there is personal participation as you eat and drink individually, and there is corporate participation. You take the bread and cup and make present the fact that God, who took on human flesh, Who participated or communed in human flesh by taking it in to himself and becoming one of us, he was torn for you in sacrifice to save you And his real human blood was poured out in sacrifice for you as you drink the cup. It is the cup of blessing and salvation. When you koinonia in these things ordained by Christ and with faith, you really koinonia in the body and blood of Christ, as he says in chapter ten. Which I read earlier. These elements of bread and wine, combined with faith, are attended by Jesus, who is not absent, but is present to nourish your personal faith. When you eat and drink in union with him and all his benefits, these are dramatically presented to you and made real to you. Much better than just cognitive recall. In these gifts, you receive the fact that he died for you, a sinner. You. He rose for you. He ascended for you. And that you are seated with him in heavenly places, as Paul says in the letter to the Ephesians. And you receive, when you receive these things, you receive the promise that he will raise you from the dust. and restore you in a glorious body when he returns for you personally. It's also corporate in the sense that we are a body. As Paul said, we are one loaf. So it's not just all about me and my personal experience. We eat and drink in the company of others, brothers and sisters, fathers and mothers redeemed in Christ. We are related. Parallel to the Israelites who crossed through the Red Sea, who were called by Paul the body of Moses, who were all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, he says. Now the body of Christ transcends all nations and all times of history. And Our members, we are members of a local expression of the body of Christ, where his worship is maintained in word and sacrament, in prayer and fellowship. It's a wonderful, wonderful thing that we participate in all these things. And it's only possible because Christ participated in our human nature. He had fellowship, koinonia with us through the incarnation. I want to read a quote from a British A British teacher, Dorothy Sayers, who wrote a wonderful thing here. Dorothy Sayers says For whatever reason God chose to make man as he is, limited and suffering and subject to the sorrows and death, he had the honesty and the courage to take his own medicine Whatever game he is playing with his creation, he has kept his own rules and played fair. He can exact nothing from man that he has not exacted from himself. He has himself gone through the whole human experience from the trivial irritations of family life and the cramping prescriptions of hard work and lack of money. to the worst horrors of pain and humiliation, defeat, despair, and death, when he became a man. He played the man, born in poverty, died in disgrace, and thought it well worthwhile. He participated in our human nature so that now we participate in his death. The benefits, the forgiveness, the union, everything that flows from his sacrificial death. death for us. Only possible because he first participated in our human nature. This is the Savior who gives himself to us at his table. One who played fair, who entered into our human suffering and knows what it is like. He nourishes us and strengthens us as we participate by faith in the eating and drinking. He had communion, partook of our flesh and blood through the Virgin Mary, and now he calls us to remember Anamnesis and communea in his flesh and blood, which saved us. Praise be to the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, whenever we come to your table We do not presume to come trusting in our own righteousness, but in your great mercies. We are not worthy to gather up the crumbs under your table. But you are the same Lord whose office and nature is always to have mercy. Grant us, therefore, gracious Lord, so to eat the flesh of your Son Jesus Christ, and to drink his blood. that our sinful bodies may be made clean by his body, and our souls washed through his most precious blood, that we may evermore dwell in him, and he in us.