Maybe we've been only into each part to dialogue. And we always told the models and two through the two periods here, so if anyone filmed any consumer in many of the Lord's commandments about the things not to be done and does any one of them. If it is the anointed peace he things, thus then woke an acquisitive When he shall ask her to be claimed that he accused a bow from the hole without promise, to the Lord for him. So bring the bow to the entrance of the tent of meeting before the Lord And lay his hand on the head of a bear and kill the bear before the Lord. And the mounted priest shall take some of the blood of the bear and bring it into the tent of meeting, and the priest shall give it And printed all the blood seven times as well in front of the row of the sanctuary. And the horn to be all clear twelve And all the lust of the blood of the bird he said pour out of the days of the architect against Athlen, that is at the entrance of the kind of meaning. All the cross of the bird within our friends himself removed from it the thought that covers the emperors and all the clouds that is on the emperors and secretly The start of the gentleman at the loan can the line load the delivery of cart with two fellow needs with the couldn't just use coding and asked to be property. And the things are doing them and the eyes were both often. It's a syllabus out of the call of logic and so it's going. However, once you're doing it play like five different screenplays to your piece and try burn it upon a follow of words. And the last piece it should be burned up But the whole conversation of these are things and consequences. And the same as clearly from the eyes of the offender may be any number of things that by the Lord command that not to be done in a real eye When assuming the third committed becomes none, you assumed I offer a bird from the third for a single offering and bring it from the front of the front of meeting. And lawless of the congregation shall lay their hands in the middle of the bed before the Lord, and a death shall be said before the Lord. And the United States shall then come to blood of the birth into the tent of the meaning. And he shall get his finger in the blood and sprinkled it seven times into the lid in front of the water. And he shall put some of the blood on the bones of the architect, but it's in the point of meeting the And the last little blood is played out at the base of the air to the bump after them that is with the open to the front of the meeting. By fact, we shall take front and then article. Thus he shall do with the bow. As he did with the bow of the two micro, so shall he do with this. And the teeth shall make atonement for them. And they shall be forgiven. And he shall tell the boy outside camp and bang up as he banged the first church. It is the sin offering for the assembly. When I read this thing, doing unintentional and animal sins is by the commandments of the Lord his God ought not to be done and realizes his guilt of the sin And shall lay his hand on the hole of a gate and put it in a place where they tried to bring offering before the Lord. He is his sin offering. And the priest shall take him the blood of the sin offering of his sin and put it on the lines of the altar of drink offering and pull out the water of the blood of the priest the altar of the body shall be in the article, like the father to sacrifice a peace and sin. So the peace shall make appointment for him for his sin, and he shall be for If he are committed is made known to him, he shall bring for his offer and a go that anyway without blaming. So he's sin if he are committed. And he shall lay his hand on the head of a sinner And the priest that takes some of the blood with his finger and put it on the horn to the altar of the offering and pour out all the rest to the out of the base of the article. And I start the title move. If you try to move for the peak document. And the pink subject on the article of peace and action. And she shall make atonement to him, and he shall be forgiven. He brings alone as he got him first and athletes, he shall bring a few more without any And lay his hand on the hair of the synaptic and crack for the scenario and the place with his fellow against Arkham. Then the priest settled some of the blood of the synaptic and his finger and said on the home to the archived asking And then pour out all the rest of its blood at the base of the airport. There it caught until he moved as the father ones removed from the sacrifice of Peter. He shall be on the altar and half of the year's seed action. And the priest shall make atonement for him for the sin which he has committed and who shall be forgiven. The man seems and that he hears a public adulation to consequence. And those who witness, whether he has seen or come to know the man, yet does not see, he saw that he is in the If anyone touches an unseen thing, whether a caucus of an unseen animal wild enemy, or a cultus of an unseen large bat, or a cultus of an unseen line thing And we're doing something and we have become anything and we realize it was true or if you have to do anything. And what are you thought the emptyness may do with when becomes anything And it will be something when it comes to knowledge and realizes his gift, or if anyone utters it is with a last earth to be an evil or to be good. And we're putting something and come to know it and realizes in all of these. And realizing we shape in all of these And as we committed, who shall bring to the Lord as a templation, and with whom will be a committed a few more at the next life, a woman or a dope And the peace summit is coming for him for his sin. But he cannot afford them, and he shall bring to the Lord as his compensation for the sin we committed to And you shall bring them to the fruit. You shall offer the fate, one for the swim after, you shall win the And you shall sprinkle some of the blood of the sinacle on the side of the altar, of the rest of the blood shall be blown back into the base of the altar. It is a sin action When he shall offer the second, shall be acting according to the year, and the priest shall make a turn for him for the sin that he has committed, and he shall be forgiven. But if he cannot afford to hear God, which he prisons, then he shall bring as his offering for the sin that he has committed a tenth of a leaf off of five dollars for a sin action. No oil on it, and take it no punch in some time, but it was his tuna. And he saw bringing it to the priest, and the priest shall take a home and four of the forcing and burning it on the altar. and a low feed action. He's a two-mark. One of three format atonement for him for the two may be accounted. And only one of these things. And these are forgiven and the reminder shall be for the peace like even green at bad way Father, we now come to the teaching of your will. Come to a difficult task. A passage regarding things with which we are just next and race. And so we ask regard that by the work of the spirit we die and be what we It would help us to to lose this place, knowing what we would have us to know. Knowing what we'd have us to You hear knowing that you had a number and meditative pen. Mm-hmm. God, how you breathe. And you'll turn into a pen. The N50 sends by a case. Give us E to Power I50. We have to think Big Mm. And then Well tonight, we tell you that four things I've learned. Chapter 3 and 5, he read that of course in Matthew's gospel. There he read But Jesus speaks now everywhere. He says, In the Lord, Lord, you'll enter the kingdom of heaven, but the only by the way of my Father who is in heaven. Of course, in the scripture, Matthew Gospel, Jesus was teaching about men and women and children who thought they were righteous. Even of them died. But their work were good. And that by then they had owned their way into the Jesus described the kinds of work that one might perform Prophecy in Jesus' name. Casting out demons in the name of the Lord, being many mighty work by the name of God As the Almighty. Then as the Lord be heard, we say with that. Never need depart from the weapons of Yahweh. Why these were believing that there was Were righteous and good and worthy of earning a spot in heaven, Jesus, the world of all calls them to departure. Workers of well with me. Not workers of white with me. Like Jesus taught wasn't naming anyone specifically. And we might make the mistake that Jesus is talking about just both secret and that does That's the connect the truth. It is very much a chance though problem. Many people Many people. Many people unique. Why do we even find this man? The reason that say I'm not sinning. Many people People believe that they are good people who do good work and Jesus have no need to be fine to their friends. Now, if we continue working our way through the village, that I do. To be a good people, to be paid from our heart and mind. As we're coming back with ability to come out, it's kind of remind us that that we've been led here by exodus. But in exodus the Lord served a people for himself. They were delivered to worship. We saw that the people were on their way to a land promised by God, by covenant, but who promised to do their God. that he would appeal to them on the mountain and that he would give them Moses that put them that that aboveprint that a tabernacle that He would use this creature and lie with them. The tabernacle was constructed just as God had called them to make it, with the materials in the particular way, just as God commanded As the pattern after it was completed, it was clear with the glory of God and Moses could not answer Giving us the sense that there was no that needed then happened before God's thinker could enter into his silkness In more existence of a cabinet, a weakness assistance. More would need definitely keepers in order to move and be in a cover. every living die. He says he's been studying Leviticus, he's studied the bank as of the scene of Christ and Satan con things for everyone to believe the time of lawmark and open it for the pace, students. Shoot them a pace, freedom voice. Just like doing so it might go with. doing speaker. Now the enemy man speaks. Tonight and I can't And suddenly we see that Jesus Christ is the unbranded atonement for all sinners to confess them as Favorite and live. Jesus Christ is the unbank of payment for our sinners to confess them as failure and lived. These simple things tonight, this all our things, second. Secondly, all need a permanent and finally all need an unblemist substitute. Now it's fun through that now to a difficult pattern. You may have to see that it works at very simply. Now once we first very complex dark and great things that you might have memorized if it's fatal. But it's now between some other you'd have it for your first page. Secondly, another case. And it's simple too. How do you think? Okay. Oh, it's coming. Chapter 4 of Leviticus is really broken down into four sections. But not a spirit But make it just a little different from the other sacrifices we've been described to. Different part of days There's a category of the anointed priests who send. There's a category of the whole congregation who sings. There's a category of the leader who And then they find in the category of the common people who sin. And that's how the Lord would have Moses survived That's acceptance and discrimination. The faith, the conversation, the linguist, and the common people You see there are some new like there's some differences that we don't see out the counters and then we know about the thing acting. There are different options which will require the priest. He takes the boar when he sins unintentionally. And he brings the blood of the boar into the tent. I don't know what it comes to where you do that separation between a holy place and the most holy place. The most holy place containing all of the patterns. The mercy speed of the attainment covers. Case where house is we don't need to any name. The whole congregation is similar. congregation would bring the bird, the elders would sacrifice it, they'd slay it, the blood would again be brought in and simply seven times before the Lord and some of her Once the blood was full out of the place, we asked what's going to happen. I cry the time. The Lord does not care for the blood. of the sacrifice for their leader to be brought into the tent of meeting. To be placed on the horns of the altar of the offering, and then once again. Pull out a place of reality of both action. The common people. doesn't go on to be kind of me that goes like that. There are similarities amongst our calibrates. That's why they're getting the test of them. The priest, the whole congregation. the leader, the common hand, the common people. They in a sacrifice because they were right that they have attended a hurry died. And so now we submissive to this perfect life. Yes, the blood is dealt with differently, but there's this common level mission that there is funded themselves That even all this running concept. If there is time with a practice, one of the clues to be powering that very very clearly. But I think I have these different categories on high speed for the multi speed, the whole congregation are usually And the common patent Moses is describing the way that our people are saved. As we break it up in the fourth time It proves that the idea of being third. I guess don't you like it's something fifty. Everyone is a sinner. And the prince is a common person. And everyone in between, for the prince, was sinners. The prince. broke in the law of God, the entire thumbnail, the nation of Israel, as a body, had broken the law of God. They were they were the only place in some position of authority had sended them back And do this for me. Not a moment. God was making a way of a cult They're angry and knowing that I have been a dungeon. Okay, so let's And then the made it sitting in for this thing. Who these asking, do these two asking? And I know all this clear thing. Let's think about this for a minute. Very soon. But in eye being so much of bringing on it. It's got a beautiful way. Before I can do it But to stick with their face. Yeah? Their sin is not a sin. Sin does not have its own existence. It is not like a virus or a bacteria, which does have an existence and that executive our bodies and damages and destroys our physical bodies and What can you do? He needs a fashion, a roll, an earth. Who is what would By putting a walk around the block. Please thought a word and ask them. No human Being to think. They say. They do. Then if it's recognized it all My practice would be seen as a new inconvenience. And that's in a way of what we might consider to be our normal daily lives. Just family television, everyone's badness. Here the second the type in time between was not the bad and is not Sabad a moment in convenience or a time in space. Every single person, the same thing by ordinary generation is seriously and mortally affected and affected by the island. Rise of the father as something that needs the world or the will of God who claims it Plan earth until you need the climate chip. Let's see. And the same property writes is everyone who makes the classic of human also classic is a lawlessness. Who is lawlessness? Well, that's means without the law. And that's what it means without the not on the law. It's a golden ad command, it's the claim to proclaim a command of God. It cocks you from that. What happened? God kind of speaks that by sending the flight of the day. You can't just done by separating them at 23 seconds. We draw them all up and twice it away. To guide the way to the fee of life to separate concepts from more weak things That isn't 50 is the both of those things just many of that and it's good as well That's just the time. We tell me if we can see we ask people if they know the word Jesus Christ, and we ask them when What would I say to Jesus? If they were to die tonight, why should I let you in? But if we let because I'm a good person. That I'm good. How many people believe that again? How many good people were there to? How many good people were there who were listening to all the authenticate the coming out of the marriage college for them. Who is a provision for the good people who in Revital Course? Because we will know good people. We are things about the And what was necessary for the anointed king, for the entire congregation, for the leaders, of the common teachers who come and appoint God So folks must be recognized that they were human. The thing is that second point and depending. What is the significant interpretation of these unclean code has made Poor in fact with poor and the blood. There are different ways, different places that the blood is to be placed in each one of them for the things, for the lingua, for the entire conversation for the common second, blood was necessary, blood was emphasized. Who just thought that it was until the question of the classic. Why? Why is there such an emphasis I am a good one. It's the understanding of the doctrine as a comment. And see that word you are It is a span. That seems like the case if you guys are whole country with a bird And give you the bird of Kenak, and so shall he do with this. And he shall make a payment for them, and the heritage, and they shall be called Given as the king touched the bowl that's being offered by the elders of the entire congregation and he does exactly that that God has provided for him to do with the blood I'm gonna fall. I'm gonna build up for the bread. And the food would make any children and make everybody. sin as a leader. If the prince does all that he can for the leaders, leaders will and he's sacrificed, the prince shall make a ton of him and for his sin he shall be forgiven if he The common people do sacrifice that these children shall make atonement for him and re shall be for given to them. How do the purpose of using for the turn up when they can make a pain And that we see that entity. And the blood. What's the connection between tone and the blood of the socket? How do they go together? Understand that. Understand the time, we must first understand the punishment That flows directly, or the penalty that blows directly that arise in the corner is laid upon the one who's soon. Again, somebody can act in that thing. All right, since what is it that happens if we go to that thing is a death We reported that in the Lord's place and forgive us our death. That we give them our service. It's a penalty that's been imposed by God on all three things. Remember what God played Adam in the garden as he warns him, as he commands him, with his guys to the speed of the knowledge of good and evil. That in the day that you eat of it, you shall see The penetration. The punishment for breaking God law used by truly banned. In chapter five, therefore death of sin came into the world through one man and death through sin That is things. That's the trick. You don't know that if you present yourself to anyone else. The business flows your flows of the ones within your bells either thing which includes that didn't include the writing. And then this was some of you may have memorized to the way you just came to a summer. To the connection. The foundation of Christian doctrine. We are sinners, the party for sinners is death. I can't say that. what God meant when he spoke in the garden and spoke to Adam contained blood. We can't suppose you understand what power means by death. As a result of our sin we're physically bad. But if God puts it on the ball, we're dying as a result of breaking up things, we thought of an entire couple God there is life. The question is in death. No light. Not too light. He is the one who gave light in the air. He is the one who gave light to his peaceful. And this one Adam that if he broke this covenant, that his life would be taken away for others. Because we cannot get separation from gas. So now we can go back and seek to understand where we are For the priest to attend the thing. That word, if you look at that somewhere deal, left the time we give A few days all who do you have no day puts my own who do you like the time We found a wrong program with this system. And the idea of what is translated as a pen and to a The real could have done so, the a pre dhaman of the idea. The Hebrew is to cover the face of God, so to speak. To appease sin. God covers sin, so as the adverse common thing. As one is at turn, as one school is at And then God I do this one I tell this one one comic thing. That's a runner idea of a penny. Webster, 18th century picks it this way, satisfaction. Made by giving an equivalent feeling injury. Try to fasten in the criminal. Think of the life of the problem if it's so many. That would God said Moses to make and to put in a point of leading more holy of holy. Now what do you think about the covenant? That which he is realized as he lives then A good day. The new call's law of the covenant is God's law. It's judgment. It's a girl in the world. So that symbolizes judgment, but what's on top of the out of the heavens? Generally in the case where they can make these things. The God's mercy is as a judgment. Yes, he is a God he judges, but yes, he's actually a God he has not be. That it is over the law in a tenant public. What did God do? His hand great thing. And that's what is spoken up here in the Biblical. The Israelites were jelly. Not as it seems to appear until they were experiencing If they were liable for punishment, if they adopt this upon themselves, if they wouldn't pay the debt because they're broken a law of God, they'd earn their wages with his debts, even if an employee They owe the death to God. The penalty of eternal death of an eternal existence in the fire itself is laying upon them the penalty of separation from God And God is a just right. Who just must be satisfied. Who does not hurt us who must eat it under the rug and look beyond He cannot allow sin to get unpunished. The Lord must be fed for sin committed. The penalty must be paid. The debt must be satisfied The days at the end of the Earth who die. The idea of the cancer, the things of the And it needs to satisfy this death. It needs to satisfy this pen And there are only two ways for the justice of God to be satisfied. The first is for the sinner to suffer the connaissance himself, to bring to suffer God's eternal death, eternal death, eternal separation from God in the fires of hell. That's the faith here. Bring it away. It's very medical exception in the case of the thing. Is this one out of the right The bathroom of British spirit. The Lord provides and attains the sin by the death and the blood shed. I mean no goodness. Did you see that repetition? The out the factory and the clean scrum as a timely flood and as the blood is fed, as the animal is seen As that as many of those, the teeth can make And very sad for goodness. Satisfaction is a connoisseur The cannot be due to sin. Results in forgiveness. To forgive means to take To think as we are finding is not joking. To think the way we are Family failed to not feel treated to be a fan. to be conditioned. But what I am trying to do with the thing is being We are designed to ratify. I mean the common to them and those subjects I gotta leave the chemical phase comment. But I all not only need a payment, but I need an end to them. Did you see that? Without blind being started to keep That is not the case. That was the evil I'd be whether you were the anointed king or whether you were the idols, that was Or whether you are a leader in a congregation or just a common person. the Buddha's full and the person of God I I could have found it and it's again and again and again with heart without remember, without remise, without remedy, with you without gun it once if you own it it's only things before as a good kind of picture about spark. Pick it down. And this is a great value to the animal. I don't know much about laser Animals, but the idea I think is that if you've got a perfect animal wing out, they're going to produce other perfect animals and you're gonna have a lot of good animals. You've got to take a yana and process it. So news would be anyway. An anime of Kiyana would not want to give up because of its great value for producer. Without journalists would do stuff, but that is the only animal which we could bring, an only animal which could be after that and it's acted by God for you That's the kind of blood that we needed to bring. That's the kind of blood that the things we've done with these pink and on the coins of these altar again. often all day for him taking an incredible attempted meeting. That's just where they Pretty much necessary, didn't it? For that to the challenge. And I already suffer to the right. The tribe here and In the first five factors of Leviticus, or points to Christ, and change four and thousands, but this one is two afternoon points to Jesus most particularly You've seen it all that I've seen. All the Israelites are sinning all the bosses and this year in my skin is just yellow. And we know that if we don't want to suffer the eternal punishment to be brought upon our side by our sins, then we must have an attainment. Some men must explain for us, someone must satisfy the punishment in our place that we chose by some men if we don't let us stop this And price the others. You got a penny. A clean action, nothing really bad. Now to And you know we can't really ask for an animal to stand inside in our place to take the punishment which we deserve for animals. But an animal could stand in your place now. Because we see all of these atoms, in particular the same atoms, coming directly to the attempt of the Lord Jesus Christ. How do you know? How do you know that the Jesus is the end conference? How do you know that Mr. Peter's accident? And this is back to Isaiah 42, we see that this man beheld my children, whom I upheard my poison and whom my children. The only way for the father to be wife is with Jesus inside he was with our things. It is true. And his glory with the wicked and with the wicked man has death are those who have done no violence and there is no deceit in his mouth, Isaiah 53 Well I said He made him to be sin who knew no sin such a sin to him. So he did not have a high truth. He was unable to sympathize without The influence is that one being every respect and contemptuous real yet without sin. There was a good fit and that we should have such a highly holy, innocent, unstone, separately confused, and rightly about the heavens to be sexually. So with the perfect blood of five. That was that at alone desired. You can all have no things until it succeeds from take three. The Logical Catechism is that both can be just perversely just read Christ, the Son of God, become man by person to the He has a loop in the face. the name of his chat piece what you guys do. He makes a difference and make this one a deal to the law. Don't make it To be the only hip blanket. To the only thing unbled Yes, they look at the birds, wide maybe. Wild the blood, and yet they're simply not too Because we have been given a precious famous substance. We find a green complete. That's what it means for him to be conduct. And please. Like he is and way. And I will read these things like you. You design. It's clear project and God will And you can clear them within that. Are difficult to dance when you can The requirement is the only day that you and me that speak it to me. and pain the emblem of the pain to all things to confront things as closely in will Thank you, Jesus records here. It must be recorded with words. Will you not prophesy in your name and prophesy demons in your own and be many modern works in your own? We'll do that away and stand And please promote as confront this thing. I believe it can be Load down his life, but the owner take it and bring it at any goodness and down the cloud If we think it's not in this way, to give us this dance, for no point, that takes it And then we as we believe the condition of forgiveness. Fancy and crazy success. Recognize my Lord for email power abbey of this land. I think it's folded. We asked us to lose me.