Get your Bibles and let's go to the book of Ephesians. Chapter 6, verses 13 to 18. You can find that in page 1163 of the book the church bipolar. Ephesians six. Let's start with verse thirteen. Therefore take up the whole armor of God. that you may be able to withstand in the in the evil day. And having done all, to stand firm. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, and having put on the breastplate of righteousness and as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. And take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the sword of God, which is the word of God. Praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication to meet Supplication. To that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. Amen. That is the word of God. How I see, please. Tonight, brothers and sisters, we're gonna engage on something that was always a a fashion fascinating topic for my for me. And I've been preparing and reading and and doing things To that end, so the Lord has decided, well Alex, since you like it so much, talk about it. Well I will The name of the message today would be The Christian's Instruments for War. Yes. You are hearing correct. War. Throughout history, three things have characterized the great armies of the ages First has been leadership, that it is creative in strategy and inspiring in battle An illustration would be the man who struck fear and terror into the hearts of the Romans. I'm speaking about Hannibal the Carthaginian. Hannibal was one of the most creative military geniuses of all time. In one occasion he crossed the Pyrenees and the Alps with elephants that totally caught the Roman armies unaware and surprise. Nobody else has ever done that. Rome came prepared to do battle in a conventional way. They thought they began to hear thunder. But as the thunder got closer, they soon realized they were against something they had not expected. Elephants coming with embattlements on top. That put the Roman army to flight. They the Romans were very surprised On another occasion Rome had Hannibal outnumbered and things looked pretty bad for him But he arranged his army in an arc and allowed the Romans to follow His decoy into the center. And even though badly outnumbered They close ranks and kill fifty thousand soldiers, Roman soldiers. Hannibal's army armies were disciplined, well trained and well equipped. Well so were the Romans True. The Roman legions were unmatched in these areas, winning war after war, because they were scientifically equipped scientifically meaning at that time. Well trained and drilled to fight as one man. So they refused to break drunk. And even though things did not look good on many occasions, Because they were so well trained and would not break rank, they held their ground and were ultimately victorious. The men were courageous in battle and were prepared to fight to death. Now, the components for success in an spiritual warfare are exactly the same. However, with this qualification, the Apostle Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 10 that the weapons of our warfare are not carnal. but spiritual in nature. We do things in an entirely different way than the armies of the world do. It is important to consider that everything has been provided for victory. Remember that. We have the most brilliant tactician. in the history of the universe, King Jesus. He is an irresistible battle champion. He is both all-knowing and all-powerful. An unbearable combination. His viral plans are given in the scripture, and they are invincible. Furthermore, we have been given a perfect comeback uniform. And when properly employed, our battle gear is impenetrable. Victory has already been guaranteed. The Apostle John wrote, the Son of Man, and Jesus was manifested to destroy the works of the devil. Brothers and sisters, the ultimate outcome is not in question Christ is already victorious. Satan is a defeated foe. Hebrews 2 declares that through his death at Calvary and resurrection Christ destroyed the devil and the power of dead that he had. However, there's always a however. All Satan is still temporary on the loose. God has permitted him that While our sovereign God completes his purposes for the ages. But the wicked one knows that his time is short. Soon Christ will return, and Satan's reign of terror will end forever. Yet, in the meanwhile, Satan is fanatically attempting to spread his lies. uh to spread his lying deception in two ways. The first, he is visibly trying to convince the unregenerate that either he doesn't exist or that he's actually the one with the greater power and will at the end be victorious over God And and and you're gonna be able to see that when you're talking when you're talking to to to a non-believer. It's exactly what it comes to to us. Brothers and sisters, you must never forget that Satan is a liar and can always be trusted only to lie. He will take the truth and twist it to convince anyone of his evil ways. Second, he's just as active and this is the most important one, he's just as active in the church He is very faithful in attendance, even more than any believer, because he never misses, and Satan will use brethren in the church. He will use them. Those people caused the Apostle Paul so much grief, and he had to deal with them again and again. And Paul As an apostle, a greater insight than what we have. So if it was difficult for him, just imagine how difficult it is for us. But that's not an excuse Satan will use this false doctrine, will use false doctrine, and will use carnality amongst God's people as well. to create opposition and discord in the church. So brothers and sisters, we have a battle on our hands And I am compelled to re to remind you of this fact this evening There is a further ingredient that is necessary in battle. Not just a brilliant general. we we talk about it. Not just the proper equipment and training that we talk about that, but the army itself, meaning us. The third ingredient, the army itself. Men who are incorrageous in battle, who are willing to fight to the dead. Remember that. So I ask you this evening, is dialurity? Does God's glory mean everything to you? Is honoring God your primary motivation in life? Is the expansion of Christ's kingdom a dominating force in your life? Those are rather interesting questions that perhaps you will be able to think about You may say to me, I am not a minister. So what? That doesn't mean a thing. It is not just ministers, elders, deacons and bible study teachers who must be concerned with these matters. Brother James talked to us about that this morning. Remember, brothers, the chief end of men is to know God and to enjoy him forever. Do you know God? Are you planning to enjoy him forever Then, brothers and sisters, you better begin to share his burden and think his thoughts and get involved in his work. We must quit acting. Like we are gods and He is our personal servant to make us happy and cause us to feel good Let us do what we must do as professionals. Let us heal people, bodies. people's bodies, educate their minds, build their homes and provide services to meet their needs and protect them But let us never forget that these are not the most important things in life. They are only means to an end So let's not concentrate on that and then forget the rest. The rest is more important. God's glory and Christ's work are everything. Without them nothing has meaning. You can have everything else. But unless you are controlled by the motivating force of God's glory, nothing else will taste sweet in your mouth. Brothers, God is building his church in this world of darkness. Are you just sitting on the sidelines as part of the problem and not as part of the solution? When Christ and the extension of his kingdom is everything, then everything else has meaning and purpose and a sweet new mouth. Jesus said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. You can find out on Matthew chapter 7, verse 21. Do you have a heart for the things of God? Brothers and sisters, unless we learn to think God's thoughts and speak God's word and do God's will. and put on God's armor, Satan is going to pulverize us Because in our own strength, in our own carnality, we are not a march for him After this very detailed introduction of the topic at hand, let us now go into our own text. and begin to examine the armor of God. I did this because I wanted to show you what it is that a Christian goes through in a battle. Today we will we will just take the first piece of the armor of God. If we go to Verse six, I mean chapter six, verse fourteen of Ephesians. We read the standard for having your loans girth. about with truth. That's the way the King James reads. The ESB reads, standard for having fasting on the belt of truth. The picture before us is that of a of a soldier in full battle array. The question arises from where is the illustration taken? I believe the sources the source is twofold. First, note that much of the language here is quoted directly from the Old Testament But with some variation coming from Isaiah chapter eleven, fifty-two and fifty-nine. Upon careful examination, it is significant to discover that these passages refer to the Messiah. Isaiah is now writing about a person here. That is a human being. He's writing about God incarnate. The God-men. Not just the men, but the God-men. The amazing thing is that the Apostle Paul in the New Testament is now Is now guided by the Holy Spirit to apply these passages to the Christians. In the Old Testament they were about the Messiah. They talk about how King Messiah would have all of these various pieces of armor. In the New Testament, the Apostle Paul says, do you know what Messiah was described wearing in the Old Testament? That is what we ought to wear in the New Testament, in the New Spiritual Battle. There are three principal principles that surface here. First, the fact that armor is mentioned shows that it's going to be a war. The second principle, the fact that the Messiah had to do battle. Assures us that we too must fight. The third principle tells us that if you have no bottles then maybe you are still being held captive. For all who for all who live godly In Christ Jesus will suffer persecution persecution. I mean all. A L L. All The word all here in the Greek means exactly that. All means all in the Hebrew, in English, in Spanish, means all in any language. There is no variations here because sometimes we go to the Greek and they give us different things. Here is only one thing. All means all. But there is a second source, and it is more obvious especially to Gentile believers. It is believed by scholars that the Apostle Paul dictated Ephesians while he was chained to a Roman god. Look at verse 20, for which I am an ambassador and ambassador in bonds. In bonds, he is bound. The Roman inf infantrymen was the epitome of preparedness for battle in the world. His armor was six Four to which God adds a seven in verse seventeen. His armor consisted first of all of the belt then his breastplate, then his boots, his shield, helmet and sword. And to that God adds the seventh element, prayer. The apostle's intention was to place visual aids before our eyes to show us how to do battle with the arch enemy of God. It's not just the devil, it's not just Satan, it's the arch enemy of God. The initial plate, the initial piece of armor that we must put on is the belt. The belt of the Roman soldier held everything together He held his short fighting tunic together, he held his sword, and he also helped hold in place the breastplate. to cover the front and went around to the back. The belt was thick enough and wide enough to give protection and support to very vulnerable parts. of the body. A strike through the loins was a fatal blow As a consequence, the girl or the belt gave a sense of confidence and freedom in movement, both of which are essential and combat. And the Roman soldier had that with the kind of belt that he wore Now the Apostle Paul says in spiritual matters the belt corresponds with truth Having your loins girded about with truth. The question that we have to ask ourselves is what exactly does the Apostle Paul mean by the truth. Some well-meaning interpreters suggest that because of six of because of the sixth piece of armor is the source of the spirit, which is the word of God. Therefore, truth here must be something more subjective. The thought put forward is that every believer is to girl himself with the spirit of sincerity. In mind and heart. Therefore, we are encouraged to rid ourselves of all hypocrisy and be pure in the inward parts. Some commentators suggest this particular view. I will concur that we must be affront and serious in our daily conduct. But I cannot accept the notion that the functional piece of the armor is our own sincerity and earnestness. It is not We won't present any resistance as our personal integrity and sincerity are nothing to him Instead, I think that the truth here is the scriptures themselves I believe the Apostle Paul is using the term truth here to refer to a proper understanding of the written word as it is lived out. Some would say it it is the written word. No. I don't think it's just the written word. It is a proper understanding of the written word. Lead out in your life So apply to your life. So what kind of armor is that? It isn't it isn't unless it is used. This is about you having to put on. Know the scriptures and put it on. Use it. That is the emphasis here. Not just sincerity, but it's good. It isn't even just the truth. It is sincerity in the use of the truth Brothers and sisters, this is the greatest need of our day. Doctrine translated into action. I'll repeat again, doctrine translated into action. And Satan knows that So he fights doctrinal preaching and teaching in every turn And he has people in every congregation who are saying, don't teach me doctrine, just teach me the Bible. It is God's sacred word alone that must give meaning and purpose to life. It is the Bible alone that provides the proper orientation to every area of our lives. It is the framework or the skeleton upon which everything else is added. So that all the knowledge that you have must be rooted and grounded on God's revelation in His Word. When anything when anything that you know contradicts the scriptures, it is wrong. The scripture is always right. You may even say, but this is an established scientific fact. Oh, I love that. I used to hear that a lot. If it is not in concurrence with the Bible, it will ultimately be disproven. We so easily forget that we are so naive, Satan is a liar. He will tell you something is a fact when he really isn't. Don't be taken in by him. You know how? Know the word. Live the word. Apply the word. The word of the Lord. If it doesn't square with the scripture, it's wrong. And I don't care who says it. The emphasis here is not just simply the accumulation of Bible facts to be used on Sundays to impress your brothers and sisters in the faith Or perhaps to win a Bible trivia game. No, that's not what we're talking about. The Apostle Paul says knowledge props us up. Biblical knowledge can prop us up unless You have allowed the knowledge to transform your life. So knowledge is not enough. Brothers and sisters, knowledge of the Bible is an awesome responsibility because all truth you know about what you practice is sin. You know God's truth in revelation to the family. What a husband should do, what a wife should do, how parents are to conduct themselves. All that truth that you know about, what you practice on a daily basis, becomes sin. You know God's truth in the area of stewardship. You know it up here. But has never been translated into your life. Is that because you don't think that you can afford to be a good steward? If that is the case, that is seen You know God's truth with regards to the way you are to conduct your affairs in the war as a workman. Do you do it? If not, you're walking in disobedience. Paul's emphasis here is on the comprehension of biblical doctrine. and the proven of the doctrine in the great issues of life. The war is as ignorant of the knowledge of God today as it has ever been. But in the church We have more people today than that know Bible facts, more Bible facts than at any point in the history of the church the Church of Jesus Christ. We have Bibles in our own languages, we have multiple versions. You can get the new Schofield, the Old Schofield, you can get any number of translations. The English Standard Version, the ESV, the American Standard, the New American Standard, the Revised Standard, the NIV, the Living Bible, etc. etc. etc. We have access to all of them. We have two thousand years of commentaries available to us We have radio and television programs. You can listen to somebody preaching, teaching the Word of God almost every hour of the day, if you want to. and have the time. We have seminars, we have seminaries, Bible institutes and Bible colleges, more than we ever had in the history of the world. And yet, I believe that the church is weak today than in any time in the history of the world And I ask myself, is the truth effective? No, God forbid. There is nothing wrong with the truth. It's eternal. It will work in any society, in any generation, any country Then I there is another question. Is it the teaching? Perhaps. If the goal has simply been to impart facts then the teaching has been wrong. Because the ultimate goal of true teaching is not just the communication of facts. But it is the transformation of people's lives as a result of the truth. Think of a lawyer. I normally don't like to do that, but um think of a lawyer who has all the facts in his mind. has been a straight A student, but decides he's going to work for the syndicate. And is going to get criminals off even though he knows that they are guilty. Time and time again. He's brilliant. He knows all the facts He has been educated in the facts. But what he needs is the transformation of his spirit. He has no ethics. Or a doctor who has been trained in all the facts of medical science. He knows when life begins He knows, and yet because of personal preference or popular pressure, he will come out in favor of abortion on the mind And will try to manipulate the facts to try to support his position. But he knows when life begins. That is not really the question anymore. He was training all the facts, but the facts did not transform his life. If we are teaching just facts, we are doing people a great disservice. Because they are beginning to infiltrate our churches. And they have a lot of Bible knowledge. But they are still under the domination. of sin and their lives. Not necessarily the open flagrant sins of immorality, but bitterness and anger and selfishness. One into their own way. They have never come to grips with any of those things. And so they just brought it over into the Christian life. And the war has not had the intended impact in their lives as it should have had. Many places you can hear people complaining about the preaching, saying it is not relevant. Brothers and sisters This book is relevant. His book is always relevant. You argue with God when you say it's not relevant. People talk about feeling like they have not been fed. No. No. The word has been taught across our country from pulpit to pulpit. There is an awesome responsibility for you to hear and do what God says through his word, regardless of who is delivering the word of God. It is a great understanding, undertaking for a man to proclaim the truth of Scripture. I know what uh James 3 says. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers, for you know that we who teach will be judged with greater strictness. That concerns me every time I speak. Because whatever the message the person behind the podium, the pulpit gives, he will be held accountable. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 13, Paul praises the Thessalonian believers because they received the scripture preached to them for what it was. The word of God, not the word of men. And they took the word and proceeded to leave it out, leave it out And that is what made the Thessalonian church a great church. They apply the word of God to their personalized. Brothers and sisters in the faith May you not be guilty of having a wicked heart of unbelief. For ears that are dull of hearing. But instead, may the message as it goes forth be received by you as the word of God, not the word of men. Let's open our Bibles to the book of James Chapter one, verse nineteen to twenty-one. That would be page eleven ninety-nine. James was a half brother of our Lord Jesus Christ. After James was saved, following the resurrection The whole life of ministry of his brother Jesus came back to him again and again. Let's start with verse 19. Know this, my beloved brothers, let every person be quick to hear, slow to speak, and slow to anger. For the anger of men does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore put away all filthiness. And rampant wickedness, and receive with meekness the implanted war which is able to save your souls He tells us to receive it and let it be engrafted or implanted in ourselves right into our life To be a part of us. Be doers of the war, not hearers only. Because otherwise we are deceiving ourselves Brothers and sisters in the faith, the first piece of the armor that we need to put on is the girl of truth. that we would use every day of our lives standing against the tree of the devil. Amen.