What I'm going to win tonight is from the video. We're going to take eight of subject six and then all the way through the end of chapter seven. This is a long reading. We find it on page one hundred of your two Bible. And please do not hesitate The big setup here is very good. The Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Command Aaron and his son, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering. The burnt offering shall be on the house and the altar of the All night until the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be kept burning on it. And the priest shall put on his linen garments, and put his linen undergarment on his body, and he shall put Take up the ashes with the fire as we do to put axle in the air and put them beside the air case. Then he shall take out his diamonds and put on other diamonds and take The arch is outside the tent will turn place. The fire on the altar shall be kept burn and it shall not alive. The priest shall bring wood and it every morning, and he shall arrange the big offering and shall burn on it the father the peace offering. However he shall bring on the orchestra continually the channel the light. And isn't the law of the great The sons of Anne shall set it before the Lord in front of the altar, and one shall take from it a handful of the fine flour, the grain offering, and its oil, and all the But if I'm again after him bearing this as its memorial person and as the appeasing awareness to the Lord. And the rest of it only shall eat It shall be eaten and leavened in a holy place, and the toilet tent of meeting, they shall eat it. It shall not be joked with leaven. I have given it as a portion of my food's offering It is a thing most holy, like the sin of them and a joke action. Having male and an external owner in each other is like the same forever the idea generations and the Lord do that ones, whatever touches them shall become holy. The Lord's work to Moses, then this isn't the offering in a sense that often to the Lord and the day when he is invented, a tenth of an eat up a pine flour is a regular gun icon, half of it in the morning and half of it in the evening. It could be made with oil I get it. You shall bring it ram it in baked pieces like a bring often and ask it for a pleasing aroma to the Lord, the priest from among Anne's sons, who is a nice to succeed him so offered to the law as the creed for it. The forehead shall be burned. A begin offering of a peace that he burned for the name. Because And the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the Lord It is not age. The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it. In the Holy Place it shall be eaten. In the quarter of the tent of Eden. Whatever touch is expressed, it shall be pressed And when any of it could be able to twice on a gun, if you say it, and which it was twelve and a high place. And easy better, in which it was boiled be broken, but if it is bore than a brown vessel, that shall be scoured and rinse and water, every more among the priests than eat of it. It is most holy. But not No sin offering shall be eaten from which only blood is brought into the temple meeting to make atonement in the Holy Place. It shall be burned up to fire. This is the law of the girls election. There is no case. And the place where they killed against alpin, they shall kill the gift alpin, and its blood shall be thrown against the sides of the alpha, and all its fat shall be active. The fat tail and the fat it should be And two kidneys, with a fat that is on them like a lungs and a long lobe of the liver that he shall enable the kidney. The priest shall burn them on the altar as a food offering to the Lord. It is a joke offering. Every moral among a priest may be. It's that he's eaten in a holy place. It is most holy. The joke offering is just like the thing There is no law for them. The priest who makes atonement with it shall have it. And the priest who offered any man's both of them shall have for himself if he never didn't approve and he has offered And every grain offering baked in the oven, and all that is prepared on a penal griddle shall be long to a priest who offered it. And every grain offering mixed with oil or a dry shall be straight easily among all the sons of Aaron. And this is the law of the peace offerings that women offer to the Lord. If he offers it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer it with a thanksgiving sacrifice Unleaven loaves mixed with air, unleavened water steal with air, and loaves of fine flour well mixed with air. With the sacrifice of a tea soffering for fine stealing his subman saferen With a loaves of leavened bread, and from it he shall offer one loaf from each offer as a gift to the Lord, which shall belong to the priest, who slows the blood of the peace offering. And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings to Thanksgiving shall be eaten on the day of his offering. He shall not leave any of it until morning. But The sacrifice of his offering is a bio offering or a free offering, it's probably eaten and the day to the offer to sacrifice. And then the next day what remains of it shadow eaten. But what is According to the flesh of the sacrifice, if the peak offering is eaten on the third day, easy offers it shall not be accepted Neither shall it be spread and with treatment. It is temporary, and he who eats of it shall bear his iniquity. Lest the touches any unclean thing shall not be eaten. It shall be bound up with All who are clean may eat flesh. But the person who eats of the flesh of the sacrifice of the Lord peace after, while an uncleanness is on him, that person shall be cut off and keep it And if anyone touches an uncommon thing, or a human uncleanness, or an uncommon beast, or any uncommon detestable peacefully, and then eat from flesh in the sacrifice of the Lord's peace offerings, that person shall be cut off from the people. Lord spoke to Moses saying, speak to the people of Israel, saying, You shall eat no fat as ox or people. The fat of an animal that dies of itself and the fat of one that is turned by these three puts to any other use, but on no account shall you eat it. Every person eats the fat of an animal of which a feed offering may be made to the Lord to be cut off from his people. Moreover you shall eat my blood, whatever, whether a fowl or of animal. And then Whether eat any blood, that person said he cut off on his people. The Lord said to Moses and speak to the people of Israel and whether after the sacrifice of his teach off and His own hand shall bring the Lord's fruit offering, he shall bring the fat with the breast, that the breast may be weighed with a wave offering before the Lord, the priest shall burn the fat on the altar, but the breath shall be for any many sins. And the right value shall give to the priest as a contribution from the sacrament Whoever among the sons of Aaron offers the blood of the peace offerings in the facts shall have a right thigh for a peace, for the breath that is weighed in the h in the thigh that is Contributed, I have taken from the people of Africa out of the sacrifices of their peace backgrounds and have given them to all the priests and to his sons as a protector dude from the people of Atreus This is the portion of England of his son from the Lord's feet often. From the day that they were presented before the priests civilians, the Lord commanded it to be given them by the people of his from the day that he has anointed them, it is a potential beef without a generation. This is the law of the burnt offering, of the grain offering, of the sin offering of the joke action, of the ordination action, and of the peace action, which the Lord commanded Moses on Mount Samuel and the day that he commanded the people of Israel to bring their action to the Lord and the wilderness of Solomon. The Solomon reading God's word. And then peace of eating. And for them as we come back to ability, we will many regulators, many reads, many instructions. In fact, these are clear and clear. And what we ask them that we would make them clear. and new. But as we go through this passage, Father, that you help us with teach. B I R and L that is the season thing. What the exact B Yeah, I think we can do that. If we've been watching the news lately, it would be hard to turn on I'm not seeing some stories about another failure in the air space industry Things seem to be falling apart. Doors falling out mid-air fires dropping from the Bad things are happening. And as the reporters investigate, they ultimately go into the factories and finding out what's not happening during the sassy it could be. It would appear that some instructions have not been fired. And so as the planes are maintained, as we are put together, there are pages and pages of documents and section as to how you're gonna assemble an earth there. So you're so from the oil On one end where it is evaluated. No, it's something similar from the very We've seen as we've been studying this book that the Lord has been providing an instruction booklet to the Israelites. And to how he may be a place. No, but at the end of Exodus we find that the tabernacle had been created Erected and then set up just the way God had told Moses and yet, as it was completed and now consecrated, the Lord filled the tabernacle for So much still that Moses could not enter moon. And so there was no needed. And so the people, the Israelite, could actually equate God and worship him and that is where Leviticus comes in. A book of instructions of how the Israel could approach Italian God in worship. We looked at all of these various offerings that God described And gives to the Israelites in order for the land to worship him. Now it seems as though we're going back over that which we've already learned about the bent offering, about the drain offering, the peace offering, a thin offering, and a great axling. But if we read through this, we must see that God is a purpose for us in providing not only a view, but any set of instructions for the Israelites and effectively there. Tonight I want us to see that the Lord Jesus Christ provides for all of the pure things of the government dead. The Lord Jesus Christ provides for all of the clear things of this person is dead. If you go in Peace once tonight, person need for details, secondly the need for completeness and finally the need for regulation. details. You can ask our question why are these verses here? We have just gone through the first five chapters of Leviticus and we've seen many details. We've read about all of the different offerings, the burn, for join, the tree, the same, the guilt offerings, the thoughts that we had a Down. When I dad to God's marriage, here's the why are these verses here and call it seems to be repetitive. One commentator makes the chapters one through by provide an overview, describing what you offer Now, in chapter six and seven, he recounts that there is a significant details within these two chapters of what that thing like to do once he is seen lesson. Now that is two So we see some of the priests, duties caught up in chapters one through five. And we see in chapters sixty-seven that there are other instructions, not just for the peace. So once again we see in Leviticus we can't necessarily uh exclusively say these chapters are about But it isn't so as the music and clearly in chapter 67. The pin what they're dependent to do They had received a sacrificial anime or the sacrificial dream. Because we began reading tonight, the Lord's call tomorrow says command Aaron and his sons saying this is the law of the burnt offering. As we continue to the grain of him, this is the law of the great offering the sons of own fell weeks before the live. Now we need a depressed offering. This is not declared for us in the first five The Lord spoke to Moses says this is the offering that An and the Son shall offer to the Lord on the day when he, when the priest, is anointed. And then the three markings. Lord spoke to Moses and keep the own in the sun, so this is the law of the three motions. It appears that most It was not teaching the priests exactly what their obligations were for these different offerings. The joke offering the priests while burning them on the altars of feed offering to the world it's a break offering of a more in the case than each other. Not only did they learn, but their deeds and aberrations were once the sacrifice It will become extremely significant as we get to the latest point. You see no doubt in a body put inspiring a sensory and asking something that was unas their eyes before the word. They they neglected the words that were given to them by the man. They brought that with was not carried for by God. They were easy to do that which wasn't destroyed by God a way in which He had not commanded them, a way that He did not desire them to come before him. Very something. Because once you know there's a very particular way in which the law of God wants He's a god of order and Could you see it in these voices? As God step by step set forth the detailed inspector This is mine. The God of Over. And essentially a community. Each person wide a way to play in allowing the entire community now to approach God. When he's seen uh return it to being this kind of asking, the priest had this I believe in his beauty to do this with that offering and then there are regulations and requirements concerning fat and blood. is just telling the test that God made me worship rightly. Have you ever done that? Everyone That's not what we do. This isn't just a review. If God offenders the people Together in worship. Each of us have a lawyer to pray. This is an actual way for each of us can participating with arms and legs and noises and is an eyes of the assembly of the body of space. Let me see that. I make it in label Now it's a move to go for it. I think it's our second point. The move for completeness There's a sense in which these chapters, chapters six and seven, are uh in a sense a a summary. Yes, there are additional details provided, but six and seven just bring together all of the sacrificial athletes, the perfect light in one place. We can see them and take them together and see the comp of them. These are the things which you must do in order to worship God rightly. Here is together. coming distinct from one another and yet as they're given to us in full order in a sense that they do Together. We can't be a pulling of one out. We must be all together and that's how they're presented to us The temperature. The one who adopted all of our needs. You see, he went through these offerings as we saw their different purposes as as far as we should determine them. Because it can use each one of them. It will address a different aspects of our post to God, of our worship of God. And we see that I this is explained to us we are seeing the fact that Jesus addresses all of our name One man, the God man. We're seeing the completeness of Jesus. We're seeing that Jesus is indeed I and I be what is In Ephesians chapter one. He put all things under the sea and gave him as head over all things to the church. Just think about that for a moment But Jesus is the head of the church. The entire church is unbelievable Jesus Christ because these are all in us. We are his bodies. For this one, who feels all in air. As Paul pictured in his letter to the Calacan, there's a collapse. Circumcised the barium sickening slave feed, but twice is an in us. It seems to be the theme for us community in New Chapter 6 and 7. But Jesus addresses every aspect of warning tonight to commune and fellowship with your nature I actually think just for a moment, what is it what is it we mean to me? What is it learning to? What are you looking at? I've worked on. I don't think we can leave it in the comment. That's it. Take a moment and think through these offerings and concrete place again. But those offerings is to be completely consumed in the face Indeed, as he read tonight, the fire was never to go out. The taste was to kind of every name. Make often name unusion. And easy, always completely continued. The case taken at once his act from the offering that had been reduced consuming the aim from the left as it taking it outside the tent. Come on up the tent. That often which was in a west Lost enough to database as a season a Yamaha. That can feel the Christ is completely used. He's given to you completely if we can It has empired you. interested in consumed with zeal for his body's heart, which gives us a picture of his complete devotion to chosen need. It's present again. The place is a group, yes, the place it's we individually as well. It will united the place He's completely real. Having given himself to be consumed and will be heavy. Jesus which you cannot claim as having been given to you. Think for a moment of a a good thing that we have in fear. People can be very devoted to their students. Many people give much of themselves in the path and so that their students will glow more knowledge and understanding of the traffic coming part in their collections. But when the bell wins, that people are not speaking about hemisphere speakers. But that people Whether it be another class or other trees, or just going home for the day, they're done. You can't claim that part of the teacher. That part of the teacher's left Okay, it's quite the people that them to give me to the But it's done. As we take the trust, we pray from Jesus Christ Jesus Christ. No private question. No none of his activity because he cannot tell him as really and you can see this because he went to the classroom. Why are you present, it's a new individual. The one is written in the book of life. And so as who went to the class, who went to the class and is clear Okay What about the granular feedback? Generally company that just for moments. The grain often is to be used as a memorial portion to the Lord, and then the creed is to be nourished by another portion of it, the portion unto God for his feet offering, the portion unto the tree Because it tries to try to think about you. He is the one to know it is you to change. energy. He calls you to to feed upon his body and his blood. And as we walk in a world filled with sin and sinners, and in the only thing, Jesus Christ is the one who gives us consults me such as you can see the time and maybe more from your query. There's nothing that bisections extend from your query Every thing is we have themselves and treatment spiritually and more things. We lose this power in our thoughts and in our screens in our screenless and our Not only collect, but we are weak in the flesh. And Jesus knows this and and tells you to come and feed upon him and be deep upon him We do this through the world, we do this through worship, we do this externally on the cycle. Between the time thing. What about the common thing? God told Adam the garden of babies to eat me. that yourself feeling bad. Poor into the church at Lama erased the sin to death. Every time we sin and learn one penalty. The ultimate penalty. It's kind of like that, the kind of separation from that. And the same often as we read of it over in Leviticus is established by God to be that which moves his people to confess their sins and witness witness the penalty of death before their real life He was as soon as he would be sacrificed to the animal and lay upon Sarah and closed he would witness death, death of the animal in his place You can imagine that there is a very real sense of satisfying the eternal wrath of God as one would watch the sacrificial enemy bleed and die in Which requires us that there is therefore more and more tandem. The very clear and so Jesus. For the law of the field of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. A sin off and thank to God He talks, use his voice. To know that there's no condemnation for those who are in his family. Now as he sits there, it just comes You have no need to bring an animal. You want to certain that Christ is Jesus, the Messiah expressed when the son of David, the son of God, has done it. As we think of Jesus, Jesus being archived and being archived, this act of going to declare of allowing himself to be sacrificed, that attainment, that perfect atonement, the pinnacle of his obedience, this work on your behalf. Are you looking for the least? Are you looking for one to carry the load of the congestion off of the day before Jesus said Come to me, I who labor in a heavy laden, I will give you life. from him the things have been indeed washed away in his blood. There's no longer a drop of God's life that remains for you in the cup because Jesus came. If we look at this big screen. If we feel tomorrow if you're looking at screen if we assume it's a call and clean time out Make this aspect of the action type by the things to wipe away those things and fight out to That is deadness because he can't lie. Go to King. Jesus is the only one who can watch this thing. The Israelites were convicted of their sin once and made an offering to the priest, and the priest knew exactly what to do in order that he could then proclaim atonement Tonight we need no animal, no blood. We just need flood. And as a result of our sins, we know that relationships have been broken as a result of what we do to others in know that we have doubled relationships first with the living God and then we would add as our neighbors. But see, we have everything neutral in time. Because see, we were When we re-establish at first our relationship with the living God, we've been reconciled now to sin so that we can be reconciled to our movement Because there's restoration for the broken relations that two rights are wrong. Yes, restitution is what we Make right which we have broken, which is more than merely bringing a material restitution of interest. It's more than being damaged good and returned. It's more than Making the person's care who's lost the speech because of the negligence. He left the teaching after the justice of the colors The community then. And then as we think of the peace often, you see that communion into being the child as the offering now is able to participate in in eating of the offering. As a portion of the offering is given up to the Lord and now he offered the animal is now able to bring in communion is represented and destroyed and and participated again. To me he's re-established as the mercy of God to be sacrificed and across a cow when Jesus has paved the way for that we saved and perfect You see that in Christ the war with God has not only been deposited A ceased fire. That now a perfect union fellowship has been is to a game like this. As he opens up his perfect He writes about Jesus Christ, the one whose life is manifested, the one who's seen and testified and proclaimed to you, the eternal life. He's been in heaven and proclaimed to you I thought that so you may have character. And in good results, I thought that it was the character. the sun, who is the sun. Who things revise it that I draw you. Not only is our joy complete, but it's complete because of our fire ships. I was joy communion, both with God the Father and then with our brothers and sisters in Christ and for the index is the pen to the table. Audio functions and the two birds are now coming down at the king's table with the king and with better than We've put sons and daughters together, being welcomed into the family, being adopted as with friends and daughters. You see the complete interface? This is such a time of theme. And that's why he said in the sermon on the mind, do not use them. Wear any use, wear any drink, where in all, according. In the anticipation of a battle with a sovereign. A sovereign rule. A battle which cannot end but in utter defeat and destruction, but in front Air the weapons of real, with God, are put away forever. Until we have air. He is air. Uh and how does it come to time that this pair points the place the player type of name, the word It's quite bad as demand. Become close with everything. Because there's nothing like that is That is difficult. That's the idea. That's the three pick for coming out to be clear. for the free things. The need for regulation. That's the picture the hard model is putting here point of the price is changed for complete and comprise for the one more thing that appointed to here and that is that you and I are made to worship. Indeed you could just say these first seven verses are of seven chapters They're all about worship. They're all about providing a way to use the way to time and and worship the value and God, aren't they? How God made it. Indeed, it's the way he actually began. As Moses and Lombs failed for the first time, they say, Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, let my people That's what they want to think. That's why they needed to lose I can't watch it if you don't. Amen. I'm in my wake up. And I could watch them in my thing from it. worship things that are not them. But it's clear here in even in this portion of Euridicus that you were made to worship the true God and He has indeed provided away. has a plan for us. He has a a particular way. That's particular clear in these verses. But God has a particular way, a perfect way But he desires no one to worship him. Remember the problem after you all the answer. Remember all the detail. And how the tabernacle was to be constructed, how the people were to gather particular kinds of materials, how the tabernacle was was to be able to certain five the length of these certain twenty-eight cubic not twenty-nine not twenty-seven twenty-eight and then you can size. Life is to be constructed of a particular kind of wood, a particular size, two, and a match to the long one and exodus right. That is very specific. There are seven chapters in Exodus describing the tabernacle and the P and the fabric. How it was to be put together. And another five described indeed how it was put together. There are only forty copies in Twelve or more than a quarter were devoted to describing the problem after the meeting place for your expensive God is telling people to work with in a certain way. We don't answer the confessional tabernacle. The card covered the confession The glory of the Lord fill the terminal, and Moses is not able to enter the temple. Sinful men could not yet approach a holy guy Where to be done. There's a very particular way to God of who you can provide the keeper to claim this world. But tonight, if you want to use the confession of those funeralize, just confirm the way that the value and your thing acceptable there was too bad as into bad and stuff. You see we had all kinds of imaginations and all All kinds of ways we think we could come before the Holy One. The way Worcester and the two that is instituted by himself. Don't you see that tomorrow? On the basis? We see him describing exactly the way he desired to be worth it. What's a clear? You see it in Second Commandment. You shall not make for yourself an idol in the likeness of what is in heaven above or in earth in each or in the water under the earth. You shall not worship them My kids are all the way to God and a gelatin. Why do we want such a case? And that's when we need to go back and and You create a sacrificed race the type of action home. Okay, Death Mr. Confession summarizes a victory, particularly in power and thy children, in the name of Christ. We and peace and healing of the world. We didn't say someone is even able to start the name. You will dispose them, pray them in the name of God, buy them in the name, and we just It's gonna be right. Taving all the people I was saying that 11 coming from death is to real realize and change. It's all over the church at once. Both come through Healing by the word of God. Why don't we take the picture? The reason why you can clear. And see as a vote it being to wait us, but to please the God. And it's to design. Excellent kind of thing. And because in our chaos, we would have no idea that we're taking Do you have a lot of worship to learn? But he did not communicate together. And so you got the one question is I think the right question is is why would the data creation provide a word Mm-hmm. I think that's the question. We have founded the home and cruel that Yahoo would please provide a way for us to come to him. You can get the hook crystal. I only find that thing It's all because of sin. It's all because of the second Adam. It's all because of the godman. It's all because of his things. It's all because of his new early It is patent, it's his righteousness, it is obedience. It's only because of faith. It's a father of the world. Because of you and you These nice people now become only things to give them that way for the fellows who have To the fairness of summer, to the concreteness of the easy. It can be free. And this is why you can awareness. Because it is friends. Because it is take it take away. I thought it helped us Okay. I guess you say everything takes this both and down to the coast that's coming to your side And then it's a burden. Forgiveness Much big as it is to come before me, so don't you bad grace. Because it comes into your presence, giving away a path of a pain He has come because of who he is and what he has done to thank you to my crazy tonight for Christ. I don't agree with thank you. We understand things. And if we cover the goals and message with given us. Completeness of care. Well they'll go help us from medical departments for our system. Tell how to do a research thing. Because you're friends and feel. And all those things in Greece of Hidden.