Read tonight from chapter nine. Give attention to God's word. Now, Saul, still breeding threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest. and asked for letters from him to the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem As he was travelling it happened that he was approaching Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. He fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Stall Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But get up and enter the city, and it will be told to you what you must do. The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he couldn't see nothing, and leading him by the hand, they brought him into Damascus. And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Now there was a disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And the Lord said to him in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. And the Lord said to him, Get up and go to the street called straight. and inquire at the house of Judas for a man from Tarsus named Saul, for he is praying. And he has seen in a vision a man named Ananias come in and lay his hands on him, so that he might regain his sight. But Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard from many about this man how much harm he did to your saints at Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call upon your name. But the Lord said to him, Go For he is a chosen instrument of mine, to bear my name before the Gentiles and Kings and the Sons of Israel. For I will show him how much he must suffer for my name's sake. So Ananias departed and entered the house, and after laying his hands on him, said that, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road by which you were coming is sent to me, so that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit. And immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he regained his sight, and got up and was baptized, and he took food and was strengthened To pray with me. Father and our God, as we Have read your word, now we ask for your blessing upon it, as we have assembled tonight as the body of Christ. To open your word and pray. And now, Father, we ask, by your work of your spirit Illumine our hearts that we might be drawn ever closer to Christ Jesus. We ask these things in the precious name of Christ. Amen. Well, as you know, we uh are studying TULAF or the way of salvation. And sometimes we refer to this as the five points of Calvinism. It's misleading a little bit, but that's okay. And tulip is an acronym for these five different doctrines, all of which apply or are related to how a person Canon is saved. Total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace. and perseverance of the saints. Some argue that these words are not the best. That's okay. This is historical in a sense, and so we're kind of following history here and using these words. We'll try to open them up as we go along and touch upon each one. Last week Last week we looked at total depravity. And we saw that that was defined in the Confession of Faith in chapter 9. As the writers there referred to that fall by Adam into a state of sin, and through that fall, Adam wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good accompanying salvation And that's really what's meant by total depravity. He's depraved, he was depraved throughout, he passed along that depravity to us. So we are totally depraved as well in body and in soul. And so as the confession goes on here, we're altogether averse That good, meaning that spiritual good, accompanying salvation. We're dead in sin. We're not able in our own strength to convert ourselves Or prepare ourselves for conversion. That's total depravity. That's what we studied last week. And that's where we begin. We need to begin with where each of us were before conversion, before regeneration, this is where we were totally depraved. And that begins that study of how one can be saved. We've got to know where we start. And this is that starting point. Along with Adam after the fall, we're all having that sinful nature. In other words, we are totally depraved throughout, not able to do any spiritual good Leading to salvation. We used that passage in Acts To ask that question, how can one be saved? And as Paul and Silas told the Philippian jailer As he asked that question, their response was, believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. Now, as we think about that response and the fact that the jailer was totally depraved, we've got to ask that question: how? How was the jailer to believe if in fact he was totally depraved? How would that be possible? Given his total depravity. How does one move from being totally depraved to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? That's our question for tonight, really. At least we're gonna move another step along the way of understanding how God works Tonight, we want to look at that second point. After total depravity, we want to look at this idea of unconditional election Again, these might not be the best words, but they're historical words. We'll stick with them for tonight. You good? Okay. All right, good Tonight, unconditional election. And this slide was left over from last week. So we won't go over it tonight. Sorry. So how was it that the jailer came to believe upon Christ? When his heart and mind were corrupted by the fall. We know that he did come to believe. We know that Paul and Silas gave him that counsel How or what must I do to be saved? Believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, and he does, in a short period of time, come to believe. So how does that happen? In the jailer's natural or sinful estate, those words that were given to him by Paul and Silas, believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, would have been foolishness. We know that a natural man cannot understand the words of Scripture, and these are words of Scripture. So how was it that he came to believe? And why didn't King Agrippa come to belief to his salvation, at least in the account that we have, as Paul is Almost standing trial. And as King Agrippa comes in because he wants to hear, and Paul explains the way of salvation. And at the end, as Paul addresses King Agrippa, he says, I know that you believe in the prophets. And Agrippa replied to Paul, In a short time, you will persuade me to become a Christian? That was really a question. King Agrippa didn't come to belief, at least at that point in time. Why not? Why was it that the jailer came to belief in a short period of time, and King Agrippa refused to come to belief upon the Lord Jesus Christ? Or how could Paul himself come to know Jesus Christ savingly? When he so hated Jesus with a zealous hatred. We read that passage tonight from Acts chapter 4. Paul was the leader of the band going to persecute the church the way. Those who believed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, even taking letters, going and heading to Damascus, trying to find Christians that he might bring them back to be imprisoned and suffer and be punished. possibly even killed for their belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. He zealously persecuted the church. How was it that Paul came to know Christ? That contrast couldn't be greater. How was it that Nicodemus how could he come to belief As the Lord Jesus Christ tells him, you must be born again, even to see the kingdom of God. How is it possible that this teacher of Israel, who had all the knowledge of Scripture already as they brought with him into that meeting with the Lord Jesus Christ and rebuffed Jesus. How is it possible for one to re-enter the womb of his mother and be born again? Clearly, that night he wasn't believing. Later on in Scripture, we see that likely he did come to a belief in the Lord Jesus Christ. Or how was it that Jacob came to faith in the Lord? And he was such a deceiver and a schemer. Remember, Jacob was the one who stole his brother's birthright. Jacob was the one who deceived his father in order for him to receive his father's blessing. He was a manipulator, he was a schemer, he was a deceiver to get the things that he wanted. How is it that that person then ultimately, as we read in Hebrews chapter 11, comes to faith? Such that he would bless his sons. You see a pattern throughout scripture How is it that these came to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? This is from our book, The Five Points of Calvinism, the doctrine of election, and that's what we're talking about tonight: unconditional election. That doctrine, that scriptural doctrine, declares that God Before the foundation of the world, that means before he created anything, before the stars were set in place, before the Heavens were made before there were mountains and water, before there was a garden He chose certain individuals from among the fallen members of Adam's race, and that includes everybody Except Jesus, to be the objects of his undeserved favor. These and these only he purposed to say that's a fairly good summary of the doctrine of election, God's choice His decision to set his favor on some This is what we read in the Westminster Confession of Faith. Always good to go there as we're thinking of doctrine in chapter 10, which is on this topic. All those whom God hath predestinated unto life, and those only He is pleased in His appointed time effectually to call. You see how they began this chapter on effectual calling? Who's the subject? It's God. Who's doing the acting? It's God God has predestinated. God has chosen. God has elected. And He has effectually called all those that he has chosen, all those that he has elected. What does he do? He gives them a heart of flesh. He renews their wills. He determines them to that which is good. Remember. As Adam fell, what did he lose? The ability to do anything that was spiritually good unto his salvation. Determining to them to that which is good and effectually drawing them to Jesus Christ. Who's the actor in this entire paragraph? It's God. You don't see man did this. You don't see Adam did these things. No. This is God. He's the actor. He's the one electing, predestinating, calling. giving hearts of flesh, enlightening their minds spiritually and savingly, drawing them to Christ. God is doing all of the work It's God who chooses. Where's this in Scripture? It's good to have those uh divines who write the Westminster Confession of Faith, but where do they get it from? We always want to go back Back to the Scripture, even when we're looking at the Westminster Confession to see what it's based on. What's the truth? What does Scripture tell us? Psalm 65, let's start in the Old Testament. How blessed is the one whom you chose and bring near. Excuse me, choose and bring near to you to dwell in your courts. How blessed is the one God chooses. How blessed is the one God brings near! How blessed is the one that He brings to dwell in His courts. What about Jesus Christ? What does he have to say about the doctrine of election In the Gospel of John in chapter 6, we read, No one can come to me. This is Jesus Christ speaking No one can come to Jesus Christ unless the Father who sent me draws him. God the Father must draw a person to Jesus Christ. No one else can come. No one else will believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ unless the Father chooses and draws. Ephesians is always a great place to go to learn about election. Chapter 1 We have a long sentence. I'm not going to read all of it, but blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who's blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world. God. God chooses God elects. God places his favor on particular persons. that he's identified before they're born, before the sun was set in place, before the mountains and the oceans were, before the foundation of the world. What about Peter? He wrote about this as well. And here he gives us That contrast between those who were elected and those who were not elected, those who were chosen and those who were passed over And here he refers to those who were passed over in verse 8, a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense, for they stumble because they are disobedient to the word, and to this doom they were also appointed. God passes over men, women, and children. But You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession, so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Do you see the contrast that Peter is setting up? Those who have been elected, chosen, selected by God? To be priests, to be a holy nation for his possession versus those who were passed over for doom and destruction. I'm hoping we're seeing a theme in Scripture. And it continues to the last book, Revelation. And here we we have that illustration, that picture of that war. These will wage war against the Lamb, and the Lamb will overcome them. These are the enemies of God. because he is Lord of Lords and King of Kings, and those who are with him are the called and chosen and faithful. Those who are with Jesus Christ. Not only called, but chosen. Chosen by God to be with Christ. Well, I'm hoping that that's given us a solid basis as to where we see this doctrine of election Throughout Scripture. But what is this unconditional part? Because there are two words there, unconditional and election. We've been looking at election For God's choosing. Now I just want to briefly consider this idea of it being unconditional. When we think of a condition, We think of something that must happen or must take place or must be in place before the following thing happens. The idea here is that there's nothing that needs to be in place. There's nothing that needs to happen. There's nothing that comes before God's choice other than his most holy and perfect will. God's choosing is not based upon anything in the people that He chooses. Where do we see that? Well in Romans nine we have that concept presented to us by Paul that God has mercy upon whom he chooses to have mercy. And the example is of Jacob and Esau. And God says very clearly, Jacob I loved, and Esau I hated. Well, why was that? Was it because Jacob was such a good man and Esau was such a wicked man? No. Well we have gone over scripture tonight which indicated that Jacob was a schemer and a deceiver and a sinful man. We have the revelation of why Jacob was loved and Esau was hated here. Romans 9, verse 10. And not only this, but there was Rebekah also when she had conceived twins by one man. Twins were Jacob and Esau. Our father Isaac, for though the twins, Jacob and Esau, were not yet born and had not yet done anything good or bad, So that God's purpose, according to his choice, would stand not because of works, but because of him who calls. You have the idea here. Jacob and Esau still in their mother's womb Hadn't done anything yet. God didn't base his choice to love Jacob and hate Esau on what they did. It's only God's purpose. He set his love upon Jacob so that his choice would stand. We're getting the picture. And it's it's just God's will. That's it. We can't say anymore. God's choice is not based upon merit It's not based upon good works. It's not based upon faith God chooses without any of that Our faith is the result of God's electing favor. And therefore, it's the evidence of it It's not the cause for the election. It comes from our book, Five Points of Calvinism. Do you are you understanding this? God doesn't look through a telescope and look upon us and say, oh yes, Chris is going to do some good stuff. I'll choose him. Chris is going to come to faith. I'll choose him. Chris, he's going to deserve salvation, no. Not based on any of that. God's choice is based solely upon his holy will and counsel. Don't we see that in Paul? He called himself the worst of sinners. Called himself a wretched man. He persecuted the church, wanting to kill off all those who believed upon the Lord Jesus Christ, encouraging those who were stoning Stephen by watching over their belongings so they could go out and throw stones and kill him God brought him to Christ. God chose him. God elected Saul, who became Paul. What was the merit in Paul? What was the good work in Paul? What was the faith? It was just God's holy will. And if you're saying, yeah, I can see that in Paul, can you see it in yourself tonight? If you've come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, can you see that there was nothing in you that required God to choose you? Can you see that there's no reason for God to choose you? That's an unconditional part. What have you done to deserve salvation? The answer all of us must have is absolutely nothing. We deserve hell and damnation. Not eternal life with Christ. Well you might say, doesn't the Bible tell us to believe Isn't that what I remember in John three? He who believes in the Son has eternal life, but he who does not obey the Son will not see life. But the wrath of God abides on him. The Bible tells us that we should believe, so shouldn't all people be able to believe? Wouldn't that be fair and right and good? That question just seeks to substitute our reason, our thinking of fairness for God's holy will and perfect counsel. Once Adam fell, God could righteously have condemned every single man, woman, and child to hell and damnation. No one deserved to be saved. But the Lord God, in his eternal mercy, Ordained that he should save some for his glory. This truth of unconditional or unmerited election shines the light upon the grace of our God and his glory. I'm hoping that's where our thoughts are tonight So we conclude this particular portion or study of Tulip or the Way of Salvation or the Five Points of Calvinism. Next week, Lord willing, we'll take up limited atonement. Some refer to this as particular atonement.