Chapter six, verses five to nine Bon servants, obey your earthly masters with fear and trembling, with sincere heart, as you with Christ. Not be not by the way of I service as people pleasers, but as bond servants of Christ. doing the will of God from the heart, rendering service with a good will as to the Lord and not to many. Knowing that whatever God what whatever good anyone does, this he will receive. He will receive back from the Lord. Whatever He is a bond servant or is free. Whatever whether he is a bond servant or free. Masters do the same to them. And stop your threatening, knowing that he who is both their master and yours is in heaven. And that there is no partial with him. This is the word of God. Please have a seat Today we don't we're going to deal with a topic that was very popular. Um strong back in Roman times and that would be slavery. But the title of this message is slave Or free. There were two types of people. And the Bible deals with this. As we read before, we're gonna be using Ephesians chapter six verse five to nine. In Greek, the word dunos means slaves. You can imagine the questions that would have come about As a result of what Jesus said and then what Paul wrote. The apostle is not dealing here with higher servants. who were paid for their services. He is addressing real slaves. And since he is writing to Christians here, that means he is obviously writing to Christian slaves. Slavery was an integral part of the Roman civilization. People had estimated that there were sixty million Roman slaves. Not Roman but uh slaves in the Roman Empire. And that is some In some cities in Asia in Asia Minor, there were more slaves than freemen. So When Paul writes, slaves be obedient to them that are your masters, he was not writing to a small group in the Christian church. He was riding to a very large expansive group, that is Christians who were slaves And who by the by and large were the slaves of pagan masters. See how it how it becomes Interesting. Slavery was considered by the Romans to be the reward for conquest, and they thought it below. And they thought it below the dignity of a Roman citizen to do manual labor. On top of that they were lazy. Or for that matter, any kind of work. So most of the work was done by their slaves. My brothers and sisters, don't think that all of the slaves were just laborers. Building buildings, as they were told. Many of the slaves were doctors, teachers, administrators, and accountants and work in other professional areas but were still slaves. Although some slaves were treated quite humanely And were better off than some freedmen, the vast majority of slaves Live lives characterized by great hardship, hopelessness, and dehumanizing cruelty Slaves were considered property, no better than an animal who can talk. The owner could do with the slaves as he wishes. If he wanted, he can be the slave. And would have no fear of the law. In the home, the father was the absolute ruler of the home. And that extended not only to his children. and his wife, but also to his property property, including slaves The stories of sadistic treatment of slaves in Roman culture are a legend. One slave because he had broken a dish. of the mysteries whom he served was thrown into a pond with fish that could eat him alive. Another slave because he had lost a couple of thousands was crucified If any slave were to flee, the least he could expect was to be branded on the forehead with an F. For the word fugitives, meaning that he was a runaway. And at worst he could have been crucified or killed in some other way When slaves grew old or couldn't no work could not work any longer, it was quite unnecessary and almost frivolous to continue to feed them. The same for slaves who were ill. It is into this context That the Apostle Paul is writing. We sometimes forget what his slavery might have been like So while we have our preconceived ideas, they usually are quite a bit separated from reality until we begin to learn what slavery was really in the Roman Empire. He says as slaves, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh. According to the flesh. This passage would make absolutely no sense at all unless you approach these verses with a biblical mindset. Although that is true with all of Scripture, because spiritual things are spiritually discerned. Are spiritually discerned. I believe that is doubly true here in this passage because it deals with such unusual and controversial matters. To begin with, we must not lose sight of our context. Our context goes all the way back to chapter 5, verse 18. where we start. Unlike the preceding applications of wives and husbands and children and parents Our present subject dealing with the slaves and masters is really the outworking of the principle which Paul laid down in Ephesians five eighteen That reads, and do not get drunk with wine, for that is debauchery. But be filled with the Spirit. He then tells us To take and apply that principle In these great relationships in life, between wives and husbands, children and parents, and servants and masters. Furthermore Don't forget that this epistle was addressed to the church. He didn't give all of these words to the world. These words would mean nothing to the world. The apostle was carefully teaching Christians that authentic Christianity well he was teaching them that authentic Christianity impacts the whole of life. It is not a Sunday only proposition. But it is for every day of the week. And it is to transform all of the great relationships of life, marriage, family, work, church, and so on and so forth. If your marriage, it is not a bit of heaven on earth, then something is wrong. If your family life doesn't bring you an inspicable joy, then you obviously are doing it wrong. Please note the progression. Paul says, Paul lays down, first of all, the doctrine in Ephesians 5. 18. The principle, the application, and then carefully and very painlessly explains how it works in the family. And how it works between husband and wife, and how it will work when you find yourself in a subservient position whether in the family or work or with regards to the government. The apostle, I believe purposely start with the most important of all human relationships, that of husbands and wives. And then in descending order He takes the family at large and then comes to the idea of the marketplace and how saints are to conduct themselves in the marketplace. Meaning every single day. So we come to the text. But before we can really begin to dig into the text, there are three presuppositions of which we must take note. And then as we come to the text, there are going to be about three questions. That are going to have to wrestle with. But first, these presuppositions Presupposition number one. The distinctiveness of the message of the scriptures As we examine these verses, and what the apostle tells us here, in these few verses in Ephesians 6. It should become quite evident to you, to me and to everybody, that there is nothing like this in all of the world. There is no other book like the Bible. Nobody else talks this way except God and His Holy Word. It is a further proof of the inspiration of the Bible because you couldn't find this kind of discussion in the marketplace anywhere. You couldn't find it in a labor manual put out by any labor organization. Nor could you find this kind of discussion in any of the manuals put out by companies themselves. They would each slanted in all in their favor One would be heavy on labor, while the other one would be heavy on management. But you don't have that in the Bible. You have something entirely different. There is simply nothing like it. It is perfect balance, justice, and fairness. Solutions, not just questions. Although in each application Paul starts with this with the one who is To subject himself. See, he doesn't stop there. So he starts with the wife, he starts with the children, and he starts with the slave. But he doesn't stop there. He continues on. And he talks to the husband and he says, This is your responsibility. Talks to the father and he says, here is your duty. And he talks to the master and he says, you are going to be held accountable for these things. It is a perfect balance that you have in the scripture. You will not find it anywhere else There is never any injustice or unfairness. Each person is to be treated With dignity and respect. An Almighty God promises to bless all that obey Him, regardless of their circumstances. You will never find writings like this at any point in history because God has written it in a book. And he only has one book, the Holy Bible. Presupposition number two. He is writing to Christians who have been regenerated Everyone in America practically who is not of some other faith, when asked what is the religion, they will say Christian Paul is writing to people who are regenerated, born again, converted, redeemed individuals. who are the only true Christians according to Scripture. These instructions are given to people who have been profoundly changed, otherwise it wouldn't make any sense to them. These are teachings that have been given to people who have a new nature. a new outlook. It is true of them that all things have passed away and behold all things have become new. Because they are new creations in Christ. We are. We all are new creations in Christ. You have to understand that if you are to understand what Paul is writing here, he is not just writing to the men on the street. He is right into a particular group of people. Regenerated people, redeemed people, Christian people, people who have been transformed and whose primary consideration is no longer themselves, but the will of God. So for those individuals, this will make sense. Presupposition number three. It is assumed that Christians have the knowledge of Christian theology. and also have the capacity to apply it to their lives. I know you didn't come to church work. But God wants you to work, even in church, because He wants you to think, to learn to think as spirit-filled Christians do on all subjects. And there is nowhere in the world you can think as Christians do on all subjects, unless Unless you know what Christian's theol what Christian theology teaches Brothers and sisters in the faith, if you are trusting Jesus Christ alone for salvation, then God expects you to be interested in the study of His Word. And to be diligent in the application of the Holy Word to your individual lives. In fact, such an attitude is scriptural proof that you have been truly converted. Brothers and sisters, here are some things for you to consider. What is your attitude? Towards the teachings and preachings of God's Word? How much do you know about God's Word? Do you have a Christian library? You should have more than one version of the Bible at home. You should also have a Bible dictionary. You should also have a concordance You should also have an atlas. You should have a Bible commentary. Brothers and sisters, you should seek to have these books. And more importantly, read them, study them, and come to the understanding of God's word on the issues you are facing individually. through your study of the word. Obviously, if we don't know the doctrine, then we cannot apply the doctrine. If we do not have an understanding of the teaching, we cannot put it into practice. But you see, there is an implication here That it is a pre supposition. The book is inspired. He is writing it to regenerated people. And they have the capacity and are expected to apply it. Now with these presuppositions in mind, let's turn to our text. Question number one. And it reads, slaves be obedient to them that are your masters. Why doesn't God say something about slavery? We don't we know how wicked that system was. Why doesn't God say something about it? You will notice an interesting thing in God's word, and that is the Bible neither directly condones nor condemns slavery. You can read it from beginning to end, and you cannot get anything direct on the subject. Why is that the case? The puzzles. But there is a reason why he doesn't do that And it is threefold. First of all, I believe that God doesn't mention anything about it because he is more concerned about man's relationship with himself. than he is with men's relationship between fellow men. I know that What I just said it can become a bit controversial, but just wait a little bit until we finish. We are all tied up in earthly things. He understands that if we can get the man rightly related to the sovereign God of the universe, he will be able to better relate to his fellow men. But if we put all the emphasis down here, and we as Christians are guilty and we as Christians are guilty of that. We can waste our lives away trying to work away all of the brush fires down here. Rather, if we can get everybody rightly directed to God in person, These things will eventually find a solution. God is very much concerned about individual people, And he wants those individual people rightly related to him Turn with me to Corinthians, 1 Corinthians chapter 7, verses 20, where you read, each one should remain in the condition in which he was called. That sounds like trouble to me. Verse 21. Where were you a bondservant when called? Do not be concerned about it. But if you can gain your freedom, avail yourself of the opportunity. This is verse 21. In Christ you are free, no matter what the circumstances around you. Your spirit is free. Your soul is free. There is in the New Testament a situation where a servant was slave, yet was entirely free. And a master that was bound to sin. Verse 22. For he who was called in the Lord as a bond servant, is a free man of the Lord. Likewise, he who was free when called is a bond servant of Christ. You were born with a price. Do not become born servants of men. I'll read again, verse 23. You were bought with a price. Do not become born servants of men. So brothers, in whatever condition each was called, dead let him remain with God. God never tells his slaves to rebel, never tells them to seek a movement that will destroy slavery and yet we know of God. that he does not approve slavery. But we must take note of how he deals with the situation. He is much more concerned with the individual and his right relationship with himself That individual who is born again, converted, redeemed, transformed, and is willing to follow the Lord And the Lord's sovereign plan for his life. And it and it doesn't matter to the Lord if he is a slave or free. If he is a slave, he is free in Christ. If he is a free man, he is a servant in Christ. The Bible it is not tied to any particular political view, which means that it is free to work in any society. It doesn't matter. It does society. It's an absolute monarchy, a constitutional monarchy, a dictatorship. of one man or dictatorship of a group. It doesn't matter if it is communism or democracy. The Bible itself does not teach any one of those forms of government. Here comes a shock to us Americans, because we think That somewhere there is the Declaration of Independence, somewhere in the Bible, between the Old and New Testament. And I would add this only in the Patriotic edition, right? It's the only place that we can find that. But it simply doesn't exist because God's word is broader than that It is universal. If it were tied to one particular political system, then others under the other political system would not be at all interested. The church's job is to proclaim the gospel of Jesus Christ to all the world. We must be just as concerned the members of cults pretending to be religions Get to see the light of salvation and get saved as people in our free society. You are never going to reform the world. Before the revolution in the Soviet Union in 1917, they had a monarchy with absolute rule under the Tsar. Closely tied with the Tsar was the church. Some of the leaders were involved in key political positions and there was tremendous oppression upon the people which which went on until nineteen seventy. It's a lot of years. It is just like a slavery. In the US we had a slavery And they had it there. Eventually, when that dictatorship was thrown off in favor of another dictatorship, communism What happened was that the people threw threw out religion too, because they thought that the two were tied together. So it has taken generations to try to get those people to begin to think seriously about spiritual things Because many just say the government was corrupt, the church was tied with it, therefore the church was corrupt. That is something that God doesn't want to happen. He doesn't want the church and the government combined like that. At least He doesn't want that in the New Testament. And so he is not going to address the issue. He doesn't address the issue of slavery any place else in the New Testament. There is another reason why he doesn't address that issue. And that is because he is more concerned about Christians' behavior than a Christian's place in society. He is not impressed with all the degrees that anybody might have. He is not impressed with Your place in society and the position that you hold doesn't impress him at all. What he's interested in is what kind of character a man has. And what is his conduct and behavior, regardless if he is a slave or a free man On the contrary, you have the slave over here who can who cannot go anywhere, but uh he just obeys And does it as unto Christ. He is growing tremendously spiritually And God is greatly pleased with that, with what is happening in his life God is concerned with the man's heart and is more concerned with his growth and grace than whatever, than whether he is a free man or a slave. There is another reason why he doesn't address the issue. Because he's thinking more of heaven And up there than we do. We really don't think a lot about the fact that we are pilgrims. And we are just passing through. And that this life is temporary and is preparatory preparatory. for what it is to follow. Do you think about that enough? I have that question to you, brothers. We all tend to get so tied up about what's happening down here that we forget the fact that our citizenship is in heaven. From where we also look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, as Paul tells us in Philippians 3:20. So he is very much interested in our mindset. He wants us to focus on heaven and not what is happening in the media context. And he wants us to understand this life in light of the war to come Because it will transform the way we live. It won't just be hoarding things. It will transform our life. Brothers and sisters, I know the topic was not a a simple one. I know the topic was not an easy one. I know the the topic it is very challenging. One way or another in different parts of the world we have gone through the same issues. My family has gone in the Middle East. So we all we all understand what men can do to men. But what we do not understand is what God would do to men. when men displeases God. And that is what we should be concentrating ourselves So, brothers and sisters, I ask you that You will follow me in the following prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord. We thank you, Father, for today. We thank you for this message. We know that is complicated for us. It's hurtful for us. But nevertheless you saw fit to put it on your book. And as we read and as we understand, we ask Lord that you will give us insight as we go through. Not to deal with this situation, but to learn more and more what it is that you want for us. To learn more and more through prayer how We can grow to be more like your Son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.