This is part two of Hebrews 13. 4, the marriage covenant. We've seen last week, or last time In part one, we dealt with the origin of the ceremony of matrimony. That's also called the marriage covenant. And we analyze that. The outline of our study is taken from the traditional wedding ceremony. which has stood the test of time because of its faithfulness to the scriptures. And it has been used practically by every denomination. We also explain that the ceremony begins with a statement of purpose. And reads like this. Dear beloved, we are gathered here today in the sight of God and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony. Which is commended by the Apostle Paul. And he goes on to say, it is honorably amongst all men And therefore it is not by any to enter inadvisable or likely but reverently, discreetly, advisable, and in the fear of God, into this holy estate That these two persons come now to be joined. We mentioned that The theologians that put together this particular ceremony assume that the Apostle Paul was the writer of Hebrews. Because the phrase marriage is honorable among all men was taken from Hebrews 13. 4. Also, those words were just not taken and put together as a as a fitting way to begin a marriage ceremony. The theologians obviously knew God. knew his word and wanted to take from Scripture the essence of the marriage was to be And put in a ceremony that could be used by Christians to bring glory to God The Old Testament says in 2 Chronicles chapter 8, verse 11, when Solomon married Pharaoh's daughter. He built for her a separate palace. Do you know why he did that? Well, because he knew that she shouldn't live in the palace that was built by David. Because in essence, David was a believing man. And that was the house of God. Solomon had enough sense to know not to take a pagan wife to the palace. But he didn't have enough sense to know That he shouldn't marry her in the first place. That brothers and sisters was the sad thing, yes That was King Solomon's major downfall. The first qualification is that both parties are regenerated. I gave evidence evidence to that in the first part. The second qualification is that they came to the marriage with truthfulness. and honesty. As I go talking about this, I want you to to take your personal marriage and start analyzing. with the things I'm saying. And you're gonna notice that that perhaps there will be some things that need to be corrected, changed, or be excited because you you're doing it right. Dear brothers and sisters, marriage is a sacred covenant founded upon mutual trust When you come to the marriage telling lies to begin with and not giving all the background of of your life to your spouse, That is not acceptable. Is inadmissible Both, meaning both of you, need to know everything that there is to know about each other. So each one of you can make a proper choice. And if after knowing everything about each other You still choose to get married? Then of course You are beginning your marriage relationship with mutual trust and respect. And obviously sympathy. If there is anything about your previous life that may disqualify you from marriage, you need to confess That you need to confess that to your prospective spouse. The pastor Should always say that to the folks when they are planning to get married. I recall one marriage ceremony that I was a part of it. After the pastor had done all the preparation, all the counseling, all the planning, everything was ready. And he said to the couple, make sure to bring all the wedding certificates for me to sign them. They answered, we will give them to you after the wedding. We have them in the car. And the pastor said, that's fine. Thank you. So he performed the ceremony only to find out that after he got the marriage ceremony And got the certificate, he found out that one of them had been married before. They should have informed him about that. Before the wedding, not after the wedding. So they were not fair with the pastor. Anyway Anyway, happened to be a relative of mine That relative would not ever forget the conversation he had with the pastor. But the point is You don't want to come to the marriage relationship not telling your future spouse all about you. It should be an open. It should be a book. I was made I was made aware of one other situation where a couple were having difficulties And the pastor was counseling them. Only to find out from the wife in one counseling session that they married, that she married this guy. Not knowing that he was previously married and had a child in the previous marriage. She didn't know any of that. When they came to the day of the wedding and they were married, she didn't know anything about that for a year. Well They did their best, but they separated and later the divorce The consequences of our actions are always right behind us. So we need to be very careful on what it is that we do. Brothers and sisters in the faith, you cannot build a marriage. on a lie or deceptions. Only in truth, honesty before God is very important. And it means an honesty to walk before the Lord according to his word. And when a man comes to take a bride unto himself, he is promising that to her. And when a woman comes to become the wife of a husband, She is promising the very same thing. The third qualification in a marriage ceremony There is a declaration of intentions and also the recognition of responsibilities. The fourth qualification is the marriage ceremony. The pastor turns to the husband first and says, Wilt thou have this woman to be your wedded wife, to live together after God's ordinance? In the holy state of matrimony, will thou love her, comfort her, honor, and keep her in sickness and in health? And forsaking all others, keeping only unto her for as long as you both shall live And his response is to be, I will. Brothers and sisters I want all of you to understand there is a lot that the husband is stating. Here of what he is promising to do for God, in God's name, and for and behalf of this woman That he is now coming to marry. It is a very serious matter That is why the framers of the marriage ceremony said marriage is not to be entered into inadvisable Or lightly but reverently, advisable. And in the fear of God, and in the fear of God. And I guess like Jim was saying this morning we're gonna say it the third time, and in the fear of God. Personally, I have some obligations as a husband. As a result of the vows that I took on my wedding day. And Almighty God is going to hold me personally responsible. And the same thing in reverse for my wife. And for all wives and for all husbands. There is no way to escape this. Our responsibilities are many, and they can be summarized by the words of the Apostle Paul in the book of Ephesians, chapter 5. If you turn with me. and follow along as I read these sections. First of all, that relate to the husband's respon the husband's responsibilities and then to the wives It will serve to refresh our minds concerning what we promised before the Lord. and to one another. And also will cause us to examine our lives to see if we have been faithful in fulfilling these obligations. Verse to husbands. The Apostle Paul in Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25 says, and I quote, husbands, love your wives. Of course, the word for love here is the word agape love, divine love, a love that God alone gives you. and will be that which sustains your relationship from beginning to end. So, husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. And gave himself up for it. What a goal to shoot for What a comparison. We are to love our wives as Christ loved the church. Is there anything that Christ did not do for the church? No, not at all. He came, he came willingly He pursued the church. That is how you came into the family of God. All of us. God pursued you before you even recognize him. or knew what he was doing. He was pursuing you. Ultimately, to bring you to himself by the Holy Spirit and into a valuable relationship with him. Brothers and sisters in the faith, that relationship establish what Jesus Christ did for us. He who had not sinned die in our place on Calvary to bear our sins in his own body on the tree Greater love has no mean than this, that a man gives up his life for his friends. The Apostle Paul tells us But then he goes on and says, but how many would actually give up their lives for his friends? The answer is very few. And then he says, but God loves us and Christ died for us. And here comes something that always makes mak makes me think and sometimes cry. He did that for us when we were his enemies. Not his friends, not his followers, his enemies. So the love that Paul is talking about here The rap law is the love that we husbands ought to have for our wives. That is the love that would overcome everything. To show our wives the love of God expressed through masculine hands and arms and life and heart Now to the wives. The Apostle Paul in Ephesians 5. 22 says, and I quote, wives, submit to your heart to your own husbands as to the Lord. A wife who has no idea what it means to be submissive to the Lord will not be very submissive to the direction given to her by her husband. But if she has learned to walk together with the Lord in life with the Lord in life and follow his leadership in spiritual things. And all that God had taught her since her conversion, then It should not be difficult for her to do the same. Married to a Christian man. That's the cards. Married to a Christian man. Paul goes on to say, for the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. His body and himself its Savior. Now as the church submits to Christ So also wives should submit in everything to their husbands. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. Of which he is the Savior. Now As the church submits to Christ, so also wives should submit to their husbands and everything. Husband husbands need to provide godly in loving leadership in the family. And that be and that becomes so much more easy to do when you meet with cooperation from your wife in the secret responsibilities which you have to perform before God on which He is holding you accountable to And the key is not working against one another, not trying to manipulate one another. The key is both individuals living under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, growing together in the world, in the Lord, in every way. And when they are moving towards the Lord together, they will be able to work out all the difficulties and trials and tribulations and problems that life will send their way. There is a fourth part of the marriage ceremony called the Pledge of Integrity. At the end of the ceremony, when the pastor says to the husband, What token do you bring? of your love for your bride today. And he turns to the best man Remember doing that? And he gets the ring and hands him the ring And he do the same thing in turn for the wife, and she will turn to the maid of honor. And the pastor will be handed a ring. And they will exchange rings. The exchanging of those things Is an indication of the pledge of integrity, the pledge of faithfulness and loyalty to one another. their pledge of fidelity to one another until they'd do them part. In the Old Testament they didn't use phrase. But it was a ceremony that was similar to the one is practiced today. was the ceremony whereby the wife could come to her prospective husband And she would be under the clock of her father. And the clock was symbolic of the fact that For her life from birth to that very moment, her father was responsible for Almighty God, to Almighty God. To protect her and care for her and lead her in the ways of God and minister in any way God called upon him to do to see she grew to maturity in the Lord. Now, at the appropriate time, she then would walk from under the father's clock. To under the clock of her husband to be The husband, by opening his clock to his wife, was saying to her to come under that he would now assume the responsibility that her father once had. And he was taking that responsibility seriously and solemnly before God to protect her and to care for her and love her. And to minister to her and to meet her needs. And she in turn was promising fidelity to him. and all of the other things that was required of a wife. Oftentimes these people did not know each other. So you are talking about fear on your wedding day? Be afraid on your wedding day But what made those marriages successful was that they knew what their responsibilities were before Almighty God. The boys have been trained by their fathers and their mothers what the responsibilities of a believing husband Would be under the Old Testament law. The parents knew they had to do those various things. They knew Deuteronomy, chapter 6, and what they were supposed to do about teaching their children. That involved their wives as well. Equally, the girls were taught by their mothers and fathers that their responsibilities were to be in a marriage. And when they came to those marriages, they work to glorify God by fulfilling their sacred obligations before Him to one another And they found the joy of falling in love. I never understood that before. that you will fall in love when you get married. I said, I'm gonna get married when I fall in love. And my mother said no you will fall in love when you get married. In the book of Malachi, in the Old Testament, God was angry at the Jews at this particular point in history for something they had been guilty of. And they ask, they ask God the following question. Why are you angry? Why is it that when we pray, you do not hear our prayers? And he responded, You want me to tell you? You really want me to tell you Here is the reason. You have dealt treacherously with the wife of your youth. And he is using the picture that will be so familiar to the Jews in the Old Testament, and that is the picture of the wedding clock. And he is saying now, you are using that clock not to protect your wife. But to shield public opinion from seeing that you have divorced her And le unleft her and you have taken a younger wife So you have totally corrupted the pledge, a holy and sacred pledge that you made. You have just totally disregarded. You disobey God, you have broken your pledge to Him, and you have broken faith. Or dealt treacherously with your wife. Well, when we exchange rings, we should understand something. Of the seriousness of what we are doing. These rings represent all of my love. And devotion and fidelity to my wife. And she offers me a ring in return. Lastly, and finally, we come to the following pronouncement. The one that is given in Mark chapter 10 verse 9. And I quote, What therefore God has joined together, let no man put asunder. So our Lord states that states that very emphatically in the pass in the passage of Mark Where he says that marriage is to be a lifetime commitment and it is to be until they do us part. Now our Lord says something additional about those who break the marriage covenant in the Gospel of Matthew. And we will deal with that another time. But it it suffice to say in Malachi God hates divorce and intends to marry for marriage to be a lifelong proposition That is how we should understand marriage as we enter into marriage on the ground floor. Having said all of that, No wonder the framers of the ceremony said marriage is a solemn and sacred proposition and is not to be entered into. And advisably, lightly, but reverently, advisably, and in the fear of God. Amen. I know perhaps it is a topic that not everybody gets so excited about, but I do. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we come to thee through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Our Father, we thank you for every provision you made for us. First and foremost, we thank you for the provision of redemption, for bringing in us into your family. through the glorious work of salvation which was brought in our behalf and in our lives A salvation which began in in your mind before you created the world and which And came into our experience at a point in time when the Spirit of God made us alive And then we were able to repent and believe, and entering fully to the experience of following you as you desire. We thank you for the gift of marriage which you have given to mankind, and for the family, and for all the means. We thank you for every family represented here and pray. That you will strengthen each one of us. That we shall be those kinds of husbands that you desire us to be. Oh God, Nath. Not failing thee or failing our wives, but following the dictates of your word as we seek to minister in the name of Christ. To your honor and glory and praise as the husbands in our family. Father, we ask that you will be with our dear wives, grant them, enable them, enabling grace that they too shall be able to fulfill their sacred responsibilities. And obligations which they made to thee and to us, their husbands. Be with our children, Father. May them learn from us what marriage is all about, as we try to teach them what a Christian marriage is and what it is That you desire of husbands and wives, so they won't fear marriage A fear thee and yet enter into marriage as you direct them, with a great joy and anticipation. Father, we praise these things to you in the name of Christ. Amen and amen