Let's go to our reading. Of the New Testament. Let's go to the sec Second Corinthians eleven four. For if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus than the one we proclaim. Or if you receive a different spirit from the one you receive. Or if you accept a different gospel. from the one you accepted. You put up with it readily enough. You may visit it. Let's go to our Father in prayer. Heavenly Father, we ask you that You be with us as we go through this message, as we go through this reading. And you would open our hearts, our minds. to the understanding of what it is that you have for us And that you we will be able to apply this to our lives and grow more like Jesus Christ every day. Father, we bring these things to you in the name of your Son, our Lord and Savior, the only one, Jesus Christ. Amen. The title of the message today is The Marks of a Cult This is a subject that the people of God need to know about. People need to be knowledgeable about. It is on that basis alone that this message is presented today. It's not a criticism of anything. It is that we as Christians need to know Also in the process, we will be dealing with several major world religions that are not cults as such, but are false in their doctrinal position. Therefore I I will address them as well. So let's get started with the marks of a cult. The first question that comes to your mind is why the cults Well, there are over four thousand different religious cults. Four thousand It this isn't the whole world today. And it's estimated that there are about twenty-five million Americans that in some way Associated with a cult Coupled with this, the fact that approximately 50 plus million Americans claim to believe in astrology and or the occult. So you can understand the urgent need to teach people about the whales of these devious religion systems. Let's start with a question that will define our parameters today. What is a cult? Well, an expert in this field defines a cult as a group of people polarized around someone's interpretation of the Bible. And goes on to say, their teachings are characterized by major deviations from Orthodox Christianity. relative to the cardinal doctrines of the Christian faith. It's interesting to note that most of the contemporary cults in the world today are less than 150 years old. So they have no historical perspective. On the other hand, it is also worthy of noting that the heresies that they present are oftentimes found back in the early days of the Christian church. They were mentioned by the Church Fathers, they were condemned by the Church Fathers, and then becoming extinct. only to arise again a hundred, two hundred, eight hundred, a thousand years later to try to create some problem for the Church of Jesus Christ. So these things are not new. The Apostle Paul warns us in many passages of the Bible But I want to read one, so please open your Bibles, and we did, in Second Corinthians And Paul says, if someone comes and proclaims another Jesus, then the one we proclaim. Or if you receive a differing spirit from the one you receive. Or if you accept a different gospel from the one you accepted, you put up with it readily enough. Here the Apostle Paul is writing to chastise and exhort the Corinthians for putting up with these false doctrines. As you remember, in in other messages that the pastor has presented, we always find that the Corinthian church is one of those that are churches that It's always in trouble. It's always looking on every other direction for everything. And that's what a Paul is addressing here. He says, anybody who comes among you gets already hearing, even if he is preaching something that is contrary to the scriptures. And it's preaching about a false Christ and a false gospel. Shame on you. That's what The apostle is saying. Then goes on to say in verse 13 of the same chapter, For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen. disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light See the comparison that he brings. So it is not surprising, i it is not surprising if his servants also disguise themselves. A servant of righteousness. The reign will correspond to the deeds, the Apostle Paul said. The tragedy is that the cults are taking captive many, tens of thousands. of naive and biblical, ignorant profession, professing Christians. This is a title that hurt me To read. I don't know what else to say about them If you examine the membership roles of the cults, they are filled with people who came out of mainline religions. And should have known better. But obviously they didn't. Or they don't That is why doctrinal preaching has an importance. That is why it's essential for every Christian to be grounded. and establish in the doctrines, the doctrines of the Christian faith See, the cults prey on the biblical ignorant and think to impress the masses with their main center theology and pseudo-scholarship. Yeah, I know they're fancy words, but that's what it is. Pseudo scholarship. But you may ask the question as I have, why are the masses attracted to the cult The masses are attracted to the cause for several reasons. And I will address some of them. First reason, if you don't know the truth, then you are doomed to believe error. If you don't know the truth, then you are doomed to believe error. That is one of the most important ones. There are many tens of thousands of professing Christians in the United States that really don't know the truth. They don't pay attention to anything that it is said in the churches where they attend. So When someone comes along with a winning personality and a lot of enthusiasm and is quite dogmatic about what he believes could easily, very easily, be knocked off center and carried off into some cult, as it has happened to many times. If you don't know the real thing, the point is you won No a counterfeit. So if you don't know the real thing, you're not gonna figure it out or you're not gonna understand. counterfeit. When he comes and takes you over. Second reason, the cults often have the accessories. or the symbols of the authentic religion. Their terminology often resembles Christianity. Although upon closer examination, you indelibly find that they change the meaning of biblical terms. For example, the Jehovah's Witnesses talk a lot about Jesus. They talk a lot about Jesus as the Son of God. But when you examine what they mean by that, they don't really believe that he was Almighty God equal with the Father. They deny his full equality with the Father. Therefore, they deny the doctrine of the Trinity. But they talk about Christ. Well actually Jesus. The same thing is true with each of the other cults and false religions. In some way they changed biblical terminology to give it their own unique meaning, a meaning which has never been accepted. by the professing evangelical church down the centuries. I don't know about you, but uh I'm concerned That what comes out of this pulpit falls in line with what it was it has been preached for two thousand years. That the message doesn't change. It's not innovative. We don't create new things. Don't invent new things. Another reason is because the cults often meet in buildings that look like churches. And they carry Bibles. And we carry Bibles. And so people begin to feel at home with these individuals. They feel very comfortable. And as with the Jehovah's Witness, they will say to the lazy Christians When they come to their door, do you want to study the Bible? And you say, of course I want to study the Bible Where do you go to church? They ask. I go to church and such and such. And they Recognize it as an evangelical church. Do you go regularly, they ask? And as soon as the person says no. They will say, I'll tell you what, we will come and hold a Bible study home. And you are by available, let's say, Sunday at eleventh. Of course they're available. They don't go to church. So they are available. They are not going anywhere. So see you see how the colts have An inroad. They say we will teach you the Bible. We will teach you the Bible Of course, they have their own translation. But we will talk about that later. Well people are easily taken in by such religious counterfeits because they don't see them initially as a threat And they begin to feel comfortable around them. Third reason. The cults speak with great authority and dogmatism. in an unsure, in an uncertain world, which is characterized by skepticism in religious matters and in spiritual things. And here comes a trick. Even well educated people often fall for the colds. People are especially vulnerable when they have suffered some recent trauma in their lives. They are searching for answers and the colds are ever ready to step in and fill the spiritual vacuum by claiming to have the answer to this person's problem. That is why we as Christians need to be on the alert when people are going through times of great trials. Be there as friend. Be there as a counselor. Not as professional counselor, but as a counselor from the Lord. available to offer godly counsel and assistance and help. Fourth reason why the cults are attracting masses, the cults are flourishing today because they attempt to meet basic human needs. What are basic human needs? Well, basic human needs are that all men long to be loved All men have a desire to know meaning and purpose in their life. All men want to be needed. Satan knows that. And so he inspires his servants, masquerading as apostles of light, to try to minister to those needs. He does it in the corrupt way. Nevertheless, he does it. The culture is famous for creating an atmosphere of acceptance by showering newcomers with great flattery to win their confidence and eventually their allegiance. What makes counterfeit so deceptible? Appealing. is that they are corrupt they are corrupted facsimile of the real thing Remember this, a counterfeit must in some way resemble the real thing, or else no one will be fooled by it. Let's classify these codes. An expert by the name Long Carlson suggests fourfold classifications. The first one, he refers to pseudo-Christian cults such as the Jehovah's Witness, Christian Science, Mormonism, British Israelism. the way international and other groups like that. They claim to be Christians, but they are pseudo Christians. They are false. They are anti-Christian. Second type of call That it is identified are the Oriental cults such as the Hare Krishna's, transcendental meditation, Zen, Yoga, and others Third side are the consciousness cults. This is relatively new in our society This would be the Scientology, which I am going to mention later on in the New Age cults, Shirley MacLean and people like that. These cults combine Eastern philosophy and Western technology into a religion. And most of them believe in reincarnation with a heavy emphasis in self-worship. And that is obviously why it's so popular with most people. The fourth type is the occult and the spiritualist cult such as trilogy and spiritism. This gives you a little bit of a background as to why the cults and the false religions are so dangerous. Yet everywhere in our lives, whatever you turn around, you see them. So let's examine today as best as we can the marks of the call. And then finally, we will talk about how we Should respond respond to the calls. So what are the marks of the cult? We are not going to get them all just the most essential ones. The first mark of the cult is a cult inevitable takes a defective view of Christ. Remember that. Defective view of Christ. Every cult in some way, shape, or form, has a defective view of Jesus Christ. What does the Bible teach about Christ? First of all, the Bible teaches us, teaches us, that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. The apostle Paul, I'm sorry, the Apostle John in chapter 1, verse 1 through 4 writes, In the beginning was the word And the world was with God, and the world was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was Not anything made that was made. Secondly, the Bible teaches us that Jesus Christ is the image of the invisible God. In Colossians chapter 1, verse 15, the Apostle Paul writes, He is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of all creation. In Hebrews 1, verse 3, he is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he upholds the universe by the word of his power. Brothers and sisters, the Bible teaches us that Jesus Christ is the Creator. All things were made through him. John tells us in chapter 1 of his gospel. The Bible also teaches us that he is the sustainer. All things are held together by his power. And if he would take his hand off this universe, even for an instant, everything will simply collapse Colossians chapter 1, verse 17. And he is before things, and in him all things hold together. The Bible also teaches that Jesus Christ alone is the Savior. In Acts we we can read that in Acts 4 verse twelve. The Bible also teaches that that Jesus Christ is the supreme judge. You can read that in John chapter 5. There is one other thing that needs to be mentioned. Jesus Christ, according to the scriptures. is the highest priest. And I hope you can understand this. He's the highest priest of his people. We have no other need for any other priest as a go-between or intermediary. But there is one priest between God and his people, the high priest of the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the per he is the perfect high priest because he is fully God. At the same time, he is fully man, yet without a sin. So, we don't have to go through some other individual the sounds that, brothers and sisters, sounds like a cult The scriptures say individual Christians have direct access to God through God the Son. And they are able to do that through the instrumentality of the work of the Holy Spirit. There is no need for anyone else that you need to go to that then in he interprets what you have to say before the Lord. Brothers and sisters in the faith, you can go directly to God. The scriptures prove it and we know it. Well Jesus Christ according to the scriptures is all of that and much more. A whole and much more The point is that in any religious system that in any way contradicts any of these teachings about Christ is a false religion. In 1 John four verses 1 to 6, we read, Beloved, do not believe every spirit But test the spirits to see whether they are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world by this You know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist which you heard was coming and now is in the world already. Practically, brothers and sisters, every biblical writer Warns us of these false teachers. John is questioning us To be sure that anyone that claims to speak for God is speaking the truth about Jesus Christ If they deny his coming in the flesh, then they are false prophets. They are false teachers, teaching the false gospel about Christ So he's dealing with basic things Jesus had the same things in mind when he was talking to the disciples. In the Gospel of Matthew, we read When Jesus came to the region of Sazare, Philippi, he asked his disciples, who do people say the son of man is? They reply, some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah. Still others Jeremiah, or one of the prophets. And what about you? Jesus asked, Who do you say I am? Simon Peter answers, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Then Jesus goes on to say, Blessed are you, son of Jonah. For this was not revealed to you by me, but by my Father in heaven. In other words, Jesus tells Spirit, you can even take credit for that. Because you know I am the Son of God, because of the work of God in you, in your heart prior to that, to teach you these things. So We got two points to make. Point number one, cults and the false religions have a defective view of Jesus Christ. They are preaching another Christ. Point number two, a cult has a fatally deficient view of the scriptures. What do the scriptures tells tell you about themselves? Where the Bible claims to be Well the Bible claims to be the inspired, inherent, and infallible Word of God. 2 Timothy says all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction. And for training in righteousness, that the men of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. Secondly, Jesus declares the scriptures to be eternal in Matthew 5. 18. Jesus also said the scriptures cannot be broken. We read that in John 10. 35. Furthermore Jesus said the scriptures is God's absolute truth. And we read that in John 17, 17. Therefore, Jesus said the scriptures ought to be our authority in all things. Do we treat the The scriptures as our authority in all things, this is for you, brothers and sisters, to to ponder and think about. Should be the auth the scriptures should be the authority in all things, not the traditions of men. And he cited and he rebuked and condemned the Pharisees because they departed. from the clear teaching of Scripture, and began to follow the teachings and traditions of men, instead of the Word of God. Consequently, brothers and sisters, Christians are exhorted to give themselves to a lifetime of careful and exhaustive study of the scriptures to discover its truth from beginning to end. And the Apostle Paul told that to the young pastor Timothy In Second Timothy two fifteen. Lastly Christians are certainly warned never to add to or detract from divine revelation. The divine revelation we have in the scripture. Turn to the last book of the Bible, the last chapter, Revelation 22. When enclosing this book, John under inspiration gave the fitting cap stone. To the whole scripture. He said, I want everyone to hear the words of this prophecy, of this book. If anyone adds to them, God would add to him the plagues described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy seed Which are described in this book. Brothers and sisters, this warning appears elsewhere. And we find similar warnings in the book of Proverbs. yet another one in the thorno the theronomy. So it's obvious it's obvious that this warning includes the Bible, not just the book of Revelation. That includes the Holy Scripture. Yet every cult and false religion in some way undermines the inspiration of the clear interpretation of the Bible. They all do it by claiming some extra biblical sources. And that these extra biblical sources is the secret to interpret the Bible. For example, the Mormons. The Mormons have the Book of Mormon. Have you ever read part of or anything in in the book? I would challenge you to make head and tails of anything that is there. It is horrible. It doesn't make any sense. It is a poorly done copy of portions of the scripture Along with Joseph Smith's own thoughts on the matter of religion, of what he was willfully ignorant. The Jehovah's Witnesses, the Jehovah's Witnesses have their extra source in the form of their own translation of the Bible, the New World Translation. which has been accepted absolutely by no biblical scholar. The original writers or the interpreters did not understand Hebrew Greek when they when they did the writing of of book, The Christian Science, has a book written by Mary Baker E. D. It's their manual and it's called Science and Health. They like to say without science and health, forget reading the Bible Got to have that first and it tells you what to believe in the Bible. See how they they manipulate with nice words and nice process. Islam Islam has its own book, the Quran or the Quran. It's the central religious text of Islam, believed by Muslims, that was revealed by the angel. Remember the angels, Gabriel to the Prophet Muhammad in the West Arabian towns of Mecca Medina, beginning in 610. and ending with Mohammed's death in six thirty two of the Common Era. Roman Catholicism. We arrived to the last one here. Roman Catholics have their extra source in the form of traditions, the dogma of papal infallibility. and the apocrypha books. Paul says in Galatians 1, verses 8 to 9. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be a curse. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the wine you receive, let him be accursed. We saw that some of the false religious occult claim that an angel from heaven gave them a new revelation. Again, brothers and sisters, the apostle Paul in Revelation 22 spoke of that. When he talked about Revelation 22, he spoke. Or the fact of nothing supersedes this revelation. That is the final word of God to his people in this world. And there are many other ways to there are five ways to to tell a cult, false religion, but I think we've run out of time. And we'll leave it for the next session, whenever that is. We will have a uh At continuation this is only half of what I prefer so So if you have any questions or if you wanna have conversation about this, please see the pastor, see me. We can talk about some of the questions that that you may have. Let's pray. Let's go to our Father and prayer. Our Father in heaven, we would ask you for your blessing upon this message. As we may try to discern the errors of these various cults and false religions in this understandable way as possible. That your people may be worn and armed for the conflict which is before us all. We thank you, Lord, for that you have given us a sure revelation in your word. We thank you For bringing us to the knowledge of the truth, we thank you for salvation through the blood of Jesus Christ and for the new life that you have given us And for the work of the Holy Spirit in our lives to bring us alone in the Christian life step by step, daily and weekly and monthly and yearly. More to be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. We see your hand and we give you the honor, the glory, and the praise. And our heart goes out to those who are entrapped in religion systems that are anti-Christian or pseudo-Christian. And we pray that you will give us a special wisdom and compassion for those individuals. And we'll do all that it is within our power to do in our lives, to reach out in the name of Jesus Christ, to offer them the message of the gospel. And that you may be pleased to use your people in our humble efforts Far beyond anything we could imagine to reach the souls of men outside of Christ with the good news of our Savior. Grant us an enabling grace as we see seek to minister. And a way an enabling grace to receive their message and to put them into practice We pray all these things in the name of our Lord and Savior, the only one, Jesus Christ. Amen.