Acts chapter sixteen, beginning of verse twenty five. Prior to this particular verse, which we would have read if we read the whole thing, that Paul and Silas had been thrown into prison because they were proclaiming the Lord Jesus Christ. So we'll pick up here at verse 25. Let's give attention to God's word. About midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's bonds were unfastened. When the jailer woke and saw that the prison doors were open, he drew his sword and was about to kill himself, supposing that the prisoners had escaped. But Paul cried with a loud voice, Do not harm yourself, for we are all here. And the jailer called for lights and rushed in. And trembling with fear, he fell down before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved, you and your household. And they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their wounds, and he was baptized at once, he and all his family. And he brought them up into his house and set food before them, and he rejoiced, along with his entire household, that he had believed in God. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, now as we have opened your word, we pray that you would add your blessing to it We ask, Father, that you would guide our hearts tonight as we seek to know more of you, to know more of Christ. Father, as we seek to exalt our Savior. Father, as Paul and Silas were proclaiming Christ, help us, Father, as we seek to know more about Christ. To be those who would proclaim him from the rooftops. Be with us now, guide and direct our study tonight. And help us to glorify your most holy and perfect name. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we are going to continue our study tonight on the way of salvation. How is one Say here's an overview of the five points of Calvinism, or what we're calling way of salvation. And this is very traditional in terms of the teaching of the five points. And the five points create that acronym for us. Some don't like this very much, but we'll use it tonight and as the weeks go on. The acronym is TULUP, and that stands for Total Depravity, Unconditional Election, Limited Atonement, Irresistible Grace and perseverance, perseverance of the saints. So this is a very limited scope of teaching Again, this really deals with the way of salvation, how one can be saved, as we thought upon the jailer, the Philippine jailer uh who was overseeing the prisoners and thought that they had all escaped uh when uh they Doors were opened, about to kill himself, but knowing that Paul and Silas had been singing these hymns and psalms praying as he was imprisoning them, knowing that they had been imprisoned for proclaiming the Lord Jesus Christ. And now he sees this miraculous event has occurred And he's putting these things together, most likely, in his mind, and he asks them, what must I do to be saved? And we see in this passage that as Paul and Silas proclaim the way of salvation to him, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved, you and your household. And he does come to belief. We still have that big question. How does he get from asking the question to coming to belief in the Lord Jesus, to being saved? How does that happen? How does that work? What does the Bible tell us? And so these five points really touch upon those aspects of doctrine and scripture which will take us from a sinner unsaved to glory A sinner being brought out of the dungeon of death and destruction to eternal life with Christ. How does that happen? What does the Bible tell us? Well, these five points don't summarize it, don't go to all of it, but they do provide us with a very broad and it'll be a brief overview. Of the way of salvation. Tonight we're going to be talking about the first one of those five points, total depravity. Total depravity. Well, if believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ, as we read tonight, is the way to be saved, then how does a person come to believe? How did this jailer come to believe? Is it possible that given enough information That a person can merely make a decision or a choice to believe upon Jesus Christ to his or her salvation. Is that the way? More information. Is that what's needed? And merely the choice to believe. Well, the answers to these questions are going to affect the way we think about ourselves and certainly our abilities. The answers to these questions will affect how we praise God. And the answer to these questions will affect the way in which we evangelize. So point is these are important questions for us to consider, and that's why we're studying. This is not a mere intellectual exercise. This will affect us in many and various ways. And so I'd ask you to keep these things in mind. as we just touch upon the first of these five tonight total depravity. Well, if you turn in your scriptures now to John, we're going to be looking at several different scriptures tonight, but John chapter 3, you can turn there or just listen. It's a very familiar passage as Nicodemus, the teacher of Israel, comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. And identifies Jesus as rabbi or teacher. And then Nicodemus said to Jesus, We know that you are a teacher come from God. For no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with him. And so that's the backdrop. That's the scene that's created as Nicodemus, the one who should know so much about scriptures that he doesn't have to come to Jesus and ask him any questions But now he prefaces his entry before Jesus by saying, well, we know you're from God And Jesus responds, tells him, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. And so Nicodemus was claiming to know something about God, so much so that he could identify that this one Jesus was actually from God, and Jesus tells him, you don't know anything. You don't know God, and you certainly can't know me unless you're born again Nicodemus is puzzled by this, and he thinks very physically about re-entering his mother's womb, and Jesus answered him again, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the spirit He cannot enter the kingdom of God, Jesus is telling him so very clearly. There's something, Nicodemus, that you need that you can't do. Nicodemus was sure that he could not enter his mother's womb a second time. In a sense, that's what Jesus was getting at. Nicodemus, you can't even know God unless something supernatural happens to you. It's part of the response to these questions, isn't it? Is it merely possible, given the right information, for one to decide, to make a decision to follow Jesus? Jesus is telling Nicodemus, no. There's something required that you're not able to do on your own. You must be born again. Well, this certainly follows Genesis. You say, what what? Really? How does Jesus' statement to Nicodemus follow Genesis? Well just consider as Adam sins against the living God, as Adam does that one thing he was told not to do, as he fails in in keeping the law of God What does the Lord say? To Adam, he says this: Because you have listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field by the sweat of your face. You shall eat bread until you turn to return to the ground For out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. Stern words for this one who is now a sinner But those weren't the last words spoken by the living God to Adam, or at least spoken in Adam's hearing. Verse 22, then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has come, become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever. Therefore The Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way. To guard the way to the tree of life. Now, as we think upon this event in the history of redemption, as we think upon Not really the exchange, but the words of God to Adam. Notice what the Lord said. He didn't say a word to Adam about learning more about God. Just leave the garden for a time and study me, learn more about me. Gather information. God didn't say anything about making a decision to believe Nothing was said to Adam about coming back into the garden on his own. In fact, just the opposite. Flaming sword was placed at the only entrance, the cherubim was set. That was the scene in which Adam was removed and cast out of the garden. Why not? Why wasn't Adam told just to believe? Why wasn't he told to gather information? Why wasn't he told to go out and do some good things, come back, and we'll see? Adam was made innocent and pure. As God fashioned Adam into a living man, a living being, as he gave him a soul, as he created him in his image. Adam was made innocent and pure, but something happened as Adam sinned against God. Adam changed. It wasn't that God changed Adam. Adam changed himself. And all who come from Adam inherit this change. We call it a sin nature. He didn't have it as he was created by God. He changed himself into one having a sin nature as he disobeyed the Lord The change was so great, so bad, that Adam was not able merely to walk back into the garden. Adam had so changed himself that he could not be in God's presence any longer in the same way that he was in God's presence in the garden. And Adam didn't have the power. Hold on to that word. He didn't have the power to change himself back. To innocence and purity. Once Adam had sinned, once he had given himself a sin nature That was the way he continued to be. And that's what he passed on to all who descended from him by ordinary generation. Well, how do we know this? Well, we considered the flaming sword and the cherubim. There was no way for Adam to get back into the garden on his own. We can also turn a few chapters later into Genesis 6, where we read these words. Man began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them. The sons of God saw that the daughters of man were attractive, and they took As their wives any they chose. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh. His days shall be a hundred and twenty years The Nephilim were on the earth in those days and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man, and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth. So the Lord said, I will blot out man whom I've created. On the face of the land. You see in this passage We have these strong words. God Himself knowing, recognizing Even acknowledging that every intent of the thoughts of the heart of man was only evil continually That may be the strongest language we have in scripture concerning the total depravity Of man. Every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. This is what is referred to as total depravity This is the way the Westminster Confession puts this condition, this estate. Man by his fall into a state of sin has wholly lost all ability of will to any spiritual good accompanying salvation. So as a natural man being altogether averse from that good and dead in sin, he's not able by his own strength to convert himself or to prepare himself. Now we have to make a distinction Between doing good things, giving food to those who are hungry, providing clothing to those who are in need. Those are good things. But they are not spiritual works which accompany salvation. And so as we read Genesis 6, and as it's been interpreted by the Westminster Confession of Faith, the idea is that no one who descends from Adam Has the ability in his or herself to do any spiritual good accompanying salvation Not on their own. Not on our own. Where do you see this in Scripture? Well, Genesis 6 is a good place to go, but also Romans 5. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for who, the ungodly? Still weak, still unable? The right time Christ died for the ungodly, the totally depraved Or chapter 8 of Romans. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. Total depravity. Now, total depravity doesn't mean that we are as We are the worst sinners that we can possibly be. That's not the idea. What it means is that we are corrupt throughout. Not just body, but body and soul. Including our wills. Our wills are corrupt. That's the idea behind total depravity. Ungodly. Flesh. Hostile to God. It does not submit because it cannot. That's the idea. Total depravity. Where else do we see this in Scripture? We see Jesus Christ saying it so very clearly in John 15. I'm the vine, you're the branches, whoever abides in me and I in him. He it is that bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. Aside of Christ, we can do nothing Again, we could point to those who who service food banks and who provide clothing and and who love the poor. And those are good works. None of them are works accompanying salvation. Apart from me, you can do nothing. In the five points of Calvinism by Mr. Steele and a couple of other authors, they write this. In the spiritual realm, when judged by God's standards, the only standards that uh are really Significant for us. The unsaved sinner is incapable of good. The natural man is enslaved to sin. He's a child of Satan, rebellious toward God, blind to truth, corrupt, and unable to save himself or to prepare himself for salvation In short, the unregenerate man is dead in sin, and his will is enslaved to his evil nature. That's total depravity. Enslaved to sin. Child of Satan. Rebellious. Blind. Corrupt. Unable to save self. Wasn't that what we see even in Ephesians? That great statement That great truth that Paul writes, for by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Not a result of works, so that no one may boast. Or faith is even a gift. None of us will be able to go to glory and tell the Lord Jesus Christ, you should let me in, because I came to faith It's a gift of God. It requires his powerful work in us. It's by grace. What happens now? the way we think about ourselves and our abilities. Do we think about ourselves as having been totally depraved, as unregenerate? I have to think that God is sovereign over all things. That He is the one with the power. That while we were weak and ungodly, that's when he saved us. As we think about total depravity, we must think that we are weak and frail and we were dead in our sins and transgressions. We had no ability, no power to do anything toward our salvation. That's the way we should think of ourselves. What does that do to our praise for God? Doesn't it increase our praise? You might think, well, this is such a negative topic, total depravity. It's actually not. It's actually one that leads to greater praise for God. When we were weak, when we were frail, when we were dead, when we were his enemies, when we were fighting against him, when we were in constant rebellion. That's when he changed our hearts. That's when he gave us that new birth. That's when he did that supernatural surgery upon us. Our praise for God should only be elevated as a result of understanding what it meant to be totally depraved. What ways this change our um evangelical work? In order to bring the gospel to those who are yet lost in their sins, It's easy for us to think what they need is really just more information. It's also easy for us to think that it's really dependent upon us Both of which are wrong. It's not that we don't have an obligation to evangelize, we do, it's throughout Scripture. But the salvation of even one soul is never dependent upon our efforts. We're called God uses means God will use the preaching of the word. God will use our relationships with our neighbors. He will use good works to bring people to the Lord Jesus Christ. But we can never boast in those things. And it's never a factor of someone having more information or the right information in order to come to believe upon the Lord. Lord Jesus Christ. Does that mean we don't preach? No, of course we preach. Does that mean we don't we're not concerned about whether or not the preaching is true? Absolutely. We want to be concerned about the truth of the preaching. But we always have to evangelize with the knowledge and the belief that it is the Lord who brings people to his Son. It's not a decision that someone makes. We're not trying to chalk up another notch on our belts for another decision for Christ. We want to take the word out. But we want to give the glory to God. And as we do, we must pray The Spirit would be working powerfully in using all things that we do to bring more lost souls into the kingdom. Well that's total depravity. That's uh skimming over the top. I hope we have um A bit of an idea of the concept. Next week we will look at unconditional election.