Please turn in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians 11, verse 23. We'll read through verse 29. Remain standing. Let us hear now the word of the Lord. For I received from the Lord that which I also delivered to you That the Lord Jesus, on the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said Take, eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me In the same manner, he also took the cup after the supper, saying, This cup is the cup of the new covenant in my blood. This do as oft as you drink it in remembrance of me. For as oft as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. Therefore, whoever eats this bread or drinks this cup of the Lord in an unworthy manner will be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of the bread and drink of the cup, for he who eats and drinks, in an unworthy manner eats and drinks judgment to himself. Not discerning the Lord's body. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. I believe it to be a good thing to periodically Give some thought to the celebration of the Lord's Supper and precisely what it is that we are doing as we partake of the Lord's Supper, in which we're about to do in just a few minutes from now. And for that reason, I've chosen to look at this passage again in God's Word. And speak today specifically about the element of one of the elements of the Lord's Supper known as the bread. The bread And again, as we just read from verse 23 of chapter 11, the Lord Jesus, in the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And he blessed it and he broke it, and he gave to his disciples. And he told them to take and eat. And he said to them, This is my body, which is broken for you Do this in remembrance of me. We do need to take some time to think about this, because surely within the history of the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, There has been considerable discussion over the meaning and the purpose of the Lord's Supper. And though I won't engage in all of that today, I just want to narrowly focus our thoughts today about the bread. About the bread of life. And it's an interesting thing when you stop and think about it, throughout the scriptures, this little matter of bread, this subject, this thing of bread finds its way into significant Historical events in the life of God's people. There are multiple uh uh examples throughout the s Old Testament and into the New Testament of the significance of bread, which most of us, you know, when we think about bread, we don't think it's all that significant Of course, if we were somewhere where we hadn't eaten for three or four days, then bread would become even more significant, which we would then stop thinking about its significance. immediately after partaking. But be that as it may, the Lord Jesus told his disciples, this is my body. When he broke the bread. This is my body, which I'm giving to you. When you partake of the Lord's Supper Take the bread in remembrance of me. Now, because we believe That the Bible is a connected group of books, that it isn't one testament Being played over against the other, but because we believe it is an ongoing story of God's redemptive work and how he brought that to fulfillment, we realize that there's a strand, there's a thread of of God's involvement in the usages of bread and all other things in the script. that God didn't just pick out of a bag uh bread at various times in history. and say, well, this is the Passover bread, or this is the manna from heaven. You know, all of this is significant. It isn't accidental It has meaning. And it all has meaning which focus in the scriptures to Jesus. Who is the ultimate bread of God? So when we look back and we see some of these Old Testament examples, of various different kinds of bread that the people of God were involved in, their ceremonies, their religious activities that involved bread. We should always remember that these things pointed forward to Jesus in some way. They had some connection to him. So first of all, let's look at some of the ways in which bread is used in the scriptures. Not in any particular order of significance, but Perhaps the first time that we see bread being used in a very religious way for Israel has to do with the Passover. And the events recorded in Exodus chapter 12. And you remember those events. Israel is in Egypt, and she has to leave, and she has to leave in a hurry. Because Pharaoh has finally relented under the pressure from God and has allowed the people to leave, and who knows how long he will honor his own word. But they were to make unleavened bread for the journey. And that unleavened bread, the lack of using yeast, as I guess is an agent of fermentation, was to remind the people that they need to leave Egypt in a hurry. Because you see, Egypt was not simply a country. But Egypt represented sin and immorality, which from Numbers chapter eleven, which I just read earlier, it seems that God's people had grown accustomed. to certain aspects of Egyptian sin and immorality. They were to leave Egypt in a hurry. They were to go to the promised land where Moses would lead them. And even bread The Passover bread is linked in the New Testament to the Lord's Supper on Passover by that statement in 1 Corinthians that Jesus is now to be called our Passover. But for the unleavened bread, the unleavened bread of the Passover has now been superseded By Christ's bread, which needs to be understood as Christ's broken body. His sacrifice for us. We are to flee From sin to Christ, the greater broken bread for you. And we get these the it's like God is going through history and dropping crumbs of bread for birds to come along and swoop up and digest. And we're the birds. You know? And we come from Passover then to the manna. Mana is not technically bread, but it is repeatedly likened to bread by the Bible's teaching. John chapter 6, verse 31, for example. Our father did eat the manna in the desert, as it is written, he gave them bread from heaven to eat. The Bible's perspective on that is that it's bread from heaven. Can you imagine that? God has this group of people numbering near If you take Exodus 1237, numbering greater than 600,000, and maybe on up into a million He's feeding the people with bread in the wilderness, where there is no 7-Eleven or Giant or Krogers. This is bread falling down from the glories of heaven upon the people of God. He gave them bread to eat. Mana. Exodus 16, verse 4 also speaks of this bread. God says to Moses, I will rain bread from heaven upon you. Now we all had rain last night Some of us had a superabundance of rain last night. And can you imagine raining a superabundance of bread upon a group of people? What an impression that would make. How could you possibly see that? How could you possibly see that and not be impressed? How could you possibly see bread falling from the skies? I mean, that's not an ordinary thing. If we saw bread falling from the skies, what conclusion would we have today? A miracle has occurred, perhaps Or in our jaded world. Well, it happened by accident. Or Mother Nature did something unusual. But it'd be very hard to deny in those people's minds that somebody in heaven was looking out for them. Nehemiah refers back to the giving of the bread in after the Exodus, and he says In Nehemiah 9, verse 15, and God gave them bread from heaven. Again, emphasizing God giving, emphasizing what he gave, emphasizing where it came from, and it was uh uh significant Now one of the more interesting passages of connecting bread from heaven in the Old Testament, seeing that manna was bread. occurs in the commentary on in Psalm chapter 20 at Psalm chapter 78 verse 24. It said again uses that statement, he rained down bread from heaven. And then in verse 25, he said, he says, men did eat angels' food. Men ate angels food. Food that was good enough for angels. God gave to us. Rained it down. Of course, we're all familiar with one of the petitions in the Lord's Prayer. Give us this day our daily bread. An expression An expression on our lack of self-sufficiency, and at the same time an indication of our dependence upon God. The Lord Jesus, the Lord Jesus, also used bread. Look at his interchange with the Jews immediately following the feeding of the 5,000. Remember that? Couple of loaves. The Lord turned into the ability to feed all the crowd and have some left over. Again, a superabundance. But Jesus has an interchange with the crowd who went from the place where this was done at Ca near Cana of Galilee, and actually followed Jesus across the Sea of Galilee in boats They were they were interested in this bread, you see. So as we talk, as we look at John 6, verse 28, they said unto Jesus, What shall you do? Excuse me, what shall we do that we might work the work of God? Jesus answered and said to them, This is the work of God. That you believe on him who he has sent. Now remember, they had just seen Jesus feed 5,000 in the middle of a no-man's land. And everybody was satisfied. And everybody sat there and listened to him talk. And they were interested. He goes on to say to that Jewish crowd, our fathers did eat, excuse me, do the work. That ye believe on him who sent. They said to him, verse 30, What sign will you show us? Yeah, you're laughing. What sign will you show us that we may see and believe? The foolishness of man is bound up in that statement. The hardness of heart is also witnessed too Our fathers, they went on, our fathers ate the manna in the desert. It is written, he gave them bread to eat. And Jesus said, Truly, truly I say to you, Moses did not give you that bread from heaven. But my Father gave you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he which comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Again, he's using bread, but now he's gone a step further. There's something now called a true bread that he's introduced. And the true bread gives life to the world. What kind of life? They said to him, Lord, give us this bread Who wants life? We want life. Doesn't everybody want life? Give us this bread. We want to live. But then Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. He that comes to me shall never hunger, and he who believes in me shall never thirst. A little bit more in John chapter 6, verse 50, he says it again. This is the bread which comes down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof and not die. I am the living bread which came down from heaven. If any man eat of this bread, he shall live forever, and the bread that I will give Is my flesh, which I give for the life of the world. Mana, you see, just like all the other breads, points to Christ, the living and true bread. You can eat manna and you'll still be hungry. You can eat of Christ in faith and you will never be starving You will always be filled. There are two major points that I want to take from all of this excursion on the use of bread in the scriptures. Two major points about its use in the Bible The first thing to recognize is that God is the one who gives his people bread. Whether it's Passover, whether it's manna, whether it's feeding the 5,000, or whether it's the Lord's Prayer. Give us this day our daily bread. It is God who gives you bread. Whether that's physical bread, but in particular spiritual bread It is God who gives you the bread of life. This the blessing of God for eternal life does not come from any man From the Passover bread To John chapter 6, verse 35, I am the bread of life, that he who comes to me will never hunger. And he that believes on me shall never thirst. To the Lord's Supper Where Christ commands, all who participate in the Lord's Supper, take, eat. This bread is my body. Do this, which is broken for you. Do this in remembrance of me. It is God's gift, whether it be physical bread, or whether it be spiritual bread, whether it be eternal life, or whether it just sustains our life for a couple of days. God gives bread. And that's a testimony to God's grace. The feeding of the 5,000 and the feeding later, the subsequent feeding of the 4,000 with bread emphasizes again that God is the one who gives to men. Life and support. And that ought to make a difference in our life. But it doesn't. And it won't. It will not make any difference whatsoever in anybody's mind unless God opens your heart. to see beyond the physical provision to the spiritual provision. Look again back, look again back to Israel As they have been fed manna over and over again. Look again back to Numbers chapter 11, which we read earlier. The children of Israel are depicted as weeping and saying, weeping, weeping because they don't have any meat. They got abundance of bread, but no meat. Boo-hoo. But that's, you know, we you can't pick on the people of Israel. It's us. It's all of us. By nature. We're crying because we're never satisfied. We're never satisfied even when God intervenes, when we are in dire circumstances and provides a way out. We still don't want it. Not only are we unsatisfied, but we will prefer the past. Because in that same interchange with the people of God in Numbers chapter 11, they say, we remember the fish. Which we ate freely of in Egypt, the cucumbers, the melons. Those are the guys who are in my garden. The leaves, the onions, the garlic And now our soul is dried up. There are no meat, nothing, but this crummy manna Nothing but manna before our eyes. They're not satisfied with what God gives. Did you notice Did you notice, even though they point to the physical things they enjoyed in Israel, they said nothing about their misery in slavery. I want to go back. They want to go back to the hellhole that Egypt was. They want to go back to sin, slavery, and death if that isn't a testimony to our dead, depraved hearts. All of us, we want to go back to sin. And even when God provides blessing. We will not come. And when we come, we I wanted to use a pejorative word, but I won't. We'll complain. We'll complain. We'll complain about his provision. And ultimately, when we complain about God's provision, we're complaining about Jesus. We are never satisfied. That's the point I'm making. We are never satisfied with the gift of grace. And that that affliction affects us too. even as redeemed children in Christ. Jesus said in Matthew 6, verse 25, Take no thought for your life. What shall ye eat, or what shall ye drink? Nor for your body what shall ye put on? Is not life more than meat, and the body more than raiment? The Lord's Supper, verse 27. Whosoever shall eat this bread and drink this cup of the Lord unworthily shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord. What that says is it's possible to drink it unworthily. What would you possibly be thinking when you're eating and drinking unworthily? I think what it would qualify is loving anything more than Jesus. Which is another way of saying you're complaining because you didn't get what you want. Wanted. Christ says he is the true bread of life. Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness and are dead. But I say unto you, you have seen me, and you believed me not. You know, feeding the 5,000 didn't change their hearts. Most went back. Most went back and continued to disbelieve. It takes a work of God's grace to be impressed with the feeding of the 5,000. It takes the word of God's work of God's grace in your heart to realize what God has given you is eternal. Eternal life, and that that is of greater value than anything else in this whole world. What shall it profit a man if a man gains the whole world but loses his soul? Today, you will be eating the bread of the Lord's Supper. Jesus gave us this too. And it points again to his life-saving ministry. We will eat either worthily or unworthily. But when we eat worthily, we are seeing that behind that bread is our faithful Savior. We are seeing that it calls us not to grow tired of eating him or feasting upon him. And that means you follow him, you listen to him as his word, that you're forever grateful. That you're ever increasing in thanksgiving to God for giving you his bread, Jesus Christ. And it caused you not to lust for the fish and the leeks of the Egyptian world, which is still here with us today. Never lust for the things of the world because the things of the world do not satisfy the craving of your soul. You can have everything in the world and still be hungry. Hungry For God. Only Jesus satisfies that craving. The Lord Jesus said in John 6, verse 56 and following, He that eats my flesh and drinks my blood and dwells in me and I in him. As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father, so he that eats me, even he shall live by me. This is that bread which came down from heaven, not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead. He that eats my bread shall live forever. And so today I exhort you, eat in faith the Lord's bread. Eat, drink in faith the Lord's cup. Do so unto God's glory and live. Amen. Let us pray. Most merciful God, our heavenly Father, thank you for your word. Thank you, Lord, for your spirit now. Because we believe the Spirit of God attends to the Word. That, as Jesus put it, that you will use the Spirit to sanctify us. And you will use the Spirit's work in connection with the Word to sanctify us, as Christ said. Sanctify them in thy word. Thy word is truth. And Lord, prepare our hearts now. Prepare each of our hearts as we reflect upon the partaking of the Lord's Supper, which points To the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and to life eternal in him. Lord, may it be that all of our hearts Will be knitted firmly to him, desiring him more than anything else, loving him, abandoning the ways of the world and the lusts of the flesh In order to have communion with our sovereign God, which Jesus has given us through his death and resurrection. We pray for his glory to be manifest in our lives and use the Lord's Supper today to keep us focused, focused on him. Focused in faith to believe in him, focused in faith to live for him. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.