Now let's turn to uh First Timothy chapter five, and we will be reading verses seventeen through twenty-five. Um Let's uh let's rise and uh and hear God's word. Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scripture says, you shall not muzzle an ox while it treads out the grain, and the laborer is worthy of his wages Do not receive an accusation against an elder except from two or three witnesses. Those who are sinning rebuke, in the presence of all that the rest also may fear. I charge you before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that you observe these things without prejudice. Do nothing with partiality. Do not lay hands on anyone hastily, nor share in other people's sins. Keep yourself pure No longer drink only water, but a little wine for your stomach's sake and your frequent infirmities. Some men's sins are clearly evident, preceding them to judgment, but those of some Men follow later. Likewise, the good works of some are clearly evident, and those that are otherwise cannot be hidden Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Uh please uh be seated Again, we are progressing through the study in First Timothy. And And today uh we come upon a passage that uh uh singles out elders and the elders of the church and gives to us how elders and the people of God are to interact. pastorally and personally uh with each other. And um as we've been going through uh this uh Chapter 5 of Timothy, once again, let's remember that the Apostle Paul has sent Timothy, a young minister, to continue his ministry in Ephesus. Paul has finished his ministry there and is going on to eventually to Rome. But he wants Timothy to stay behind and to finish his labor, to set in order the things that he has done. uh that Paul has done to continue uh to uh lay the good fo uh foundation for the faith And there are lots of things Paul has charged Timothy to do, or has commanded Timothy to do, one of which is to prevent false gospels. from gaining a foothold, uh uh and uh an uh others are such things as uh um uh uh um understanding the whole question of biblical authority, uh leadership in the church comes through um Adam as the head of the wife, so so also women are not to be permitted to teach within the church or to have ministerial functions within the church He proceeds then in chapter three to talk about the qualifications for church elders and deacons as those who will help Timothy with the labors and uh fulfilling Paul's uh charge. And uh when we get into chapter five, uh the Apostle Paul singles out various different groups within the church and tells Timothy how to relate to them and also tells him how to use them in the ministry, in the informal ministry of the church. You might recall he has instructions regarding older men, beginning in verse 1 of chapter 5. younger men also uh Timothy instructs Paul regarding uh the section we have uh the sections we have just recently looked at Verses 5 through 10 of chapter 5, the care of widows who are in the church, what constitutes a true widow? And and always uh Paul remarks about uh the the giving of the acinal help What we call diaconal help to women in the church who are widows. The first line of help is the family. And he has some very clear things to say about what is a what constitutes a true widow. And then he goes on to talk about younger widows and how the church is to treat them. And so today we've come to the last group that he's going to address And that is the elders. Now it's not any um um it's it shouldn't be to you any uh uh new thing that Paul is talking about here with elders. Uh he had, after all, back in chapter 3, uh he gives qualifications for elders Um and uh uh in in in Ephesus uh we find that Ephesus is the site of the place where Paul labored the longest in any particular church, maybe as much as three years, in this local church And we find in Acts chapter 20, when Paul leaves, remember he summons the elders to come to him? And he gives this long series of of uh of um uh information about kinds of things he did, what he expects of them, and really a a a wonderful blueprint uh regarding how elders are to uh minister within the body of Christ. And so what he has to say here is really a very brief summary of the kinds of things that elders do and how the people of God are to relate to that. He says, elders, let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially those that labor in word and in doctrine. For the scripture saith, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward. Um again uh in some ways this is he's talking about me. as one who teaches in the word and the doctrine, but he also gives instructions to you as those who are to sit under the ministry and be part of the ministry of the teaching ministry of the church. The Apostle Paul, maybe more than anybody else in the New Testament, has said the most about elders. Peter has one section where he talks about elders, a rather brief section, 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 4. And if you were to go there, you would find that Peter is in virtual agreement with Paul regarding their qualifications, their task, and their ministry But Paul really has discussed this whole matter of elders in numerous places Titus chapter 1, verse 5 and following. 1 Timothy 3, verse 1 and following. He's given qualifications. for elders and for deacons as officers of the church in both Titus 1 and 1 Timothy 3 Those qualifications are familiar with you. We went over them previously. Don't intend to go back over them again. It's just to note That he gives qualifications, which means there's a certain expectation for the type of man who is to be an elder. It assumes also that the Apostle Paul, as a missionary pastor, who's going around starting churches Has a structure in mind for how the church is to be governed and led, especially when Paul is not present. After all, Paul is an apostle of the Lord. If it was God's intention to rule the church by one man, Would we not have, would, would we even see these instructions here in this passage? No. This argues very these these qualifications argue very strongly for the fact that Paul, and I believe, God himself. has ordained the proper form of government in the church and it's called Presbyterians or elders because the Greek word elder is presbyros in the Greek. And we find also in Acts chapter 14 that the Apostle Paul and Barnabas, in their ministry to the churches in Galatia, They ordained elders in every church that they ministered. We find in Acts chapter 15 that there the elders of all the churches in existence at that point come together in Acts to to discuss a very important theological matter regarding the very way in which uh uh the gospel is to be understood. Remember the whole Judaizer controversy. Are we saved by grace plus works? Grace for faith in Christ plus works, or is it by grace alone? So, I mean again I think this whole part argues that elders are very prominent in the life of the church That they're not there by accident. They're part of the rule or the government that God expects for the church. What does the rule of elders look like? What is it supposed to look like? 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 12. We beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord. and admonish you. Verse thirteen Um Verse 13, to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake, and be at peace among yourself. This is a passage that another writing from Paul that sounds in some ways a little familiar to this verse 17 of 1 Timothy chapter 5. We look at it also and we see several aspects of what their labor, what their work looks like. First of all, he calls it labor. He calls it labor. Um that there is a certain uh spiritual work, uh spiritual focus to their labor, and it is work And it may not be necessarily work that you think of when you think of working in a construction job, not necessarily usually physical, but it is emotional. And it is spiritual. And uh from on occasion it might be physical work as well. But surely that's not the most important thing. They labor among you. He says that they are over you in the Lord, and they admonish you. Now that word admonish you. In 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 12. That word admonish you is an interesting word. It's not used very frequently in the New Testament. But it really conveys with it the that the there's kind of a tenderness that that goes along with the word. It it obviously means that there are going to be times that there's going to be correction needed in the church. But it's not correction just for correction's sake. I mean correction is important when someone is going down the wrong path. But it also says, the also the sense of the word is admonish with tears. And you can't Uh you know, you can't have a relationship with someone that's based just on um um the kind of uh attitude in which, you know, I'm an elder and you have to listen to me because I'm an elder and I have all this authority and you ought to listen to me because I'm representing God That's true in one sense, but that's not the relationship that wants that God wants to be fostered between the the pastor and the elders and the church. He wants it to be personal He wants it so that the elders are someone that you can go to and know that if they're weeping for you, they have your best spiritual interest at heart. And that what they see in your life in a particular period of time is not spiritually good for you. So much so that they're exercised over it and moved enough to cry about it. That uh to me that conveys uh a kind of a sympathetic attitude. A sympathetic attitude which doesn't let Error slide and go by because they understand that error produces problems, spiritual problems for the individual involved and for the whole church. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. And that gives somewhat of a picture of the rule that's involved So elders who rule well, what does ruling well look like? That's part of what it looks like. But I think that uh one of the um Uh one most wonderful statement of this is found in Acts chapter 20. So I invite you to go there. To Acts chapter 20 and verse 17, the familiar but farewell address of the Apostle Paul to the elders of Ephesus, the very church that Timothy is now ministering to, and that Paul wrote this epistle about. We pick up at verse 17. And I'll be reading a large portion of scripture here and making some comment. From Miletus, he, and that would be Paul when you read the context, sent to Ephesus. Miletus is a seaport very close by to Ephesus And he called for the elders of the church. When they were come to him, he said to them, You know, from the first day that I came into Asia Oh, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons. You know What kind of ministry I conducted, and how I conducted that consistently, all seasons, all the time. It was the same ministry over and over again. Verse 19, serving the Lord with all humility of mind and many tears. and temptations which befell me by the lying in uh in wait of the Jews. Even in that verse you you see some characteristics of Paul the Apostle, who, after all, does his mit his office does uh uh assume the the office of elder as well. It's greater than the office of elder, but the elder is part of what Paul does as a leader of the church. He served the Lord with humility. With humility of mind. Um remember a couple of weeks ago when we had the congregational meeting, you said, uh, Pastor, could you please teach some about some of the some of the ideas of the next minister who will come here. And I said I would. Well, and I started pointing out some of those things the last time. Well I'll point out another thing. To you today, that above all you want to find a man who is a servant and a man who is humble as your next pastor. Serving the Lord with humility of mind and with many tears and temptations which befell me. There will be in the performance of the duty trials Not everybody will be on your side. In the midst of all of that, you want somebody who can remain humble And to remain convicted of the fact that he is serving the Lord. Verse 20: how I kept back nothing that was profitable to you. Now, obviously, when he says profitable, he's not talking about materially profitable, but he's talking about spiritually profitable. I did not hold back anything that was profitable to you. It's kind of hard to imagine Paul holding anything back. You know, he he pretty much says it like it is. And uh he says it, but he does say it in a way that is uh is uh respectable. He's not he's not um trying to do it in a way that uh uh displays his own uh wealth of information. He's doing it humbly. He's doing it with an attitude toward the people's benefit. I've kept nothing back. I've showed it to you, and I've taught you publicly from house to house. Sounds like he had a very uh had had a very active ministry and was engaged with people even into their their level into the level of their home Um and he demonstrated it to them. He showed them by uh his labors Testifying to both Jews and Greeks also repentance toward God and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ. A big part of his message was the gospel Um, you know, he didn't go on house visits to talk about the weather or to talk about the local football team, how it was doing. That wasn't the subject matter he was interested in. his interest was in the gospel and how those individuals were were relating to the gospel. Verse 22, Now, behold, I go bound in the Spirit unto Jerusalem, knowing the things that shall befell me there, say that the Holy Ghost witnesses in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me. But none of these things move me. Neither count my life dear to myself So that I may finish my course with joy and the ministry which I have received of the Lord Jesus to testify to the gospel of the grace of God. is a good rule or ruling well, testifying to the grace of the gospel of God. Now I behold Now, behold, I know that you all, among whom I've gone preaching the kingdom of God, will see my face no more. Wherefore I take you to record this day that I am pure from the blood of all men. For I have not shunned to declare to you all the counsel of God Take heed therefore to yourselves and to all the flock. Before I get there, notice that he Paul firmly believes that before God none of these people's consciences will be on his mind. Because he hasn't in any way left out anything in the whole Council of God. He hasn't given them, you know, all the he hasn't given them the kinds of things that they might want to hear. He hasn't appealed to their itching ears. He's given them what God's word has to say, to the best of his ability, on whatever subject matter is involved. Uh he is not in any way shirked to give them the whole word of God. And I think that's the way you have to go about ruling well. Uh you know, it might be very easy in certain circumstances. to uh to not ever talk about not ever talk about the doctrines of grace And one time one time actually heard a leader in a particular reformed denomination say that the the approach to bringing people into the church is to talk about the gospel, but not talk about the distinctives of the Reformed faith Sorry, friends, gospel is the reform faith. It is not two distinct things. Yes, if you want to have a church that is full of people, you just go along with the ways of the world and make the gospel sound as if it's something we can do to save ourselves, and you probably have many people in your church. Are you declaring the whole counsel of God? Are you declaring the truth? Walter Chantry said, the Baptist Reformed guy said a half-truth presented as a whole truth is an untruth. Think about it. And that's in the and the reformed the the Reformed Church throughout history, and I do believe that the Apostle Paul was Reformed in his understanding. The Reformed Church throughout history always gets the short shift. It's not liberal. And it's not involved in what we might call Armenianism. At least it shouldn't be. And consequently, sometimes Reformed churches remain small Not always, but often. Rapul is not going to be motivated by thinking about what's going to enhance his reputation. before men or enhance the size of his church. He's more interested about being have his reputation enhanced in the eyes of God. And so therefore he's going to be careful about what he says regarding God's word when he speaks it to God's people. I have not shunned To uh to declare to you all the counsel of God After all, it's really not ministers who build the church. It's the Spirit working with Christ. That builds the church. And they work, they don't work at cross-purposes through the Word of God. They work with the Word of God. The Word and His Spirit work in the people of God. So Then in verse 28, he talks more about what I think of Acts chapter 20, about more what it means for the elders to rule well. Take heed to yourself. and to all the flock, over which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to feed the Church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. Several outstanding aspects of ruling well are found in that one verse. Watch yourself, he first says. Take heed to yourself. Make sure what your spiritual condition is, and that you're doing well in the eyes of the Lord. But also be concerned about the rest of the flock. Remember the Lord gave us his concern for the flock in a very clear statement when he said, Which of you who has a hundred sheep And the one strays away does not go and search for the one who's straying away. Leave the 90 and 9 and go get the one who's straying. That betrays an extreme interest in the welfare of the sheep. Get the one who's straight. I mean it doesn't say ignore the others. Get the one who strayed, bring 'em back, and then work on them all. Be a good shepherd. He says that to all the flock, take heed to all the flock, not just the ones you like. You know, you don't always like everybody. It's some people are more difficult than others. But you have a a duty if you rule well to to care for each one. The Holy Ghost has made you an overseer. I've talked to you about this before, but that word means in Greek. One who has responsibility for the welfare of the house. It's taken from the word to be a steward. Remember how so many times in the New Testament Jesus talks about the chief steward of the house? How he gives responsibility to the steward? that to manage the affairs of the house, of the of the master's house. And remember how the steward, if he's faithful, the Lord says, Well done, good and faithful servant. With being an overseer, elders are responsible for the Lord's house in that local area where they are serving. And at one point, which we do not necessarily know, elders will be accountable for how well they have taken care and managed the affairs of that flock. And then he talks about ruling well, feeding the church of God, which he has purchased with his own blood. Well, feeding the Church of God, which He has purchased with His own blood, it seems to connect that the way you feed the Church of God has everything to do with the sacrifice of Christ. Pointing people to Christ, showing them Him. Feed them with Jesus. Therefore okay, and then he goes out after that, I mean this is just a manual. It really is. He says, I know that after my departing, somebody was talking with me about this today, was it you? I know that grievous wolves will enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Okay, you're gonna have to fight wolves. Uh wolves in sheep's clothing. The sad thing is that he says they're outside of the church, but then he goes right in and says Also of your own selves, of the very elders he's talking to, of your own selves shall men arise speaking perverse things. Why? To draw away disciples after them. There's a certain power trip that can go on in the body of Christ. Therefore, watch He takes the image of the Old Testament watchman on the wall, crying, watching for danger in ancient Israel, Ezekiel chapter 3. Cry out when you see danger coming, watchmen. There are savage wolves out there. They don't always look like savage wolves They masquerade, but be be ready, beware, watch, be prepared. And then notice he says Remember, he draws attention to himself that in the space of three years, see there's the three years I was talking about earlier. Three years I cease not to warn everyone night and day with tears. See the compassion again. See the consistency. See the concern. See the care Now, brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified. I have coveted no man's silver or gold or apparel, sadly to say. Some people take the ministry as an excuse to covet someone else's silver and gold. That's not ruling well. Ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, to them that were with and to them that were with me. In other words, Paul kind of took care of himself I have showed you all things, how that's so laboring you ought to support the weak, and remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said it is more blessed to give than to receive. When he had spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. So these give some meaning, I think, to the meaning of the word rule. And finally, and finally Ruling in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ is also influenced by Christ's own words. Matthew chapter 20. Well, another one of my favorite passages of scripture. Disciples are walking along a road and they're talking. Jesus overhears. He knows what they're talking about. And they're talking about what's great in the kingdom of God. This this i incident occur comes from various different times, sometimes it's the disciples talking in the road. Sometimes it's the mother of James and John, the sons of Zebedee, that come to Jesus. But the question they have is this. Lord, when you're in your kingdom, grant me the right to sit on your right hand or on your left. And Jesus took that occasion to say several things. He said to them, first of all, that's not my honor to give. And then secondly, he proceeded to say that he who wishes to be great in the kingdom of God God be least and the servant of all. Has to have a servant mentality Then he said he corrected another contemporary view of how to govern. He says, you know that the princes of the Gentiles read Rome, but you could read any other Gentile kingdom In history. The princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them. And they that are great exercise authority upon them. And you get the picture, of course, of the absolute reign of the emperors, the kings, the Caesars, where they self-impose their rule on people on over the at uh at the threat of death. But, he says, it shall not be so among you. You, my disciples, you, my apostle, you the foundation of the church You who are the future leaders of the church after I go, you who are going to be out there ordaining other ministers and other elders and deacons. He says, It shall not be so among you. Whoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, let him minister to you, and whoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. A cardinal principle, I think, of biblical leadership. Does the man have a servant mentality? Does he serve Christ and does he serve people? With Christ's words, and with Christ's food. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered undue, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. And because he humbled himself, God has highly exalted him to the place where every knee will bow and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ God continue to give us elders who are Christ-minded. Let's pray. O Most Merciful God, hear our prayers, hear the church, hear the needs for the church, not just our church, Lord, but for the church of Jesus Christ in general. Lord, raise up men. Men to whom these words are not a fairy tale. Men who believe these words wholeheartedly in the scriptures and understand Lord that they have they are given the tremendous privilege of having the treasure of the gospel poured out in in in in in vessels of clay Lord, give men who are hum or humble, Lord, who understand that they are elevated to positions of leadership by your grace and by your grace alone. That you are the one who's done a good work in their life. But Lord may the church see such men May they see them in abundance, populating not just our church, but all faithful churches in our country and in the world. Lord, we pray that you would shower that blessing upon your church and that your people, Lord, would not suffer the false teaching That they would not be tossed to and fro by every wind and wave of doctrine. But Lord, that they would understand the truth. They would believe, Lord. They would believe you in you with a steadfast conviction Believe your word and believe your promises. And live, Lord, in this life for your glory. With the eager expectation of hearing one day you say to them, Well done, good and faithful servant, enter now into my rest. To God be the glory. Amen.