Let's remain standing and turn to the scripture reading for the sermon today from Hebrews chapter 8, beginning now at verse 1 and reading on through verse 6. Hebrews chapter eight, one through six. Yes, hear the word of the Lord. Now, this is the main point of the things we are saying. We have such a high priest. Who is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in the heavens, a minister of the sanctuary and of the true tabernacle which the Lord erected. And not man. For every high priest is appointed to offer both gifts and sacrifices. Therefore it is necessary that this one also have something to offer If he were on earth, he would not be a priest, since there are priests who offer the gifts according to the law. Who served the copy and the shadow of the heavenly things. As Moses was divinely instructed when he was about to make the tabernacle. For he said, See to it that you make all things according to the pattern shown you on the mountain. But now, this man has obtained a more excellent ministry Inasmuch as he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please receive them. Oh well we have finally moved out of chapter seven on Hebrews chapter seven and I hope it was a blessing for you as it was a blessing for me. But I uh was thinking to myself, well, we're going to go into chapter 8 now, and we can get away from the discussion of Jesus as the great high priest. And of course I was wrong. The author here makes something that does something that is somewhat unique In the scriptures, in that he has just got done writing a whole chapter about an important subject, Jesus the high priest, and he comes right out and tells you what he was talking about This is my main point of everything I have just said in chapter 7. If you've got to get something, get this. We have such a high priest. In Jesus Christ, we have such a high priest. After spending the entire chapter Contrasting and comparing Christ, who is made after the order of Melchizedek to the Levites, made after the order of the law, the author brings us to verse 1. where he makes it plain what he's talking about in verse 7, chapter 7. We see immediately You ought to see immediately that for the author, this subject has great importance and great relevance to his audience and to all Christians. Because he wants to summarize just what he has just said, and he tells us his main point in verses one and two And it's those verses we're going to look at today. To the audience of the writer of Hebrews, he says, we have such a high priest. We got it. By God's grace, we got the right die. We got the right sacrifice. You, not just we, but you have such a high priest who is made after the order of Melchizedek A priest forever, because the Lord Himself has sworn. You have the one who is the guarantee of the better covenant. You have the one who continues after his death because he rises and ever lives to intercede. For you. You have the one who is holy, harmless, and undefiled. You have the one who is higher than the heavens. You have the one who never needs to offer up sacrifices for his own sin, because you have the one who is perfect. Forever. We don't need a new way to God. Anybody here remember the rock band Credence Clearwater Revival? Yeah, some of you here if you remember them. And those of you who can't, it's no big deal. But they had a song, and the refrain in the song always intrigued me They kept saying, we've got to get us back to the garden. And I always wondered what they were trying to say with that. I could take it in a good way. You could probably take it in a bad way, too But I think what they were what they were trying to say is that there's got to be another way than the way we're going about things. And maybe the garden refers to Eden. And maybe that might have been the better choice. But if they go back to the garden, they're not going to be held Because they're only going to find the second atom. The first atom. They're not going to find the first. They'll only find the first. They're not going to find the second. Thank you. But it all points out the fact that you don't need man-made religion. And you don't need a man to tell you how to please God and be saved from sin. You already got already of that in the Bible. It's not a man made religion. It's a God made one. Designed from the beginning Designed from eternity, with implications for all eternity, and for your eternity See there Jesus is our high priest before God forever There is no other high priest coming. Because Jesus the Son perfected forever the way, the truth, and the life. There's no new or future way to God for man to find. Or for you to find for that matter. You get tired of this. You can't go anywhere. There's no other where. There's no other place. Many have tried. And all have failed. No matter how no matter how intellectual or no matter how intellectual their arguments are, no matter how Quote unquote, loving and emotive they are, they all fail. Because there's only one One plan. You have such a high priest. What an amazing statement Don't leave what you have. See, I think I think the all probably is relating to the people what is the disease that we all have because of sin. We got itching ears and we got wandering feet. And the itching ears and the wandering feet are connected to a mind and a heart that's prone to go its own way. Don't go there. You can't find what you've got anywhere else And this is what you need. Now, let me just go to the two verses today And believe me, these two verses are are dynamite. They're jam-packed with stuff, good stuff from God. Can can I say good stuff from God? I guess I can. I just said it. Um all right Now of the things which we have spoken is this: we have such a high priest who is set at the right hand of the throne of the majesty in heavens, in the heavens. Notice the use the use of the Greek tense and the Hebrew tense is always very helpful to our understanding. Notice that he says that we have Such a high priest. The tense is present, which means it's a continuing gift that we have. We do not get Jesus, as it were, to be our high priest at some future time after we successfully complete probation. We have him from the start of faith. We have him from the time when we're Okay. Juvenile delinquents in the faith till the time that we're mature adults Christ is with you from the beginning of those first steps in faith. We have such a high priest Not only do we have such a high priest in terms of everything that he said in chapter 7, but our high priest is more than just chapter 7. Because he goes on to say He is seated or set at the right hand of the throne of the Majesty on High. Here the tense is aorist, and the aorist describes action that is completed or finished. Action that's complete or finished. What's the action? Setting. That's the verb. Christ Is done his work as high priest, and he can sat down and rest Because he has nothing else to do in terms of accomplishing your redemption Now he still continues to be your mediator, but the redemptive work which he was called to do is finished. It is over. It is done for. You should be encouraged by that. You should be confident of that. I missed an important point. Back up with the word we have, so I'll go back to that. Sorry about this. But if you have something, if you have something, that usually means You belong to it. If you have something, it's yours. It belongs to you. And what do you have? This great high priest. Everything that chapter seven talks about, and now chapter eight. You have someone who is seated at the right hand of the Majesty on High. You get this? He's currently there. He's currently there. And he's there to promote God's glory, but he's there also on your behalf. Because if he's there, because of his death and resurrection, you're united to him. Now I see you all here in your body But I know where your spirit is. If you believe in Jesus, it's with him And he is seated at the right hand of God the Father. His work is done. Redemption is accomplished. And he passed the torch to the Holy Spirit now to apply the benefits. I'll put in the plug. John Murray wrote a book called Redemption Accomplished and A applied. If you don't have it, get it. It's one of the best little books you can have in your library. It talks about subjects that you will be blessed if you read it. It's not an easy book, but it's not also a difficult book. If you work at it, you can get the points. But when we talk about Christ seated at the right hand of God, the Father in heaven, that's where he is, that's where the majesty on high is. That's who's there. He's at the right hand of the Majesty on high. Jesus never has to get up. And come back to Earth to do things over again. There are no doovers. Isn't that amazing? It was perfect the first time. What he did, he did once for all. His work was completed, is completed. And he doesn't Have to do it again or have to go back and correct the missing part of the mistake. There ain't no mistakes You know, here in this area, when when you go to the grocery store, if you're like me, you're looking for the s the quickest line. To get out of the grocery store. Right? But sometimes you can't find the quickest line. You got all your groceries You got more than the express lane. So you have to go through you know how it is. Sometimes, some days, you know, you can be in a line that stretches a long ways. More than from the front of this building to the back of this building. At least in one of my grocery stores. I don't often get in that line, but sometimes I do. And of course I want to get out of there as quickly as possible. And you're sitting there And it invariably comes to you after you've gone through about six or seven people ahead of you, now you're in the middle of the line. Invariably it happens. I forgot the eggs! How did I do that? I had it all written down on my piece of paper. Now I'm kind of learning to put it into my my phone. My notes in the phone. I'm there, I'm thinking, yeah, I did a good job shopping today. Oh I'm perfect. You know, I've completed my job. But I forgot something. Not Jesus. Isn't that great? Isn't that wonderful? He is seated. To use my example, he bought all the groceries the first time. But now he's rest. He rests from that labor of redeeming your souls. The place where he rests is a place of majesty. Your great high priest Is the one who sits beside the majestic one, the Father, the one who is majestic in power and glory Once again reminding us that in Jesus there is real access to our God. He is in immediate proximity of the five. And if he gets up. He gets up to intercede. On your behalf, In verse 2, he is then described, the Lord Jesus, the great high priest, is described as a minister of the sanctuary. Uh uh and of the true tabernacle which the Lord pitched, and not man This idea that he is a minister, now, does remind us that word minister, that he's involved in some type of work. I've already said it's not so much redemptive, but it's mediatorial. He is, as verse 6 puts it, the mediator of the better covenant. He is intercessing on your behalf as the great high priest. Where is he? He's ministering in the sanctuary. In Greek, the hagio. In the Bible, the Holy of Holies The most holy place imaginable because God is there. He's ministering in the sanctuary. He's also said to be ministering in the tent. The tent or tabernacle. Greek word, mostly tent. But it's used in Acts chapter 7, 44, and follow where we read I think this is probably Stephen's speech, where we read: Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, referring back to ancient Israel. He and he had, as he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles. That's saying they took the tabernacle into the promised land. Had it with Moses through the wanderings, took it into the promised land. Whom God drove out, talking about the Gentiles, who God drove out before the face of our fathers Unto the days of David, who found favor before God and desired to build a temple for the Lord. Or the God of Jacob. Solomon built in a house. However, the Most High dwells not in temples made with hands. As the saith the prophet, heaven is my throne and earth is my footstool. What house could you build for me? Saith the Lord, or what is the place of my rest? Hath not my hand made all these things? The tabernacle, if you remember, consisted of the Ark of the Covenant. the Ark of the Covenant. And once the tent was set up, there was a division between the Holy of Holies And the outer region, which was still holy, but the holy of holies, where the Ark of the Covenant was. Same pattern repeats in the temple. If Jesus were still under the oven under the coven under the old covenant, he would be daily ministering in the outer temple. But he couldn't minister into the Holy of Holies. He couldn't minister into the Holy of Holies. Why? He's of the wrong tribe. Not that he wasn't holy enough, but he was of the wrong tribe. And so Christ is a new priest from a new order. As chapter And he daily ministries, daily ministers in the heavenly Holy of Holies He is infinitely holy. He's not a man like us He is the God man. And those are his credentials for access. Now he ministers in what's called the true sanctuary or temple or tabernacle. It's the place that God built not built, but not man The word true here is not merely meant to as the opposite of false. There's an element of that. But here the word true defines what God built over against what man builds It's the contrast between that which is eternally efficacious versus sacrifices which were only a reminder but could never save from sin It's a contrast between what is permanent or eternal versus that which is temporal and passing away. Christ serves in the eternal, the true sanctuary God built. You can see, if you're sensitive to redemptive history, you can see Bible themes linking together Christ, the great high priest, and the tabernacle With God building the house, even the covenant gets in here In the priesthood of the tabernacle, the tabernacle was first constructed after Israel left Egypt. And God's tables of the law, and Aaron's rod Aaron's rod were placed in the Ark of the Covenant, which was portable and could be carried by the priest. And I think the the idea of Aaron's rod is more important than what I have ever thought. Because the Ark of the Covenant, excuse me, the law of God goes with the people because the law condemns No one is saved by the law. But alongside of the law goes the shepherd's staff. And what does the shepherd's staff do? It guides and leads the sheep. So you have the presence of God in the accusatory mode, and you have the presence of God In the shepherding mode, going with the people wherever they go. Isn't it beautiful? The Almighty God, the eternal spirit condescends to go with the people in the Ark of the Covenant, which the priests carry Clearly a foreshadowing of the day when the great shepherd of the sheep would be incarnate. And would dwell with God's people in human flesh and be the good shepherd who never loses any of his sheep save the one destined for perdition When the people stopped, the tabernacle was erected, and the ark was placed inside the curtain of the Holy of Holies. And God dwelled there with his people. He went with them on the journey Because the ark was portable, but whence they stopped, the tabernacle was set up again as a tent. And the Holy of Holies was still with his people. Because the law is there and the shepherd's staff is there, along with some other things God's continuing presence in the wilderness wanderings really honors his covenant promises to a Abraham and the expansion on those promises. I will bless you and greatly multiply you. In your seed, all the nations of the earth should be blessed But even more. The idea of God dwelling with his people. is a significant part of the Abrahamic promise. Not necessarily said to Abraham, but it's an implication that cannot be ignored. Exodus chapter 29, verse 45, where God says, I will dwell with the people of Israel, and I will be Exodus 19, 5. If you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then you shall be a particular treasure Unto me above all the people, for all the earth is mine And then we read earlier in Leviticus 26, verse 12: I will walk above you, and I will be your God, and you will be my people. God goes with his people, leading them as their good shepherd. After the tabernacle and the conquest of the land comes the temple. A seemingly permanent house for God. And there as Solomon dedicates the temple When all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down and the glory from the Lord upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement. worshiped and praised the Lord, saying, He is good and his mercy endures forever. The glory came down. The Shekinah glory of God, which is the dwelling, Shekina means to dwell, which is the dwelling presence of God with his people. However, the story of the Old Testament reminds us that the temple was destroyed. by Nebuchadnezzar when he overcame Israel. It was destroyed because of Israel's sin and unwillingness to repent of their sin And after another temple was erected by Nehemiah. And the Shekinah glory came again to that temple. And that temple left In various forms till the days of Christ. And then beyond, when in the 70s, when the Romans sacked it and destroyed it. But we now come to Jesus, the great high priest, whose name is Emmanuel, which means God will. with us. God dwelling with you We don't see a symbolic presence of God such as the Shekinah glory in the Ark and the Temple. But we did see the real presence of God as the God-man. As John chapter 1, verse 14 reminds us: the word was made flesh. And dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory Glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. And after the death of the Lord Jesus Christ. God the Holy Spirit forged another dwelling place for this people. But this time It's in their hearts. So that Second Corinthians chapter 6 can say, You are the temple of the living God. God As God hath said, I will dwell in them and I will walk in them and I will be their God and they will be my people. You see all these various different threads of redemptive history being interwoven into this comment that we have in Hebrews chapter eight seemingly a very innocent comment that he is seated at the right hand of the throne of the majesty. minister of the sanctuary and of the new temple where the Lord erected and not banned. The Lord Jesus is seated for you in the new temple. Temple of God in the eternal temple of God and His Spirit walks with you now The main point is Your high priest, Christ, your great high priest, Christ, the high priest after the order of Melchizedek, Christ who is seated in majesty In the heavenly tabernacle made with hands, Christ who has sat down and finished his work, we are in his presence now by faith. faith through union with this Christ, our great high priest. Now in his holy of holies, where he daily ministers for you One day you will be there. Not in your earthly presence, but in your glorified being, body, and soul. And soon all believers, all the creation, will be in the presence of the Majesty on high. With Christ as your great high priest, ministering in the tabernacle of the Holy of Holies, on your behalf forever. Do you see why I said there isn't anything else out there? There never can be. There never will be. I heard the great voice of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people. And God Himself will be with them and be their God. I wish I could go on. That's beautiful. This is what you got. This is what God has given you. Don't remain faithful. Continue, amen. Continue to believe. Lord, help our unbelief. Amen. Let us pray. Almighty God, we ask you please, Lord, to exercise your shepherding ministry Help your people. Lord, help your people to live in obedience to Christ Even in the hard things. The things where our minds and our hearts are fixated Something else that isn't yours. Lord, may we learn to give up those things which Are not glorifying your name. And may we seek, O Lord, to serve the living and true God. We lift our voices in thanksgiving and praise for Jesus Christ, our great high priest. Amen.