Old Testament reading comes from the book of Exodus this morning. Begin at the end of chapter two, and then we'll read all of chapter three. Sometimes these chapter breaks We might disagree with. They are not inspired. So we don't necessarily have to fix our minds on them. Exodus chapter 2, beginning at verse 23. Let's give our attention to God's Word. During those many days, the king of Egypt died. And the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. God saw the people of Israel, and God knew. Now Moses was keeping the flock of his father-in-law, Jethro, the priest of Midian, and he led his flock to the west side of the wilderness and came to Horeb, the mountain of God. And the angel of the Lord appeared to him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. He looked, and behold, the bush was burning, yet it was not consumed. And Moses said, I will turn aside to see this great sight, why the bush is not burned. When the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God called to him out of the bush, Moses, Moses And he said, Here I am. Then he said, Do not come near. Take your sandals off your feet, for the place on which you are standing is holy ground. And he said, I am the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look at God. Then the Lord said, I have surely seen the afflicting affliction of my people who are in Egypt, and have heard their cry because of their taskmasters. I know their sufferings, and I have come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land to a good and broad land, a land flowing with milk and honey, to the place of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites. the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebuzites. And now, behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me, and I've also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come. I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. But Moses said to God, Who am I that I should go to Pharaoh and bring the children of Israel out of Egypt? He said, But I will be with you. And this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you. When you have brought the people out of Egypt, you shall serve God on this mountain. And Moses said to God, if I come to the people of Israel and say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you, and they ask me, What is his name, what shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, Say this to the people of Israel, I am has sent me to you. God also said to Moses, Say this to the people of Israel. The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has sent me to you. This is my name forever, and thus I am to be remembered throughout all generations. Go Gather the elders of Israel together and say to them, The Lord, the God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, has appeared to me, saying, I have observed you and what has been done to you in Egypt, and I promise That I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, the Perizzites, the Hebites, and the Jebuzites, a land flowing with milk and honey. And they will listen to your voice. And you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. And now please let us go a three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. But I know that the king of Egypt will not let you go unless compelled by a mighty hand. So I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all the wonders that I will do in it. After that, he will let you go, and I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And when you go, you shall not go empty. But each woman shall ask of her neighbor, and any woman who lives in her house for silver and gold, jewelry, and for clothing. You shall put them on your sons and on your daughters So you shall plunder the Egyptians. As far as the reading of God's word, amen. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Father in heaven, now as we come to the preaching of your word, help us. We're weak, we're a frail people, we're dull at times. Father, we pray that by your Spirit you would pierce our hearts with your word. That you'd help it, help us, Father. Lay it up in our hearts. Help us to hear all that you have for us this morning by into the work of your Spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. When we consider the account of David and Goliath. We usually think of the situation from the perspective of the Israelite army. They were taunted. They were fearful. They were weak. Scripture gives us that perspective. But for a moment Today, this morning, we might think upon the Philistine army and their perspective on that day. For Goliath went out day after day taunting the Israelite army, his stature, his victories in battle went before him and and the Philistine army likely had much confidence in this giant warrior. The account gives that impression. It's as if the Philistine army was sitting back in their camp eating and enjoying while Goliath was out taunting. Without anyone coming to join him in battle. Goliath was their shield. He was their all in all. The Philistine army was completely dependent upon Goliath's victory or his defeat. There's a problem. There was one who was greater than Goliath There was one who was with the army of Israel who was greater than Goliath, and I'm not speaking about David. That was the living God. He was with David. And as David went out to face Goliath As he went out in front of the Israelite army, God was with the army of Israel. That account may help us understand today's passage. The living God calling Moses to deliver the people of Israel from the hands of an evil ruler. But how would it be possible for the people of God to enter into his very presence? That really is the question that's presented to us throughout nearly all of Exodus. How would it be possible for the people of God to enter into his presence? People of God needed to be called. They needed to be invited back into his presence. They first needed to be called out of their estate of sin and misery. Indeed, they needed to see their estate as such. They needed one to deliver them from that bondage. Bondage to a cruel master before they could be brought back into fellowship with God. That yoke of bondage must first be broken. Enslavement to their evil master must come to an end. The people must be let out. And led into the very place where God dwelt. Well, we know, as we've been studying Exodus, that the generation of Joseph was dead A new Pharaoh was in charge, that he was the one who would oppress the people of God, who'd who'd placed them into slavery, and then issued that command that every son born to the Hebrews shall be cast into the Nile. We've read and heard that Pharaoh's daughter becomes the savior after Jacobed, Moses' mother, places him into a basket, and she, Pharaoh's daughter, delivers him out of that river of death. But forty years had passed, and Moses had to flee because he killed the Egyptian and he was rejected by his people, yet welcomed into the family of Jethro or Ruel. The priest of Midian. Given a wife and has sons. He's become a shepherd. And he's been shepherding for 40 years, and that's where this passage picks up. Today, today I'd like us to see in this passage that the revelation of God lays the foundation for the deliverance of his people. The revelation of God lays the foundation for the deliverance of his people. We'll see that in three points. The God who is caring, the God who is abiding, and finally the God who is promising. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be asking yourselves: is this God sufficient? Is this God sufficient? There is a sense in which God is setting forth his sufficiency before Moses in this passage. So you need to be asking yourselves, is he sufficient? Is he sufficient for me today to lead me out of bondage? And if he has led you out of bondage, is he sufficient for you today to keep you from returning? to bondage. Well first, the God who is caring This passage, as it opens up at the end of chapter 2, is much about the character and the attributes of God. You might say, well, where is that? Well, look. In these verses, especially in verse 24, we have four verbs Which describe much about God. He hears, he remembers, he sees, and he knows. Clearly, Moses, the one who wrote this, is defining God in a sense for his readers and telling them that this is a living God. One who hears, who remembers, he sees and he knows. Well, let's just take a quick look at those verbs and see what they tell us about God this morning. Verse 23. During those many days, the king of Egypt died, and the people of Israel groaned because of their slavery and cried out for help. Their cry for rescue from slavery came up to God. And God heard their groaning. That's just the introduction to God's hearing. We see it again in verse seven of chapter three. He's heard their cry, and in verse nine. He tells Moses, Behold, the cry of the people of Israel has come to me. Three times in this passage, we learn of God's hearing. of the cries of the people of Israel, the sons of Israel, the Hebrews, the people of God. Their cries have now penetrated the gates of heaven. The cries for relief, the cries for help, the cries for mercy finally break into the throne room. Think of that. After many years of slavery and oppression, the people of God open their voices, and their cries now ascend up to the heaven of heavens, into the very presence of God. There's a sense here that that took some time. Maybe not all 400 years were slavery, but that's how long they were in Egypt. But many of those years were in slavery and oppression. It took time to crush their spirit, to bring them to the point of crying out for help. We know that from Proverbs 15 the Lord is far from the wicked, but he hears the prayers of the righteous. We know from Psalm 145 the Lord is near to those who call upon him, who call upon him in truth. And from Psalm 34, the The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit. It took time for them to be crushed in spirit, to cry out in righteousness and in truth. And the result was that God heard. He was near to them. Let me ask you, as you cry out to God, is he near? Do you believe that as you cry out to God, He is near to you? That affects the way that you cry out, doesn't it? It must. And He is. If you cry out in righteousness and in truth with a broken heart and a crushed spirit, he is near. Yes, God hears. Secondly, God remembers. That's our second verb. He hears and Then he remembers. Look at verse 24. And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. I haven't counted how many times he refers to their names, but it's at least three, maybe four times. Gee, the repetition is good for us. Reminds us that this is a covenant-making and a covenant-keeping God, a God who remembers What he's done, what he's done in terms of his covenant. And so here Moses relates God to the reader as the one who first hears and then remembers. He relates that to us in the way we act, in the way that we think. Sometimes we forget. We have to have things put before us. We have to have people reminding us. And oh yeah, now I remember. So Moses puts it in a way that we can understand. Not that God had forgotten, but that he is a God who remembers. He dwells upon his covenant. Simply put, to be their God and the God of their descendants. Yes, God hears and God remembers. But it doesn't stop there. Their third verb is that he saw. Verse 25, God saw the people of Israel. Again, we have that three times. Verse 7 of chapter 3, the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people. And in verse 16, I have observed you. And what has been done to you in Egypt. It seems that this repetition is making it fixed in Moses' mind that these things are true. God hears, he remembers, and now he sees. He's concerned about the people, his people, and what's been done to them. That's the translation we have in the New American Standard. The God of creation, the God who made all things from nothing. The one who sits in the heaven above the heavens has taken time. As he hears the groaning, as he hears their cries, as he remembers his covenant, now he takes time to look upon his people, upon those with whom he had covenanted. He looks, he sees, he observes. It's one thing to see, it's one thing to observe, but and now he he knows. Verse 25 again. He saw the people of Israel and God knew. The fourth verb Other translations put it this way, he took notice of them, he acknowledged them, he had respect unto them. What does that mean? What does it mean that God knew? Of course he knew. He's omniscient. He knows everything. What's Moses telling us? At a minimum. It meant that the Lord understood. As he observes that Oppressive treatment that his people are receiving. He understands. He grasps the situation, if we put it in human terms, because he's a compassionate God. His knowing, his taking notice, his having respect for his people must necessarily flow out of his compassion That the God of creation would take time to understand the plight, the misery, the affliction of his people tells us that he is one who is constantly Watching, constantly sympathizing, constantly pitying, the one who even knows the number of hairs on your head. How can he not know when you're suffering? Do you know God that way? The one who has all authority, dominion, and control, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who knows you, who takes time to understand your situation even this morning, your circumstances, the things, the people, the events that he is. Placed in your life. He takes time to understand that That's our description that we have of him in Isaiah 53. He is a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. He's borne our griefs, he's carried our sorrows, he was afflicted. Do you not know that Jesus Christ knows everything about you? He's a sympathetic high priest. That's our God. That's Jesus. Do you know him that way? He's able to sympathize because he is a man of sorrows. He is acquainted with grief. We're so familiar with that passage in Hebrews 4. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, yet without sin. We kind of forget the next verse. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and Find grace. See, we find mercy and grace in Christ Jesus because He's our sympathetic high priest. Well, things didn't stop there. This hearing, this remembering, this seeing, this taking notice or knowing the plight ends in this, God spoke. All of that comes down in this narrow funnel to this point, and God speaks. He speaks to Moses. Look at verse 4. When the Lord saw that he had turned aside, he he places this bush In the wilderness, he places Moses there to see the bush, and then he brings this flame and this angel within the midst of the Blazing fire. And if that weren't enough to grab Moses' attention, he he protects the bush. And then he speaks. God called to him You see, out of God's hearing, out of his remembering, out of his seeing, out of his taking notice, he could not remain silent. He could not remain a mere observer. He speaks. Moses. And then he identifies himself. I'm the God of your father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. I tells him that I am who I am. You see, only at this point could Moses begin to understand where he was and what was going on. Yes, a supernatural event was happening before his eyes in his presence of sight. Which to our knowledge has not been seen previously and not since. But this caring of God now is extending to his revealing himself. Please don't miss that point. God cared so much that he would reveal himself. He cared so much that he would lower himself, that he would condescend to reveal his personhood to this mortal creature, this This Moses, I am who I am, the only true God, eternally existent, without beginning or without end. This is who was speaking to Moses. And then more personally, I'm the God of your father, of Abraham, of Isaac, of Jacob. See, God revealed himself to this exile, this lowly shepherd, shepherd of another's sheep. The Lord does this to commune with Moses, to have a a certain communion with this Moses, to fellowship with this man, and then ultimately through Moses to his people. You should be seeing a bit of Jesus here. That's what Jesus did. God the Father communes with the Son. And the Son brings that communion down. And so as he communes with us, we're communing with the Father. See, Moses just gives us a little picture of what Jesus does. See all these things then, these four verbs. the fact that he speaks, that he reveals himself, these point to a God who cares for his people, who, as Webster defines, who who looks to them, who has regard for them, who pays attention He is concerned for their safety and their prosperity. And I'm not talking merely about their food and their wealth. I'm talking about their souls. His regard for his people. The only one who cares for it, has regard for another will listen Only one who cares for and has regard for another will remember his interaction, his promises, his prior engagements to be faithful. Only one who cares for his people will take time to observe, to look into, and see how they're doing. Only one who truly has regard for his people will invest energy and effort and time in knowing his people. Only one who has regard for his people will make himself known. Identifying himself, condescending to them, revealing himself. So they can know him and love him and serve him and worship him. All of these characteristics. This nature of the true and living God, who cares for and thus has regard for his people. This was part of the basis upon which they were called out of their estate of sin and misery. It certainly was one of the bases upon which they trusted in his call and responded to it. Yes, the God who is caring. Brings us to our second point, the God who is abiding. He makes his presence known, does he not? That flaming fire, the bush which was not burning. caused Moses to turn aside and to see that great sight, the supernatural, the spiritual realm being seen. The appearance of an angel must have said something to Moses regarding the presence of God. Next week, will Lord willing open this up a bit more fully. This week, this week I want us to see that we serve a God who is transcendent. That means he's above all. He's the God who made the world and everything in it. He is the Lord our God to whom belongs the heaven and the heaven of heavens, the earth and all that is in it. And as Moses explained excitedly exclaims when they've been delivered, Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds and doing wonders? There is none like you among the gods. Yes, he's above all. There's none like God. He is other But Moses is told here so very clearly, and Moses sees here so very clearly that this one has come down. Verse 8. I've come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians. God is not only transcendent above all, but He is also Emmanuel God with us. He is imminent. And so, to reassure Moses, as he is gazing upon this supernatural sight, he says, I have come down. The one who was able to send fire and an angel from heaven such that the bush would not be consumed demonstrates his divine presence by his divine power. Isn't that what Jesus did? He walked upon the water. Absolutely. Demonstrating his divine presence by his divine power. I will be with you. Not only did God come down and make himself known to this Moses. Now he promises. Verse 12, I will be with you. He is sending him to Pharaoh. He's sending him to deliver his people out of bondage, out of the cruel oppression to an evil master. And he reassures Moses, not only is he present, I have come down, but I will be with you. He has identified himself, he has said who he is, I am who I am, and now he is telling Moses I will be with you. God did not leave Moses merely knowing that he cared for his people. No, as he commissions Moses to go, as he sends Moses, he includes this with the sending order, this crucial statement, I will be with you. Why would Moses go? Why would the people follow Moses? What kind of a deliverance would they have? How could they follow this one? How could they be assured of a good ending? How are they going to re-enter into the very real presence of God? Certainly part of that answer was already given as we see the caring of God, the knowing of God, the remembering of God, the hearing and seeing of God. But all of that would have been empty. If he was not also present. See, the power of God is in his presence, isn't it? In a sense. Because the absence of God is death for us. And so for us, there's a sense in which the power of God is in his presence. The absence of God is our weakness, it is indeed Absolute and utter death. It is only the presence of God which gives life and gives life in abundance, and that's what Jesus Christ told us. So this care of God. Was coupled with his presence in order that the people would be convicted of their need to flee from sin. Don't miss that point this morning. The presence of God needed to be known. It needed to be real. That they would be convicted of their need to flee from sin. Indeed, when God was bringing them into the promised land, Joshua is told, I will be with you, I will not leave you nor forsake you. When Jesus was ascending to his throne. He told his disciples, I am with you always to the end of the age. I will never leave you nor forsake you. It's God with us. It's part of the basis upon which we flee from sin, isn't it? Let me speak for a moment to those who are here or listening on the stream or as it's being recorded. Those who don't know Christ as Lord and Savior. You've been listening this morning. If you've been listening this morning and you're not trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, I don't know what you've been told about the God of the Bible. I don't know what presuppositions you have about this living God, but if you're listening this morning, This God that you've been hating, this God that you've been avoiding, this God that you've been running from, is so other than the God of your unsaved mind. You have constructed a God in your heart which is no God at all, a God who does not care, a God who is not present. You have fabricated a God for yourself that you can hate. You've erected within your heart a God not of the Bible, but a God that you can control. A God that you can overpower, a God that you can deny, a God who does not care How you spend all the days of your life or the days of eternity. My prayer today, even this morning, is that the Lord Jesus Christ will break into your heart and deliver you. Look upon this God who's presented to you this morning, the true and living God, the Creator God, who cares so much for his people that he would lower himself from his abode in heaven, even to dwell among the filth. the filthy sins of our lives in order to break our chains and bonds to our cruel master of sin and death. This living God cares so much for his people that he would send his son. To die, a death wretched on the cross at Calvary for all those who believe upon his name. God cares so much for his people that before time began, he would promise to send his son to save him. to save each and everyone who trusts upon him. So the call this morning is to is to lay down, lay down that false God that you have erected, you've created. Lay down your sins and run to Jesus. Cry out for forgiveness. He is present. God is with us. And he will hear your cry for mercy. and forgiveness. That brings us to our third point, the God who is promising. We see here very clearly that God has a plan. How could, how would the living God bring about this Exodus. What was his plan to sever the bondage of the Hebrew people? What was God's plan to respond to their cries for for relief? How is the Lord going to convince the people to leave that which they had known for Not years, not decades, but centuries. Indeed, the people to whom Moses was being sent knew nothing other. Than Egypt. They knew nothing other than slavery to the Egyptians. How would they provide for themselves out of Egypt? Where would they go? But God has a plan. And He reveals it to Moses. A detailed, a descriptive plan. Speak to the leaders of the people, tell them who I am. Gather the elders. Say to them. The Lord, the God of the fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, has appeared to me. Saying, I've observed you and what has been done to you. Tell them what you've heard. I promise that I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt to the land of the Canaanites, flowing with milk and honey, and they will listen. Verse eighteen. That was God's plan. Moses merely to be that prophet Explaining what he had seen, what God had told them, relaying that not mere information, but that covenant of God being worked out even in this time in their lives, bringing the elders with him. And then knowing that it wasn't anything that Moses was going to say or do that would release them, but it would be the powerful hand of God. Verse 20. I will stretch out my hand and strike Egypt with all the wonders that I will do, and after that he will let you go. God was going to be with them, but God was also saying it was by my hand that they would be released by my hand. You will arrive in the land which I'm giving to you. God has promised. Not only did He have a plan, but God promised. He promised to give them a place to dwell with him. As the Lord spoke to Moses when we hear those specific promises which flow out of the covenant, remember. Remember, God had promised to give them a land. He promised to be their God, but he promised also to give them a land, to bring them into a place where they could dwell with Him. That's exactly what he tells them here in this passage. I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt. They had to come out first They had to have that bondage broken first, and then he would bring them to that land flowing with milk and honey. Exactly what was promised to Abraham, the covenant being opened up, remembered, and fulfilled. And not just to have that milk, not just to have that harmony, but to worship. A covenant promise. included that one great promise, I will be their God. I will be their God. I will be with you. And this shall be the sign for you that I have sent you when you have brought the people out of Egypt. You shall serve God on this mountain. Worship. That was the sign. That was the promise. Yes. How would they be sustained? How would he provide for the one million or so as they go out? They would plunder the Egyptians. God provided, He had a plan, promises, and provisions. This is the God who has called you this morning. If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, this is the same God that has called you. If you've been called to Christ, this passage must necessarily speak to you of the God who has called you. This is the God who called you out of darkness. The God who called you out of your bondage to sin. And here we're given part of those bases upon which He called you. He's the God who cared about you While you were still yet in your sins, while you were a slave, while you were in an oppressive, in oppressive bondage with no way out and no hope. You were a child of wrath with Satan as your father who cared nothing for your well-being. It's this God who cared for you so much that he would call you out. As he condescended to speak with Moses, as he set forth his plans and promises for his people's future, where they would dwell with him, the promised land flowing with milk and honey, as he provided for their needs. That they broke away from their evil master, that they would not be left as orphans, and the Lord promised to be with them and care for them. This is the God who made a plan before time began to retrieve you. The God who identified you as one of his own, as one upon whom he had determined to set his everlasting and eternal love. This is the God who came for you in the person of Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, sometimes we get caught up in viewing our circumstances, the things around us, our lives, through the wrong lenses. Sometimes we view our lenses, our lives, through lenses that are not provided by God. Sometimes our lenses are foggy and scratched and dirty. Lenses that were handed out by Satan, so that we might view the things of this world in the way he desires us to view it. Sometimes we use lenses that look upon Goliath. And see him as the one we depend upon. Whether Goliath is the world, our refrigerator, whether it's our job, our spouse Sometimes we see the world as too lovely or as our all in all Sometimes we see the world and everything in it as our enemy, as being that which is against us, and that God has not been very helpful or caring. But there is in this passage this morning a call to us, a call to you. Look through God's lenses. Look at everything through his divine lenses. Look at everything that you experience and knowing correctly that God does see and hear and remember His covenant and that he knows that this living God is intimately involved and engaged in every detail of your life. The living God of creation is present. This is the one who's come for you in power and in glory. He's left his heavenly abode to come and live He's come to be with you, Emmanuel, certainly in the person of Jesus Christ, but he has ascended, and the third person, the Spirit, now continues to abide with you. Those are the lenses. Through which you need to look upon all things. Yes, he's come to deliver you from your bondage. But even more, he continues to save you from that bondage, from returning to that bondage. He does have a perfect plan. And he's keeping his divinely constituted and covenant promises for each of you this morning as you Trust in Christ. Yes. The revelation of God lays the foundation for the deliverance of his people. Goliath was a false hope for the Philistines. Jesus Christ is our only true hope. Praise be to God. He cares for us, He sees us, He knows us. us in Christ Jesus. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you, we praise you. You have loved us from eternity past. We thank you for your Son, our Lord Jesus. The one who is sent to deliver us from our oppressive master, even sin and death. We praise you, Lord. Help us. Help us to see our lives, all things. These lenses that you have given us this morning. Thank you for caring. Thank you for regarding your people. Thank you for speaking to us. Revealing yourself to us. We thank you for your perfect plan of deliverance and salvation. And we ask all these things in Jesus' name Amen