Give you Bibles, and we're gonna read Ephesians chapter six, fourteen to seventeen. You can find that on page eleven sixty-three. Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth. And having put on the breastplate of righteousness, and as shoes for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace. In all circumstances, take up the shield of faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one, and take the helmet of salvation. and the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God. This is the word of God. Amen. Brothers and sisters, please have a seat. Today we're gonna continue with the Christian's instruments for war. This is part three. But we only gonna be going half of it. So it's gonna be part three A. There is a lot of information and I don't wanna take your time longer than than it is. Required here. Can can you hear me? Okay. The question that we should we should all be asking is, am I prepared for the fight? Because we're gonna be talking a fight about a fight that is going on between Satan and us So keep that in mind all the time, am I prepared for the fight Let's go to Ephesians 6, 14 to 17. Stand therefore having your loins girt about with truth. And having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shall with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation. And the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Brothers and sisters in the faith Jesus said, Which one of you intending to build a tower? Site sits not down first and counts the cost. It is important that That Jesus uses these words. So we can keep that in our mind and be able to To understand where it is that the Lord is coming from I say unto you, which of you before sitting out to do battle with such a formidable foe as Satan should not sit down first and answer the following question. Am I prepared for the fight? The subject of the believers' warfare with Satan has been much neglected in our day. We're not paying much attention to that. We are too busy with other things, the phones and games and vacations. To both, to both the detriment of God's people and God's worth. But this has not always been the case. For in precedent generations The reality of this conflict was an everyday experience of God's suffering saints. Think of the martyrs in the early church who sealed their testimony with their own life's blood. In the Roman Coliseum at the end of the at the hand of the wicked mag magistrates, an apostate religious leaders, from wild mobs who turn against them, inspired by Satan, nonetheless, to oppose and persecute the people of God. Moreover, the same kind of treatment has been experienced in every generation of Christians all over the world. All you have to do is read some of the many books written about Christian martyrs throughout the history of the world. That would catalog the persecution of God's people from the early time of the Christian Church all the way down to more recent times. Not many years ago we were watching that on on on TV, exactly the same. That was explaining how Christians had been persecuted in every country. At some time or other. Every imaginable brutality and atrocity known to men has been and still is being perpetrated against the saints of God. Yet We know little of that type of combat in our country. In fact, such persecution oftentimes seems so distant. and remove from our present situation that it is considered by many to be irrelevant It is imperative that we as Christians begin to understand that what is occurring somewhere else in the world may one day in the future be knocking at our door. And then it may be too late. The ultimate job of the Christian church is to prepare us for eternity. And for the judgment seat of Jesus Christ. And when that does happen, the church has fulfilled its mission. And for that to happen, the preaching doesn't have to be popular or it doesn't have to be palatable. But it does have to be true. And it does have to be accurate. And the most important thing It does have to be according to Scripture. And when you read the Scripture, you run into persecution. As Paul said in Second Timothy, chapter three, verses twelve Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. When he said all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution If you don't live godly in Christ Jesus, the implication is probably you you won't suffer any persecution. You can be a secret disciple if there is such a thing Like the boy whose parents were afraid because he wanted to work in a lumberjacks camp and they say it is so rough there. They will surely torment you for your Christian testimony. But he persuaded them and he went to his to this Lumberjack camp. And he wrote back uh home and said, I have been here almost four weeks and no persecution. No one has ever discovered that I am a Christian yet. Well, if no one has discovered that you are a Christian You are safe with the world. But on dang on dangerous footing with God We must not be deceived, however, into thinking that we are exempt from a spiritual model. Because we are really not Satan Because we are really not Satan has more than one tactic and he will use whatever he can, whatever it is available. Whatever his senses, your weaknesses might be, to ruin your testimony and to hinder the work of God anywhere in the world. It may be temptation to immorality. Some apparently are more disposed to falling in that area than other areas. If that is your weakness, he will have something come your way. Just be patient. Or maybe he will tempt you in the area of jealousy or envy He might attack your mind, planting in your mind doubts. Doubts about your own salvation doubts about the Christian faith, doubts about certain Christian doctrines, even vital Christian doctrines. He may attack you with discouragement. Discouragement can be disabling. I speak from experience Most of you can speak from experience. When you are discouraged, you are down. You are on the sidelines. You are not in the game any longer. You can do what God equipped you to do for the body of Christ. So Satan may come and try to discourage you He may tempt you with unwarranted fear or with filthy imaginations. And we will talk about this a little longer later. He may raise up liars to slander your reputation. That is a paralyzing thing for sensitive and godly Christians. when someone begins to slander them, either in the world or in the church Well, Satan may appeal to your ego to catch you in pride He may seek to take advantage of your desire for security in life, to drag you down with materialism and things of this world. What would it take for Satan to give you? To keep you out of the church? What is your price? Maybe a football game, maybe a technique Do you see what I am seeing uh what I'm saying? He can be very clever. He can even give gifts. He has a very large expense account with great sums of money. This for bribery. And Christians are so naive that sometimes we believe that all these material blessings come from God. Brothers and sisters, maybe it did. Maybe it didn't. Does this draw you closer to God? If it does, it is from God. If it will bring you farther away from God, you've been bribed To be neutralized. Make no mistake about it. The battle is on. And Satan will fight you all the way to your deathbed. And even there he won't quit. He will assail you with doubts and attacks upon your conscience. I had the privilege to have conversations with a pastor that had attended many saints of God when they were just about ready to enter into the presence of Christ. It is amazing the kinds of things that happen, he said. Sometimes there is a gradual. Sometimes There is a great despair. He said I had to quickly point them back to Christ. On whom on they have put all their confidence and trust from the beginning. Well, we must be prepared. That is the subject of Ephesians 6. The putting on the whole armor of God. And speaking of this armor, William Gurnall, that lived in the 1617 to the 1679, he was an English Puritan. Author and clergyman. And he wrote in 1655, In heaven we shall appear. Not in an armor, but in robes of glory. He comes from his notable book, The Christian in Complete Armor. I recommend that you read it. It is a rather interesting book. But here, the pieces of armor specified are to be worn night and day, he says We must walk and sleep in it, or else we are not true soldiers of Christ Brothers and sisters, that quote came again from his treatise, The Christian in Complete Armor. Which is an exposition of Ephesians 6, verses 10 to 17. The exposition has 261 chapters, 1472 pages, on 11 verses of scripture. But it is well done. Well, this brings us to verse fifteen in our present study. And the next piece of the armor. The second purpose for the sandal in Ephesians 6. 15 And your feet shard with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace Paul says having your feet shot. Well, one of the most distinguishing features of the Roman soldiers. for of the Roman soldier's battle gear, were his boots or their boots or literally the sandals. Because they were not boots as we think of boots nowadays. The sandal had a thick leather sole with accompanying Shin Shangards constructed into the bottom of the salt the sandal where Hubnail boots or metal cleats right into the bottom just like Like you will have basketball spikes or track soles. This type of foot gear has worn was wo was born by the enemies or the armies of Alexander the Great The sandal had threefold purpose. First of all, they provided protection. A familiar device in warfare in those days was the was to place wooden spikes. on the ground. They would take these spikes and they would dig a hole in the ground and place them there. So they protrude from the ground only a few inches. And they were very sharp They would cover them with brush. They were placed randomly so they were not aware where they were going to pop out. See all the work that they did to To defeat the enemy. You may think that that was not going to work because all the men had very heavy combat boots. But the armies at that time did not wear boots. It has hand-ofs. Alexander the Great was the first to begin to use this kind of a boot. And then the Romans picked up on it and perfected them even more The goal was putting those little spikes on the ground Well so when the advancing armies would be running and charging at you, all the sudden They would come down with their foot on one of those spikes and the soldiers would be totally incapacitated. Tremendous pains will shoot through your body. The thing would would be stuck in your foot and blood gushing out. Eventually infection would set in and you might even die with that. But you surely wouldn't be in the bottle. They the purpose was fulfilled. Knowing this, the Romans had especially made shoes. Shoes so that If they were to step in on something like that, it would not penetrate through the thick leather spikes, but they would actually go over and continue on forward. The second purpose for the sandal was to give the Roman infantry the ability to stand firm hand to hand in hand-to-hand combat. The meter studs on the bottom of the foot gear enabled the Roman soldier to stand firm without sliding, without slipping, and without falling. They were a tremendous assistance and combat, if properly used. And the Roman soldiers knew that They used short, chappy steps and they moved much lighter, much larger armies with that technique Short, choppy steps, a simple technique developed because of the foot gear and the proper use of the foot gear. The third purpose for the sandal. The boots provided great agility and mobility. Nothing is more important in an army than mobility. The general that first grasped the importance of that aspect of warfare was Alexander the Great. The tremendous speed that Alexander deployed his troops with completely stupefied the slow-moving enemies. They were not a match for him. In his final victory, Alexander with with an army of 300,000 soldiers trained and Discipline defeated an army of two million Persians in battle. The Persians were solid. They were standing. They were Stationary, they couldn't move and Alexander's men were attacking them from every conceivable angle. Then divided them up and isolating them and destroying them so r really they were not much. Well, you see all and much more is in the back and the mind of the Apostle Paul. When Paul says to Christians that The word fearing and standing against the devil. Be sure you have your feet shot With the preparation of the Gospel of Peace. Well, brothers and sisters, the question of the day is: what is the spiritual application of this analogy? I know a little longer. The key to our interpretation will turn on a properly interpretation of two terms. The term is preparation. Have your feature how? With the preparation. The word preparation is a Greek word which was used in classical Greek in a sense Of establishment of firm foundation. It means being firmly grounded And establish. The second term explains the first. The second term actually is actually a phrase. Gospel of peace. Have your feet shot how? With the preparation of the Gospel of Peace. In other words, what is What is that makes you establish and causes you to stand firm? The Gaspel of Peace. Brothers and sisters, always remember this. By nature, all men, and listen to this, by nature all men are sinners. And sin alienates us and separates us from God. I'm gonna repeat this. By nature all men are sinners. Nasam Not a few. All are sinus. And sin alienates us and separates us from God. If we go to the book of Isaiah, chapter fifteen nine two, reads this reads this way. But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you that he would not hear. And if we go to Ezekiel chapter 18, verse 4, we read: Behold, all souls are mine. The soul of the Father as well as the soul of the Son is mine. The soul whose sins shall die. Brothers and sisters in the faith, that is the condition of every man born into this world. Everyone. We are separated from God and we are alienated from God. We are God's enemy by nature. From birth. We are at war with God. Therefore we must be reconciled. Somehow peace must be made With the Almighty, or we shall perish. That is the message of the Christian gospel Christ has made peace between God and men. How did He do it? Through the Bud, the spell, and the cross. That's how he did it. Paul says, For he has made him to be seen for us, he who knew no sin. In order that we might be made the righteousness of God in him Man's greatest need is for peace with God. I'm gonna repeat this again so it can be on your minds all week. Man's greatest need is for peace with God. The Spurgeon summarized this in four words. Christ died for me. Very simple. He was not a complicated man. Christ died for me. The Apostle Paul puts it this way. And you the ones were alienated, enemies of God. Christ has reconciled to God through his own blood. And he says that in Colossians chapter one, verses twenty to twenty-one. For the ones I use in the Bible here, page eleven sixty-eight. And by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him with the things On earth of things in heaven, having made peace through the blood of his cross, and you who once were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now he has reconciled. We can also go to Romans chapter five, verse one and two. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God. through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom also we have access by faith into this grace in which we stand. How can you stand before God? Only as your feet are s are shod with a gospel of peace. And rejoice in hope of the glory of God. Man's gloriosest need is for this peace with God. And the conditions for this peace have been totally made already in Christ. That is the news. That is the new good the good news. Now God calls upon all men to repent of their sins and believe the gospel. And this should be a message that we take when we go out on the streets. Repent of your sins and believe in the gospel. So brothers and sisters in the faith, the question you need to answer before we move any farther is Have you genuinely repented of your sin and believed the gospel? Is the gospel It's the gospel that prepares us and establishes us to have peace with God. And prepares us to do battle and to fight with the devil. Unless you have repented of your sins and believed the gospel You are Satan's unknowing servant. You are under his sway already. This is the first part of the message. That's a lot of history. And I didn't want to skip the history because it's important for us to know how these things about develop. And now we're gonna go We're gonna save the other part for next time. But let's go to our Father in prayer. Our Father, thank you for another portion of your word. You have privileged us to read and hopefully understand. Thank you That you sovereignly shard our feet with the preparation of the Gospel of Peace, and that we believe and trust in Christ our Savior. Help us never, help us to never downplay its significance That provides us all that we need to have victory. Protect us against the snares of the de of the evil one. And gives us stability and strength to stand uh to stand as you to stand as you told us in the war against the evil one Just as the Roman soldiers could stand with those plated shoes, we could stand because our roots go down deeply. And yet at the same time we have great mobility and stability. So we are prepared to do battle on any front. I desire so much that the people of God who are listening to this message get grounded. It is an unusual church People come and go. They transfer in and out. And yet we pray that they take something with them. that will last them for time and eternity. While they are here on this earth be able to successfully live a Christian life to the glory of God and be light in the darkness and solve where there is corruption in their individual lives, although perhaps none notice And this life will count for eternity, far beyond anything they will ever imagine. Each one has a significant sphere of influence in home or in the marketplace. May they never downplay your calling upon their life. In particular areas of service that you place them in, may they see themselves there as the soldiers of our Lord Jesus Christ. May they have all the armor on and may day by day Stand toe to toe, hand to hand. Combat with the devil successfully For all of you that are here tonight and have heard this message and still don't understand. What are we talking about? The gospel is your first order of business. Because Cause them to repent of their sin and to believe in Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior. Amen and amen.