Beloved, turn to Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11, and we'll read verses 23 through verse 29 of God's infallible word. An inspired word. Hear now the word of God. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents. Because they saw he was a beautiful child, and they were afraid, excuse me, but they were not afraid of the king's command. By faith, Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt For he looked to the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured us seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood. Lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land, whereas the Egyptians attempting to do so were drowned. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated Well, in this section of God's Word, we have seven verses which speak about Moses. The man of God, whom God used to deliver God's people from Egypt, from their slavery in Egypt. And these seven verses reveal to us that from birth until death, Moses was surrounded by and had faith. in the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Verse 23 Is all we're going to have time to look at today. There's a this a very rich section, and I'm going to take my time uh going through it. Um but 23 focuses on the period of time around Moses' birth And we will see the crucial role that faith played even at that point in his life. And the first thing we want to look at, as the text reminds us, we want to look at the faith of Moses' parents. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents. Because they saw he was a beautiful child. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Moses' parents' faith, then, you see, is on display for us. And it's commended. It's commended before us. And Exodus chapter 6, verse 20 tells us actually the names of Moses' parents. Amram took Josebel, his father's sister, to wife, and she bare him Aaron and Moses. Moses' parents were living in Egypt at the time, and it was a difficult time. There was slavery and bitter bondage. to the Pharaoh, the Egyptian king. And by faith, they hid their son They hid their male child, Moses, for a period of three months. This is cited as an act of their faith. God is telling you that Moses' parents have faith in the Almighty and especially in his promises to Abraham. Their faith, as is true of all faith, is God given. It's not that they were smarter. It's not that they were more in tune with God than anybody else. But God had given them To hear the promises of Abraham and to believe in the promises of Abraham. They are descendants of Abraham racially, but more important, they are children of Abraham. Who believe in the covenant promises that God made to Abraham, especially in thy seed Shall all the nations of the world be blessed? Their belief in that seed is belief in Jesus Christ, our mediator For as Galatians chapter 3, verse 16 reminds us, now as to Abraham and his seed were the promises made He said not, and to seed seeds as of many, but as of one, and to thy seed. And then Paul adds, under inspiration, which is Christ. Now, Abraham's parents might not have been able to give his name, but they believed in the principle. They believed that God was going to raise from Abraham's seed A deliverer, an ultimate deliverer, the penultimate deliverer of his people. They steadfastly believed in that promise. And the effect of a believing in that promise is really this also. That their baby boy, or any Hebrew baby boy, might just be the fulfillment of that promise. The long-awaited seed of Abraham is going to come. And that could be their Moses. It also didn't hurt that their infant son is described as a beautiful child. I'm sure that endeared them to him, to them. The uh I don't know exactly where the King James comes from on this one because it calls him a proper child. Uh I imagine proper maybe meant something differently and Old King James English, but a more effective translation of the Greek is that he is beautiful, well-formed, well-pleasing, a wonderfully beautiful child. He was very unusual in appearance. I think we can deduce that It's just the kind of appearance that might cause people to think that this child is special And in their wildest moments, think a deliverer might have a similar appearance. That's how we tend to think as humans, although remember Isaiah 53 tells us that Christ had no beauty, outward beauty, that we should desire him. But nevertheless, it is true that as sinful human beings we see a beautiful child and we Tend to think good things is coming from that child. Why did their parents, why did Moses' parents, with such a great treasure given to them by God, choose to hide him? Especially, why would he hide why would they hide him from the other Hebrews? When they may have suspicions that their little boy Moses might be the deliverer. And that's where Exodus 1 comes into the story. And especially to Exodus 1, verse 8, and following. to the events that surround the birth of Joseph. Excuse me, Moses. The situation in Egypt, you see, had changed from the days of Joseph and his family. We all know the story of Joseph, great man who was taken by his brothers Because they despised him, they were jealous of him, because he they pry he had prophesied that they would all bow down to him. Uh I'm sure that didn't endure them uh to him, uh endear them h them to him. uh him to them. Um but um they took they took Moses uh uh took Joseph and um and they sold him into slavery and he eventually winds up in Egypt through circumstances In prison for nothing of his own doing, falsely accused, rises eventually to the position of second in command. To the Pharaoh, and given a major responsibility, which he executed flawlessly And they were the whole nation of Israel at that moment consisted of Joseph's brothers and his parents living in Canaan. And there was a famine in Canaan, and that's how all this came about, that uh they uh the long loath Joseph is discovered by his by his brothers. And the long short and short of the story is the whole nation picked up and left Canaan and came to Egypt. And they're seventy in number, they lived. But That worked out well for a while, but eventually there was a pharaoh that rose up and did not know Joseph. And this pharaoh was not as benevolent. This Pharaoh acted on the basis of suspicion that these Hebrews who are living in our midst are growing so numerously and so rapidly that they might overwhelm us. In time of war and join with our foes. See, it's always about politics, isn't it? Let's see At least in governmental circles. And so this pagan king devises what he thinks is a foolproof map Method of ensuring that abortion will work And of course it would have been foolproof if all the contingencies worked to the king's plans. But God, as Joan is well put, he's the God of the details. And the God who has all the contingencies, first and second and third causes figured out from all of eternity. His plan is perfect. And so He charged Exodus 1. 22, Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every Hebrew boy that is born, you shall cast into the river. And every daughter you save alive. Well you see what he's doing. He's practicing. He's practicing Infanticide. And another thing to think about, the Hebrew daughters who do live, where do you think they're going to end up? If there aren't any Hebrew men around, when they become marrying age, are they gonna marry Egyptians Most likely. What's that gonna do to their faith? The real I don't think the Pharaoh figured this one out. But what that's that what's that gonna do to the vitality of their faith? And it's like the rest of Israel throughout history, God warned Israel not to intermarry. Because it will disrupt your faith. It can destroy your faith. Because you embrace the faith of unbelief, the pagan, as opposed to believing in your God. And that's in evidence everywhere in the scripture. So Moses knew that their beautiful son would be drowned in accord with the king's murderous command if they didn't hide him. And so with for the first three months, the plan works. Somehow Pharaoh finds out that the Hebrew boys are not being drowned as he is commanded. I'm sure the text doesn't go into his emotions at that point, but as a s but as a despotic king, I'm sure he was livid. He doesn't realize precisely what he's doing from a spiritual point of view. He especially doesn't realize that he is nothing less than Satan's pawn in this activity. In his plan to circumvent God's will, even as Satan tried to circumvent God's will first in the garden. And received instead the curse that was planted upon him, a curse which told Satan that you will not be successful You will not reign, and the woman's seed will triumph over you. And before that point, and ever since that point, Satan has furiously tried to circumvent that curse. And well he might. But without success. Satan is using Pharaoh in a vain attempt to stop his own death sentence and the end of his kingdom. He's trying to kill God's seed. It's Moses' seed, but it's ultimately a picture of killing God's seed. He will make the same impossible attempt upon another child. In Revelation chapter twelve, verse one, you know he Satan doesn't learn. As clever as he is, he doesn't learn when there are things related to God's Word. He thinks he can employ the same methods and it will come out to his advantage. But God is is going to make his plan a reality And it's the same plan of his promises that he announced to Abraham. In your seed, the seed of the woman, all the nations of the world should be blessed. Your seed will triumph over Satan's seed. And so in Revelation 12, you have this story in Revelation of there appeared a great wonder in heaven. A woman clothed with sun, the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars, and she being with child travailed in birth and pain to be delivered. And there appeared another wonder in heaven, a great red dragon. Having seven heads and ten horns and seven crowns on his head, and his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven and cast them into the earth, and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered to devour her child as soon as it was born But she brought forth a man who was to rule all the nations with a rod of iron. That's echoes of Psalm 2. And it goes on and it says there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon. The dragon fought back with his angels and revered. prevailed not. Neither was found any more in heaven. The great dragon was cast out, and that old serpent The devil and Satan, who deceives the world, was cast out of the earth. Was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. This is kind of symbolically in Revelation, but you get the picture. I mean, it's obviously identified who the dragon is. And the devouring of the child is a reference to his attempt to have Herod the Great destroy Christ. The seed of the woman. For when you turn to that announcement of the wonderfully beautiful newborn Christ child, Matthew chapter 2, verse 16 and 18, we read this. When Herod saw that he was mocked by the wise man, he was exceedingly angry. and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and all the coasts thereof, from two years under, two years old and under, all the male children According to the time which he had spoken of the what to the wise men, and so forth. Attempt to destroy Christ. He wasn't taking any chances We'll get all of the Hebrew boys two years and under. And his men did follow that plan, and there was much weeping. In Judah and Jerusalem, as you would imagine. But it's at this point that the story of Moses' birth gets even more complex For we read in Exodus 1, when we read Exodus 1, we find that Moses' parents had accomplices. In their deception of Pharaoh. There were others who also feared God more than the king. There are two people who are mentioned in Exodus 1 who aided Moses' survival greatly. They don't have books of the Bible written after them, but they are mentioned in the Bible as people who demonstrated faith. So I have to understand, and we have to understand, that these two people had the same faith as Moses, as Abraham, as others in this passage. That God would raise up a seed who would bless all the nations of the world from the descendants of Abraham. And these two people were the midwives who regularly attended to the birthing of the Hebrew children. Most of us do not know their names. Probably today when you heard their names, Shephra and Pua. I d I thought about titling the sermon The Faith of Shifra and Pua. That might get some action on the internet. But uh but I decided not to do that for for a reason, a good reason. And I'll tell you that in just a second. You don't know their names, but I find it amazingly praiseworthy of God. That he knows their names. And he put them here. He put them here. Now I don't know for sure that these two midwives were Moses' midwives But they're among at least the category of midwife in Israel the ones that Pharaoh called to give an accounting of what they were doing. He told them in verse 16, When you're doing your labors, if it be a son, you shall kill him. But if it be a daughter, she shall live And then the king of Egypt, apparently not seeing any declining birth rate of Hebrew males, called the midwives to account, Shifra and Pua. Why have you done this thing The midwives, of course, said to Pharaoh, this is one of those examples where when you're called before kings, don't worry about what to say, for God will give you the words. And in essence, it's it it it might be true. It might be true. The midwives said to Pharaoh, because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women. They are lively and are delivered before the midwives get there. But God was pleased. It says he dwelt well with the midwives and gave them homes. Because they feared God more than the king By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hid three months by his parents. There's a conspiracy of four faithful people, at least four. Amram, Jacobel, Shephrah, and Pua. Four who believed God's promise regarding the seed of Abraham. And these four aligned themselves with God's promises, believing and even trusting. God, that even to the point of defying Pharaoh and their own possible death. They preferred, you see, to live Excuse me, they preferred to die on earth and live again in heaven, serving God and his redemptive promise, than to live on earth preserved their earthly existence and their possible livelihood. Each one played a role in using their God given gifts and abilities to promote the welfare of Moses. I want you to think about that. Each one used their gifts What do you want us to think about? I don't think You have to be a person who has a faith in isolation from the rest of God's people. I think there's a strong statement here about the collective ministry of the body of Christ. The body of God's believers, the faith of Moses and his friends You see, because you know, God enabled each of these individuals to use their God-given abilities and gifts to promote the welfare of Moses. Though they are all slaves to a human master, they choose to believe in God and be a slave to him. First, to serve him and him alone first God in his blessing and they are enabled the four to live out their days And God granted them more blessings on earth and blessings in heaven for the days to come. It may not be the case. Always. It doesn't mean, however, that God is against you for being faithful. It means that your time has come to be with him in glory, and you don't have to be here anymore. In this world. For their faith in God, Moses lived to redeem his people from the slavery of Egypt in accordance with with God's plans. Moses, you see, is a pivotal figure in the Old Testament because he does foreshadow, even though he's not, he does foreshadow the great redeemer. Jesus Christ to come, the great seed of Abraham, the heir of the promises, the Son of God Christ delivers believers today from a land called hell, a land of slavery and bondage to sin. And he carries us on eagle's wings to the promised land called heaven. So you believers will be in the presence of Jehovah and Jesus, his beloved Son, forever. And you're partially there now. But you're going there Amen. Let us pray. Our Heavenly Father, we commend this word to the working of your Spirit To the blessing, to the hearts of your people, to the comfort of your people And we thank you, Father, for your abiding faithfulness. For you are not a God who changes his mind. mind, who changes his story midstream and brings to pass a whole new set of rules. The rules are known The way is known. The way is clear. And it will never change. We thank you that Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow In his name we give you glory and praise. Help us, Lord. Help us to navigate the difficult waters which lie ahead, the uncertainties. The vagaries. Always, Lord, with Jesus Christ as our anchor. We pray it in his name.