Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we now come to this passage and we have been blessed. Father, these names were difficult. We don't know where they were. And yet, in the end, we see that your promises were fulfilled. That you are a faithful God. And so help us now, Lord, as we consider your word. Add your blessing to the reading of it and bless us. Apply this word, this precious word, to our hearts this evening. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What in this world is most important to you? What is primary? Paul, the apostle, as he writes to those in Philippi, tells them that he's been imprisoned for the Word of God. In prison, because he loved, cherished, and sought after, constantly sought after the word. He preached the word. He would not deny the word In short, the word was primary in Paul's life. The Word, Jesus Christ. was his all in all, and he was willing and did suffer in prison for it In one sense, that brings us to our text tonight in Joshua. This, in a sense, is the end of the division of the land. We know that the Israelites had been wandering through the wilderness for 40 years and now they finally get to the promised land. They have defeated all of their enemies, as we even read at the end of this chapter. And the Lord gave them rest on every side, just as he has sworn to their fathers, not one of their enemies had withstood them. Up until this point, the The writer of this book has been describing the battles, describing the victories brought about by the Lord, by the captain of the Lord's army. And now he's given them rest. But before he did so, the land had been divided up amongst the twelve tribes of Israel. With one exception, the Levites. They were not inheritors of the land So here in this chapter, what we see is the cities that now were the inheritance of the other eleven tribes were now distributed, 48 of them, to the Levites So they would have a place. Even though they had no inheritance in the land, God was giving them nothing of the land. He's giving them himself. The Levites had the Lord as their inheritance. And so we see now this this division, so to speak, this this tendency of the Levites to be able to live in the land and be supported and provided for by the other eleven tribes as their work was was in the tabernacle. Their work was serving the Lord. So that's what we see tonight, the very word of God being central in this passage. As now the Levites go out and they're spread out amongst the twelve, or excuse me, the eleven tribes. You might sum up this passage This chapter, this chapter 21 in Joshua, this way, the Lord Jesus Christ has placed the word near to his followers so that it would be preserved and become primary. The Lord Jesus Christ has placed the word near to his followers so that it would be preserved and become primary. See that in three points tonight. First the progression of the word. Secondly, the preservation of the word, and finally the primacy of the word. Progression, preservation, and primacy. Before we begin, I just want you to be thinking about that question as we go through this passage tonight. What is primary in your life? What is first? In your life. Well, first, the progression of the Word. There's a wonderful sense in which we see the progression of the Word of God here in this chapter. You might be thinking, well, I don't even see that word here in this chapter. I don't even see a reference to the scriptures in this chapter. Where is it? And that's a very appropriate question. It all ties back to the Levites, doesn't it? And in a sense, the movement and the progression of the Levites. Now, if you remember, as the Israelites were going through the wilderness as they traveled, the tabernacle was the centerpiece of their camp. Tabernacle was that place of worship. Tabernacle was the place that represented God's dwelling with his people. And in order to protect the Israelites, the Levites would camp around the tabernacle. They were a protective hedge, so to speak, because if any one of the other eleven tribes came in contact with the tabernacle, the the very dwelling place of God, uh they would be extinguished immediately. And so they couldn't come in contact with the tabernacle, they couldn't come close. But the Levites could, because this was their work. They guarded the tabernacle, they kept the tabernacle. And in a sense, as you've heard from the preaching from this pulpit, they guarded the word of God, which was within the tabernacle. That was their job, that was their work. But now, as they've entered into the promised land, as the land has been divided up, as the eleven tribes have now taken possession of their particular geographic regions We see a change. No longer are the Levites to camp around the tabernacle or the tent of meeting. Indeed, camping is over. The tabernacle is now set up in Shiloh. And it's fixed for a time being. The tents are put away. The movable tabernacle attent of meeting is now in a sense set in one place, not moving. No longer Going from place to place, the pillar of cloud and fire is no longer directing the Israelites to move. No, they have now settled They're in the promised land. They're occupying the promised land. This place that that God promised to them again. The Lord gave them rest on every side. Not one of all their enemies withstood them. The Lord had given all their enemies into their hands. Not one word of all the good promises of the Lord It failed. So now God's promises have been fulfilled up to this point. They are in the promised land. Stationary. Six hundred thousand men, plus women, plus children, are now scattered throughout the entire promised land, no longer concentrated around the tent of meeting, around the tabernacle, but now spread out. Each tribe having its particular geographic location or boundaries. And now the Levites move from being concentrated around the tabernacle, around the tent of meeting, out. into these forty-eight cities given to them to inhabit, to be tenants in, from the various tribes. We read it. All the various tribes that gave them cities. They've been scattered. They've been distributed, so to speak, living within the tribes, within those particular cities that they've been given to be tenants in. You see the progression? This wonderful progression. Levites no longer congregated, but now spread out amongst the entire nation. And remember, they were guarding the tabernacle, the tent of meeting, the very word of God, the place where Moses received, directly received the very word of God, but now Moses is dead. The tabernacle is fixed. The Levites are no longer protecting it. They're sent out. Sent out amongst all the tribes. They're in a sense we have this picture that they're taking the word of God out amongst the entire nation. There's this local presence of the Levitical priesthood amongst all of the tribes now. The Word of God, the picture is the Word of God now going out and being near, very near to the people who need it. No longer was the word of God being given merely to one man, to Moses. Now the word, the picture is this word going out and progressing to all the nation. Now we don't know if that was actually happening. We don't know if the Levites were actually carrying Moses' scriptures. But we have a picture of it, don't we? A progression of the Word of God from the tabernacle now going out to the 48 cities amongst the entire promised land. Can we see that throughout the history of redemption? That there's a progression to the Word of God? It begins in the garden with Adam. He's the only one to actually, to our knowledge, hear the very word of God, the command of God. regarding the tree of knowledge of good and evil. A singular man. And then as they sin Against the Lord, against God, Adam and Eve together hear the very word of God regarding the punishment that they're going to receive. Their sons, Cain and Abel, come before and make offerings to the Lord. And then Cain Receiving the rebuke of God, the Almighty as He kills this brother. And then fast forward to Mount Sinai Where the entire Israelite nation stood at the foot of Mount Sinai and heard the word of God Word of God going out, progressing, so to speak. And so we might consider that progression from the tabernacle, the physical temple. Into the hearts of the people of God. We read it tonight in Romans, didn't we? But what does it say? The word is near you, in your mouth, and in your heart. You see, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight, you have become the temple. Your heart. Your heart holds the word of God. It has progressed, so to speak, from the Garden of Eden now to residing in your heart. It's in your mouth, it's in your heart, it's near you. The word of God has progressed From the pages of the Bible and it's been planted in your heart. It has progressed Question for you tonight, is it progressed from your head now to your heart? Has it moved? Has it progressed in such a way that you can say now that the word is part of me That takes prayer, doesn't it? It takes the work of the Spirit, doesn't it We can intellectually as Christians understand the very words of God to an extent, but have they penetrated and have they progressed to our heart? Oh, we we must pray that the Spirit would do that work Just as Jesus proclaims to his disciples the parable of the four soils. Sometimes our hearts can be that bad soil. We must pray that the Lord would make our hearts that good soil. Where the word is his plant, it would take deep root and produce a rich, bountiful crop within us. progression of the word. Brings us to our second point, preservation of the word. This passage gives us a sense that there was an obligation on the part of the eleven tribes to care for their brothers, Levites, who were caring for the word. Not only were the eleven tribes to give or allow the Levites to have particular cities within their inheritance, they were also called to provide for them pasture lands. Did you see that? Constantly throughout this passage, we read of the city, and then appended to that is with its pasturelands, with its pasturelands, with its pasturelands. The people were called not only to provide the cities, a place to live, but also to care for them, to care for the Levites. A provision from the nation, from the people of God, providing for the Levites. Not merely to allow them just to live there, but now uh to provide that which was necessary for their sustenance so that they actually survive on the land. The pasture lands Would go along with those cities in allowing the Levites to provide for their flocks or for their crops. See, God ensures that the Levites would be provided for and kept. They were tenants on land provided for those who owned the land, the other eleven tribes. So we can suppose that these cities were kept up by those who actually owned them. Think of the landlord and and landlord's place. He wants to keep it up. even as his tenant lives there. That's the idea it seems. So we can suppose that these cities were kept up by the tribes that had them as their inheritance. But that was also a preservation of sorts for the Levites, by the people of God. And it provides a picture, doesn't it? Of the preservation of the Word of God. If the Levites were the guarders, the keepers of the Word of God, as they were taking it out as it was progressing, they were also called to preserve it, guard it, keep it. They were guardians, so to speak, of the Word of God. Now the people, the other eleven nations, were called to preserve the Levites. So they could protect and guard and publish the word through the priesthood. We're called to the same task today, aren't we? Christians, the church. Not that we have a tribe of Levi that we're seeking to provide for, no. For every Christian is part of the priesthood. However, you're called to preserve the Word of God, aren't you? Paul mentions this in his letter to the saints in Rome that the Word of God was given to the Israelites. They were entrusted with the oracles of God. That means that they were called to keep it. They were entrusted with it. That they might keep it and guard it. Keep it within their hearts and preserve it. That's what we read even this morning from Deuteronomy. As Moses is finishing up his his five books and and getting ready to uh be gathered to his creator, his maker. He writes this, the word of God shall be on your heart. The commandments shall be taught. Talk diligently to your children. That the Israelites were to talk of them when they sat down, when they walked by the way, when they lie down, when they rise up, that they were to bind them. On their hand, and they shall be as frontlets between your eyes, you shall write them again on the doorposts of your house and your gates. Preservation of the Word of God And all that teaching, talking, binding, writing, it's a picture of the Word of God being in the heart, isn't it? Yeah, we can we can write the Word of God on our doorpost, but ultimately the Lord wants it in our hearts. Constantly. And consider that we see this idea of preserving the Word of God in Joshua, don't we? The work of God, the revelation of God. Every time a memorial was set up. Remember as they as they crossed the Jordan, what was Joshua to do? He was to have one member of each twelve tribes take a stone from the river, bring it out, and place it on the bank of the River Jordan. Why? It was a memorial. It was to cause the children to ask their parents, what's that? And the parents would be able to respond, well, that's a memorial. That tells us, that reminds us of what the Lord did in separating the waters of the Jordan to bring us into this land It's the work of God. It's the faithfulness of God being shown forth. It's a memorial. It's a preservation of the Word of God. It was intended to be a witness to what God had done and how He had provided. for these in the last forty years. Preserving of the word and work of God for the children and their children's children. preservation of the word. You're called to do the same today. I'm not talking about storing up Bibles and putting them in libraries. That's not preservation of the word. You're to lay it up in your heart. You're to guard it. You're to keep it. So that you can tell future generations about it. Consider what God has done in your heart. If you're following Jesus Christ tonight, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ tonight for your very salvation, a change has occurred. You now desire the things of the Lord. When prior to the planting of the Word of God in your heart you had no desire for God. Now you desire to know more of Christ and to be like Him. When prior to the planting of the Word in your heart, you desired nothing of Jesus Like the twelve stones that were not on the bank prior to the Israelites crossing over on dry land. You are now a memorial. To the word and work of the living God, as those stones have now been placed. Your memorial to the death and the resurrection of the Word Himself. You see, the Lord Jesus Christ is preserving his word in and through you. That's why the Great Commission is people, is the church, is saved sinners going out. Because these have now become a memorial. To the Word of God, to the power of the Word of God that has changed them. That's preserving the Word and the Work of God He is through you preserving the work of the Lord Jesus Christ for others to hear about him. Yes, the preservation of the Word. It's the work of every Christian. Which brings us to our third point, the primacy of the word Well once again, we're reminded in this chapter that the Levites had no inheritance from the Lord in the land. It's very specific in the Word of God, as Moses proclaims that God's desires for his people Yes, they were to be given the promised land. All eleven of the twelve tribes. The Levites were the exception. They were not to have an inheritance in the land, in the promised land. They were landless. They were not promised. They were not given title. They were not given real possession of any part of the promised land. And we see it here once again. The other eleven tribes had to give them cities that they would have a place to dwell in, a place to live. They had no inheritance. The Lord was their inheritance. Again, we've read that before, and now we see it. You see the effect of that truth. The Lord was to be the center of their lives. We saw it as they camped around the tabernacle. He was to be the center of their lives. That's the picture we received. How they worked. The tabernacle was their work. When they weren't carrying it from place to place, they were working in it. And around it, and guarding it, and keeping it. Everything about their day was centered upon, focused in the one who dwelt in the tent of meeting. Not a day went by when they were not working in or around the tabernacle, carrying the tabernacle, setting up the tabernacle, taking down the tabernacle, and thus serving the Lord their God. We might put it another way. The word was their inheritance. We use that term interchangeably. We see that word used interchangeably throughout Scripture. We see it in John chapter 1, in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. Do you see? The word was their inheritance. And we know that the Levites were teachers. All we need to do is turn to Ezra, a scribe. But he was a scribe who was the son of the son of the son of the son of the son of Aaron, the chief priest. He was skilled in the law of Moses. And he was a preacher. Nehemiah tells us that Ezra was a preacher They told Ezra to the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses that the Lord had commanded. So Ezra the priest brought the law before the assembly, both men and women, and all who could understand what they heard. He's a preacher. He brought the word. He loved the word. He was skilled in the word. The word was primary for Ezra. And so as we think of the Levites having an inheritance in the Lord only, we might think of their inheritance as being the very word of God. And so as the promised land was the primary, was the inheritance for the other 11 tribes, the word was primary for the Levites. This picture gives us the primacy of the word for the Levitical priesthood. It was not the world. It was not the creation. It was not the land. It was not their homes. They were mere tenants. They were mere guests to stay at the will of those who actually owned and inherited the land. The Lord was their inheritance. The word was their inheritance The word was their central concern. Not the world, not the creation, not the land, but the word was primary. It's interesting that Christians are referred to as the priesthood You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. You see, all Christians, all believers, all followers of the Lord Jesus Christ are part of the priesthood, the royal priesthood. And so we see this link, don't we, this connection between the Levitical priests and believers today. As the Word of God was primary for the priesthood, the Levitical priesthood, the Word of God is to be primary for you today as you're following Christ. As you're a believer of the Lord Jesus Christ, as you're have you been saved by Christ, you're part of the priesthood of believers, and so the word of God is to be primary for you. You've been set apart. Like the Levites. They weren't like the other eleven tribes. They were different. They were mere tenants in the world. Just as Peter writes, behold, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. He was writing to believers, and he referred to them as sojourners and exiles in this world. It describes you. It describes Christian today. You're mere guests staying at the will of another. You're aliens, so to speak, in this place, such that the word of God will be primary in your life. Is it? Or are you so tied to the land, so tied to this world that the creation has become an idol for you? What are you focused on? What are you fixed upon? What is primary in your heart tonight? The land was not primary for the Levites. So they could set their hearts and minds on serving the Lord If the land is cre uh or if the creation is primary for you, you can't and won't set your mind on serving the Lord through his word, will you? Jesus said you can't serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or will be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve two God and money. And you can replace the word money with anything. You cannot serve two masters. You cannot serve the idols of your heart, whether it be your home, whether it be your bank account, whether it be your spouse or your children, at the same time, serve the Lord. You can't be a slave to unrighteousness and righteousness at the same time. You can't love and treasure the creation, whatever part of it that you do love and treasure, and at the very same time love and treasure and truly follow Jesus. the Word of God. The Levites were given a very tangible and physical way to express the primacy of the Word of God in their hearts as they lived on borrowed land. Is that your mindset tonight? Your heart attitude toward all that God has given you in this creation? Do you consider it to be borrowed? A mere tenant, such that your mind and heart can be set primarily on the Word of God. See, Satan woos you to do just that, to set your heart and mind on this creation, to cherish the pleasures of this world. But brothers and sisters, the real riches are not here. Paul tells us that so clearly, Oh the depth of the riches And wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and how unscrutable his ways. Where is all that? It's in the very Word of God. Paul is saying, he's telling us, he's telling you that the riches, the true riches, are in the Word of God. Indeed, He's calling us, the Spirit is calling us, to make the Word of God primary. In our hearts, in our lives. Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ has placed the word near to his followers. Such that it would be preserved and become primary. Paul. Paul was imprisoned for the word. He was imprisoned for his love and the primacy of the word in his heart. And yet at the same time, he was set free by the word. As it did become primary in his heart. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you and praise you for your word. We thank you for this picture that we received tonight of the Levites and and followed the primacy of the word for them and taking it out, progressing into the nation, into these forty-eight cities, so that the word could be near. Your people. We thank you, God, for making the word near to us. We thank you for planting it in our hearts. And we pray even now, Holy Spirit, we pray that you would make your word primary in our lives. That we would release the grip that we have upon this world, upon this creation, that we would recognize that our inheritance is not this land, but you. Help us, Heavenly Father, work in our hearts, Holy Spirit, that we would make the Word primary in our hearts and lives. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.