It's an easy turn to learn and not a hard turn to sing. And wonderful lyrics by a godly man. Well, the scripture from which I will preach this afternoon are twofold Slight hodgepodge as it were. And I'm preaching on the message of the duty of the sheep. So it speaks to us in our role as members of churches. uh and those who are above us, uh elders and ministers of the word. And I will let me see what we have. Hebrews chapter 13 verses 7 and 17 and then I will turn to 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness to the end that the man or woman of God may be adequate, equipped, complete for every good work. Since that's so, let us not simply hear or read, but prayerfully ask the Spirit to impress upon us the truth of this His word that we might follow and obey. Hebrews chapter thirteen, verses seven and seventeen. The writer tells us Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you. And considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. Verse 17. Obey your leaders and submit to them. For they would keep watch over your souls, as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief. This would be unprofitable for you. And 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Verses 12 and 13. The Apostle Paul writes, But we request of you, brethren, that you appreciate those who diligently labor among you. And have charge over you in the Lord, and give you instruction. And that you esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Live in peace with one another. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you set us apart as your people, each one of us first. So I'm growing up in faith. Never knowing a time when they did not know and love you, for they were raised in a godly household, and you gave them the blessing of a new birth early. Others Coming to faith at a later time. But you then place us as your people, some growing up in a church and others coming to one, in a local body of your people, a gathering, a place where we worship. But you call us to be in those particular places. And you call us not simply to be in those places as though we were, as it were, Lone Ranger Christians. But to be members of that body, accountable to you through those over us in that body, to follow you and to not sin. Oh Father, you so place us, but our sinful hearts, redeemed but sinful hearts, at times will still kick against the goats and and fight against this. So Father, cause us Causes to understand what you tell us, what you teach us, what is our role, what is our what are we called to, what is our duty as your sheep. We ask that you would show us. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I remember when I was when I was first saved. Well, strange. I grew up in s I grew up in a church going household, an Episcopal church. Uh and I was a choir boy, acolyte, Christopher, carrying the cross and a little procession. There's a picture of me wearing these little robes and things and singing in the church choir. It was a boy soprano at one point. Uh it hurt my vo hurt it hurt my throat to try to do that now. But uh all those things and I remember growing up I enjoyed going to church. I enjoyed going to church. I thought I'd in fact at one point I thought I want to be a minister someday. And I was going to church in my twenties, and I'd had various travails and things in my life, and I was still going to an Episcopal church at some point. And I remember I happened to meet somebody who turned out to it's interesting, she was a A pretty blonde out in the congregation that I saw from my perch in the choir loft, as it were. Chatted with her after the service and turned out finding that she and her twin sister had left the church years before when they were saved. And went to find a conservative Presbyterian church to worship in. Their parents still went to the Episcopal Church. And this woman I talked to actually later thought the Lord called her to be in ministry And she was a PCUSA minister. We became friends later and I wound up being able to, in a friendly way, tell her, I don't think the Lord calls women to be ministers, but we we we agreed to disagree. But she suggested I read some things. I asked her about some things about theology. And I remember she suggested some books. One was Calvin's Institute. So I mean she didn't give me little things to read. Calvin's Institutes. But there was another book called Knowing God by G. R. Packer, and I was saved through reading that book. It was a wonderful description of the Christian life. And I was saved and I was changed. But the strange thing in retrospect, I mean I I was convicted of my sin. I remember having this image of like You know, like almost like I was falling through the hole into Alice in Wonderland and I was like this giant kaleidoscope and all these uh all these things were changing. My thoughts and everything were changing. And in looking to respect retrospect, I remember thinking, what was different after I was saved? It seems like an odd question to ask. But before I was saved, if you'd asked me Do you think the Bible's true when it describes history? I would say, yeah. You think chapters 1 and 2 of Genesis described happened exactly as described? Oh yeah, sure. God can do it. God's God. And do you think what it says about Jesus in the New Testament, he did that? Oh yeah. Do you think these are accurate quotes? Oh I'm sure they are. I actually thought all this. And because oftentimes when a person comes to saving faith, one of the things that changes is what they think of the Bible. And there's a sense in which that didn't change for me. And this I still thought I I I I didn't I it wasn't like there were parts I didn't think they were true. But what I realized in hindsight, a part of what has changed Is that it now I now so believed it that I now realized whatever God had in here, I was now liable for I was liable. If there was a command in here that applied to all believers, it would applied to me. If there's a command in here that applied to men in particular, applied to me. Now the only ones that wouldn't would be like for w women, daughters, wives. I've got a wife, so I'm sort of curious what God is saying to her, but it doesn't it's not my command. But anything that applied to me, I now had to understand that I needed to start doing that. Or be on the road to changing to do that. I mean I couldn't pretend something didn't apply. It all applied. And I think of that when I come to I think of that when you come to Hebrews 13, 17. Because when you come to Hebrews 13, 17, you have a passage, and Hebrews is a letter written to believers. And it's okay good. We're all a bunch of believers here. We probably all call ourselves Christians. And it says, obey your leaders. Okay. They're talking about President Biden? Governor Hogan? No, I mean they're they're talking about life in the church. So you might who leaders? Leaders. What do you mean leaders? Who? And it's assuming I've got leaders. And then it tells me how I'm supposed to act in regard to them, submit to them. Submit to them Then it tells me these people keep account of my soul. Keep account of my soul. Oof. I wouldn't want that responsibility. Most of us would say. If I'm liable for every command in Scripture that might apply to me, and likely does, I mean, because this one's to general believers, obey your leaders. Well, how do I obey it? I mean, how do I obey the command? This is directed to me. It's directed to you. It's directed to you. It's directed to him. And then when I look over, you know, obviously the First Thessalonians 1 about 5, it's talking about, you know, leaders in the church and life in the church as well. It reminds me of the fact that some people there's some teachings in Scripture that are not there by the words we use, but they're there nonetheless, like the Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. All three are described as divine, so we refer to the Trinity. The word's not there though. Church membership is the same thing. Membership is not there. We think, oh, it must be a 20th, 21st century concept. You're imposing that on the text. No, how do I obey this text? What do I do with it? Like Al Gore years ago had a movie called An Inconvenient Truth. Well this for a lot of people they're inconvenient verses. They want to ignore it. They just pluck one out and say, we're not going to pay any attention to that one. Well, I've got, what do I do with this verse? And what you do with it is you have something of what we refer to as church membership. And you look at other parts of Scripture to flesh out how you do that. But what this implies is that somebody is voluntarily putting themselves under the authority of somebody else, because I'm not under the authority of every elder in the in the nation. And that person knowingly is saying, yes, I will put myself over you in authority in the life of the church. So let's look at this text and see how this text and the other text teaches this and points at this because it talks about we are sheep. Remember what I was reading from the Old Testament, Ezekiel. We are sheep. We heard that this morning. She put us pasture. You know, w we're gonna learn what what he's teaching us here. So you know in the In the decades following Jesus' ministry, crucifixion, and resurrection, you have the church growing, and you see the people of the Christian community more and more being pushed out of the temple and the synagogue. Because Jesus and most of what happens in Jesus' life is around 30 A. D. and the temple isn't destroyed until 70 A. D. So you have people being pushed out of the same. Who's going to lead them? Who's going to be in charge? And most of the earliest Christians were Jews Uh who would have realized that Jesus was the promised Messiah. And these men and women would have been attending all the festivals, the you know, festival of Booze, Passover. uh Yom Kippur, um Rosh Hashanah, all these different things. And so, you know, they would have and these people would have been looking to the Pharisees to teach them what was godly stuff. But And of course it was their responsibility to teach from the law, but let's hear what Jesus says about them in Matthew uh let me see Matthew 23. Oops. The scribes and the Pharisees have seated themselves in the chair of Moses. All they tell you to do and observe, but do not do according to their deeds, because they say things and they don't do them. They set up heavy burdens and lay them on men's shoulders. They are unwilling to allow to move them so much as a finger You know, do not be called rabbi, only one is your teacher, you're all brothers. Do not call anybody on earth your father, for one is your father, he is in heaven. Do not be called leaders, one is your leader, that is Christ But the greatest among you will be your servant. You see, God had promised in Jeremiah chapter 23, 3 and 4, that I myself will gather the remnant of the flock out. And we'll raise up shepherds over them to tend them, just like Ezekiel had spoken to. And we see that the shepherds that the Lord has set uh uh over us in the church are ones he refers to as elders. We're overseers. And today I want to look at what is our responsibility, what is a member in the church's responsibility as a sheep. As a church member. What is your role? And we want to look at God's word in two different passages to be guided by Him, the one from Hebrews and the one from First Thessalonians. And we see here described three ways that we should view our shepherds. As either pastors or ruling elders. First, we should imitate them. Second, we should obey them. And third, we should esteem or appreciate them. Well let's look at let's look at how we should be sheep as God calls us. The writer of Hebrews is writing to a group, mostly Jewish Christians, and has written a wonderfully encouraging letter to them. And here at the end of the letter Chapter twelve, verse twenty-eight, he's talking about, you know, since we receive a kingdom which can't be shaken, let us show gratitude, we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe It's just wonderful. And looking down to chapter 13, verse 7, he says, Remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, and considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. Well, why imitate their faith? Why? Because they brought God's word to you. And are even now bringing God's word to you, feeding you through it. These leaders were the agents, the messengers of the gospel to these believers. I mean I think of I remember when I first went to a a truly believing church, I wound up leaving the Episcopal Church and I wind up, you know, going to a Presbyterian church. And I remember, you know, you know, starting to meet with one of the pastors, and they had three or four pastors on that particular church on staff, and I wound up meeting with him on a regular basis, and he wind up you know, sort of discipling me, helping me learn. I mean there's a sense I grew I knew I knew Moses, I knew David, I knew the stories. But not as a, you know, how do I follow a believer? And so I knew I had to re-relearn it all. That's what I was learning, and he was just guiding me there. And I was grateful for him. I wanted to imitate his faith too. And I didn't think he was sinless, but I knew that he was somebody who tried. by God's help to follow. And so, you know, we see this we see the same c same kind of grateful imitative reaction described in 1 Thessalonians 1. 6. And Paul says, You also became imitators of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much tribulation with joy in the Holy Spirit. So the the why and when did they receive become imitators? It was after they received the word. You're not going to imitate before you are changed. And in imitating those who shared the gospel, they began to be imitators of the Lord Himself, who was the one who, of course, was doing the work of the Father. So they and we are being conformed to the image of the Lord. Remember, we're told by Paul that we're being conformed to the image of Christ So it happens from the time you're saved, the time you're born again, till the time you physically die. You are being conformed to the image of Christ over that course of time. God's working on you. You know, a s a second very important reason to imitate the faith of the of these leaders, those who led them to the Lord and who were taught them about the things of God, is that their word is true. The text in text in Hebrews here, remember those who led you, who spoke the word of God to you, considering the result of their conduct, imitate their faith. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday and today and forever. He's not changing. This truth is not changing. Verse 9. Don't be carried away by varied and strange teachings It's good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by food. You don't need to worry about what kind of food you're eating. Through which those who were so occupied were not benefited. It's like you don't need to be worried about eating certain holy food or something. So we're going to imitate their faith because we know the ends of their lives. We can see them. We can see how their lives have been tracking. They have continued faithful. And and we also know in whom they've trusted. You know, if you look at if you look at verse twenty-two um chapter twelve They could trust in Jesus because his word is true. It's interesting. It says chapter 12, verse 22 and 24. You've come to Mount Zion to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, myriads of angels. And to the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood. Which speaks better than the blood of Abel. This is what he's brought us to. We can trust in Jesus because his word is true. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He doesn't change. He keeps his promises And we must be warned against those who would lead us as elders who don't teach Christ, who go against things that you can see clearly in Scripture. And it reminds you of the passage in the book of Acts where it talks about going to a place called Berea. And they talk about the noble Bereans who would examine what Paul was telling them in the scriptures to see if it was so. I mean they found it was. They found what he said made sense. And Paul is extolling them, saying, these are good people. They're acting the ways that you should. You should be like these people too. So we must be warned against those who would lead us to somebody who does not teach Christ and not teach according to his word. We have to imitate our leaders, our shepherds, because their word is true. And it is true because it comes from the word alone. Last, we imitate them because of the result of their conduct. as it says, or the outcome or result of their conduct or way of life. See, this is the first generation of of leaders In some places slightly second, but mostly first generation leaders when this is being written. I mean it it's hard to sort of take ourselves back mentally to what we're reading in the sense that this was written almost 2,000 years ago But these are people who who got up in the morning had to make something to have for for breakfast, might have gone out someplace to work or worked in their home shop They had so many of the same kinds of things that we face. They lived lives in certain ways much like ours. And they had the same kinds of fears and hopes that we do. What will happen to me and my family? You know, what is you know what what happens when there's an illness in the family or an illness of someone that I care about and things like that. It's the same thing. And so We look at here here they're looking at the result of the conduct, and we have the same thing today. So this first generation of of people is the people that they're being told to follow and to learn from. And the writer of Hebrews knows how they you know how they end, as it were. And so Peter says in his second letter, we have to be all the more diligent to make certain about his calling and choosing you. So it's imperative in growing in our Christian lives that we seek to be taught by and learn from and imitate our teachers in whatever church we're in. Our shepherds in the church. That is how we inherit the promises of God as we are faithful in our roles as church members. And the Lord has made You know, we are going to inherit the promises the Lord has made to those whom he loves who are called according to his purposes. So in addition to imitating our shepherds, the elders of the church, we are also to obey them. We o also to obey them in the Lord. You know, if you look at you know the church um You wind up having a statement in church membership. I don't have the word here exactly, but you would you would often have a statement when you join a church to submit yourself to the government and discipline of the church. And because you understand it reminds me of of being in a new members group once and the person leading the new members group said something to the effect of, you know, when you join the church as a sinner with a group of sinners here. You effectively are coming in and talking to the elders among others, and you're saying, I want you in time to come, if you see me in sin, to get in my face. Now I'm not going to want you to, then, probably. And I might fight with you and be upset, but I want you to keep doing it. I want you to keep at it. Because if possible, I hope the Lord will use you to pull me back. That's what you're coming into in joining a church. Now, God willing, that won't happen. With most families, it don't doesn't. The worst kinds of sins that points to don't happen But at times they do. Why is the person a shepherd who's keeping account of your soul if there aren't some things that they have to be careful about? So you you want that person to be coming back. You in your life and your sin may be going off like that hunted sheep that Jesus spoke about. And you want that elder, whether he's a minister or a ruling elder, to come after you. Come after you. It's interesting. It reminds me of the uh Psalm 23 has a wonderful passage in it. Where it points out that goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life. I remember when longest time I always used to think that goodness and mercy were sort of like two puppy dogs Trailing along, following following whoever it was who's walking along in his life, and they're just tagging along and they're just following me all the days of my life. The word follow in Hebrew there is the exact same Hebrew word when it says that Saul pursued David. It's more typically translated, chase after or pursue. Goodness and mercy are going to chase after me all the days of my life. Well I want that's that's comforting because if I sin, I want him to come chasing after me. Or else I might be truly lost. I want God to come after me if I put if because of my own sin I put myself in trouble. I want his goodness if I'm his, I want his goodness mercy to come chasing after me and pull me back. That's the whole point. So we are to come back, and we are not only to obey them, but to submit to them, which reflects more of an attitude. I'm disposed to go along with what you ask me to do. Why? Because I understand who I am in the church and who you are in the church and what I agree to. And, you know, it it's basically it's a disposition, it's an inclination. It shows that even when you're not always in agreement, you go along with it Even if you don't have enthusiasm because it's the Lord's it's in the Lord's power that you're able to submit. It's like in marriage. Like a reference to the wife submitting to the husband. She doesn't know it's not like she only submits when she fully agrees with what he's saying Well no, that's not what that's not what it's saying. There are times she would submit when she doesn't really agree, but the husband's firm in the in the in what he's saying. They talk it over some, but it's left with, yes, I that's what we I think we should do. And it's likewise in the church. It's likewise in the church. We are to obey and submit, as Paul says in 1 Corinthians 16, 16, be in subjection to such men. We need to be open to being in subjection to the leaders over us in the church, because that's how God sets it up. Not simply because it's some strange Presbyterian way, it's what God has said. Next, God's people, the sheep of his pasture, obey the shepherds because they're under their care. We're under their care. Verse 17 says, Obey your leaders, submit to them. Why? Because God has put them in a position to keep watch over your souls. Wow. And first Thessalonians five twelve, Paul says that such men have charge over you in the Lord. We're not told about what it's like in some strange Imaginary circumstance, he's saying that's the way it's supposed to be in every single godly church. That is supposed to be how it's working. If it's not, the church has to be working in that direction. Trying to, we want to be going in the direction to do that. That's how it's supposed to be. And the degree of responsibility these men have is such that they will give an account to the Lord for how well or badly they did it. That's what God calls them to do. When a person comes, agrees to become an elder, they are understanding and agreeing. That's what I'm buying into. Because that's this is Jesus has set this up so people can follow him. How we can live our lives as his people in the world. He set this up. So, you know, it's it in keeping watch over their sheep in the flock, they're expected to protect and guard the sheep, make sure none are lost, make sure they're well fed. That whole Ezekiel passage was talking about what shepherds should be doing. To mix metaphors, there is like the master whose servant multiplied the value of the talents he had been given, work with their flock to, in the power of the Holy Spirit, bring forth fruit from the gifts To the people of God under their care. There should be blessings for God's people when elders are doing what they should be doing. And when the people are are following. We are not our own, we've been bought with a price. So, the Lord has set shepherds over us. We must not only accept this, but rejoice in God's provision. So we as God's people, his sheep, also obey our lords, our shepherd also obey the shepherds because we have been warned by the Lord of the results of disobedience. We are to obey and submit joyfully and not with grief, because this will be unprofitable for us. You know, what happens if we don't listen to those the Lord has put over us to lead and instruct us? We could obviously easily we could obviously easily go to ruin. Looking in the book of looking at the book of Proverbs Which I meant to have before I turned here. You say how I have hated instruction, my heart has spurned reproof. I have not listened to the voice of my teachers, nor inclined my ear to my instructors. I was almost in utter ruin in the midst of the assembly and the congregation. That's the kind of result that we have. Remember when Paul talked about the Lord's words to him? When he met him on the road to Damascus. He's going there to persecute Christians. He says, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It's hard for you to kick against the goats. God had brought the Messiah as He had promised, and Paul, at that time known as Saul, a godly Jew Should have been wondering when might God bring the Messiah? Who might that be? What you know, please, Lord, bring him today. Open my eyes that I might see him. Any godly Jew should be thinking this Here the Messiah comes, you know, heals for years, takes care of people, teaches, is crucified, and then people say they saw him again, and somehow he says, no, it can't be him I mean Saul should have seen him. You know, Paul Paul fighting them, fighting Christians, was fighting God. And that's what Jesus said. So we must be hesitant to resist our elders. I mean, obviously, they can't bind our consciences on matters where God has not spoken, but where he has, we need to follow what they teach us. And last, we need to, in addition to imitating these elders and then obeying or submitting to their authority, we must appreciate or esteem these elders and ministers. And it first Thessalonians five verses twelve and thirteen we wind up having The passage is saying, Appreciate those that diligently labor among you, have charge over you in the Lord, give you instruction. Esteem them verily highly in love because of their work. They have charge over us. They labor among us. They give us instruction. That's obviously part of why you would appreciate them, are thankful for them. You know, you esteem them, you think well of them, you speak highly of them, um, you know, because they've done these things for you First Thessalonians 1 verse 6 speaks of those who became imitators of us and of the Lord. Paul is talking about those who received the word in much tribulation with joy of the Holy Spirit. It's like the passage I read from Job where he's talking about rejoicing and unsparing pain. Well, here he's talking about, you know, receive the word in tribulation with the joy of the Holy Spirit. But these are the people who give you that message. There is a peace, there is a delight, there is a contentment, a happiness at the innermost part of your being. That comes from knowing God and living your life according to His will. And part of that is your life in the church. This is certainly part of Part of what the Lord has given to us. It is the people is the place where we come and worship Him on the Lord's Day. That's one of the Ten Commandments. We are to come worship Him on the Lord's Day. But the place where God has particular speakers, a particular man set aside Learned in his word, who will teach and feed God's people. There are other elders alongside him whose role is also to help teach God's people. And then there's authority over the flock to care for their spiritual needs, to to to know the to know the flock and care for the flock. So the flock doesn't go wandering off in a sinful direction. We also esteem or appreciate our shepherds with giving. You know, give of our time and our talents. Joy is an attitude, an inner condition. And and it shows itself, it manifests itself in giving, in a pouring out of thanksgiving. I mean, you know, it it's like it bubbles out, like I was talking with somebody earlier about You know, hearing exclamations of Amen and praise is just it's sort of like an obvious reaction to what has happened. It's like it's uh you know the natural thing to see a beautiful sky is to almost exclaim out loud And for us as God's people, we should have sort of a joy and a contentment and just sort of almost a sense of an audible sigh of thankfulness that we are in the place that God has called us to be And some of that is just simply we're in a godly church where someone who loves the Lord and seeks to teach this world truly is teaching us. And there's an elder or or one or more men over top to help with with caring for the flock in that church. Lord, thank you, thank you. You know. And how do we show our esteem? Well sometimes you tell the person you're thankful. Doesn't have to be a big public thing, it could be one-on-one privately. But you tell them you're thankful, you you tell them you pray for them. I mean, first, pray for them. Don't tell them you pray for them if you don't. But pray for them. And then tell and let the person know that. I remember there was a woman who was like ninety-three, ninety four And I'd go to at the time she died, but I remember going to visit her a number of times, and every time I'd go see her, she said, Pastor, I want you to know that I pray for you every day. And I remember when she died, things like that that wasn't happening anymore. But I was just but it was thankfulness. Thankfulness and uh when she said that I was thankful by itself almost, but immediately was like, Lord, thank you. I immediately turned to the Lord and said, Thank you, Lord, that you led this woman to do this. And it was an encouragement for me. Likewise with your elders, with your minister. They're encouraged if they know that you're praying for them. And they they can't just assume it. Let them know. Again, privately. You're not trying to be seen by others. But talk to them. Let people know this kind of thing. You pray for them. You tell them you're praying for them. You know, you give back to them as they have given to you. You know, as Paul says in Galatians 6. 6, the one who is taught the word is to share all good things with the one who teaches it. I mean I I loved I delighted talking with the man who was sort of mentoring me when I first came into a godly church. And something I ran across that I that I was just excited to discover. And s every so often it was something he hadn't seen himself Usually he'd already s he'd already noticed it. He was older in the faith than I was. But we would delight together in it, whatever it was, some some truth from God. So um You know, we need to share them with with the other person. And our elders, our shepherds are busy devoting themselves to prayer, devoting themselves to the ministry of the word. And caring for the flock. I mean, in a godly church, the role of the minister and the elders is to talk with the people of God, meet with the people of God on the phone, uh in person. pray with them, care for their needs, see people in the hospital, all these different things. And, you know, they're want to know the pulse of the flock because you are they are trying to be faithful shepherds. The opposite of all that I was reading about uh pretty much in the book of Ezekiel. Uh and so as those people are acting that way and they're acting out as they should be, part of our role as members in a local church is to is to pray for them. Obviously individually we're seeking to follow the Lord and and live godly lives. But pray for them and let them know that we're praying for them. I mean that's part of the not growing weary in well-doing. Let us not grow weary in expressing our thanks one to another. The last thing Last thing we show are appreciation and esteem toward our elder shepherds by an attitude of humility toward them. You know, there's a role of the shepherds, and there's a wonderful passage from letter of 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 4. It says, I exhort the elders among you as your fellow elder and witness of the sufferings of Christ, a partaker also of the glory to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but voluntarily. According to the will of God, not for sort of gain, but with eagerness, not as warding it over those in your charge, but proving to be examples to the flock. That's how we should be. So in the week to come, in the time to come, let us each, as members of the local church, think how we can imitate How we can obey, submit to, and appreciate and esteem the elders that God has placed over you here at Trinity. You know, listen to listen to apply the teachings found in the sermon in Sunday school lessons. How do I le I mean that's why the person's teaching these things, because they know that God wants you to know these things. And each of us can get many of the same, but some different benefits from teachings and lessons. Second, be available for your elder to get to know you. None of us are Lone Rangers. We don't join the church to be unknown, not this church. That's not the way it's supposed to be in a godly church. You you know you can come because you know that you are a sinner and this person is sort of almost like a a doctor of sinners and to to help to help the the poor sex sinner. And so you'll be available for that person to get to know you. Your elder can't properly shepherd you without knowing you and your knees. Something about your sinful background, possibly? I mean there's a bunch of different sinful categories I've got in my background I can let somebody know about, but how are they going to be able to pray for me intelligently? And all that sort of thing. Follow your shepherd's guidance with a joyful heart. Lord, you know, I find it hard to I think it'll be hard to do what my elder says, but I think you want me to. Please change my heart. You know, enable me to do that. Break my will. You know, make me open to their counsel. You know, th all that kind of thing. You know, pray to God that He will change you. Because you want to be more godly. And if you want to be more godly, you probably need to be changed. Also, as mentioned already, seek opportunities to thank your elder. And again, not with people around. It's not the time to be doing it. Because you're not trying to e we gotta resist the temptation that many of us, maybe most, have wanting others to think highly of us. Well, you know, that that's not what we're here for. And last, but it's not the last thing you do, pray for your elders. Pray for your elders. Pray for the church, for Trinity Reformed in particular. Pray for individual people in the church. Pray for your brothers and sisters in Christ. And that's one of the duties that I should have actually should have should I could have taken time with there. But you pray for your brothers and sisters in Christ in the local body. So as the as the writer of Hebrews has said, these these men, these elders that God has placed here, keep watch over your souls. Let them do this with joy and not with grief. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you have set up the mechanism, you have set up the structure of how it is that we can live as your people in this world. And it doesn't matter whether it's here, it doesn't matter whether it's in a desert land, it doesn't matter it's whether somewhere in a jungle, it doesn' matter whether it's uh in a land that is utterly different than here These principles are true wherever your people are gathered. And Father, we pray that you would enable us to follow, you would enable us to obey. It is not always easy to obey. It is not always easy to follow another's guidance and another's leading. But this is how you've set things up. This is how you've led these things to be. Because this is the way that your people, Lord Jesus are to live and to follow you and to teach you and to teach about the salvation that comes only through faith in you. Lord Jesus, we pray that you might bless your people here with with such faith, such love for you. That they will follow and follow their leaders here in this place. And we pray that you would enable the leaders here to follow you in a way that pleases you. We ask this in your holy name. Amen.