Now we're going to read again from God's Word. Will you remain standing and turn with me in your copy of the Scriptures to Revelation chapter 7? We're going to read verses 9 through 17. And uh just to orient you to the words we're about to read, uh imagine coming into a new place, somewhere you've never been before. And of course uh when you step into that uh new place your senses are on high alert. uh looking around, you're seeing new things, you're listening, you're you're getting some sense of the environment. Is this a a joyful place? Uh is this a gloomy place? Is this a stuffy place? Uh is it uh hot? Is it cold? All the the many things. What if you were to step into heaven? In his vision and Revelation, John does exactly that. And he describes in Revelation the full impact of the the on his senses of the things that he experiences. One of the things that he experiences is the sound of Singing. And that's what we're going to think about this morning. We'll be focusing on Revelation 7, verse 10. But I'm going to begin reading at verse 9. Will you listen? This is God's word. After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages. standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands, and crying out with a loud voice, Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might. be to our God for ever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And where from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me Those are the ones coming out of the Great Tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb Therefore, they are before the throne of God and serve him day and night in his temple. And he who sits on the throne will shelter them with his presence. They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more. The sun shall not strike them, nor any scorching heat. For the Lamb in the midst of the throne will be their shepherd, and he will guide them to springs of living water, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And that is the word of God. Let's pray together. Almighty God, we come hearing these words and we ask now that you would give us understanding. We pray Thanking you for the presence of God the Holy Spirit who takes your word who uses it as a sword And we pray that he would use your word in our lives this morning, that we would hear your word, that we would be taught by it. that our hearts would be glad because here we have seen Jesus the Savior. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Will you please be seated? So who are these people? That's the question that gets asked in verse 13 of the passage that we've just read. It's not surprising that someone should ask that question because John uh describes for us in his vision how he saw this uh huge uh multitude of people a very diverse group of people from all uh over the place, every tribe, every nation, every kindred, every tongue. It's the the most diverse crowd that ever has been seen. And in verse thirteen, the question gets asked, Who are these people? It's not just a matter of how they might appear. Their appearance is striking the things they're doing. Uh those things are are kind of attention grabbing, they're intriguing as well. Who are these people? Maybe you've asked that question uh you find yourself in a situation where you say, Well who are these people? Maybe you maybe you've asked that question. See maybe think back to the first time you uh came here to Trinity. Maybe you looked around you said, Well Who are these people? Uh a and of course when we uh gather, if you've uh had the experience of worshiping with uh a a congregation that you're not familiar with, you may say, Well, I wonder who these who these people are. Who are they Uh anyway. Uh the people who uh John sees in his vision, they are the r they represent the redeemed church of God, a very diverse multitude, the most diverse uh crowd that history has ever seen. John in his vision sees those saints in glory. You look around and you see the saints here and you say, well they they present well on the Lord's Day Uh they they they've got their Sunday faces on, they've got their smiles on, they present well. Wonder how they are at home. Well, uh in uh Revelation chapter seven. Here they are at home, not their earthly homes in the neighborhood around here. This is uh this is them in their home In fact, if you are here this morning and you know the Lord Jesus, you're trusting in the Lord Jesus, this is you. At home. This is your future self, praising the Lord in glory. And that's what the uh this great multitude is doing. They are singing Praise to God. Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne. Did you see that in verse 10? Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne. And to the Lamb. They are singing. Not to be sure the uh uh the uh w the the uh scripture says they're they're s uh crying out they're crying a lot it sounds uh to me like they're singing or at least they're they're chanting and they're chanting in celebration of the deliverance of God. These are God's people singing a song of salvation, the salvation that belongs to the Lord. And we want to go into our verses this morning, and I want you to uh Just look at that one verse with me, or at least center your thoughts on that one verse, verse ten. And uh listen to these uh singers who are celebrating God's uh salvation. I want you to think with me about uh three things. First of all the uh uh the singer's uh salvation that's the first part of verse ten In the middle part of verse 10, I want us to think about the singer's shelterer, the one who shelters them And uh then it at the end of verse 10 we'll think about the singer's shepherd. And we're going to get some help because did you notice as John describes uh uh the scene there is a an elder and John uh asks the elder for some explanation about what's going on and the elder he's a he's a helpful elder Uh he's an elder who is uh able to teach. That's one of the qualifications for an elder, isn't it? That the elder is someone that we can come to uh with our questions we can say help uh can you can you help me understand can you point me to God's word can you explain God's truth to me well there's a helpful elder uh who appears in our passage and the helpful elder in verses 13 through 17 has some useful things to say that are going to help us understand what's going on in verse 10. So first of all, let's Think about the singer's salvation because this is a song about salvation. That's the very first word. Salvation belongs to our God. Uh it starts off speaking about salvation. Now you might say, well that sounds rather good, Pastor Tom, the idea uh of salvation or you might come you might be here today as someone for whom the word salvation has got uh uh It carries a certain amount of baggage. It's kind of religious language and maybe uh that makes you feel just a a little bit uncomfortable. But then on the other hand, uh uh the the alternative to salvation, well that that can't be a good thing at all. So uh so when the the when the uh singers speak about salvation or sing about salvation and we want to hear what they're what they're saying And what do they say? They salv they say salvation belongs uh to the our God Our God is a saving God. This crowd, and this is a crowd that's cheering. They're lifting up their voices in praise and celebration. They're not saying, yea, us! They're not saying what a great team we are. They're not saying what a great partnership we have with God. They're not saying God really stepped in to help us out so that now we're saved. No, they're saying salvation belongs to the Lord. Salvation is God's doing. Earlier we uh sang together from Psalm three and it really sounds like this uh crowd is singing from uh Psalm three. Psalm three verse eight. Uh says salvation belongs to the Lord. It's God's property. It's God's accomplishment. It's God's achievement. If you are going to have salvation, you've got to come to God for it. God's the one who uh saves, and he saves and redeems in the person of the Lord Jesus. And this crowd that's singing says, Salvation belongs not just to uh not just to God, but to our God. These are people who have put their trust in the one living and true God. And like I said earlier, if you are a Christian, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus, this is your future self. And your future self is reminding you that salvation belongs to God. It's not your doing. And and if these uh singers have Psalm 3 uh in their minds. They they know that they've been through those experiences of trial. They've been through those situations where it seems they're absolutely overwhelmed by difficulties where they're downcast Where they cry out, and again Psalm 3 verse 7, where they cry out, save Lord, these ones who are able to sing salvation belongs to our God, our people who have cried out. Save Lord. Help me. Deliver me. I can't do this by myself. I need you to intervene. I need the salvation that only you are able to give and that only you are able to provide. Salvation belongs to our God. And these ones are celebrating and singing uh the fact that salvation belongs to our God. And remember, these are the ones who have already been through the struggles and trials and difficulties of life. That's the question that gets asked in verse thirteen. Who are these? And the elder, the helpful elder, in verses 13 and 14 says, these are the ones who have come through the great tribulation. They have endured through trials. They have persevered in the face of difficulties. They have hung on to their God. in the face of opposition and hard times and and maybe realized in doing so that actually it's God who is holding on to them Uh this uh great tribulation. Jesus uh says to us, John chapter sixteen, verse thirty-three, in this world you will have tribulation. Have you realized that? Have you experienced that? He's talking to his disciples, he's talking to his followers, he's telling us what this world is like. In this world you will have tribulation. I'm looking at you this morning. And I don't know what your tribulation looks like or what it feels like. I'm guessing it's not very pleasant. I'm guessing it's I'm guessing it's uh painful, it's hard, it's discouraging, it's depressing. And I want you to listen to your future self singing in Revelation 7, verse 10. And what's your future self saying? Your future self is saying salvation belongs to the Lord. Uh this is the the uh these are the saints who are looking back, who are looking back over the way that they've come, the path by which the Savior has led them. And yes, there have been times when it's been difficult. There have been times when there are enemies, times when there's opposition, times when there's pain and hurt and bewilderment and discouragement and now here they are at the end of their journey and they're saying salvation belongs to the Lord. Our God saves to the very uttermost. Brothers and sisters, I want to encourage you this morning. Hold on fast. Hold fast, Jesus says in Matthew chapter 12, those who persevere to the end will be saved. The Lord Jesus, as we persevere, the Lord Jesus brings us through to salvation. Here they are. The helpful elder tells us something else about them. They have washed their robes in the blood of the Lamb. You notice they're wearing these splendid white robes, eye-catching uh garments that that uh well their those robes are washed in the Blood of the Lord Jesus. Earlier this morning we came confessing our sins. And don't we uh isn't a part of our trial that we struggle against temptation? Uh we struggle with besetting sin. Uh we sense the attacks of the evil one who is out to trip us up and get us down. And then we remember that salvation belongs to our God and we come knowing that God is well what was it that James reminded us God is merciful and compassionate. We come confessing our sins and he He cleanses us. Back in Revelation chapter three, one of the congregations that Jesus addresses, the church in Sardis, that church had uh become forgetful of what Jesus had done for them. But Jesus says there are still uh some in the congregation and the church inside us who have kept their their robes clean. They have walked close with Jesus. They've been serious about confessing uh their sins and the Lord Jesus looks on them. With favor. He smiles on them because they're holding fast to him. They're experiencing his forgiveness, his cleansing. And then this great crowd in uh Revelation 7 verse 10 where the need for repentance is behind. Now they are clothed permanently in the righteousness of of Jesus, the splendid uh ropes, and they're singing, Salvation belongs to our God. Now the second thing that we want to see from our passage uh this morning is that as we think about these singer singers singing their song of salvation, they sing about their shelterer. Not just their shelter. But their shelter er. It's very personal. It's very personal. And in their song they say, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne. And God is the one who provides shelter for his people. The helpful elder explains in verse 15. The helpful elder says, These are the ones who are before the throne of God. Serving him in his temple, he shelters them with his presence. Our God is an ever-present help in time of need God personally protects his people. God gives us shelter. These this wintry this wintry winter, we've been thankful for shelter, haven't we? This morning you come in out of the rain, out of the cold. I think, whoa, it's great to have shelter. Our God provides uh shelter for our We thought about that in our call to worship this morning from Psalm 18. David loves the Lord because the Lord is his rock, his hiding place, his refuge, his high tower, his Shelter. And David's response to that is to love the Lord. And of course, David had many songs to sing about the way in which God saved his people. God is the shelterer Now what does uh uh what does our song tell us? Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne. God sits on the throne. Now God is not somewhere way down at the back of the line looking for people's attention. God is the one who sits on the throne. The optics are important. John sees a vision And in John's vision, God is seated on a throne. Our God reigns. God's in charge. And when these singers sing that God is on the throne, they are testifying to the fact that they know that God is the one who is seated on The throne. This is not a throne. This is not some throne. This is not one throne among others. This is the throne. God sits on the throne. Now we look around at the circumstances of our lives, and it's sometimes sometimes we allow ourselves to imagine that other things and other people are on the throne. All right. Our doctors sometimes feel we feel like they're on our on the throne. Uh that they hold our uh that they hold our lives and our well being in their hands. Well thank God for doctors Uh but you see we sometimes take our eyes off the one who sits on the throne and we let other things uh sit on the throne and and you know sometimes it's our doctor, sometimes it's our bank manager, uh sometimes it's our employer Uh sometimes it's the aches and pains that we feel. They d they just seem to be on the throne. They seem to be invincible. No. God is the one who is on the throne. Oh yes, there are other uh their other thrones. Again the church in uh well in a place called Pergamon. Jesus speaks to that church back in Revelation uh chapter two. And uh Jesus says to that church In Revelation chapter 2, verse 13, you live, you worship, you serve where Satan has his throne. They they were in a bad place. Uh the place where they lived was a place that was full of ungodliness. It was a place that was characterized by opposition to the gospel. It was a place where there were blasphemers and pagans and idolaters who did not uh look with sympathy on Jesus' church. And Jesus says, You you live where Satan has his throne. And sometimes we feel like we're living where Satan has his throne. And Satan wants you to think that he's the one who sits on The throne. No, he doesn't. God is the one who sits on the throne. God is the one who has power. over all other powers. And as we hear our future selves singing, we're reminding ourselves. Our God, our saving God, is the one who is on the throne. He saves to the very uttermost. Oh yes, it's true that sometimes we put other things on the throne by choice. We have our idols And we put our idols on the throne and we uh need to remember the I guess the words of William Cooper's hymn, the dearest idol I have known whatever that idol be, help me deter it from thy throne and worship only thee. Because you see, those other idols in the end, they're going to disappoint us. They're going to fail us. They're going to let us down. They're going to leave us feeling hopeless all over again. We remember our God is the one who is on the throne. He shelters us with his presence. Very personal. It's very personal. God has his eyes on his people. Just think of uh some of the ways that uh on on fools that we sang Psalm three, the the Lord lifts up the heads of his people He cares for you individually. He's the one who has opened up a new and living way for us to come into his presence through the Lord Jesus. And we come through the lo remember Hebrews chapter two, where the writer speaks of Jesus as the the sympathetic high priest, the the one who who knows the kinds of things that we go through the hurts uh the the harms that we experience, who who knows what it is to live in a world where it seems like powerful and cruel uh and hostile people are on the throne Jesus knows about all of that and and then the writer to the Hebrews tells us that we come through the Lord Jesus to the throne of grace in order that we might receive grace and find help in our time of need. God's throne is a throne of grace, and we come. Through Jesus and we find grace in our in our time of need. The Savior holds us. Remember how in in John Uh chapter one uh excuse me John chapter ten uh twenty-eight and twenty nine Jesus speaks of how He holds us uh in his hand and the father holds us in his hand, two uh hands as it were, clasping uh on to to God's people. And no one, says Jesus, no one is able to pluck you out of my hand. I am the Father. are one. And he is that he is the he provides salvation He provides salvation. He is the shelter of his people. But the last thing that we want to see this morning is the these singers shepherd. Because right at the end of the verse we have another image draw, another picture given to us. Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to The Lamb. Now we know who the Lamb is, don't we? The Lamb is the Lord Jesus. And back in Revelation chapter 5, John has already spoken about the Lamb there on the throne, a lamb who appears, who looks as though he has been slain. And yes, we know that Jesus has died for his people. He is the sacrificial Lamb who took the place on Calvary's cross. He took the place under the judgment of God that you and I, that all sinners, rightfully deserve. Jesus took a pl his place under God's wrath. In fact, he took the place of all those who will trust in him. John the Baptizer in John's uh in John's Gospel chapter one verse twenty nine. You remember how uh John baptizing and they uh on the Jordan looked up and they're way uh back at the back of the crowd he saw he saw Jesus. He says uh Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Here is a Savior who is sufficient for all who will trust in him. Salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. The Lord Jesus is the Savior. Now that's one of the great uh One of the great plot twists because the uh John asks the elder who who are these and uh In verses uh sixteen and seventeen, the elder, what does the elder say? The elder says the lamb, verse seventeen, the lamb in the midst of the throne, he will be their shepherd. There's a Well, that was a surprising twist. The lamb will be the shepherd of those who are trusting in him. But you know that's that's a great thing, isn't it? The the shepherd the shepherd who does his job well spends a lot of time trying to figure out what's going on with the sheep. He spends a lot of time trying to figure out what's going on in those those little sheep minds and trying to understand what kinds of things cause the sheep to be agitated or fearful, uh what kinds of things cause the the sheep to uh be in danger. He he spends a lot of time trying to figure out what what are the vulnerabilities that a sheep has, uh what are the fears that a sheep experiences. And the Lord Jesus, our shepherd, is the lamb. Jesus knows what it's like to be a sheep, because as Hebrews tells us Jesus has been made like us in every way except without sin. He's been made exactly like us. He knows what it is to be hungry. He knows what it is to be threatened. He knows what it is to be exhausted He knows what it is to hurt. He knows what it is to people laugh at him and make fun of him because of his commitment to honor his father. The Lamb who sits on the throne is the shepherd of his sheep. And of course, Jesus sits on the throne, and Jesus is a sovereign. He is head over all things for his church and he knows exactly the kinds of things that you and I experience. And isn't it great? Uh these uh this great crowd that's uh singing, saying salvation belongs uh to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb, Jesus says. And you say, Well, we're looking at oursel we're looking at ourselves in the future when we look at Revelation seven verse ten. I I just say, well, are we talking about things that are future that I've got to wait for? That I've got to Just tough it out until I get here. You know, the Lord Jesus, the good shepherd of his sheep, provides Did you see the way that's described in verses sixteen and seventeen Uh he leads his people. They they don't hunger, they they don't thirst. The Lord Jesus provides the nourishment that your soul needs and he's doing that right now. He does that through his word. He nourishes your soul by his word. He gives you direction and guidance by his Holy Spirit. He blesses you with godly elders who are able to uh provide protection and care for you able to answer those uh at least some of those questions or if they can't answer the questions at least they're going to pray with you And they're going to pray together with you that the Lord Jesus by His Spirit will give you the guidance and the direction that you need. And yes, even in the here and now. Uh the Lord Jesus by his word gives us the comfort that our hearts need. Oh yes, at the end. uh sorrow and sighing will flee away. Isn't that what the prophet says? In the end, sorrow and sighing will will flee away. But right now when we're going through these difficult places and dark places and rough places. The Lord Jesus gives us comfort through His word. And he does so so that we'll persevere. And he does so so that one day we will find ourselves singing with that great big crowd that can't even be numbered. There's so many of So many of us there that they can't even be numbered. And what are we singing? We're singing salvation belongs to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Praise Him for it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word this morning. We ask that it would find its place in our hearts, that our souls would be refreshed by it. That our hearts would be strengthened by it, that we would be made more like Jesus. And we pray this morning for any who might be here who have not yet trusted in Jesus Asking that they would see the Savior and that they would trust in Him. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen