Let's get your Bibles and let's go to the New Testament reading We go into Ephesians chapter 6, verse 13 and 14. We can find that in page 1163 Therefore, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day and having done all to stand firm, stand therefore having fasting on the belt of truth and having put on the breastplate of righteousness. This is the word of God Well, brothers and sisters, the name of this message today is The Christian Christian instruments for war. And please have a seat I'm not gonna keep you standing up. Part two. This would would be part two of a series of a few parts. We're just afraid Ephesians 6, chapter 6, verse 13 and 14. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. That ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all to stand. And therefore Having your loins girthed about with truth and having on the breastplate of righteousness That is the most wonderful teaching on the Word of God. Some call it the eternal security of the believer. Others Referred to it as the perseverance of the saints. The Westminster Confession of Faith in chapter seventeen declares in this regard, and I quote, they whom God had accepted in his beloved effectually call and sanctified by His Spirit can neither totally nor finally fall away from the state of grace. But shall certainly preserve therein to the end and be eternally safe. But it goes on to say this perseverance of the saints depends not upon their own free will but upon the immutability of the decrees of election, following from the free and unchangeable love of God the Father. Upon the efficacy of the merit and intercession of Jesus Christ, the abiding of the Spirit, and of the seed of God within them. And the nature of the covenant of grace from all which arises also the certainty and infallibility thereof. But it goes on, nevertheless, they may Through the temptation of Satan and of the world, the prevalence of corruption remaining in them and the neglect of the means of their preservation fall into grievous things And for a time continue therein, whereby they incurred God's displeasure and grieve. His Holy Spirit come to be deprived of some measure of their graces and comforts Have their hearts hurt them and their consciences wounded. Hurt and scandalize others And bring temporal judgments upon themselves. Yet they remain his. All these things that are going on, they remain his. The loyalty of our father has no limits for his b for his people. And it has a word on the assurance of believers because it separates them in two different doctrines. Although hypocrites and other unregenerate men may vainly deceive themselves with false hopes And carnal presumptions of being in the favor of God, an state of salvation which hope of there shall perish Yet, such as truly believe in the in the Lord Jesus and love him in sincerity. Endeavoring to walk in all good conscience before Him. May in this life Be certain, assured, that they are in the stage of grace, and may rejoice in the hope of the glory of God which hope shall never make them ashamed. There are multitude of scriptures That provide the basis of this doctrine. Considering, for example, John 3, chapter 6, John chapter 6, 37 to 39. All that the Father giveth me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will know, I will in no wise cast out. For I came down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me. And this is the Father's will which hath sent me. That all which he has given me, I should lose nothing. But should rise up again at the last day There are many verses in the Bible that we can go. For instance, let's go to John chapter 10, verse 27 to 29. My sheep hear my voice. And I know them, and they follow me. And I will give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father, which gave gave them to me, is greater than all and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's land And also consider what the Apostle Paul asks in Romans chapter eight, verse thirty-five. Who or what can separate us believers from the love of Christ? I know I'm reading a lot of verses, but I'm building up to something that that's going to blow your mind. And verses 38 to 39. Give all the possible eventualities. Thirty-eight. For I am persuaded That neither death nor life nor angels no principalities no powers no things present no things to come Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Concluding that none of these things can separate us from God's love in Christ. The apostle Paul says also in Philippians 1, chapter 1, verse 6, being confident of this very thing. That he which had begun a good work in you will perform, you perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And also we have the epistle of Jude, chapter 1, verse 1. Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James. To them that are sanctified by God the Father and preserved in Jesus Christ and called and preserved in Jesus Christ and called. Such teachings have been criticized by some who said this surely leads to careless living. And result perhaps in apathy and sin. However, according to the scriptures, just the opposite is truth. Such teaching will put steel in the man's backbone. As he faces the devil, seeing the world around him. Seeing the world around him. Furthermore, such doctrine will produce a holy reverence for the God that has bought. such a mighty work in this sinner's life. In fact one of the proofs of genuine redemption is a love and dedication to the things of God plus continuance and growth in the faith. But you may ask, how is this perseverance affected? That brings us to the next piece of the whole armor of God, the breastplate of righteousness. The Roman soldiers breastplate covered the body from the neck to the upper part of the thigh. And it had two parts. covered the protected the front and another part covered and protected the back. The Roman soldier have protection for this back for his back. Because in close combat he would be stabbed in the back, as many Christians have found out over the centuries. Therefore, they must be protected. This element of defense was extremely important because it covers such a vital parts of the body as the heart, the lungs, the entire abdominal cavity, and the spine. Now the key to understanding the apostles' spiritual inclination here rests upon the proper realization of the significance that the ancients attach to these organs. Because the significance that they attach to these organs is not necessarily the same significance that we attach to these organs. But Ephesians 6 was written nearly 2,000 years ago. The ancients believed that it in this organ resided the seed of the affliction affection. This would also include such vital spiritual mechanisms as the conscience and the will, feelings, emotions, conscience, and desire. These things all play an interrupt part in life. Paul knew that, and Paul knew Satan knew that. And that the evil one will play upon our feelings and our emotions in order to manipulate our consciences. And our wills for his sinful evil purposes. Satan oftentimes will not attack you at the at your will or your conscience immediately, but will work through your feelings and emotions and when he has you all one bound up wound up about something justifiable or otherwise He then will cause it to affect your conscience and your will. And at that point, he has you doing something you never agreed to do. Therefore, the apostle was concerned that every child of God be protected in these most vulnerable areas by the breastplate of righteousness. Now to explain what is the breastplate of righteousness, now we're gonna explain what it is. What is that will protect us in these sensitive yet influential areas during spiritual combat? In many Bibles the word righteousness is translated into integrity. The implication appears evident that we are to be people with upright character holding the highest of moral standards But that cannot that cannot possibly be the best the breastplate of righteousness is spoken is spoken of here If you dare to enter into a spiritual combat with the forces of evil, wearing as a breastplate your own personal integrity, you will soon realize that you are dead meat. Our own self-righteousness is no protection at all for anything Charles Hodge, a prominent American Presbyterian theologian of the 19th century, declared referring to our moral integrity It cannot resist the accus accusations of conscience, the whispers of despondency, the power of temptation, much less. the severity of the law or the assault of Satan. Brothers and sisters in the faith, if you have discovered within your heart A predisposition to pride for all you have accomplished spiritually That is a sure sign of poor discernment and immaturity Many of the mighty workers in redemptive history came to the end of their early pilgrimage believing that they were unprofitable servants at their very best. And some of us like to talk about how much we have achieved. Not just from the TV on You only need pick up Christian biographies and begin to read and as their lives were further along they reflected back. They gave God the glory for all that was accomplished. But they also saw all that wasn't accomplished. all their failures. And they threw up their hands almost in despair, wondering if they weren't a total failure So this modern generation which takes pride in its spiritual achievements is a total enigma to the great Christians down through the centuries. The more Godlike the individual is, the less confidence he has in his own goodness. and capability. So if you encounter someone that is too confident in his formability, be concerned. about his God likeness. Because the more you know of God and the more you are in his presence. the humbler you should be instead of shouting your own praises Brothers and sisters, Satan will make sure to work on your integrity if you are trusting on that as you breastplate of righteousness. There is no protection because Satan knows there is no righteous. No, not one And we also do. Sometimes we ignore our own knowledge If you think you can flash your life out against him so that he would be disarmed I'm free from you, you're suddenly mistaken. Because he will never forget all your imperfections And we gladly bring them to your attention again and again at a moment. Notice. So brothers in the faith Your own integrity will simply melt like wax before this veteran four of the centuries When he gets through with you, you won't know if you are in the family of God or not unless you have on The through breastplate of righteousness. We need therefore a righteousness that is holy of God. And nothing of us. It is of this righteousness which is of God that the Apostle Paul is speaking of in Ephesians 6. The scriptures identify two aspects of this righteousness. First of all, there is an imputed righteousness of God. This is obviously what the Apostle Paul had in mind back in Philippians 3, where the Apostle Paul in essence is sharing his own testimony. How he came from the darkness to light, from works to faith, from law to grace. Here is what he says beginning in verse four. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. You see? He was writing in the midst of a situation where many in Judaism were bragging of their own spiritual accomplishments. So he stops and talks about spiritual accomplishments with them for a few moments and then draws some conclusions. So he says Knowing that they shall hear this, that I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinked that he had whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more circumcise the eight day of the stack of Israel of the tribe of Benjak When the Jews were going to battle, it was always the tribe of Benjamin going forth to lead in the battle. Courageous warriors Of Benjamin. Paul says, Thou was my tribe, a Hebrew of Hebrews. He could read Hebrew fluently. It may come to a show a shock to some of you that many Jews at that point in time in couldn't read Hebrew. As touching the law, a Pharisee. That was the strictest of all the groups concerning zeal, persecution of the church. Touching the righteousness which is in the law, outward observances, I am blameless. But what things were gained to me? Those I counted lost for Christ. Yet doubtless. that I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. And do count them but down. Why does he say that? That I may win Christ and be found in him, not having mine own righteousness which is of the law but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith Brothers and sisters in the faith, this is the righteousness of God, apart from all human works which is given to all who believe in Jesus Christ. It is this Paul that is speaking. Often Philippians. There is an essential difference between God and men. It is this. God is absolutely righteousness. Righteous. Man is not. Therefore, if man ever has any hope of going to heaven, he must be forgiven of his sins. But that is not even enough. It just makes him neutral. He must have the imputation of righteousness given to him. This is what imputation is all about in the scripture When a man comes to Jesus Christ for salvation, he realizes that he is a sinner. And there is no way in the world that he can save himself. Or appease God or have any merit outstanding in God's sight. So he says, God forgive me for my sins. God takes his hands and imputes to them, God takes his sins and imputes to them to Christ for what Christ did on Calvary. And he's forgiven. But that is only half of what we need. That alone could not take us to heaven. What he need needs is a plus, a positive charge, the sinner says God forgive me for my sins and Lord Jesus Christ come into my heart and be my Savior, be my deliverer, you be my righteousness. God takes our sins and puts them onto Christ and then takes Christ's righteousness and covers us up So we are covered by the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Forgiving? Yes. It's part of it. but also cover in righteousness that is the positive side of the charge. Imputed righteousness is the foundation of the Christian standing before God. And a synonym of impure righteousness is justification by faith. The Apostle Paul seems to sum it all up when he says in 2 Corinthians 5. 21 For he had made him to be seen for us, he who knew nothing, that we might be made of righteousness of God in him. What a glorious truth. Brothers and sisters, there it there can be no other protection in the spiritual warfare than if right is standing before Almighty God. The comment to have been justified by grace through simple faith in Christ crucified, to be clothed with a righteousness which is not our own, but Christ's To stand before God not condemned but accepted. This is an essential defense against an accusing conscience and against the slanderous attacks of the evil one So Paul writes in Romans, Romans chapter 8, verse 1 and 31. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. If God is for us, who can be against us? With the righteousness of Christ as your breast breastplate, who can lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Think of it. The power of sin has been broken. The hold of the law has been broken. The domination of Satan over your life has been broken. You are free in Christ Covered it with his righteousness, so you cannot be condemned before God. And no matter what anybody else may think of you You are secure in Christ because of what He has done in your behalf But there is yet another dimension to righteousness. The theologians call imparted righteousness The first of all impure righteousness, where God gave us Christ's righteousness. The second is imparted righteousness. The difference between impured righteousness and imparted righteousness is this. Impured righteousness forgives my sin and covers me with the righteousness of Jesus Christ. This is what makes me a Christian. But God doesn't stop that. He now begins to work in me. the very righteousness of his son. And when he begins to work in me, the very righteousness of his son And produce righteousness through me, that is imparted righteousness The Westminster Confession of Faith to refers to this as a new seed of life. That God implants on every child of God at the time of regeneration. This seed which has been designated to grow and develop will be carefully nourished by the Holy Spirit. And the result will be that He will produce spiritual fruit. the fruit of righteousness. The Apostle Paul tells us what the fruit of ra of the Spirit is. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentlness, goodness, faith, meekness, self-control. Against such, he says, there is no need for law. But there is yet another term which has been used that will further illustrate this truth. The term is infused. God's righteousness is being infused in me. Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones that lived in the 1800s, who was an influential Welsh Protestant minister, a medical doctor, equates this with a blood transfusion. You take the blood of the indi the w of one individual and you put it into the circulation of another individual. That is what it takes place in the believers' experience through imparting righteousness. Brothers and sisters, are you beginning to see the glory of the role? They will all play their part in conforming you to the image of Jesus Christ, chipping off all the rough edges. So someday when you stand before God the Father, you will be perfect. Blameless. Brothers and sisters, Jesus has promised He will do that. But many will ask, how can I know if God is at work in my life? Brothers In the life when at home you should go to when you get home you should go to second Peter. Chapter one, verses one to eleven. Read and analyze it. And what does it what does the apostle say there? He's saying everything we need that pertains to life and goodness God has put to our disposal. Everything we need. He has put it on his word. As we read the word of and allow the spirit to fill us and overflow in our lives And riches, works, deeds, fruits of the Spirit. This will confirm in our hearts that Christ is already there and he will not lack assurance So where there is life, there is going to be growth But there is growth, there must be life. So brothers and sisters, here is yet another important question presented to you today. Are you relying upon your own righteousness or in the imparted righteousness of God, which is through faith in Jesus Christ alone? Is your hope for eternal salvation based solely in the Son of God? If not You do not have the press plate or righteousness and you are already defeated by Satan. Therefore, brothers and sisters, you have only one hope. And that one hope is to turn to Jesus Christ in repentance and faith. Beloved in Christ Jesus, have you done that? That is a question that I would like to leave with you so you can ponder and answer it. I don't need to know know the answer. You are the one that needs to know your answer. So let us pray. Our Father we standing all in thy presence for the magnitude of thy grace. Which has provided everything we need for our salvation and eternal redemption. Christ has come from glory to die in our place. There is There in his own body on the tree our sins, that we might be forgiven. He was glorious, he was gloriously raised for our justification. That if we will come and receive him by faith. He will not only forgive our sins, but gives us, gives to us his righteousness, which totally covered us. Anyone who's here today, who has not yet come to know The imputed righteousness of God in Christ Jesus. May you work a mighty work of grace in their heart today. And bring them into your family. Work on each of us of our hearts What is need at this very moment. Bring to us, to our minds, those things that offended thee. and cause us to have the needed spiritual courage to put them under the blood of Jesus Christ And to walk once again in fellowship with thee, allowing you to perform your great work of grace through us. that we may be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ. Thank you for this breastplate of righteousness. Lord help us to get it firmly fixed. and place in the front and in the back for protection in the spiritual warfare in which we are engaged. May we understand what the breastplate is. And what He can do for us to protect us. It is through Jesus Christ our Lord that we pray with thanksgiving. Amen.