Turn to our text today from 1 Timothy chapter 3 verses 14 through 16. Where the Apostle Paul lays out the qualifications for deacons in the church. And we have finished looking out those qualifications and then the verses that follow afterwards. or kind of uh follow up to uh the whole question of why does God give uh first of all elders and deacons in the church and then why does he give qualifications? What what is God's aim in all of that uh for for the church So let's hear God's word. We look now at verses 14 through verse 16 of 1 Timothy chapter 3. Let us hear the word of the Lord. These things I write to you, though I hope to come to you shortly. But if I am delayed I write so that you may know how you are to conduct yourself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifested in the flesh Justified in the Spirit, seen by angels, preached among the Gentiles Believed on in the world, received up in glory. And thus far ends the reading of God's Word Now, as we start off with verses 14 and 15 today, we see that verse 14 begins with the words these things. These things I write to you. And those these things I write to you because they do not have a direct uh identification of what those these things are in the verse. Those these things Sorry about that. But those these things have to refer back to something. What are the th these things Paul is talking about? Um uh and I believe that the most immediate connection of these these things are back to this long discussion that Paul has had in verse chapter 3 about officers in the church and their qualifications It may extend to things also before that in 1 Timothy chapter in 1 Timothy the book But clearly that these things refers first and most immediately back to the qualifications for elders and deacons. And we have looked at those qualifications in great detail in our evening services And I'm not going to go back over those qualifications as I trust that such matters are now rather ingrained in your mind. And it's time to move on from there. It's time to see and to realize why leaders in the church, called elders and deacons, or however you want to call them, who have these qualifications. It's important to realize that God has a definite plan for his church He has a definite idea about who should lead his church. And his definite ideas include men who are qualified. Men, qualified men who have clearly defined or defined tasks to accomplish. All of which will bring greater glory to God and benefit Christ's people It's my contention that the these things in verse 14 that Paul has says I write to you, the church. Which he also says he's writing to them because he intends to come to them shortly That these things have everything to do about establishing a certain order in the church. You recall That when Paul gave these instructions to Timothy in chapter one, that his concern was that Timothy would go uh to Ephesus, where this church was located. And he would continue Paul's labors there, and he would prevent, Timothy was directly charged with preventing false teaching. Paul wanted to make sure that the leader of the church would be a guard against false teaching. He said, I don't want the people hearing false teachers. I don't want them to be going off and listening to fables. And godless myths, and I'm putting you in charge of that, Timothy. And I want you to kind of keep things in order there, along with the other elders That God's church is protected from false teachers and false gospels. Now When Paul returns, he wants Timothy to have a church that's functioning As Paul has encouraged them to do. When Paul gets to Ephesus and visits the church, he wants to see Paul, he wants to see that Timothy has executed the charge that Paul has given to him. And he wants to see the leaders keeping things in the church in order, keeping falsehood at bay, keeping the people of God on the perspective of how they're to be living their lives. So He now explains to his audience, to Timothy, he explains why he has written these things to him. And and Now he gives what becomes another answer to why he has written these things about elders and deacons. Look at verse 15. The reason is that you may know how you ought to behave yourself in the house of God. How to live, how to behave, how to behave as a Christian, as a servant of God. He wants Paul's as Paul Paul's assumption there is manifold First of all, he believes that the doctrine of the truth of the gospel will produce or should produce right behavior. And he assumes that even though people may hear the doctrine of Christ, there might not always be right behavior in the church. Because why? Because we're all still sinful. And we're making that we're making transitions in life, becoming less and less sinful and more and more holy, but every once in a while the old man gets In an uproar, and we allow him to do his damage, and that damage does not simply impact us It impacts others, and particularly those who are in the body of Christ. And so while Paul may want Timothy to make sure that there's right doctrine out there And he wants the elders and the deacons to help Timothy make sure that that's the case. He also sees a tie between right doctrine and right living. You know I think I've told you this. But the uh when the denomination came into effect, when it came into being in the night in 1936 There was a rather long discussion on the floor of the General Assembly as to what we would call this new church, this new Presbyterian church. And there were names that were suggested. There was actually the name, the Presbyterian Church in America. The PCA. And that was the first name of the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. Did you know that? Why didn't it continue? The larger liberal body sued in court. for us not to have that name. They said it was too much too confusing. And they won. So the case goes, we go back and we try at the second the General Assembly to figure out what our name is going to be. And somebody, well I know who did it, but it was the the pastor in Baltimore at the time, Everett Develde, said, after much discussion, let's call it the Orthodox Presbyterian Church. And the reason for that is because Orthodox in Greek is a Greek word, and it means straight or right or correct. It was a bit of a polemic against the old Presbyterian Church that we were going to be Biblically correct in the doctrine that we taught. We're following the pattern here, you see Even that Paul wrote to Timothy, right doctrine supposed to produce right behavior. And some have uh written a book more recently that that actually says I don't remember the exact title, but they use the phrase orthodox and orthopractic. Right practice. How is the church to be orthodox in its living? And that's precisely what Paul is telling Timothy here. That's why he has given him the qualifications for elders and deacons to come alongside of Timothy and ensure that the church not only hears the right doctrine, but the church is living according to the right behavior. Now the question has to come up, what is right behavior? What is, as Paul puts it in verse 15? How to conduct ourselves in the Church of God. What is godly behavior? Well, if we look at the word that's behind that word conduct or behavior, we will find that word used. quite frequently in the New Testament. It's not like the New Testament doesn't have an idea about what is good behavior, what is right behavior, what is holy, godly behavior. It really does. It says a lot. Let me just acquaint you with some of the passages where godly behavior is spoken of, or good behavior. 1 Corinthians, excuse me, 2 Corinthians 1, verse 12, Paul again writing, for our rejoicing in is this The testimony of our conscience that in simplicity and godly sincerity, not with fleshly wisdom, but by the grace of God We have had our behavior in the world and more abundantly toward you We have had our behavior, right behavior. Now he doesn't yet quite expand upon what that looks like, but he is going to The Apostle Paul will talk about that. And you all know 1 Corinthians was a whole epistle about wrong behavior. In the church. Wrong kind of living. But now let's look at a couple of other verses. Galatians chapter 1, verse 13. You've heard of my behavior in time past in the Jewish religion and how that beyond measure I persecuted the Church of God and wasted it. Paul refers to his former life, his former behavior, his former conduct. You've heard about that. It's not something he's proud about, but it's something that he uses To remind his listeners of what he used to be like, and they can easily make the comparison to what he is like today or at that particular time when he was writing. Ephesians chapter, excuse me, Ephesians chapter 2, 2 and 3. Wherein in time past you walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now works In the children of disobedience among whom we also had our way of life Again, at one point, the Apostle Paul is talking to very frankly to the church, and he says, you used to, you used to have a behavior. We all did. It was a behavior that was in line with the Prince of the Power of the Air, the spirit that now works in the children of disobedient. We had a disobedient behavior We had a satanic behavior. We had a sinful behavior. And it he goes on. He says, Among whom we all had our way of life in times past. in the lust of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of our flesh and the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath even as others. Our former behavior was fleshly. Our former behavior was lustful. Our former behavior fulfilled the desires of the flesh. But Paul will go on in Ephesians and say, chapter 4, verse 22, that you put off the former conduct. Of the old man which is corrupt according to deceitful lusts. And then we read over again. In Hebrews chapter 13, Paul talking about the relationship of the church individuals to their leaders. He says, obey them that have ruled over you. And then he goes on to say, pray for us. That we may have a good conscience in all things, willing to live honestly There he begins to flesh out. You know, we've looked at what is bad behavior, then he begins to just scratch the surface of what is good behavior. Honesty. Willingness to live honestly. James chapter three, this links Verse thirteen, good behavior with meekness and wisdom Peter, 1 Peter 1, 15, links good conduct, good behavior with holiness. Verse 18 of chapter 1 of 1 Peter. He goes back to the old pattern. He says, to refrain from your vain behavior. Received by tradition from your fathers. And then he adds in 1 Peter chapter 2, 12, have your conduct honest. Once again, honest. among Gentiles that whereas they speak evil against you, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may nevertheless by your good works Which they shall behold, glorify God. Good behavior, good works. 2 Peter 2, 7 God delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conduct of the wicked. And then, again, bad behavior, but then verse chapter 3, verse 11 of 2 Peter talks about what manner of person you ought to be in all holy behavior and godliness Again, if you uh uh it's clear that there there there is a standard A standard of good behavior that God expects of his people in response to the grace of the gospel. And the deacons and the elders are there to help God's people Live in accordance with that good conduct. If you want further information about what good conduct or good behavior is in the eyes of God, go to Colossians 3. Begin at verse 5. Go through from verse 5 through verse 14, and you will see what good conduct is not, and you will see what good conduct is. But my point right now is, my point right now is that God established elders and deacons in the church So that they might see that there is good doctrine being taught, and they might see that good living is being lived by the people of God. It's without doubt that Paul is telling Timothy and all the members of the church what good conduct and behavior Is what becomes what is good conduct becoming of a redeemed person? What is good conduct fitting in the house of God, namely in the church God expects a certain lifestyle from those calling themselves Christian, and that lifestyle is very different. From the conduct of the world. Timothy and other elders are to lead by example in living the Christian moral conduct. Once again, Christian conduct and behavior is not with fleshly wisdom. It's not the ways of the world. It's not the lust fulfilling the lust of the flesh. It's putting off the former old man with corrupt and deceit. It's vain behavior was filthy conduct. But right conduct Good conduct is with simplicity and godly sincerity, being holy in all manner of things, having your conduct honest Being godly, etc. The pastor is not here saying, and don't let anybody misunderstand, I am not saying that if you do this You will be somehow gaining your salvation Because that's works. And we don't teach works. We don't believe the Bible does either. I'm simply saying that your good conduct flows out of your love for Jesus. And what Jesus did for you on the cross and what his Spirit is right now doing for you now That's grace, not works. We are redeemed. We are to live for Christ, leaders and members of the church. For four possible reasons. Number one, why we do it? Because we're redeemed by Christ's precious blood. You know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things such as good, such as silver and gold, from your vain conduct But you were redeemed with the precious blood of Christ. 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 18 and 19. Secondly, our conduct is to be righteous and good in God's sight because it serves as a witness to unbelievers. who may glorify God by it. 1 Peter 2 verse 12. Have your conduct honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the days of visitation. Thirdly, elders are to be examples to other believers of good conducts because it enables. Their good rule, their good service, and that ultimately benefits the spiritual life of the body of Christ. Hebrews chapter 13, 17 and 18, which we looked at earlier. Obey them that have rule over you and submit. yourselves to them, for they watch over your souls, that they might give an account, that they may do it with joy and not with grief, for that is not profitable for you. But the greatest reason why Christians should have good conduct that God would approve. Is because we are living right now in the house of God. We are living in God's presence. Verse 15 says that we are in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. What is so important about the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ is simply that it's the church where God lives. With his people. He lives with believers in that church. And because he lives with people in the church, then the church Is a holy place because there is God with us. As Moses was once told. By God Himself, draw not nigh here. Put off your shoes from off your feet for the place whereupon you stand Is holy ground. You are the temple of the living God. That's the next phrase that comes out of Paul's mouth in verse 15. You live with God through the Holy Spirit. Good conduct is to be expected because you're on holy ground with Him Let us pray. Most merciful God, our heavenly Father, help us capture That desire to be grateful to you for all that you have done for us in Christ. And may that gratefulness translate Into seeking to live for your glory and your praise. Help your church, Lord, to realize that it must not Be conformed to the world. But it is challenged to be transformed by the renewing of our minds. Through the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, for transformation in our lives And for transformation in the lives of all your people around the world in your faithful church. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The last hymn is 358.