Go to James, find a copy of that, which we're going to be reading on page one thousand one hundred and ninety-nine of the Pew Bible. As we continue our study tonight, we'll still be in chapter 1. Reading, beginning at verse 12 and going through verse 18. Let's give attention to God's holy word. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him Let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it is conceived, gives birth to sin And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Of his own will he brought forth us Excuse me, he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we would be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. Would you pray with me? Lord and God, as we come to the preaching of your word tonight, To quiet our hearts. We have much on our minds, much that seeks to make it to the tip of our tongue. Pray, Father, that you would give us quiet, waiting hearts tonight. That we might wait upon your word, wait upon the Spirit. That we would seek illumination, not from our reason, not from our humanity, Father, but from Your Spirit who abides within. That He would be guiding tonight. That He would be leading tonight. That you would, Father, give us conviction, certainly of our sins. But then, Father, remind us of all the promises in Christ that are yes and amen. And show us tonight. Show us tonight, Father, how you work. To save men, women, and children. We ask Father to help us, every single one of us. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. We're pretty familiar, I think, with the passage in Genesis which recalls, records for us. That which happened after Adam and Eve sinned against God. As God approaches Adam and Eve, he asks some pointed questions And each of them points to others with regard to their sin. Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? And Adam replied, the woman. The woman you gave to be with me. And when Eve is approached by the Lord God and is asked, What is this you have done? she replies, The serpent. The serpent deceived me, and I ate That's when it began that we would blame others, and certainly God, for our sins. Tonight as James opens up his gospel, he tells us a much different truth. As you know, James is one of the general epistles we've begun, we've just begun studying it. It's along with 1st and 2 Peter and John's epistles and Jude. Which have a universal audience. And James, as he writes, is writing to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. He's writing to the entire church. as it existed in his day. It's writing to us as well. And It's hard for us to pinpoint an occasion for his writing because his doctrine, his truth that he unfolds for us are full. And so what we really take away from this is James is teaching us and those of his day much about general Christian living, how we live as those who are saved. by the Lord Jesus Christ. He began by teaching us about the joys of trials. the joys of the testing of our faith, which leads to steadfastness. He continued to teach by telling us that we should be asking for wisdom In faith without doubting, and this week, this time, he gives us the gospel. The gospel of James As we go through this short passage tonight, I want us to see that the Father, the Father promises a crown of life. Because the Son wore a crown of thorns. The Father promises a crown of life because the Son wore a crown of thorns. Three simple points tonight. First the problem. Secondly the truth. And then thirdly or finally the blessing. As James continues to give this practical theology to the twelve tribes, Jewish Christians, tonight he presents them, presents us with the gospel Really the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now we're accustomed to thinking of those first four books of the New Testament as the Gospels. But then we only have to remember that Paul referred to his letter to the church at Rome as his gospel. If we think that way, we can see the gospel spread throughout all of Scripture, can't we? The good news. Tonight, in these few verses that we have from James, these few short verses, he, in a sense, presents to his readers and he presents to us tonight the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want us to think, as we go through this passage tonight, how we might use these few verses to communicate the way of salvation. To our friends, our family members, our neighbors. Tonight we do well to note the significance and the power of the doctrinal teaching of James. and use it in our everyday lives. Well, first the the problem There's a sense in which, as we get to verse 12, that James is connecting it. There's some connection to the second verse, basically the opening of His letter, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. Count it all joy. Look at verse 12. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. There's a connection. Joy, blessing, happiness, and then trial. The one who remains steadfast under trial is blessed. The one who receives trials, who has their faith tested, is to be joyful. So make no mistake, James is continuing this idea of faith being tested, and how at the end of it there will be this perfection of steadfastness. And so, as we noted two weeks ago, this perfection, this completeness, this lacking in nothing with regard to faith only comes in glory. And so now James, in a sense, is finishing that thought which he began in verse 2, 3, and 4 with this verse 12. In one verse, in one sentence, James begins with the end of the gospel. He begins with the good news. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life. It's God has promised to those who love Him. That's the good news. But before we begin to unpack that, James really begins. Begins with the statement of the problem. We'll come back to verse 12, but let us go on to the problem which James presents. as he presents his gospel. That's, in a sense, the way he begins. He begins very simply and bluntly with man's Problem, the problem of all men, all women, all children is sin. And we know that James has skipped over. God as the creator. He has skipped over man as being the creature of God. He has skipped over that creator creature distinction. He hasn't Included that within his gospel and there's a sense in which James just didn't need to, and that's why it's not here. He skips over that requirement that our obligation, as we saw in the shorter catechism this morning, our obligation to obey God comes from that creator creature distinction. As a result of being created by God, each one of us and each one of those twelve tribes in the dispersion owed God obedience. But James assumes that. He assumes that his readers understand it. He assumes that his readers grasp that. And so in this short version of James's gospel. He skips over that important portion of the gospel and determined to cut right to man's problem, sin. And so James begins in a somewhat unique way by telling his readers about the root or the origin of sin or evil Now, as we think about that, there are many books written on the topic of the origin of evil. It's a controversial topic for some reason. I'm not sure that it should be But James uses very few words and explains the truth regarding evil and sin and death in such a way that we can use it to communicate to others Indeed, this problem of evil, as one writer puts it, is one of the most discussed objections to the existence of God and is a top reason why many unbelievers give for their unbelief. It's critical. We need to understand what James is telling us about sin, about death, about the problem of God. James says right away, I'm going to eliminate God from the possibilities of being responsible for your sin. We're going to see that in more detail later on. He begins by speaking of God. Let no one say, when he's tempted, I'm being tempted by God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, he tempts no one. Come back to that in a moment. But I want you to see this the first arrow that James throws is this arrow of elimination, eliminating God from the possibilities of who is responsible. for sin, for evil. And he moves on. The truth of the matter is that sin, the problem Which in parts makes the gospel such good news. The problem which in a way necessitates the gospel is that which is solely attributable to man. James makes that so clear Possibly clearer than any other writer of the New Testament. Sin is that which men, women, and children do because we want Two, because we have the ability to choose to do what we want. That is a summation of what James is saying Spiritual wisdom given to the inspired James is clear. He breaks down the cause of death through temptation and sin in simple and an understandable way. Listen to James. James now, verse fourteen. As he has excluded God, then he uses that word but that little contrastive Conjunction, not God, but man is the cause, but each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Webster's 1828 version defines desire as that emotion or excitement of the mind, directed to the attainment or possession of an object. from which pleasure, intellectual or spiritual, or sensual, is expected. A passion excited excited by the love of an object In the garden, we tend to lay blame upon the serpent. He was the one. He was the one who deceived Eve. He was the tempter. And we'd say, yeah, there's really no doubt about that. But Satan merely considered and set before Eve what she might desire. In other words, the serpent played to that desire of Eve, desire for knowledge. Now, knowledge is not a bad thing But she failed to satisfy her desire for knowledge in a way that was according to God's will. And desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. James is not saying that all desires are in and of themselves sinful. Some are sinful, certainly. And others aren't. Consider the desire of Jesus expressed in the Garden of Gethsemane. My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will, Jesus had a desire to avoid the cross And what I mean by that is Jesus' desire was to remain in communion with the Father and not be separated due to the sins of men. And he knew that the cross would do that. He knew that the cross would result in the sins of the world being laid upon him, and as a result that he would be separated, he would lose that communion, that fellowship with his Father. But Jesus didn't allow his desire to give birth to sin You see, Jesus set the will of God above his will to remain in communion and fellowship with him. In a sense, Jesus suppressed his desire and aligned his will with that of the fathers. I think that helps us understand what James is saying. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. When you fail to suppress your desire, which is opposed to God's will, that leads you to sin. When you fail, when you refuse to suppress it, knowing that this desire, that this desire you have, whatever it might be Knowing that it's opposed to the will of God and then refusing to suppress it means that you have now succumbed to it, that this desire, even though it is opposed to God's will, is above God's will. You've placed it there. And thus you'll transgress his word and the will of God. That's what James is writing. Desire, when it has conceived, it gives birth to sin. Do you see that all of this is within? None of this is without. We can't point to Satan and say it's his fault. Because he merely knows our desires and knows how opposed some of them are to the will of God, and he sets that before us from time to time. And we set it before ourselves. James finishes By telling us then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. Now, don't be misled. James is not saying that there are some sins which Which are kind of in their infancy, and then when they grow a little bit larger, then they bring forth death. No, every single sin that we commit earns for us death How do we know that? That's what Scripture tells us so very clearly. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. God did not say, well, you can have a couple. You can have two or three, but you get to the fourth one and that's it. It's grown. No, no. The first one, the first bite, that was it You have transgressed his law, and that day, in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. It was fully matured. It didn't need to grow. So that's not not what James is saying. It's not that there are these little sins, these seeds of sins, and they grow a little bit more and more and more until now we've earned death. No, no. In the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die Paul puts it this way, for the wages of sin is death. In this regard, there is no There's no growing. And that's not what James is saying. Once the desire, once the desire has conceived Once it moves from desire into action, once it gives birth to sin, once we have transgressed the law of God, then immediately it is fully grown. And it does bring forth the punishment of death. That's the problem, as James puts it, death. It's the end of our sin which begins with our desires or our lusts. Brothers and sisters, we were each born with that. All of those to whom James was writing were born with this inclination against The will of God. These are our inherited desires. This is our inclination, like the Tower of Peace. This is the way we are leaning. We are inclined away from God and toward our sinfulness. desires. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Genesis Genesis 6, verse 5. This desire now, as a result of Adam's fall, is part of your nature tonight. This is your inclination to lust after this world, after the creation, and not after the creator, to serve and worship that which has been made and not the creator. You might think, well, James is alone in this, and that's just not the case. This is true throughout Scripture. This is our inclination. Proverbs 27 reads this way: Sheol and Abadon are never satisfied, and never satisfied. are the eyes of a man always lusting, constantly inclined not toward God's will, but away from God's will. Brothers and sisters, as we present the gospel We need to understand that what James is saying is this is the starting point. The recognition that we are creatures called to obedience, that our inclination is away from that obedience, and that is our problem. Each and every single person that you speak with has the very same problem that we do. And this is our starting point. That we're sinners. And we need a Savior. And that's where James begins his gospel. And that brings us to the truth. Our second point And God is not the giver or the producer or the suggester of sin. We've seen that. Let's open that up a little bit. Let no one say when he is tempted, I'm being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil. There's a sense here in which James wants to establish a division. Set up categories. We've already learned that God does. He does send trials. He does test our faith And sometimes in the English language, we can use testing and tempting as similes or similar words, but James is not doing that He uses different Greek words for trials versus temptations. And that's the way we must think of it tonight. But these are different categories, that these are different things. God does test for our good. God does not tempt. Our purpose tonight is not to revisit verse 3, but we want to see the difference between trials or testing. And temptation. And the Spirit tonight is calling us to understand that difference, to be again grasping that difference and applying it as we communicate the gospel. A loving Father does test our faith in order to build us up in endurance and in steadfastness, but he does not tend Tempt anyone into sin. Don't be misled. Well, this passage is much about the nature of man. It is more about the nature and the goodness of God. Think of those in the dispersion, just for a moment, those twelve tribes that have been forced to flee their homes due to persecution. Those who were being persecuted even as this letter was going out and being circulated amongst the churches, how they might have begun to doubt the goodness of God Look at verse 16. Don't be or do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Deceived. That Greek word is also used for going astray like sheep. Here the idea seems to be that he was telling those in the dispersion, don't be deceived, don't be led away. By your circumstances. Don't think that as a result of your being persecuted, you're the result of having to flee from your home somehow God is not good. Somehow God has not been giving you good things. Somehow those trials, the testing that you're experiencing right now is not a good thing. Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of light. Seems to be a reference to the Creator God, doesn't it? You may think, well, that's that's fairly obvious The one who made all things, including the heavens, including its occupants, the Father who made the lights above, let there be lights in the expanse of the heavens to separate the day from night. Let them be signs for seasons and for days and years. It's a code for God is good, isn't it? The Father of Light You see that? Perfect gifts coming from above, this idea that we're getting our minds upon glory, upon heaven, upon that place where God resides, and now He showers us. With good gifts. Every perfect gift is from God From the one who made even the stars, the sun and the moon, the one who placed them and governs them in such a way that the twelve tribes had light, they had seasons, they had signs. Which they could count on, they could judge time and days and months, even years consistently. God has given them these good things. But this is not the only place in Scripture where we read of God being good. As Paul writes to Timothy in his first letter at the end of that in chapter 6, who alone has immortality, speaking of God who dwells in unapproachable light. Again, a reference to the goodness of God, to the purity of God. John's first epistle in the first chapter, he writes: This is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light, and him there is no darkness at all. God is not a tempter. There's no evil, there's no darkness in God, only light. How could he be the one that is leading us into sin? He cannot be. And James doesn't stop there. Now he points to the changelessness of God. With whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. The twelve tribes could count on the seasons One to follow after the other, year after year, no change. And now they were being called to remember the goodness of God which does not, will not ever change. There's no variation. There are no shades of gray in God's goodness. Well, this is really good, but this wasn't so good. No, all of what God gives are perfect gifts in his perfect timing according to his perfect will. He knows exactly what you need and is giving to you that very thing every time. There's no variation, no shadow due to change. We serve a changeless God who has entered into a covenant with each of us, with the church, with the body of Christ, and that doesn't change. He's told us that he will never leave us nor forsake us. He's given us his son. He will never take him away. He's told us that he will draw every single person he's chosen to Christ. That he will wash away their sins. Separating them as far as the east is from the west, this is the God that they are being told. There is no variation or shadow due to change. Think of those in dispersion again. They'd been in their fa their homes and in their home countries until they had to flee When they were in their homes, they considered God to be at all times to be good, but now was He still good? Was God good as they suffered? We can ask ourselves the same question. Do we believe that God is still good, that He has no variations, that there are no shades of gray within His goodness For I the Lord do not change. Therefore, you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed. This good God. He doesn't change his covenant. He doesn't reverse his covenant. He doesn't back off of his covenant. He remains faithful to his covenant. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. Even in their trials, even in their testings that God sent it their way, even in our testings, even in our trials, these things are good. And they're not just good gifts, they are perfectly good. There's the truth then. God gives to his children that which is good. That which perfectly satisfies the particular needs of each and every child of God. He's not the tempter. He's the one who gives good gifts. These two points must necessarily go together to form the gospel, the good news. Man is corrupt. You are corrupt. Every single one of us is corrupt. And Adam, our free will, otherwise known as our desires or lusts, have also been corrupted Instead of desiring to do the will of God in our corrupted hearts, we desire to do our own wills, which was also corrupted in the fall. Our corrupted desires then act to tempt us to sin. And many times throughout the day, our desires, our internal temptations, overcome the leading of the Spirit. Who is seeking to lead us in the direction of God's will, and then we enter into sin? Have to keep that truth Set before us. The other side of that single coin is God's involvement But God has not given any person a corrupt heart We've inherited that from our first parents that corruption, our sin natures are from Adam. God is good. He's pure light. No evil dwells within him. He is not the creator of evil. And he tempts no one. Both of those belong together. They must be. It's the foundation of the gospel, the good news. The teaching here is plain and clear. The twelve tribes were responsible. We are responsible for our sin. There's no one else to blame for our desires. They are our own. And when our desires are uncontrolled, we are tempted into sin. And when our temptations created by our desires are uncontrolled controlled or we fail to use the escape routes given to us by God, then we sin, and as we sin we earn for ourselves every time the righteous eternal punishment Of death. You can't point the finger at anyone else. God is not at fault. Satan is not at fault. Adam and Eve are not even the liable ones. The one who was offended, God is you There's no one else to blame. There's only one responsible for your sinful desires, your internal temptations, indeed your succumbing. to your own temptations and falling into sin, and James is saying so clearly tonight, that's you. So the question tonight is, do you own your own sin? Do you grasp that sin is your responsibility? It's your fault that you're liable to the punishment and no one else, because until you do, there's no possibility of desiring a savior. Such as the Lord Jesus Christ. And until you do, you will never understand the words of Christ. And he said, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden. Christ was speaking of being laden with the burden of sin And unless you understand that that is your responsibility, that is your liability, you will not heed his voice. Come to me, all who are laboring and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Brothers and sisters, if you are thinking to yourselves tonight, I have not owned my sin. Pray that the Lord Jesus Christ would lay this upon your heart. Pray that you would see that this is your liability, that you've sinned against the holy God, and there's no one else to blame Brings us to the third point, the blessing. We've received the bad news, so to speak. We've received good news about God. He is not the source of our sin. He's not the source of our tempting. He's not the source of evil. He's pure light. But now James gives us truly the best news. Look at verse 18. Of his own will, he brought us forth. by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. James is wrongfully maligned at times as preaching a gospel of works, righteousness. This one verse should lay that allegation to rest. This is the good news. Let's break it down just a bit. First. The gospel is the result of and is shaped by his own will. See that in verse 18. Of his own will, or out of his own will, or by and through his own will, and that alone, not the will of man No, the holy will of God, the holy desire of God Himself. Nothing outside of God moving him. to save a people for himself. It's only God's will. It's only his love. Out of his own will. That is the result. The gospel is the result and is shaped by the will of God alone. You see how James uses few words, but how it's packed with truth, with theology Secondly, the gospel is the work of God's free grace. Of his own will, he brought us forth James doesn't write. Out of our goodness, out of our keeping of God's law. Of his own will. He brought us forth. God does not carry anyone to Jesus Christ because of what that person has done. Exactly just the opposite. In spite of what you have done, God brings you. He draws you forth to Jesus Christ. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. God must do it. God draws, he brings. It's his work, it's his action. It's all free grace. In spite of the fact that we are sinners. Third, the gospel is contained in and communicated through the Word of God Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth. By the word of truth. Now we can take that as a reference to Jesus Christ, the Word, the Son. And the Son is clearly represented by the Scripture. How did God bring you forth? How does he ordinarily bring forth all of his children? Is it not by his word? It's certainly by his son, who is the word. Paul puts it this way in Romans chapter 10, how will they call on him? in whom they have not believed, and how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard, and how are they to hear without someone preaching? It's by his word. The gospel is contained and communicated through the Word of God. And fourthly, the gospel makes sinners Into children of God. Of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth that we should be a kind of first fruits of his creature. Christ is the first fruit. For as in Adam all dies, so also in Christ shall all be made alive, but each is his own order. Christ the first fruits. Then at his coming, those who belong to Christ. The gospel, by grace, makes sinners into children of God. First fruits. See this last verse explains so clearly and so concisely that while man has doomed himself through his own sin and made himself liable to death, and when I say man, I mean all of us. It is God alone who works salvation from sin and death and makes children out of wretched sinners. It's nothing within this 18th verse or any of the preceding connected verses which suggest that man somehow contributes to his salvation. Indeed, it's just the opposite. The only thing contributed by man, by us, is our sin. That's all we have to offer up to our Creator and loving God. See what an encouragement this would have been to the twelve tribes in the dispersion Well, all of this must bring us back to the first verse in this particular passage, verse 12. Now that we've been through this passage to understand James's teaching, we can apply the The fullness to it to verse twelve, back to the beginning. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial, for when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life, which God has promised to those who love him. Before we went over the rest of these verses, there were two possibilities. First, that a person earns the crown of life as a result of passing or standing the test, that it was a matter of works. The second, the crown of life is a is given as a gift by God. I'm hoping that as we've gone through the other verses now, first we've seen that that crown of life. Has nothing to do with your works There's no reasonable way to read these verses and come back to verse 12 and say, well, it's everything that I've done The crown of life is represented in other passages as that imperishable wreath. In 1 Corinthians chapter 9, it's referred to as the crown of righteousness in 2 Timothy verse 4 and in 1 Peter Chapter five, it is referred to as the crown of glory, they are all the same. And none of them are earning Crown is a gift, whether we refer to it as an imperishable wreath, or a crown of righteousness, or a crown of glory, or a crown of life. Or the Victor's Crown. It's a gift James refers to the man who remains steadfast under trial. It's about the only portion that we might consider to be a work. But standing fast under trial is a gift in and of itself. It is through the strengthening nourishment of being connected to the vine that we can do anything. Abide in me and I in you. A branch cannot bear fruit by itself. Remaining steadfast is fruit. And we can't do it on our own unless we abide in the vine, which is Christ. What about that spiritual armor given by God Himself? Stand therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth, the breastplate of righteousness, the gospel of peace, the shield of faith, the helmet of salvation, the sword of the Spirit, praying at all times. Paul was not saying that these are works. He was saying that these are the things that God gives to us Just as he gives us the crown of life. Everything comes from God. Everything is by grace. But I don't want you to miss this tonight. Because this is truly the foundation of this crown of life It was the crown that Christ wore. The crown of thorns We can't understand this passage unless we truly understand who Christ is and what he's done. As the soldiers twisted together a crown of thorns and put it on his head and arrayed him in a purple robe, Jesus was called upon by his father. To wear the crown of suffering and shame Through it, God was perfecting his son through suffering And it's through the suffering of Jesus Christ that we have this crown of life. Waiting for every single person that loves, that truly loves God. And what that means is every person that trusts in the Lord Jesus Christ has a crown, waiting for them. As a gift, because Christ wore the crown of thorns James never is telling us that we work to our salvation. Throughout this passage, he was telling us time and again We're saved by God's grace, by his perfect will. As he brings us, as he draws us to Christ the Word. And with Christ He makes us. His children or his first fruits. Yes, the Father does promise a crown of life because the Son wore a crown of thorns. Adam and Eve were wrong in blaming God for their sin. Tonight, tonight, James has shown us How we can communicate the truth of salvation, the true gospel to our friends and neighbors and our relatives who are lost in darkness. Brothers and sisters, the call tonight is to use this, to be convicted by this, yes, and then to to use it To shine Christ, that others may be brought into the kingdom through the work of the Spirit. Amen. Father and our God, we ask, help us. We are frail, we are weak sinners, we are like Adam and Eve. We tend to blame you. Father, we pray, use this passage tonight. sink it deep within our hearts. That we are the responsible party. We are the ones who have sinned against you. We are the ones who have earned death. And Christ is the one who has suffered for us. O Father, we thank you for the crown of life, the crown of righteousness, the crown of glory that awaits us, and we look forward to that day. But today you have given us. these truths and help us, Father, to proclaim Christ, that others may be able to taste and see your goodness. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.