Now here we are at the end of the book of Ecclesiastes, Ecclesiastes 12, verses 9 through 14. Here is the section in which the whole book is being wrapped up. Now Again, throughout the book, you have seen some insights about wisdom for living in a fallen world, a world that is under the curse, that is under the vanity and futility. That attend to this life owing to the curse of sin. You have seen some reflections on the limits of wisdom, how wisdom itself can only accomplish so much in this life Yet here we are at the end. The writer wraps up his meditations and brings them to an end. And it's instructive the way he brings them to an end. So let's listen to the way he brings them to the end in the reading. Ecclesiastes 12, verses 9 through 14. Here is God's word. Listen to it and give your attention to it this morning. And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yes, he pondered and sought out. and set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought to find acceptable words, and what was written was upright, words of truth The words of the wise are like goads, and the words of scholars are like well-driven nails, given by one shepherd. And further, my son, be admonished by these. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is wearisome to the flesh. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is man's all. For God will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil. So again, we're reminded here of who the author is who is writing this book of Ecclesiastes. He reminds us of who he is, he reminds us in many ways of his credentials. To speak and deliberate on the topic of wisdom. We see him characterized here as someone who is wise. Now, I've mentioned throughout this series that You know, I believe that the author who is writing, you know, here he's called the preacher in verse nine. You know, I've mentioned a few times throughout this series that I believe it's most likely Solomon who is writing this and who is speaking for himself in this book. Back in the second verse of chapter 1, he was described as the son of David, king in Jerusalem. And verse 12 of chapter 1, he was described as king over Israel in Jerusalem. Someone who's a son of David and yet who ruled over all Israel in Jerusalem. There really doesn't seem to be anyone who could fit the bill for that description other than the man Solomon. And yet here again we're reminded of who he is as one who is not just a king, but also one who is wise. So again, he kind of reviews his credentials to speak to the topic of wisdom here in this passage. Especially in verse 9, he himself is someone who was wise. He was described as wise. We remember how King Solomon had made the request to receive understanding from God. In the book of 1 Kings, chapter 3. So again, this points us in the direction of Solomon, someone who is a king, but who is also wise. Well Solomon stood out as someone who was wise. He had asked the Lord to give him an understanding heart. The Lord had answered his request. The Lord made him wise. The preacher, Solomon, is someone who is wise here in verse 9. Not only is he wise, he also in verse 9 is someone who taught the people knowledge, he's someone who teaches the people knowledge. You know, you can understand. It's one thing to have wisdom for yourself. It's another thing to be able to teach it, to be able to pass it on. So again, this is more that points in the direction of his wisdom and his suitability to speak to things that pertain to wisdom. Not only does does he have wisdom, he also teaches knowledge. Not only does he teach knowledge, he also in verse 9 pondered. This speaks to long periods of time meditating, observing, thinking, paying attention, reflecting. He pondered. Not only did he ponder, he sought out and set in order many proverbs. Again, it's one thing to possess wisdom, it's one thing to teach wisdom to be able to write it down. To be able to selectively write down, to carefully edit into sayings, Proverbs. Again, that word Proverbs, we're reminded of the book of Proverbs. So much of that book of Proverbs written by the man Solomon. So yet another pointer to the fact that the author, the preacher is Solomon. And yet again, this wise king, look at his credentials to speak on behalf of wisdom. He's wise, he teaches, he ponders, he sets in order many proverbs. So he's laid out into writing these wise sayings. He sought in verse 10. He extends much effort doing what? Finding acceptable words That which is upright, that which is true. So to carefully select, to carefully refine your thoughts to the point that you can write it down. And you can write down many wise sayings. And not only that, the the form of the words in verse 11 He understands what it is to speak words of wisdom, these words that are like goads in verse eleven. You know what a goat is? A goat is a sort of a spiked stick that is used to uh poke and prod at animals to get them to do what you want them to do. So these words he understands to be like goads. These words he also understands to be like well-driven nails. What's the point about a well-driven nail? It is aimed at something and it hits its mark Not only are these words like well-driven nails, they are like those that are given by one shepherd. So we see the singleness, the unity of what he speaks. A shepherd knows well his aim. A shepherd is someone who is of one mind and who is able to execute his aim. So everything in verse 11, what it actually points to, it points to the impact of wisdom that is carefully spoken and carefully selected. Now if you've ever been someone in a position of trying to teach or trying to present, you can understand how challenging it actually is, how difficult of a task it actually is. To be able to boil down your words into something that is short, perhaps tiffy, and yet which strikes with impact. You see that that's what Solomon is talking about here? The sayings of the wise are able to make sharp impact when they are spoken. Yet again, here we see Solomon's wisdom. You know, it's no easy thing he is describing here to be able to speak with such wisdom, to be able to speak in such a way that you are aiming at something And you are able to hit it clearly, distinctly, directly. This is the wisdom of Solomon we see. Once again, he's wise. He teaches the people. He himself has pondered. That speaks to many countless hours of reflection and thinking. He set in order Proverbs in writing. He's put them down into writing. And his words are pointed This is who the the author is. This is who Solomon is as he writes this whole book of Ecclesiastes. He's someone with wisdom. Yes, wisdom specially given from God But at the same time, wisdom that's hammered out over long periods of work, effort, reflection Here Solomon is at the end of his life taking the wisdom he received early on into his kingship, and yet working out that wisdom over the course of his kingship. And what does this expert, this one who's an expert in wisdom have to say at the end of the day about wisdom? Well, here in Ecclesiastes, the conclusion strays not very far from what he had said earlier on in chapter 1. Virgil remember, early on in chapter one, what was Solomon's point? He was pointing out the vanity of life in the world. He was pointing out how that which is under the sun is subject to futility. and frustration and vexation. And yet early on in chapter one, especially chapter one, verses twelve through eighteen, He sought to find the answer of that futility and that vanity, and what was the conclusion he came to at the end of verse 18? He said that much wisdom brings much grief. He said that much knowledge increases sorrow. See the question back in chapter 1, verse 12 through 18 was. When life is vain, when there's all this frustration and vexation attached to life. Is wisdom the answer to that vexation and frustration? Is wisdom able to undo the curse which sin has brought into the world? And Solomon's answer in chapter 1, verse 18 is clearly no. Yes, the world is subject to futility, but no, wisdom is not the answer. Wisdom is not the thing that can undo that curse. You can try over the course of a lifetime to build up as much wisdom as Solomon did, and you will still not be able to undo wisdom Notice how Solomon is saying very much the same thing here at the end of chapter 12 now, here at the very end of the book. He's someone who was wise, and yes. He says in verse 12, be admonished by these. Be admonished by wisdom. Learn wisdom. Wisdom is good for you. Wisdom is helpful for you. But also his conclusion at the end of the day is that wisdom will not ultimately undo the vanity that this world is subject to. And he points to this in verse 12. When he points to the facts of the making of many books, and when he points to the fact of much study. Of the making of many books, there is no end And much study is wearisome to the flesh. So you see, when it comes to wisdom, there is always more to be said, there is always more to be gained. There is always more that needs to be gained. But you'll never reach the point where you'll be satisfied with what you've gained, or when what you've gained gives you all the answers that can undo the riddles of the vexation and futility of life in a sin-cursed world. So you see, expanding knowledge is not the answer. Expanding wisdom and knowledge can only go so far. Books will go on being written again and again, purporting to bring new wisdom time and time again, yet oftentimes simply repackaging the same old conclusions in new ways, seemingly new ways Study will continue all the way until the end of time. People will continue to seek out answers, but in the end. They'll be wearying their flesh. There's a point at which the pursuit of wisdom, the pursuit of knowledge, is bound to fail. It can only take you so far. Now again, it's true. It's good. There are good things about expanding knowledge and growing in wisdom, but understand that it can only take you so far. It's not the answer to that which is under subjection to the curse of sin. It's not the final answer, and it's not able to bring the final answer. answer. All the answers you can get to the questions you may have will never lead you at the end of the day to an answer that undoes the final answer. uh or that undoes uh the the the the curse of sin in this world. After all, what is it that truly undoes the curse of sin in this world? It's not something that we do. It's not something that we attain. It's not something that we are able to accomplish. It's only the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is able to undo the curse of sin? It's only the Son of God coming into the world, coming in the flesh, bearing our sins, bearing the curse of our sins. In order to overturn that curse, in order to overturn the effects of sin and the curse in this world, to bring out of death new life. And resurrection, a world in which all things are made right and all that is old is made new. It's the work of Jesus Christ, it's his death. His resurrection that can undo the curse, and therefore not wisdom. He alone is true wisdom from God. Again, in the sense that uh 1 Corinthians was speaking about. He alone is that true wisdom who comes from God, who exceeds that which the world has. And yet which is able to overturn the wisdom of the world. You see, this is what Ecclesiastes is pointing us to. Again, Solomon is saying, he has gone on this quest to come up with wisdom. He has sought it out. He has searched after it his whole life long. And at the end of the day, it seems to be a pursuit in ongoing futility. Again, if you're expecting it to undo. the curse of sin in this world. It's not the answer to the curse of sin in this world. And if you you do this, if you seek it out in that way, you will simply go on spinning your wheels. Making many books Studying many things, never coming to a satisfying resolution. And yet again, the whole point of this in Ecclesiastes is to show us Only God in Christ can bring about the undoing of the curse that is in this world owing to sin Now again, um the pursuit of wisdom is not therefore invalidated or discouraged or useless. No, indeed. Um obviously Ecclesiastes has had much to t to teach us about Living wisely in a sin-cursed world, but it does mean that there are limits to what wisdom can do for you, and there are limits to how we should use them. Use wisdom. Now, um uh as an alternative to seeking out wisdom, notice that uh Solomon points to something else. Instead, something else that is more primary than wisdom. And that something else comes to us in verse thirteen and verse fourteen of our text. So here in verse thirteen After going on this quest, seeking out wisdom and understanding that if you're expecting it to undo the curse, that quest will fail, and that quest will be brought to nothing. He brings us to a short-fitting conclusion to the whole matter. After seeking out wisdom Instead of seeking out wisdom as the answer to the curse of sin, what instead? Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is man's all. For God will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil More important than heaping up wisdom and understanding is growing in the fear of God. More important than seeking abstract knowledge is growing in the knowledge of the one who is able to save us from the We're instructed in another place by Solomon in Proverbs 1 that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. And so you see, what is more primary? Wisdom and knowledge or the fear of God? Throughout the scriptures it is the fear of the Lord that is primary. If you don't build your pursuit or knowledge or wisdom on the fear of the Lord, then whatever you build at some level will end up being a wasted effort. But here we see again, Solomon sought out wisdom. He sought it out as the answer to life's vanity. And at the end of the day, he had to say, fear of God is All. Fear of God is all of it. Fear of God is all that you need. You know, wisdom apart from fear of God is nothing. But fear of God is man's all. And therefore, fear of God encompasses even the wisdom that is built upon it. So fear of God is the answer. Now, why is fear of God the answer? That's because only God can undo the curse. To recognize that we need to fear God is to recognize that He's the only one who can save us. That's why we put aside wisdom as a way of undoing the curse of sin in this world. Because we're recognizing that our wisdom, our attempts to grow in wisdom, even in God-given wisdom, can't save this world We fear the only one who can undo the curse of sin. And that is what it is to fear God. When you fear God, you are acknowledging that you can't save yourself You're acknowledging that only He can save you. And when you fear Him, you understand that you need Him to save you. And when you frame your whole life in obedience to His commandments It's a reflection of the fact that you recognize that he is the one, the only one who can save you, the only one who can undo the curse of sin in this world. This is the whole conclusion of the matter. This is what Ecclesiastes points to. Once again we're reminded throughout the limits of wisdom. Wisdom is useful. It can help you make your way in this world. It is good for that purpose. And we are wisely instructed when we receive it as such. But at the end of the day, what is it that can save us? It's only God who can save us. It's only Christ who can save us. In the end, what we need is a new creation, a new creation that comes to light through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. A new creation where righteousness dwells. And where we are brought into that creation as righteous people, not because we actually are righteous today, but because God makes us righteous and God counts us righteous. in Christ. A creation in which all things are made new. A creation in which things are brought to the glorious freedom of the children of God, as Paul speaks of in Romans chapter 8. And it is fitting to consider the words of Romans 8. For here is where we see the futility of the sin-cursed world undone through Jesus Christ. So Ecclesiastes in so many ways. We've been through it, we've been spending a lot of time in it. As we've been through it, it points us to the bad news. But the bad news points us to the good news. So listen now to the good news from Romans chapter eight. Romans chapter eight, verse eight, or eighteen, and following. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. For the earnest expectation of the creation eagerly waits for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope. Because the creation itself also will be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and labors with birth pangs together until now. Not only that, but we also who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Even we ourselves groan within ourselves eagerly waiting for the adoption, the redemption of our body. For we were saved in this hope. But hope that is seen is not hope. For why does one still hope for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we eagerly wait for it with perseverance. So again, in verse 20 of Romans 8, that word futility, it's probably a reflection of the word vanity that has come up throughout Ecclesiastes. Vanity. Vanity of vanities, futility, in verse twenty. The Greek word is connected to the Hebrew word in Ecclesiastes. And yet the whole point here is That uh you know the futility that creation was subject to. It was subjected to it in hope, in hope that it would reach liberty one day, and that liberty comes through Jesus Christ. That liberty comes through the Spirit. And we are the ones who desire it. We are the ones in whom the Spirit is at work. And we in whom the Spirit is at work, or are at work, we we groan within ourselves. And we wait for and we long for the day when the curse will be undone. Well, once again, here is the conclusion of the matter. Ecclesiastes points us to the bad news of the curse in this world. The gospel points us to way that that that curse is undone, and so therefore it is for us to look to God and to look to Christ, to grow in our fear of Him, to also grow in framing our lives according to His commandments. So that we do his will, but as we do so, let's be the way that Paul says here in this text, hoping for what we do not yet see, but also hoping and waiting for it expectantly. Knowing that it is soon to come, for this is God's promise. Again, remember that, as you are experiencing the sufferings of this present age, remember that there is a glory that is coming, it is just around the corner, it is ready to be revealed. And it will be revealed soon, for this is what Christ has accomplished, and this is what God promises to you. Look for that glory. Groan for that glory even. Wait for that glory, but wait with the expectation that that glory is soon to come. This is what you are destined for in Jesus Christ. This is the promise of your God. Amen. Let's pray. Oh Father, once again we come before you. We give thanks to you for your grace and your promise. Thank you, O Lord, that as even as we were reminded in your word of the futility of life in a sin-cursed world, we also have this great promise from you that in Christ, we will receive the redemption, the redemption of the body, that the whole creation itself will enter into the glorious liberty of the children of God. But Father, bring us to that day safely. Grow us in our expectation of that day. Grant that we may be people who are are good witnesses of your good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Lord, would you grant that we hear the whole conclusion of the matter, even as Solomon has told us in your word, that we should fear you? We should recognize you as the one who is able to save us, and we should therefore fear you, look to you, frame our lives in light of who you are and what you've spoken in your word. Grow us in these things we pray, by the working of your spirit, for apart from your spirit our flesh profits nothing. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.