If you turn your copies of God's Word now to Leviticus, after a brief stay away from this book, we're back. Leviticus 26. I believe it's on page 124 of your Pew Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading the entire chapter. This is a long chapter, so you may want to sit. Let's give attention now to the Holy Word of God, Leviticus 26. You shall not make your idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it. For I am the Lord your God. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord. If you walk in my statutes and observe my commandments and do them, then I will give you your reins and their season. And the land shall yield its increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. Your threshing shall last to the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last to the time for sowing, and you shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land securely. I will give you peace in the land And you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. And I will remove harmful beasts from the land, and the sword shall not go through your land. You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand, and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. I will turn to you and make you fruitful and multiply you and will confirm my covenant with you. You shall eat old store, long kept. And you shall clear out the old to make way for the new. I will make my dwelling among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. And I will walk among you and will be your God, and you shall be my people I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, that you should not be their slaves. I have broken the bars of your yoke and made you walk erect. But, if you will not listen to me, and you will not do all these commandments, if you spurn my statutes, and if your soul abhors my rules, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant, then I will do this to you. I will visit you with panic, with wasting disease and fever that consume the eyes and make the heart ache. And you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. I will set my face against you, and you shall be struck down before your enemies. Those who hate you shall rule over you and you shall flee when none pursues you. And if in spite of this you will not listen to me, then I will discipline you again sevenfold for your sins. And I will break the pride of your power, and I will make your heavens, I will make your heavens like iron and your earth like bronze. And your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield its increase, and the trees of the land shall not yield their fruit Then if you walk contrary to me and will not listen to me, I will continue striking you sevenfold for your sins, and I will let loose the wild beasts against you which shall bereave you of your children and destroy your livestock And make you few in number, so that your roads will be shall be deserted. And if by this discipline you are not turned to me, but walk contrary to me. Then I also will walk contrary to you, and I myself will strike you sevenfold for your sins, and I will bring a sword upon you that shall execute vengeance for the covenant. And if you gather within your cities, I will send pestilence among you, and you shall be delivered into the land of the enemy. When I break your supply of bread, ten women shall break your shall bake your bread in a single oven and shall dole out your bread again by weight, and you shall eat and not be satisfied. But, if in spite of this you will not listen to me, but walk contrary to me, Then I will walk contrary to you in fury, and I myself will discipline you sevenfold for your sins. You shall eat the flesh of your sons, and you shall eat the flesh of your daughters And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your incense altars, and cast your dead bodies upon the dead bodies of your idols, and my soul will abhor you. And I will lay your cities waste and make your sanctuaries desolate, and I will not smell your pleasing aromas, and I myself will devastate the land so that your enemies who settle in it shall be appalled at it And I will scatter you among the nations, and I will unsheathe the sword after you, and your land shall be a desolation, and your cities shall be a waste. Then the land shall enjoy its Sabbaths, as long as it lies desolate while you are in your enemy's land. Then the land shall rest and enjoy its Sabbaths. As long as it lies desolate, it shall have rest. The rest that it did not have on your Sabbaths when you were dwelling in it. As for those of you who are left, I will send faintness into their hearts, into the lands of their enemies. The sound of a driven leaf shall put them to flight, and they shall flee as one flees from the sword, and they shall fall when none pursues. They shall stumble over one another as if to escape a sword though none pursues, and you shall have no power to stand before your enemies And you shall perish among the nations, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up, and those of you who are left shall rot away in your enemies' lands because of their iniquity. and also because of the iniquity of their fathers they shall rot away like them. But if they confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers in their treachery that they committed against me and also walking contrary to me, so that I walked contrary to them and brought them into the land of their enemies. If then their uncircumcised heart is humbled and they make amends for their iniquity Then I will remember my covenant with Jacob, and I will remember my covenant with Isaac, and my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land. But the land shall be abandoned by them, and enjoy its Sabbaths while it lies desolate without them. And they shall make amends for their iniquity, because they spurred my rules, and their souls abhorred my statutes. Yet For all that, when they are in the land of their enemies, I will not spurn them. Neither will I abhor them so as to destroy them utterly and break my covenant with them, for I am the Lord their God. But I will, for their sake, remember the covenant with their forefathers, whom I brought out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the nations, that I might be their God. I am the Lord. These are the statutes and rules and laws that the Lord made between himself and the people of Israel through Moses on Mount Sinai. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we return to Leviticus, we thank you and praise you that you've given us this book. And we ask, Lord God, that you'd help us now to have a better understanding of who you are and what you've done in Christ. Guide our hearts tonight. Illumine them, Lord, by your Spirit. Convict us of our sins. And Father, we pray, encourage us. Encourage us with Christ. We ask all this in His name. Amen. Well, how great is the love of God for you It's an interesting question. Usually we think too much of ourselves. Our pride takes over. But when it comes to God's love for you, many think little of it Consider the rich young ruler. That passage that we read tonight from Matthew's Gospel also occurs in Mark and Luke. The one who comes to Jesus and asks, What must I do to inherit eternal life? And as Jesus describes to him what he quote must do, keeping the commandments. And as the rich John ruler tells him, Well these I've kept, what else do I lack? And Jesus tells him, one thing you lack, go sell all that you have and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven and come follow. Me. At that point, it seems that the rich young ruler thought little of Jesus' love for him. Mark is the only one who records that Jesus, as he's looking at the rich young ruler, loved him. You say, well how do you know the rich young ruler thought little of the Lord's love? It's because he set before him the call to follow me, that Jesus was offering to walk with this one. Come, walk with me, dwell with me. And yet the rich young ruler went away disheartened because of his possessions. He thought little of the love of God for him. As one goes through the book of Leviticus, you might be thinking the same thing. It is full of minute details, commands, and directives as to how the Israelites might approach the living God. If you remember, Exodus ends with the tabernacle being constructed and Moses being unable to enter into it. And then Leviticus opens up and it opens up the way for Moses and Aaron the priest to enter in to the tabernacle such that they could minister to God and thus bring the people into communion with the living God. But they had to satisfy all those detailed laws and ceremonial rites before they would be allowed to enter in And not be killed on the spot. You might be asking yourselves the question: where is the love of God in all of these rules and regulations? That might have been what the rich young ruler was thinking. Where's the love of God as you're telling me to do all this so that I might inherit eternal life? That brings us then to this chapter twenty six This chapter that's much about the covenant of God. As we go through this portion of God's Word tonight, I want you to I want you to see that the Lord displays his great love for his people throughout the covenant. The Lord displays his great love. for his people throughout the covenant. And we'll see that actually in four points tonight. I know that your uh outlines only have three, but we'll add one to it. I think we can handle that. First, the foundation of the covenant, secondly, the blessing of the covenant, thirdly, the curse of the covenant, and then finally the hope of the covenant. Again, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself, how great is the love of God for me? How great is the love of God for me? Well, first the foundation of the covenant. Well, think of a foundation. Think of a building. The construction of a building. It's whether it's a single family home or a hundred story skyscraper, it all begins with the foundation. It's that part of the building which is constructed first And that part that you typically can't see. The foundation is that on which everything else depends or sits. All other parts of the building. sit upon or supported by the foundation. It's the foundation is if it's strong and solid, it will support the rest of the weight of the entire building. Even though it can't be seen. It's the most important part of the structure. The success or the failure of the building depends upon the foundation. And as we get to this portion of God's Word, we see a significant foundation. We might think that the book of Leviticus, which begins with the cultic rites, the ceremonial laws, all the details that God commanded the with regard to the various offerings, the descriptions of eat their preparation, the slaying, the pouring out, the burning, the distribution of the sacrifices. That that's the foundation. That's indeed The relationship is based upon these mechanical actions of the priests. The exacting details were the foundation. That's how the people would get into worship. Were they important? Yes, of course. God put them in place. They're all pointing to Christ. And the Israelites needed to comply But was it possible for them to comply with each and every one of those details and still not have experienced communion with the living God? Absolutely. All we need to do is turn to Isaiah chapter 58 as the people are seemingly, as Isaiah records it, asking God, why aren't you paying attention to us? We've fasted and you see it not. We've humbled ourselves and you take no knowledge of it. And God responds in saying, the day of your fast you seek your own pleasure and oppress all your workers. They weren't doing it from the heart. They weren't doing it with God's interests in mind. That's the foundation. Of Leviticus, the foundation of the relationship between God and his people was not in the ceremonial rites. The Israelites needed to know the one whom they were worshiping and cast aside all others. And that's why we see verse 1 in Leviticus 26. You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, you shall not set up a figured stone in your land or bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary, I am the Lord. Doesn't that sound familiar? Exodus twenty Verse 4, you shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above. Exodus 20, verse 3. You shall have no other gods before me. Exodus 20, verse 8, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. It seems as though there's this summary within Leviticus 1 and 2 of Possibly the first four commandments. Foundation Is relationship. It's not the laws. The covenant is founded on a relationship. It sets forth blessings and curses, yes, it sets forth promises, agreements, in other words, so to speak. But at the core of the covenant is a relationship. That's its foundation. God is determined to draw a people back to himself. He's chosen to select a certain people for his inheritance, his children And it's that relationship, relationship of a father with his children, that's at the core of the foundation of the covenant, which is set forth throughout all of Leviticus. And summarized here at the beginning of chapter 26. I am the Lord your God. God's covenant is thus founded in his love, his unending, his eternal, his everlasting love for his people. And in that love, he enters into a relationship. A relationship which cannot be broken, a relationship that's upon which everything else is based. Just like that foundation of the building. Which can't be seen. But without it, the rest of the building is worthless. It can't stand. And so it's God's love that is the foundation. It's the foundation of the covenant. What's your foundation? Is it Christ? Isn't that what Paul wrote to the church at Philippi? For to me to live is Christ. See, that's what he was saying. Christ is my foundation. Christ is my everything. Without Christ, he was nothing. Or as he wrote to the church at Corinth, for I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. See, for Paul, everything was Christ. And here, here in Leviticus, the foundation is the Lord. Everything's based upon him. Isn't that what Paul writes to the church at Ephesus? So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus being himself The cornerstone. Now if you know anything about building foundations, you lay the cornerstone first. Everything else comes off. Of that one cornerstone that's set properly. Level in line and everything else comes off of that cornerstone. He is the beginning. There is no other. So the question tonight stands, what is your foundation? For without Christ, you have nothing. Brings us to our second point, the blessing of the covenant. See that relationship now needs to that blessing, that group of blessings. And we may tend to jump to the list of blessings. There are many of them here in this chapter, beginning at verse 3. But don't miss the initial blessing. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence in my sanctuary. I'm the Lord. We tend to jump down to that portion about eating your bread to the full and dwelling in your land securely. But this is one of the greatest, if not the greatest, blessing, you shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. It's put in the in the in the way of a command But it's actually the first blessing. The ability to worship is founded upon that eternal relationship, which is based upon the love of God, isn't it? Isaiah writes of the Sabbath, of keeping the Sabbath as being one of the greatest blessings possible in this life. If you turn back your foot from the Sabbath from doing your own pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath a delight, and the holy day of the Lord honorable, then you shall take delight in the Lord, and I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob, your father. The greatest blessing is set forth there. And verse two, the ability to worship, to bring praise to the living and true God. Then we could jump down to verse five. All the blessings there set forth by Moses seem to be blessings of this life. Your threshing shall last until the time of the grape harvest, and the grape harvest shall last in the time for sowing. You shall eat your bread to the fold, dwell in your land securely. This is the idea of abundant blessing. That there never will be a time of of a lack of food. There never will be a time of a lack of blessing. I will give peace in the land. You shall lie down. None shall make you afraid Five of you shall chase a hundred. Your enemies will be nothing. I will turn to you and make you fruitful and multiply you, and will confirm my covenant with you. Remember what he told Adam and Eve in the garden. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth. God is saying, I'll do it. I'll do it. I'll confirm my covenant. Sounds very similar to the end of the rich young ruler account. When Jesus tells the disciples it It's hard for the wealthy, the rich, to enter the kingdom of heaven. It's easier for the a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to go into heaven. And the the disciples say to him, How's this possible? And Jesus responds, with God, everything's possible. Peter said, We've left our homes and followed you. And Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, there is no one who has left his house or his wife or brothers or parents for the sake of the kingdom of God who will not receive many times more in this time. You have to ask the question, well what peace did the apostles enjoy? They were martyred. They were persecuted. And yet Jesus told them, very similar words to that which we read in Leviticus. But I will give you peace in the land you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. They were told that they would receive much, many more times than what they had given up in this life It all might be explained in verses eleven and twelve. I will make my dwelling among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and you shall be my people. Many times in a Christian's life there are afflictions. In some Christians' lives constant afflictions, constant persecutions. Think of our brothers and sisters who are living now in the persecuted church, who may be in prison because they confess Jesus Christ. How would they say, well, yes, I can see how these verses are worked out in my life today. I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid. Because God says, I will walk among you and will be your God. And you shall be my people. What does that mean to you tonight? That I will walk among you. Isn't that one of the greatest blessings alongside worship? How walk among you? In one sense, this whole book of Leviticus has been about God walking or dwelling with his people, providing that tabernacle, providing a way to enter the tabernacle, saying, I'm going to dwell here, and this is how. I will walk among you. The Israelites, but this the Israelites meant that God would be with them in the camp. There's a passage in 1 Samuel chapter 4 where uh the Israelites are battling the Philistines and and the Israelites think if we bring the ark up into our camp, that's really gonna be the powerhouse to help us defeat the Philistines. They do so. It doesn't work out the way they thought. But the Philistines were afraid. For when they heard the Hebrews shouting, when the Israelites were shouting because the Ark had come up into the camp, they said, God has come up into the camp. Whoa! For nothing like this has happened before. Woe to us, who can deliver us from the power of these mighty gods. There was a sense that that was extremely true. But the the concept was that God, at least they thought, God was among the Israelites. What does it mean for you? That God will walk among you. You might be thinking, well, this promise is ultimately fulfilled in glory. And it is. Revelation 21, we read, behold, the dwelling of place of God is with man. But what about today? Because it seems like that's a promise for today. But I will walk among you. It might be helpful for us to think of what Paul wrote to the church at Philippi. Rejoice in the Lord. Always again I say, rejoice. The Lord is at hand. Now remember, Paul was in jail, he was in prison when he wrote that. He wrote the Lord is at hand. He knew, he experienced the presence of the Lord with him. So much so that he could write this, do not be anxious about anything, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds It seems to be that Paul was was understanding what it meant that God was walking with him. Even more so when he continues as he speaks about his situation. I know how to be brought low, I know how to be abound in any and every circumstance. I've learned the secret of facing plenty and hunger Abundance and need, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. Ultimately, that seems to be the blessing of the covenant. Recognizing and knowing what it means that God, that the Lord Jesus Christ, will walk with you. Until he comes to get you. Brings us to our third point, the curse of the covenant. In a sense, much of this chapter is about the curse Verse 14, but if you will not listen to me and will not do all these commandments, if you spurn my statutes, if your soul abhors my roles, my rules, then I will do this to you. If you were building a house of sin, what would be used for the foundation? It's a strange question. Another way to put it would be this. What's the source of so many of our problems as corrupt human beings? And it seems to be set forth right here at the end of Leviticus. You shall not make idols for yourselves or erect an image or pillar, and you shall not set up a figured stone in your land to bow down to it. It seems that the failure to listen to God, to do his commandments The action of spurning his statutes, the action of abhorring his rules, all stems From the substitution that we make of other gods for God So many of our problems, as well as the Israelite problems, stemmed from the creation, the making of idols, and that's how this chapter begins. And continues to open up as we get to the curses The making of idols is directly connected to the rejection of God as your God. They go together, they cannot be separated. And so it's set forth before us tonight as a warning As a remembrance of our corruption in Adam, that in Adam we do not desire to submit ourselves to the worship of an all-perfect, all-holy, all-powerful divine being. In our corruption, we don't want to release or give up what we perceive as our autonomy or our self-government or our self-control or our self-determination or our self-centeredness. And so there's that constant temptation to create idols Of silver and gold, the work of human hands, have mouths but do not speak, eyes but do not see, they have ears but cannot hear, noses but do not smell. Do you see what the psalmist was telling us in Psalm 115? That we make up these things. and submit ourselves to them, but they have no authority over us. And we stop our ears, don't we? Not hearing, not heeding. Verse 14 here in chapter 26. But if you will not listen to me, and you will not do my commandments, if you spurn my statutes, of your abhor my rules, were not listening. As we make idols. Because before we were converted, we hated God. We see it right here. Spurning statutes, abhorring rules, breaking my covenant. The abhorrence of the rules of God stems clearly from abhorring God Himself. And so we see it. And we hear it. Those that would be disobedient stopped their ears to the Word of God. Eve did so. Satan lured Eve to consider the fruit. It became for Eve an idol, that which stood between her and her God, that which she wanted more of than the Word of God. Did God actually say? And so we see the curses, the curses for making idols. The curses for stopping your ears because you've made an idol. And they go on and on and on. But let me ask the question. Do you see the love of God even here? And this portion of chapter twenty-six, which takes up most of the chapter, the description of all that will come upon those who reject God, all those who come who reject his rules, who who abhor his statutes. Do you see the love of God? And you may be thinking, where? Let me read this again. There are only curses here. But if that's all you see tonight, you've missed the mercy and the love of God in sending you a warning. Isn't that what this is? Who else is going to be reading this tonight? But the people of God. This was written to the people of God. This was given to the people of God so that they would be warned away from this. Isn't that what the love of God does for his people? warns them of the coming destruction, tells them, no, not this path, head this way That's exactly what Moses is doing. That's exactly what God called Moses to do for the people of God. Send them down this path, not that one. Show them what this path looks like. So they won't be tempted. Isn't that the love of God? Isn't that the most powerful thing you see here? Yes, it is the love of God. And it's a call tonight to heed his warning. To see his love within this and to respect it and to heed the warning. That brings us to our fourth point, the hope of the covenant. Now I'm going to turn back. To that portion we just went over, in a sense, which are the curses. And I want you to see so many times How God sets forth his patient love here in this chapter. Verse 18, if in spite of this you will not listen to me, then I'll discipline you again sevenfold for your sins. Verse 21. If you walk contrary to me and will not listen to me, I will continue striking you sevenfold for your sins. Verse 23. And if by this discipline you not turn to me, but walk contrary to me, then I will also walk contrary to you. And I myself will strike you sevenfold for your sins. Verse 28. Then I will walk contrary to you in fury, and I myself will discipline you sevenfold for your sins. Seven was a number of perfection in the scriptures. And it seems what the Lord is telling his people is that I will discipline you completely. so that you'll return to me. I will show you my patience because I'm going to discipline you seven times. I will look and see what's happened now. Have you turned back? No, you haven't. I'm going to discipline you more. I'm going to discipline you as a son, as a daughter, as a loving father would do to bring you back to me. Again and again and again, this is set forth. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises, some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing any should perish. but that all should reach repentance, do you see it here in this passage? I myself will discipline you sevenfold for your sins. And then notice the preparation of the land. After this sevenfold discipline, this complete discipline. God has not given up on his people, and he continues to prepare the land. Why else would he prepare the land if it were not for the return of his people? Why would he purify the land? Why would he give the land rest if he was not preparing it for his people to return? You see the love of God? Why would God have purified the land during the flood, through the flood? He could have just taken Noah and his family to glory immediately. No, he prepared the land. He's preparing, he's saying, I will prepare the land here. So he can return his people. Remember, Moses was writing this as the Israelites were headed to the Promised Land. They would have had this book as they entered finally. They would have had this book as they suffered for their neglect, their neglect of God, as they went into exile. The Israelites would have had this book as they strayed from God. They would have had this book These promises, this patience would have been in their hands. This light in the darkness that they had placed themselves in would be set before them, and they'd see that God is a patient and loving God preparing for their return. Isn't that what was going on? Isn't that what this was to be used for? Wasn't that what God was showing them? That through his unilateral promise, through his unilateral covenant, that he had bound himself To continue to love the people and to bring them back. I will remember my covenant. with Jacob, I will remember my covenant with Isaac and my covenant with Abraham, and I will remember the land. But there was a condition, wasn't there? Look at verse forty. But if they confess their iniquity and the iniquity of their fathers and their treachery that they committed against me, and also in walking contrary to me If then their uncircumcised heart is humbled and they make amends for their iniquity, then I'll remember my covenant. You see the condition? The condition before the Lord said he'd remember. It was humility. If they humble themselves, if they make amends for their iniquity. We speak of humility lightly We speak of a humble heart as a nice attribute to have, but really not so critical. Isaiah didn't speak lightly of humility. In chapter 61, he writes, the spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. To bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. You could substitute the humble ones for each of those Bring good news to the humble ones. He's sent me to bind up the humble ones to proclaim liberty to the humble ones. Jesus didn't speak lightly of a humble heart. He spoke of a humble heart as being necessary. In the Sermon on the Mount, blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. That's pretty critical. No, we we shouldn't speak lightly of a humble heart. We should plead for it. God give us a humble heart, knowing how important it is to you that we can't even ask you to remember your covenant unless and until you've given us a humble heart. We need that first. Now how would the Israelites comply with this? How would such a stubborn people who needed the punishment of God seven times over, again and again and again, how would they comply? Well, it's only by asking God, isn't it? Isn't that what the prophet Ezekiel was saying? I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I'll put within you and remove your heart of stone. From your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. See, that's what Moses was writing. To the Israelites. That they had to ask, that they had to seek God's face and request, Lord, give us a humble heart. Help us. Lord God, to make amends for our iniquities. Help us to confess our iniquities. Help us to cast off our pride. Help us to come before you with contrite hearts. We began tonight by asking whether or not you knew of the greatness of God's love. And I suggested that it's actually seen throughout this book of Leviticus and comes to a head, in a sense, in this chapter twenty-six But throughout Leviticus, the Lord was making a covenantal way for his people to worship him. He loved them so much.