Uh phone at least yeah. Y'all would turn to Acts chapter nine. Just give it to me. I'll give you that again. I'll do all right. Yeah Acts chapter 9, beginning at verse 1. Thank you for your patience as we're working out all the kinks. Just give attention to God's word. Acts chapter nine, beginning at verse one. Then Saul, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked for letters from him to the synagogues of Damascus. So that if he found any one any who were of the way, whether men or women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem. As he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly a light shone around him from heaven. And he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. It is hard for you to kick against the goats. So he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what do you want me to do? And the Lord said to him, Arise and go into the city, and you will be told what you must do. And the men who journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no one. And Saul arose from the ground, and when his eyes were opened, he saw no one. But they led him by the hand and brought him into Damascus. And he was there three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Now there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias. And to him the Lord said in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Here I am, Lord. So the Lord said to him, Arise and go to the street called Strait, and inquire at the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus, for behold he is praying And in the vision he has seen a man named Ananias coming in and putting his hand on him, so that he might receive his sight. Ananias answered, Lord, I've heard from many about this man how much harm he has done to your saints in Jerusalem. And here he has authority from the chief priest to bind all who call on your name. But the Lord said to him, Go, for he is a chosen vessel of mine to bear my name before Gentiles, kings, and the children of Israel, for I will show him how many things he must suffer for my name's sake. And Ananias went his way and entered the house, and laying his hands on him, he said, Brother Saul, the Lord Jesus, who appeared to you on the road as you came, has sent me that you may receive your sight And be filled with the Holy Spirit. Immediately there fell from his eyes something like scales, and he received his sight at once, and he arose and was baptized So when he had received food, he was strengthened. And Saul saw some of his disciples at Damascus. Strong reading of God's word. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word and we pray now that you would guide and direct our hearts, that you would illumine us. Give us Father much insight into your word. Guide and direct us toward God that we might learn what this irresistible grace is all about. Telpers, fill us with your spirit, that you may be glorified tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let me give this back to you. Um anyone can help me with this, it would be great. I'm hearing an echo, so I'm hearing myself speak and then I'm hearing myself speak again. Is it possible for me not to hear that second time? Okay. Great. Well, brothers and sisters, we have been studying and continue to study tulip. I'm referring to as the way of salvation. And as we do, we we know that TULIP is an acronym. It stands for Total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, and perseverance So far we've gone several of these, but we're continuing our study. And uh Tonight, we'll be talking about the fourth of these five, irresistible grace. Let's review a little bit of where we've been We have gone over total depravity, that's where we began. Adam earned this for us as he fell, as he sinned, and as he sinned, he wholly lost all ability of will to do any spiritual good He passed that on to us. Every single one of us. And so every single one of us began life totally depraved. That means that we can't save ourselves. We can't move in the direction of saving ourselves. We can't do anything of ourselves to work towards salvation. It's God. God does everything associated with our being saved And the first thing that he does, if we put it in human terms, is he chooses. He elects. And so the second point, there's unconditional election. God chooses. those whom he will save, those whom he appoints to life He will effectually call those he places his favor upon, and only those. That's what we refer to as, that's what Scripture refers to as election. That election is unconditional, and that unconditional means that his choosing is not based upon anything within us. It's not because we are intelligent. It's not because we are in the church. It's not because we've got good parents. No, there's nothing that God sets his eyes upon with regard to who we are. It's only because of his love That's it. Unconditional election. The third point we came to was last week, limited atonement. Limited atonement. And we know that we are saved only by the blood of Christ. And so this Limited atonement goes to the idea of does Christ's blood save everyone? And the answer is no, there's a limit. It's not that that there's a limit to the power of his blood, but there's a limit to those to whom it actually applies. It's a difference between the power which is unlimited and those to whom Savings were limited in that it was designed to save some and not others. And you see the Westminster Confession language with regard to limited atonement, all those whom God hath predestined unto life, and those only He is pleased in his appointed time effectually to call. The blood at this That brings us tonight to irresistible grace, which we want to focus our attention on for a few moments. Irresistible grace. So now that we know that as a result of Adam's fall, every single person coming around, with one exception, Jesus Christ. became totally depraved and was and is unable to do anything to save ourselves And now that we know that God Himself unconditionally chose or elected those whom He will save through the atoning The blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that we know those things, now that we know that the saving blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, while of limitless value and power saves only those whom God has chosen. It's applied only to certain people. In other words, Jesus has atoned For the sins of those certain people selected by God and not all people Now that we know those things, we might ask, or someone might ask, or wonder, is it possible For a person whom God has chosen and called to be saved by Jesus, say, no thank you. No thank you. Is it possible? If we're truly made in the image of God, and we are And in that we are made as moral decision-making creatures, not robots. That's my phone, don't then someone say no to God's grace That's a question for tonight. That's really the issue behind this doctrine of irresistible grace. Are we robots? Or are we able to make decisions? And how does this grace work? As God's call is by grace, as salvation is by grace through faith As the Spirit's work is by grace, is it possible to resist that grace? I'm not sure why anyone would want to, but that's the question. Is it possible? Is it possible to say no to grace? Well, I think first we just have to think a little bit upon what is grace. The only two words that we're studying tonight, irresistible grace, and so it would be good for us to set our minds upon what this grace is. So we know that God's choice, his determination, his election of some We know that the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross are both things which must happen in order for one to be saved. We know that that's not the end of the things which must happen for one. to be saved. There are more things, if we put it that way, that must be done in order for one to be saved. The work of the Lord Jesus Christ His shed blood, his resurrection, that work must be applied to individuals. In order for one to be saved, that work, that merit of Christ must be applied. So the doctrine of the truth of irresistible grace or efficacious grace asserts But the Holy Spirit never fails in his work of drawing God's children to Jesus. So is it possible to go against the grain, so to speak? Is it possible that God's will is headed in this direction for a person to go this way and for the person to actually go in the opposite direction? Is that possible to resist? Is it possible like that mule that won't get off its rear end? Is it possible for us to be like that as the Spirit is trying to draw us to Jesus? Is that possible? Again, from the five points. Spirit is in no way dependent Upon the person whom he is drawing to Christ. No independence or need of help or cooperation for success from the person who's being drawn to Christ. They say it's for that reason that Calvinists speak of the Spirit's call and of God's grace in saving sinners as being efficacious or invincible or irresistible. Turning to Romans. 3. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift. It's a gift. God takes wretched sinners. He draws them to himself and to salvation by Grace. He justifies by grace. See, this is the concept, this is the idea of grace. It's not that anyone earns it, it's not that anyone deserves it Sinners receive salvation by grace. Abraham didn't earn Righteousness. Abraham didn't earn God's favor. Abraham didn't earn salvation by the things that he did. What did Abraham do? He believed. And God credited to him as righteousness. He didn't earn it. And that's what Paul is saying in Romans as he refers to Abraham. He's saying, you know what, if you work for something, then you should get your wage. But that's not what Abraham did. He didn't work. God poured out his grace upon Abraham. What Abraham received was unmerited. Favor. And that's grace. Unmerited favor of God. This is from Stroll. He said or wrote, the first thing that we understand about grace is what it's not. It's not something we merit. It's the opposite of that. In fact, if that That is about grace. I'm sure God will rejoice that we know his grace is unmerited. That's grace. You must understand that as we work through this doctrine So the question of whether the grace of God may be resisted by men really now turns upon whether humans have free will. Now that we've defined grace, now that we understand that it's God's unmerited favor, can that be resisting? Now we must even consider do humans have free will. And if so, how does that work into this? Where does that resistance come into play, if at all? Confession tells us that God has endued the will of man with that natural liberty. God has given us every single one of us natural liberties. What does that mean? Means that we are not forced to either good or evil. There's no absolute necessity for us anything. We have free will. natural liberty that the Lord God has given to each and every one of us. As you desire. That's free will. That means that we're not robots. That means that God is not in heaven pulling strings And making us move against our will. He's not forcing people to move or to do that or this, which is against our will This is not who we are. This is not who God is. Scripture never tells us that we are mere puppets being moved about by God against our will. So the irresistible then in irresistible grace does not mean that the Spirit binds our hands and legs and drags against our will to Christ. It's not what it means. It's not the idea Oh, all who go to Jesus do so willingly, using natural liberty. This is a little small, even hard for me to read. But what I want us to see here from the Westminster Confession is that as God calls What happens? He enlightens our minds spiritually He renews our will. Do you have the picture? Before God's calling, before he changes our heart Our wills were such that we wanted nothing to do with God. Once he changes a heart, once he gives us a new heart, a tender heart Once he makes his call effectual in us, what happens? He enlightens our minds and renews our wills. He changes our wills so that now we desire to be with God. Yet so they come most. It's only because of that renewing of the will That those who are called to Christ come most freely, using that natural liberty, which has been renewed. From the Gospel of John, all that the Father gives me come to me It's not, well, all that the Father gives me, uh about 10% will come. About 75. No, all will come. All will come. With the letter to the Romans. Thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart Not obedient from the puppet strings that have been pulled, no obedient from the heart. Coming to Jesus, submitting to Jesus willingly Brothers and sisters, that was just a brief overview of this truth of irresistible grace. And I'm hoping that tonight we see the glory of God In this truth, in this doctrine. Many times doctrine can be dry and dull. This doctrine Should be striking at our hearts, making us rejoice in seeing what God has done. Taking a dead sinner, bringing him or her to life. Not as a robot, not as a puppet, but as one made in his image, freely and willingly coming, longing to be with him. What a change. What a magnificent, awesome work he does. This should cause us to give much praise and adoration to the living God. Amen.