If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Paul's letter to the church at Rome. We'll be in chapter 8 once again. This will be our last in this short series on chapter 8. I believe you'll find that on page 1123 of your Pew Bibles. I'll begin reading at verse 28. The preaching of the word this morning will be fixed upon verses 35 through 39. Let's give attention once again to the holy, infallible, the inspired Word of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image. of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that Who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, for your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we now come to the end of this series, this Chapter eight of Paul's letter to the saints at Rome, help us. Help us to recall what you've already told us. Help us to recall, think upon, meditate upon, and cherish the love of Christ. Help us to see the power of Christ's love. Help us, Lord God, to fix our minds, our hearts upon it. Knowing that we can never be separated from it. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you cherish the love of Christ? Do you keep it before you throughout the day? What comes to mind when you're experiencing afflictions or illness or persecution or chastisement? Or disappointment. Is it the love of Christ In our fallen condition, we rarely think about the love of Christ. Think of Jonah. Jonah was a prophet called to go to Nineveh by God. He communed with God. Jonah knew God intimately. He knew the voice of God. He spoke with God. He knew the love of God. And yet Jonah ran away. Because he was concerned about circumstances. He was concerned, he was fearful what the future might bring if Nineveh was spared the judgment of God. And so Jonah ran, not to God, but away from God. We have to be asking ourselves, how is that possible? How is it possible that Jonah did not cherish the love of God? How is it possible that Jonah didn't know and believe and act upon the truth that the love of God would protect him? Seems to be what Paul is writing about as he ends up this eighth chapter in his letter to the saints at Rome. Yes, Paul's been writing about sin. We know that. In chapter 7, Paul goes very deeply into the problem of sin, into his own sin. I'm doing the very thing that I hate. My members are waging war against the law of my mind and making me captive to the law of sin. Paul was very aware that he served the law of sin. But then he gets to chapter 8, where we all remember How he begins the chapter, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Sin provides the backdrop. And now he's letting everyone know that there's no condemnation for any who are in Christ Jesus, that God works all things for the good of those who are called according to his purpose. Indeed, that the Father spared not the Son, but sent him to the cross to suffer on behalf of those who should be suffering. And then most recently telling us, telling the church in Rome, that there's no one who can actually bring in a valid charge against God's elect. And then we come to this portion we have today, where Paul keeps on hammering home like a well-driven nail, that truth. That there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the theme. That's been the theme. This is the truth that Paul continues to hammer home. And this is the last blow. This is the truth that Paul is hammering home. There's no condemnation for any in Christ Jesus. And here's this sub-theme that we have this morning, the supporting theme. That there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus because of his love. And so condemnation, no condemnation and the love of Christ are directly connected. He loves all who are trusting in him. We actually might want to reverse that. Because Jesus Christ loves the children of God, they will never be condemned. Because Jesus, by his love, keeps each one of them in himself. That's the truth that Paul will hammer home now in these last several verses. I want us to see that the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for the children protects them from the ill effects of tribulation, using each one of those tribulations to draw them closer. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, we are regarded as sheep. Secondly, we are considered as conquerors. And finally, we are joined as brides. As we go through this passage, I just want you to keep that question before you this morning. Do you cherish the love of Christ? First, we are regarded as sheep. Paul continues his argument now Now no condemnation with another powerful rhetorical question. He has a series of them, and now he ends with this Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Why is he asking that question? It must be because the believers in Rome needed to be reassured. They needed to hear again of the powerful love of the Lord Jesus Christ. These like us needed to be comforted with the truth. But the power of Christ, the power of the resurrection, the power of the love of God through his son is unmatched. And so Paul asks that question to get the believers in Rome to be thinking, who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And so he begins to answer his own question. He begins by reminding the believers in Rome and all who will read this passage that this life, this Christian life, will be full of affliction. Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword shall these things separate us From the love of Christ. And so Paul takes his readers back to the real problem. The ongoing problem. The past problem, the present problem, the problem for the future. Because of their sin. They have experienced trials and tribulations and afflictions and illness and frailty and persecution and constant attacks of Satan, the constant plague of the old man who continue to reside in their corrupt nature along with chastisements, all of these things Paul are saying will continue for those in Rome And it's no different for you today. There's a sense in which you don't even need to be reminded of this truth. You know this. You know this truth. You know that you experience tribulation, you experience distress, you experience persecution to an extent. Danger. You get sick. You experience trials and tribulations when you lift up your interests above those whom you're called to love and honor. You experience the distress and bitterness and frustration when you refuse to submit to the perfect will of God. You complain as you experience the hatred of those who think that your faith is foolishness and persecute you, even if only with hurtful words. And yet, Paul, the inspired apostle, reminds the saints in Rome that they will experience and continue to experience all these things as a result of their sin. And the question is, for those in Rome and for you today, will any of these things separate you from the love of Christ? Now, to drive home these problems which surrounded the Christians in Rome, Paul goes back to a psalm to describe their condition. Look at verse 36. As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. See, Paul is quoting from Psalm 44. Which reads this way in the ESV, you have made us like sheep for slaughter, and have scattered us among the nations. See, Paul appears to be saying that the members of the church, the individuals believers in Rome, just like you and me, are like sheep. Just think of that. Meditate upon that for a moment, what Paul's saying. As he quotes from Psalm 44, or alludes to Psalm 44, it's significant for us to understand what he's doing. Paul is not saying that the Christians are like sheep who are laying down beside quiet waters and in green pastures. No. He was saying that they're like sheep who are being led to the slaughter now. On the way. Sheep who are considered good for only one thing, and that is to be consumed, slaughtered. You see the metaphor? In their trials and tribulations in Rome, and their afflictions, and their illnesses, and their persecutions, and their famine, and their nakedness, it was as if they were like sheep Being led to the slaughter, dying daily, to be cut up, to be slain, fed to others. It's a gruesome image. But Paul's painting a picture of how you might be thinking of yourself today. Killed all the day long. Calvin writes, by saying that they died daily, they imitated Intimated that death was so suspended over them that their life differed but little from death. And do you consider yourself to be sheep like today? In your trials, in your afflictions, illnesses, dangers, persecutions That's what Paul's saying. And the concern here, Paul was aware that the Christians in Rome were concerned for their eternal future, because they were experiencing afflictions and trials and tribulations and persecutions and sickness and death, were they still in Christ? Did he still love them? Given all the circumstances that were arising around them as a result of their sins, were they truly like sheep merely headed to slaughter? Is that how you feel this morning? Neglected? Forgotten by God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Was 2024 a difficult year? Filled with trials and tribulations and sickness and afflictions and chastisements and even death, yes. Are you wondering whether you've been separated from the love of Christ? See, that's exactly what Paul was getting at. He was addressing those lingering doubts even after this whole chapter, chapter 8 in Romans in the letter to the church at Rome, was so powerful. In setting forth those truths that there's now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, Paul believed he suspected that there were still those who would doubt the continuing and eternal love of Christ. for them. There's no question, brothers and sisters, that we have experienced trials and tribulations in 2024. And there's no doubt that as we move into 2025 for our sin, for your sin, despite your efforts to suppress sin, these trials and tribulations will continue. Until Jesus returns. And thus, along with the psalmist We can consider ourselves to be as sheep, led to the slaughter, to be slaughtered Being killed all the day long. But did you notice the words, the way in which the psalmist puts them, the way in which Paul puts them? Being killed all the day long? These trials and tribulations, our experiences, feel like death at times, but it's not. If you're in Christ, you are truly dying daily to yourself, to your sin. But you're kept in Christ by his love. Indeed, you're a conqueror over these temporal things. Paul puts it powerfully this way in 2 Corinthians in chapter 4. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory. Beyond all comparison. See, that's the idea. That's what Paul is seeking to convince his brothers and sisters of. And that brings us then to our second point. We are considered as conquerors. Look at verse 37. No. In all these things, referring back to the trials, the tribulations, the afflictions, the nakedness, the famine, the sword, the dangers, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. All these things as the backdrop. All these things which the believers in Rome had been dealing with each and every day, which you are dealing with today. Paul now sets forth the truth. They had overcome. What is it to be a conqueror in this context? Webster defines a conqueror as one who gains a victory, one who subdues or brings into subjection. That which is trying to conquer you. One who defeats his antagonist Well, who are the antagonists of the believers in Rome? Who are their enemies? We might be thinking about Paul's letter to the church at Ephesus. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against rulers, against the authorities, against cosmic powers over this present darkness, against spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We might be thinking of that. And that would be a reasonable response. But in this context, I think there's a more specific antagonist. It appears to be tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, danger, or sword. Now, all these could be used by Satan or human enemies of the church at Rome, but these are all circumstances of the believers' lives in Rome because of their sin. These are the antagonists, these are the enemies. Who Paul is supposing are positioned in the minds of the believers in Rome to possibly be able to separate them from the love of Christ. So who are your enemies? Who are your antagonists? It's the same. It's no different. Just because we're separated by thousands of years doesn't mean there's any difference between our antagonists, our enemies, in this context and theirs. And so we see the conqueror is one who has overcome, one who is brought into subjection in his heart and mind. All of these tribulations, all of these trials, all this famine, this persecution, nakedness, danger, and sword, and that's exactly what Jesus had done and has done. That's what he told his disciples in the upper room discourse, as he's teaching them for the last time. I said these things to you that in me you may have peace, in the world you will have tribulation. But take heart. I have overcome the world. See, it's Jesus Christ who always leads us in triumphal possession He's the one who's overcome. He's the one who has brought into subjection in his heart and mind the tribulations that he experienced, each and every one of them. But it's curious because Paul writes here that we are more than conquerors So how is it? How is it that Paul can use that pronoun we, referring to himself along with the believers in Rome? How can he use we? Because Scripture constantly refers to Us, the children of God, as weak. As Jacob goes back home, he tells his brother The children are frail. They've been walking. Well that's a picture of us. We're frail. Psalmist speaks this way. In Psalm 6, my eye wastes away because of grief. It grows weak because of all my foes. That's a description of us. Ezekiel speaks of us as God seeks the lost He will brings back the straight. He bind binds up the injured. He will strengthen the weak. God is speaking about that which he will do for us. Jesus speaks of the flesh being weak. Paul speaks of us being weak. And in our weakness, that was the right time for Christ to die for us. So Paul cannot be referring to our power or strength. He cannot be referring to the strength of the children of God as he pronounces that we are more than conquerors. For the children have no spiritual strength, only spiritual weakness. So the answer to that question is also found in that verse. Paul can rightly use that pronoun we as he qualifies it. With through Kim who loved us. That's the answer, isn't it? It's through Christ, the one who loved you that you have become a conqueror. See, the only one who has overcome the world, the one who in his own human heart and mind conquered every trial, every tribulation, every affliction which he endured on your behalf. Now, as he has become the conqueror, and as he has drawn you to himself, it is through his love that you can be called a victor. And experience the victory. That's exactly what the Apostle Paul was sharing with the saints in Rome. That even as they were experiencing the result of their sins through persecutions, through afflictions, through trials and tribulations, through famine and nakedness, they had become victors or conquerors over all their sin-caused afflictions because Christ loved them, because Christ Himself had overcome or conquered or been victorious over them all. So in Christ. They become conquerors. Just think of a Christian Suffering persecution, even today, in jail, in prison, only because he or she confesses Jesus Christ. How in that condition, in that affliction, can they consider themselves to be conquerors or victors? How are our brothers in Christ overcoming or being victorious over their persecutors as they remain in prison today? It takes us back actually to a prior truth that Paul's already given those in Rome. We know that for those who love God all things work together for good. Calvin puts it this way, it's no new thing for the Lord to permit his saints to be undeservedly exposed to the cruelty of the ungodly. But this is not done except for their good. The scripture teaches us that it's alien to the righteousness of God to destroy the just with the wicked. See, through the love of the Lord Jesus Christ, that one knowing and believing and experiencing the truth of this verse has victory. over a trial, over even this kind of persecution, which would otherwise, from a worldly perspective, crush human spirit Knowing that Jesus Christ is using the captivity, the loss of freedom, the cruelty of men for their good, because he loves them It's the same assurance that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego experienced as they faced a fiery furnace. We know that God loves us and he'll save us from this fiery furnace, but even if he doesn't, we still know that he loves us. And that he will ultimately save us. It's that same assurance. It's the assurance of Christ's eternal love that overcomes Even that kind of persecution. It's the same assurance that you can have this year As you endure afflictions and trials and tribulations through the love of Christ. But don't overlook or think lightly of what Paul states here. More than conquerors. Paul doesn't say that the children of God are mere conquerors. No, no, he writes that those who are trusting in Jesus are more than conquerors. What does he mean by that? On a battlefield, there are only two sides, the vanquished or the defeated, and the conqueror or the victor. There are no others, just the loser and the winner. How can one be more than the victor? How does Paul speak of being more Because they not only gained victory in their heart and mind Over that which was afflicting them, they'd become strong You see, that's what Paul writes about, and he writes in 2 Corinthians, when he had that thorn in the side. And he praised to God three times that he would be relieved of that thorn in the side. It was given to him. To make him weak. It was given to him so that he wouldn't boast of the revelation that he'd been given. And it was kept there. Because God said, No, no, no, I'm not going to take it away. My grace is sufficient for you. And Paul went on to understand that he would be content with his weakness, with insults, with hardships, with persecutions and calamities, for when I'm weak, then I am strong. That's becoming more than a conqueror You see, the love of Christ draws each child of God so close to Him. Just think of Jonah for a minute. Because he sank down to the bottom of the sea. And the Lord calls a great fish to swallow him up. And now Jonah's in the belly of the fish three days. What's going on? God was protecting Jonah. Nothing could get inside the belly of the fish. He was in this protective environment. He was encapsulated. He was enclosed in the love of God, who was bringing him back. He was bringing him back to obedience. He was bringing him back to being a prophet. He was bringing him back. Through his love. Nothing outside could get to Jonah. He was in this protective shell of the belly of the fish. That's the love of Christ. See, he draws all believers so close to himself that nothing can intervene. He wraps all believers in his protective robes of righteousness. Nothing can penetrate. By his love he brings all the faithful into his strong tower where no trial, no tribulation, no affliction, no famine can do eternal harm. That's more than a conqueror. And like Jonah, they've been given life. Not merely victory over trials and tribulations, persecutions and afflictions, not only victory over sin and death, but given more life itself in the presence of a living God. More than conquerors. Only possible through the unending, unbendable, unbreakable love of Jesus Christ. Are you feeling like a victor? Like a conqueror? Are you experiencing the victory? Many Christians, maybe all Christians, have a serious problem. We're tend to be inclined to think and to believe that the things of this world are more powerful than the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. Indeed, we rarely think of love being powerful. And we commonly believe that the things of this world, this created world, this physical world, are superior in power to the spiritual world or spiritual power. Consider illnesses just for a moment. Whether it's your own or in the illness of a loved one. We frequently pray for healing, don't we? Indeed, we might pray more fervently for healing. than we do for spiritual well-being. Why is that Maybe it's because we consider the physical illness to be so powerful, so consuming, that we must first of all ask for physical healing. Why don't we pray first for an increase in the experience of the love of Christ? See, being more than a conqueror actually directly applies to this. It's a theological truth that, if correctly applied, is of much practical daily help in all of our afflictions, including illnesses. There's a sense in which trials and tribulations and afflictions are kind of a stepping stone to experiencing more of the love of Christ. Indeed, we can think of that as being the more. The Christians can live in these situations, these afflictions, these persecutions, these illnesses And yet, all the while, know and experience the love of Jesus, knowing that you haven't been separated. Experiencing his overseeing, experiencing his keeping, experiencing his compassion and his everlasting love for you Knowing that even in these dark circumstances brought about by your sin, that he has conquered, that Jesus' victory is your victory, and that in love now Jesus Christ is interceding for for you. In love, King Jesus is orchestrating all of these afflictions for your good and your eternal salvation. This is that more than Experiencing the salvific love embracing you like Jonah, even in the belly of the great fish. That through the love of Christ, you can press on even like Paul who was in prison. Not that I've already obtained this or I'm already perfect, but I press on to make it my own. Because Christ Jesus has made me his own. That's the more. Belonging to Christ Knowing his love. And that brings us to our third point. Which we'll briefly touch upon. We are joined as brides. When we think of love, what do we typically think of You might think of that relationship here in this world in which we think expresses love in the greatest way. A marital relationship, a husband and wife. Those two that are not biologically related, coming together in that bond of love. We think of 1 Corinthians 13. If I give away all I have, but I deliver up my body to be burned, but to have not love I gain nothing. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast, it's not arrogant or rude, it does not insist on its own way, it's not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, it rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endureth all things. Love never ends. Many times that's used at marriage ceremony, isn't it? But all that comes from Christ. Not all these can be attributed to Christ, but the foundation is Christ. His love is patient, his love is kind. Jesus doesn't insist on his own way. Think of his prayer at the Garden of Gethsemane, as he submits his will to his fathers, wholly and completely. He rejoices with the truth, doesn't he? And he did, in fact, bear all things for you His love never ends. There's a sense in which Paul has been describing the love of the Lord Jesus Christ throughout this entire chapter. This is the love of the Son of God. That he took upon himself man's nature, his human nature. He condescended that low because his love was so great. Made under the law. He perfectly fulfilled it. Condescending, lowering himself, washing the feet of the disciples. And grieving, enduring most grievous torments immediately in his soul on the cross. Remaining under the power of death, full of satisfying the justice of his father, purchasing not only reconciliation, but an everlasting inheritance in the kingdom of heaven. For you. See, that's the love of Christ He is the divine bridegroom, the one that Hosea was unfolding to us. Because, like it or not, we are the wretched harlot who continually strays away from God. And Jesus Christ is the one who is sent to bring us back. Think of how wretched you were as Jesus Christ went to the cross. How deep must his love have been for you to go to the cross and suffer, knowing of your filth See, that's the love of Christ as the divine bridegroom who has chosen you as his bride. And you see, he's making you beautiful. Through those trials, through those tribulations, through those afflictions. through famine, through nakedness, through danger, through sword, through peril. Even you, the one who is regarded as sheep, being led to the slaughter The filthy sheep. See, that's the love of Christ. The never-ending, powerful love of Christ able to draw you out. Of the pit of damnation, and bring you to himself, never to be lost. But to be eternally loved. Yes, the love of the Lord Jesus Christ for the children protects them from the ill effects of tribulation, using each and every one of those tribulations to draw. Them even closer. Jonah ran because he was not cherishing the love of God. Jesus Christ calls you to run to Him, to cherish His love, to meditate upon His love this year. Even as you experience those trials and tribulations, those persecutions, cherish the love of Christ. Amen. Our Father in heaven, Lord God, we confess we're weak, we're frail. At times we feel we become overcome by trials and tribulations. And yet Jesus Christ is using them, each one of them, to draw us closer to himself. Using them as stepping stones to help us to appreciate his love even more. And so now, Lord God, we ask. Help us to love Christ in the way he loves us. Grant us this, Father, that we might meditate upon his love throughout this year Calling it to mind, especially when we're enduring those afflictions that you send. We ask all these things.