Please turn now to our scripture passage from Hebrews chapter 12 and beginning at verse 22 and continuing through verse 24. But our attention will be today on the phrase in verse 22 to the city of the living God. And you have come to the city of the living God. So let us hear God's word. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God the heavenly Jerusalem to an innumerable company of angels To the General Assembly and Church of the Firstborn who are registered in heaven, to God the Father of all To the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please now be seated. And as we have been w working through Hebrews last two weeks that preceded this, we talked about you have come to Mount, you've not come to the mountain that can be touched, Mount Zion. You've not come to the mountain that can be touched Mount Sinai, but you have come to Mount Zion And uh we talked about particularly Mount Zion last week, uh and uh and we made note of the fact that The author is speaking to a group of people, and that those people are Christians who are receiving this letter. And he says, You have come to Mount Zion. And it's it's not that they're the the the way the tense reads about this this coming to this mountain it's not that they're going to come sometime in the future it's not that they came there in the past But it's that they've already gotten there. And he's saying to Christians, to believers, he's saying There's a part of you which we call the soul that's being redeemed by the work of Jesus Christ. There's that part of you that's already in Mount Zion. This wonderful place where God dwells with his people. He's not talking about the mountain outside Jerusalem. He's talking about how Mount Zion is pictured throughout the Bible as a place Where God dwells with his people, where he lives with his people, where he provides for his people, where he protects his people, where they have easy access to him. But just so we don't get the wrong impression, at the end of Hebrews chapter 12, verse 24, he reminds us that we don't get there on our own or by ourselves. We get there because of the blood of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, the mediator of the new covenant. Now today we want to look at the term the city of the living God. And of course, there will be some overlap with what I said last week regarding the regarding Mount Zion. But the idea of the city, we have come to the city of the living God, it has a a few nuances to it that that further explain what it's what it is to be in this city with God. In this glorious city with God. Now it's not a city in the sense that you can Find it on a map. Dispel yourself of that idea. This is a place where God dwells with his people. It's actually more a heavenly city Once again, you've already come there, but you haven't yet experienced it in all of its glory. That will come when you finally are dead, and you are glorified, and you're risen with Jesus to heaven. But nevertheless, we've already got our foot there. We've already got our person there. What we call in the Bible or in the study of the New Testament a blessing that's an already and a not yet. It's a double blessing. Already, now, and yet more to come. Okay, but he says we've entered into the city of the living God. First of all, it does tell us that Mount Zion is a place that's called by other names. the city of the living God. And it'll go on to talk about this place where God dwells with his people, the city of the living God. It will talk about the heavenly Jerusalem, the assembly of the firstborn. These are all kind of correlative terms. They speak of similar realities. We don't always call Baltimore, for example, Baltimore. Sometimes we might call it the land of the place of the land of pleasant living. Sometimes we might call it the Raven City, or we might call it the Oriole City. or the one I can't yet reconcile in my own mind, Charm City. Have you figured that one out yet? I have it. But we do. The point is, we call sometimes cities with other names just as God chooses to call his city with some other names. But each of these different names have some nuance that's different from each other. But it doesn't matter. It's all the same place. In the end. But I do want to talk about these nuances. So let's go now to the idea that we've come to the city of the living God. This is a city which is unlike any city on earth. Nevertheless, in many ways, all cities on earth have some things that are in common. Some things that are the same. When we think about cities, we often think of them about being centers of the country. important places in the country. We think of them as centers of culture or commerce. We think of cities as being places where there are many opportunities. Both good and bad. But nevertheless, there are many opportunities there. You could go and you could attend to play in a city, which uh uh uh a Broadway play, you could go and hear a concert fairly easily. You know, if you look through the Washington Post, you'll see plays and concerts. They got their own page of all the ones that are in in the area. You're not going to see that, you see, if if you're if you're living in uh in Winter South Dakota, the place of my first pastorate. They don't they don't do that kind of stuff. And there isn't that much variety. There there isn't much variety in the things you eat. You either eat beef and potatoes or that's it. You know, 'cause that's all they got there. It costs a lot of money to ship in lettuce or to ship in bananas You you you okay. There just works opportunities in a big city for for for a lot of different things Uh there's a large variety in cities of places to eat. Uh you can go to art museums. Their cities are also places where there are many, many people that are concentrated in a usually smallish area. And uh cities tend to be multi-ethnic and multicultural. Multi-ethnic and multicultural When the text says to us that God's mountain, Mount Zion, where he dwells with us, is a city. It suggests city-like things that we can identify with. Again, it's not a earthly one. But I would like to point out, as I just said, that it's a multinational place where cities gathered. And how could God's city be anything else but multinational and multicultural? Because God decreed to Abraham from the very beginning, Genesis 22, 17, that in blessing I will bless you, and in multiplying I will multiply your seed as the stars of the heaven as the sand of the seashore, and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies, and all Excuse me, the gate of his enemies, and in thy seed all nations shall be blessed. And that promise, you see, in your seed, that multicultural, all nations being blessed in the city of God comes to its greatest expression in Revelation, where we see this amazing image, chapter 7, verse 9. After this, I beheld and lo, a great multitude, which no one could number of all nations. Kindreds, peoples, tongues stood before the throne of the Lamb clothed with white robes and palms in the hands And brothers and sisters, that's the city you dwell in. You're already there Not in the fullest glory, but when you look around and you see in this church, you see a reflection of that. And it's a grand thing. It's a good thing. And that that that idea of the city, you see, is is is attuned to give you that thought. That's just one of the thoughts that come through with a city, the idea of a city. Now, we must admit That earthly cities are rarely seen as that glorious. Yes, they are multi-ethnic and multicultural But they tend to be areas of social breakdown, centers of crime. Places of impersonalization of people or dehumanization, areas where people feel dislocated and isolated from their neighbors. All of which breeds a significant amount of distrust. Is this the image you should have as you see yourself in the city of the living God? Of course not. But then how should you think of being in the city of the living God? What characterizes it besides the fact that it's a city? Well, there's some other things to that little phrase that tell give us some some characterization. It's closely associated with Mount Zion, as I suggested before, and Mount Zion is the place of God's holiness, his righteousness, his joy, his peace, his love, where people care for one another with a genuine care. Neighbors who truly are neighbors. A place where you never have to be alone. Because there's always somebody in this city who's got your back. whom you can trust, because they all profess the same God. And they've come to the same city. And they have the same Savior whose blood is the better blood than that of Abel's or than that of Abel's, the blood of Christ, the mediator of the new covenant. Old Testament cities generally conveyed the image of safety and protection. The David, the great king of Israel, very short uh shortly before his death, stated this about God and God's presence with him. He didn't quite say he was in a city, but the point will be made after I read what it says. David writes, You are the God of my rock. In him I will trust. He is my shield and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, my refuge, my savior You save me from violence. Psalm 91, verse 2. I will say of the Lord, He is my refuge. My fortress. See, those is a little different than cities, but cities have that connotation to them, particularly in the Old Testament. He is my refuge and my fortress, my God. In him I will trust. You see, the city where God dwells, where God is there, is like Mount Zion. The focus is on God with us. And because God is with us, we are safe. We are protected in His presence. God lives in this city. And those who live there have ready access to him How do they have such ready access? Because Jesus is the mediator and Jesus is the high priest. of our confession. As Hebrews chapter 7 verse 25 puts it, he is able to save those to the uttermost. That come to him unto God by Him, seeing He lives to make intercession for Him, for them The God who dwells in the city of the living God is the same Almighty, all-powerful, all-wise, all-holy God of Sinai. And this time he lives with his people. Because we have come to the mountain called Mount Zion. Only those with God-given faith in Jesus will not live in terror And in dread of God. Yes, terror and dread of God. He is an awesome God. He is the God of Mount Sinai. Sinai. Keep doing that. Zionai. He is the mount of God of Mount He is the God of Mount Zionai. And he's the God of Mount Zion. Only those who have faith in Christ do not live in terror and dread of this God, for the blood of Jesus is their shield. From God. God's wrath because of her sin. His blood has reconciled the faithful to him and given to them his everlasting peace. Surely he who is the mighty God of Mount Sinai and Zion is able to defend his city and protect his loved ones. No foe can defeat him. No enemy can overthrow him. Satan may launch his flaming darts against God's people and his city. But he will never overcome the God who dwells there with you. In peace because of Jesus. I would like you also just to note that this city is called the city of what? The living God. The living God, the God of the Bible, is not dead. He lives. He is alive. The city that you have come to is a city where God is alive. Not like alive in the sense of New York City, which is often called the city that never sleeps. The God in the city Of the living God is the God that the psalmist spoke of in Psalm 121, verse 1. I will lift up mine eyes to the hills, from whence cometh my help. My help comes from the Lord, who made the heaven and the earth. He will not suffer my foot to be moved. He that keepeth thee will not slumber. Behold, he that keeps Israel neither slumbers nor sleeps. If somebody doesn't slumber or sleep, you would say he's alive. They're alive 24 hours. But that's not the only image that we want to carry from the idea that God never sleeps. God is alive. We're in the city of the living God. The question to ask yourself is why is God alive? And the answer to that question is multifaceted He is alive because he, the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit aren't dead. Why isn't your God dead? Because you see, he isn't a figment of our imaginations. He isn't an idol. He isn't somebody we've made up. He is inscripturated in the Word of God You may not like the Bible. You may hate it. You may throw it away. You may dismiss it. But that doesn't invalidate the reality that God lives. Not only does he live, but he is the source of all life, because he is our creator. I don't buy this business that we somehow out of nothing Became human beings on this planet in the middle of an untold number of stars and planets in the galaxy that we somehow got here through some sort of well shall I say the word evolutionary change God created everything. And in his creation, he stamps it with the mark of life. He gives life. Listen to that familiar statement of the creation in um in um Genesis chapter one, verse twenty. God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly. And every moving creature that hath life and foul that may fly upon the earth in the open firmament of heaven. And God created whales. In every living creature that moves. This is what the Bible says. He brought forth the waters. Every winged fowl of his kind, and God saw it was good. Then he proceeded to make man in his image. Love this. Genesis 2. 7. The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils. And man became a nephesh Hayah A living soul. You see, if you're in the city of the living God, you're in touch with the one who is life. And it's not just our physical life that we're in touch with But we're in touch with the one who gives not only physical life, but also gives redemptive life. Redemptive life. Jesus, our Lord and Savior, in the great discussion that he had with Mary and Martha at the tomb of Lazarus. He looks at them and he says He says to her, says, I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Whoever believes, liveth, and believeth in me, shall never die. Do you all believe that? This God, whom we have the privilege of worshiping, this God who has plucked us out Of the fires, the hellfires of perdition, and has set upon you his love, his elective love, his divine choosing love in Jesus Christ This God is the one who is able to do exceedingly abundantly what we ask or think. According to the power that worketh in us. Now I'm talking about the living God, and I And I got a whole bunch more here, and I've got to narrow this down. But I don't want to miss this other point. Everybody who is not living in the city of the living God, who does not acknowledge that God of the Bible is our creator and our redeemer, the sole source of creative life and redemptive life Everyone who will refuse to acknowledge that nevertheless will have a reflection of that in their life. Because what will they do? They know that they're created by God. What do they do? They make an idol. They suppress the truth and unrighteousness, and their foolish heart is darkened, and they make an idol Oh Pastor, why are you talking about idols? What is an idol? You know, I could come to you and give you examples, but essentially take this definition down if you want. An idol is anything you love more than Jesus. Or God. Because what you love, you will serve and you will bow down to But you see, the picture of idols in the scripture, as we read from Isaiah 46 this morning, the picture of idols in the scripture is that they are dead. They are not only the product of men's hands, but they are dead. It doesn't matter what God you worship, that's not the God of the Bible, it's not the living God. Because idols are a product of our sinful imagination. And notice, really, the writers of the scriptures on a number of occasions almost mockingly. Almost mockingly talk about those who are worshiping other gods. Isaiah 46, as he directs his comments to Israel, the Old Testament people of God. Listen to Abakuch, another of the prophets of God, and what he had to say about idols. Habakkuk two, verses eighteen through twenty What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hath graven it? In other words, what profit is there to the one who makes an idol? What prophet, the molten image, is a teacher of lies. The maker of his work trusts therein. But he makes dumb idols. Dumb. Not stupid. Can't hear. An idol can't hear. Why is that important? You want to be able to talk to God. You want to be able to intercede with God. To have him hear you. To know if, you see, to know if there's nobody else in this world you can turn to and depend on, you can depend on him. Woe to him who says, I'm continuing in Habakkuk. Woe to him who says to the wood, awake. Make this idol. Wake up! Wake up, idol! It ain't gonna happen. Or he says, Arise and teach. Behold, it is laid over with gold and silver. There is no breath in all of it. What does it mean when there is no breath? It's dead. It's dead. It's dead. And it can't give light. It can't hear. It can't Function as your God. And that Habakkuk passage ends with these words. But the Lord is in his holy temple. Let all the earth keep silence before him. Isaiah 44, verse 9. They that make a graven image, an idol, are all of them vanity, and their delectable things shall not profit them. They are their own witnesses, they see not nor know, that they may be ashamed. Who hath formed a God or molten a graven image? That is profitable, Word of God, profitable for nothing Isaiah 45, 20. Assemble yourselves and come. Draw near together that you are escaped of the nations. They have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven images. And pray unto a God who cannot save. See, we need to be saved. From ourself and from our sin. The idols we erect can't do that. They can't hear. They can't rise up off their pedestal. They can't speak. They don't care. They have no breath in them. They have no life. And they can't save. The whole world makes its idols. Again, you don't believe me? You don't believe me? What's gonna go on in a half an hour five miles away from here 80,000 people are gonna be there worshiping their God called the Redskins or the Cowboys That is not life. It doesn't profit for anything It has no eternal value. It is worthless. It's a dumb idol. It's good for nothing. It can't give you breath. It can't give you life. It can't give you salvation. Which city do you want to live in? What city do you want to live in? As I see it, you have two choices. You either worship and bow down to the dead idols and dwell without protection from your greatest enemy who I never identified, but that you know to be Satan. Suffer distrust, distrust, experience crime against you? Live in mortal fear in the eternal city of everlasting spiritual death Because if you trust in idols, that's where you're going. Everlasting spiritual death. Do you want to live there? Or do you want to come by faith and dwell in the city of the living God? Experience the marvels of his city. Dwell under the eagle's wings of divine protection. Live with multitudes around the world who share one common thing black or white, rich or poor, gentile or Jew. By faith, they share one common thing in God's city. They're there because of the blood of Jesus Christ. which the Father has eternally decreed should be shed for your sins. Next week, we talk about the heavenly Jerusalem. And I can't wait to find out what wonders And what joys await us there. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we stand before you. And with great with grateful hearts, we sing your praises. We thank you. For Lord, we know that on our own we do not deserve to dwell in the city of the living God. But we trust, O Lord, not in our worthiness, but in the worthiness of Jesus Christ. We thank you, Lord, for giving us the faith to believe in Him. We thank you, Lord, for giving us the faith. The repentance, to express to you how sorry we are for our sin, and to turn away from it, and turn unto you, to live for you. To live for you in your heavenly in in your in your uh in your in your living and in your city. Grant, Lord, that many others will hear, will hear the truth, will turn from their dumb gods, their idols. those which destroy, those which kill. Grant that they might see before it's too late, as the prophet Jonah decreed. Those that observe lying idols forsake their own mercy. May that not be us, Lord, but may we trust in the living God, who lives in the living city To the name of God, the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit, we pray these things. Amen.