If you would turn in your copy of God's word now to Psalm sixteen. It should be on page five hundred and thirty-five of your Pew Bibles. And we'll read the entire Psalm tonight. Let's give attention to the Word of God. A miktam of David, preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. I say to the Lord, You are my Lord. I have no good apart from you. As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones, in whom is all my delight. The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply. Their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out, or take their names on my lips. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The lines have fallen from me in pleasant places. Indeed, I have a beautiful inheritance. I bless the Lord who gives me counsel. In the night also, my heart instructs me. I have set the Lord always before me because he is at my right hand. I shall not be shaken. Therefore, my heart is glad. My whole being rejoices. My flesh also dwells secure. For you will not abandon my soul to Sheol. Or let your holy one see corruption. You make known to me the paths of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures. Forevermore. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come before you once again and ask, Lord God, for your blessing on the reading of your word. I pray now, Lord, that your word has been read, that the Spirit would lay it up in our hearts. And as we open it tonight, as we hear it opened, Father, that you would work powerfully. Changing us, making us more like Christ, hearing even from Christ as He called and cried out for refuge. Guide us now, all for your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember the twelve the ten plagues That beset Egypt. If you remember the tenth one, that the angel of death Went over all of the houses in Egypt and slayed the firstborn of every single house. With the exception of the Israelites. Prior to bringing the angel of death, the Lord had called all of the Israelites to slay a lamb and to take the blood of the lamb and place it on the lintel. That's the portion of the door that goes over the top of the door and on the door posts. The Israelites, the Hebrews, then took refuge within their homes. The blood of the Passover lamb had been sprinkled and protected them It provided them with that refuge from the angel of death. They were under the blood of the angel, and that preserved the people of God. There's a sense that that leads us to this passage that we have tonight in Psalm 16. The Israelites desiring life, desiring to be preserved and taking refuge as God had called them to take refuge. And now here in Psalm sixteen, a psalm which is all about refuge. We don't know when David wrote this. We know that he did write it. Receives that title. Was it prior to the crowning of David? Possibly. Possibly. Was he praying about the building up of the kingdom? Possibly. We don't actually know. But it sounds like that may have been the case. And tonight we hear David crying out to the Lord. For preservation. We see the need indeed for refuge Tonight I want us to see that the cry for preservation from all those who trust in Christ Jesus is heard by God. Very simply, the cry for preservation from all those who trust in Christ Jesus is heard by God. We'll see that tonight in three primary points, the present sense of refuge, the exclusive sense of refuge, and then finally the future sense of refuge. As we go through this, this psalm, I believe, is is thought of As a a psalm which is messianic, meaning it it's a psalm about Christ. It's a psalm in which we could say that actually Christ is speaking these words, asking for preservation, not merely for himself, but for the kingdom, because we know That as Christ is preserved, his kingdom is preserved. As the king is preserved, his subjects are preserved And so as we go through this psalm tonight, as we hear David writing and speaking, we're also hearing Christ himself. And we're hearing God answer Christ's prayer. Well, as we begin tonight, just a couple of preliminary matters, matters of introduction, so we can understand what's happening here. Look at this first verse. Preserve me, O God, for in you I take refuge. What does that word mean, preserve? Well, if we were to go to the dictionaries, we'd see it means to be saved from destruction, to save from decay. It seems to be the idea. Certainly we see it at the end of the Psalm, don't we? That you make me no paths of life. That you will not abandon my soul. She'll preserve me, O God, keep me from decay. We see this idea throughout scriptures. Adam was called to keep the garden. To watch over it. That was his his work, his job to keep it. It's the same idea. The cherubim when Adam had sinned were to guard the doorway to the tree of life to keep it, to keep those out that weren't to come in. Joseph As he was sent by his wicked brothers to Egypt, he was sent before them to preserve or guard life. All of those ideas are caught up in this idea or this word preserve, an action, a work. But with regard to God We see ideas of preservation in integrity and uprightness. Psalm 25, guard my soul and deliver me. Do lot not let me be ashamed, for I take refuge in thee. Let integrity and uprightness preserve me. That's the idea See, sin is that which attacks us from within and from without. And the psalmist here is, in a sense, is asking for preservation from that, from Satan. Jesus himself is asking that he would be preserved so that the people of God would be preserved preserved until destruction passes by. You find that in Psalm fifty seven. For my soul takes refuge in thee, and in the shadow of thy wings I will take refuge until destruction passes by. That's the idea. Sin is that destroying force within us. Satan is the one who wants to bring us down. And until destruction passes by, we need God to preserve. He's the only one who has the ability to do so. And that's why David is crying out to him He is the one who has the ability to truly protect and guard and watch over each and every one of you, even this week. As we suffer attacks from Satan, as he continues throwing those darts and arrows at each one of you, tempting you, calling you away from Christ. God is the only one who has the ability to truly protect and guard and watch over you. And so that's David's plea. Preserve me, O God, for I take refuge in you. Certainly a prayer for individual preservation, but as the king or the king to be, he's praying for the entire nation. It's a battle that David was in, whether it's before he took the crown or after he took the crown It's a battle for the kingdom that he was engaged in. Who will rule it? Who will be ruled in justice and righteousness? Who will rule under God? The battle would be severe, and one side, either Satan's side or Christ's side, would be destroyed. We know the end. But David nonetheless asks for it here. Preserve me then to be the king of this great nation of yours. And so he asks for refuge. That's his basis for the request that David needs refuge. But there's a connection. David is a refugee, so to speak, as Kidner, a commentator, puts it. And David relies upon his status as being one who needs refuge to go to God and ask. for it that he might be delivered, that he would not be ashamed, that he would be protected until destruction passes by In 2 Samuel, we read this: my shield and the horn of my salvation, God, my rock in whom I take refuge, you save me from violence. Isn't that what sin is? Isn't that how we might describe Satan? As being those who seek violence. And so the sense here for refuge, this call to be preserved, this call for refuge. is put a bit differently by the King James. Preserve me, O God, for in thee I do put my trust There's a similar meaning between being in refuge in God and trusting God. Preserve me, O God, because I am trusting in you. You see, David can't preserve himself. But he knows as he trusts God that God will and can. And Jesus Christ, as He hung on the cross at Calvary, even as He cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me even new? That his father would preserve him. Even as the wrath of God was being poured out upon him. The Son of God knew that there would be preservation, that his soul would not be condemned to hell. That it would not see corruption. And so, as David records this, he certainly records it in his own voice. But he records it in such a way that he points us to Jesus Christ. The plea that the God of the universe would so preserve, so keep the King that the entire nation would be preserved to bring worship and praise and honor and glory to the God of the universe. Well then that brings us to breaking this psalm down into those three points. The present sense of refuge first. Well, what is this refuge that David writes of? If we go to the end we know that that there is refuge. He not only asks for us We know that as we read the end, you will not abandon my soul to Sheol. You will not let your holy one see corruption. You make me know paths of life. In your presence, there's fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. There is refuge. But in between the beginning and the end, we see first this present sense of trust or refuge that's set forth. You might ask, well, where do you see that? Look at verse 2. I said to the Lord, you are my Lord. I have no good besides you. You see, there is this communion that David has experienced and continues to experience with the living God, just as Christ Did always throughout his earthly ministry, throughout the gospels, we see constant communion between Jesus and his Father. I said to the Lord. David speaks and God hears. There's communion. David cries out, he prays, because David has taken refuge in God, because he trusts he is heard. There's communion. As one trusts and takes refuge. Think of those words, you are my God. Recognizing the covenant promises of God, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you throughout their generations to be God to you and to your descendants after you, David. was knowledgeable. He knew of the covenant. He's relying upon the covenant. He's relying upon God's promises that he indeed had been bought by God He belonged to God. He was in union with God. And as a part of his refuge in God, he knew that he had communion. I said to the Lord, you are my Lord, I have no good besides you. Do you see as David is trusting, as he knows His Heavenly Father. As Jesus knew his Heavenly Father like no other, he knew that God was and is good. He defines goodness. It's not just something added to him that's outside of him. God is good. Remember what Jesus said to the rich young ruler. Why do you call me good? No one is good except God alone. Certainly David's works were filthy rags before God. But he's looking to the one above, the one who sits upon the throne and recognizing and confessing that outside of God he has no good. That outside of God there is no good. Psalm 73 provides this: whom have I in heaven but thee, and besides thee I desire nothing on That seems to be the idea, as David recognizes, as Jesus recognizes the goodness of his father. It seems to be even more encompassing and gives us the exclusive sense of the goodness of God. He is our exclusive goodness. And the goodness of God is directly related to David taking refuge in him. Psalm seventy-three, but as for me, the nearness of God is my good You see then the present refuge that David knew of and was experiencing And then the Lord is David's present inheritance. Look at verse 5. The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and my cup. You support my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. David's portion, his spoils, his rewards, if indeed he was speaking of that which the Lord had given to him as king. We don't know that was the case But David's cup is that which was overflowing. Remember Psalm twenty-three You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You have anointed my head with oil. My cup over flows That cup representing the bounty, the mercy, the grace which the Lord had poured out upon David and certainly upon Jesus Christ. Indeed, everything that David has been given is from the Lord his God, and he's confessing that not only is it good, it's abundant, his cup is full. It's present. Present sense of his refuge. This blessing upon blessing upon blessing is being poured out upon David, and he's recognizing it. The lines have fallen for me in pleasant places. The Lord is my chosen portion and my cup. You hold my lot. The Lord upholds. He not only gives, but he upholds David. And we're not just talking about his bank account. We're talking about everything that David has, even his trust. The Lord is upholding it. David has brought nothing by his own strength into his possession. Everything that David has, even his faith, even his trust Not a result of the works of his hands, but an inheritance which has been granted to him by the Lord God. And so we see the present sense of his refuge as we speak of inheritance and heritage. And usually we're speaking of future things, but David puts it, brings them forth and says, no, no, no, it's now. I've received these things now. I have a beautiful inheritance. There's a sense which David can gaze upon that which the Lord has given him now. Isn't that what Christ was doing throughout his ministry? Even as he was attacked By the Pharisees, by the scribes, by the chief priests, even as his disciples left him, wasn't Jesus able to see his present inheritance? Present refuge. David knew that everything was from the Lord. His inheritance, his portion, his lot, his property, his cup. And he's fully satisfied. Don't you get that impression as you read these words? My Chosen portion of my cup, you hold my lot. The lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. David is fully satisfied with his God. Is this what trusting in God, taking refuge in him looks like for you? That you have a present sense of refuge and of satisfaction I'm not speaking and asking the question, are you satisfied with your job? Are you satisfied with your station in life? Do you have as much money as you want today? But the question is, do you see things in this light? The lines have fallen to me. in pleasant places. God has given me everything that I need I have a beautiful inheritance in Christ Knowing the Lord your God is your portion, as your inheritance, as your heritage, is that which brings you to be able to say, along with David. I have a beautiful inheritance. Knowing that his goodness is continually being poured out and shown to you, knowing that you're in communion with him. And that you've taken refuge in him, meaning you're trusting in him. And that trust and that refugees is from him as he watches over you and gives you peace. Indeed, these should be the words of every single Christian. Lines have fallen to me in pleasant places. I have a beautiful inheritance. Present sense of your refuge. There's also the our second point, the exclusive sense of refuge, isn't there? Being in refuge with God then brings him into communion with the saints, the majestic ones. Look at verse three As for the saints in the land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. Now you should be getting the sense of these being the words of Jesus. Right? As Jesus is sent to save sinners from He speaks now of the people that God has given to him. The one that he has opened the door for, for the sheep to come in, and he opens the door for the fold to go out, and they follow him. He's the good shepherd. And Jesus, in a sense, speaks of the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. How could he go to the cross unless these weren't his words? Unless the saints, the the chosen ones, the elect were not his delight. That's how in part he goes to the cross, isn't it? Because he takes delight. In the people of God. Through his father, he's in communion with them. And that's the same for David, as he is either king or to become king. He speaks of those who are of the kingdom. Not only in union with God, but as a result of his being in union with God, he is now in union with all those who trust in God. Think of this just for a moment. We've been seeing stories from Ukraine of Bombs falling, people going into bomb shelters. Think of people as they go into a shelter, a group, a body all joined together in a certain place, taking certain shelter from that which is falling from above, hearing the explosions and feeling the earth shaking together, and yet huddled in this great sense of community, a bond, a sharing together, and then an encouragement of one another A refuge. Being together as a group, sharing the same things, having a sense of community, having a sense of protection. Taking refuge in the same place with others, this community of saints. And that's the idea. There's refuge in God. It's refuge from the bombs that are falling from Satan. It's refuge from the sin that remains within. It's refuge from evil and wickedness and malice and envy and strife. It's seeking to care for one another as we lift up one another's needs and desires, caring and sharing. Because we have the sameness of mind, a unity of mind and values, because Christ has worked in our hearts. And then there's a delight in this communion. The majestic ones in whom is all my delight See the glory here of the plan of God. Saints with whom he is in communion by and through the headship of God Himself. And we see that this refuge is actually exclusive. It's exclusive for the saints on the earth. As for the saints who are on the earth, on in this land, they are the excellent ones in whom is all my delight. David then speaking as king or king to be the exclusive king of the nation, the exclusive nation of God, the people of God. Refuge is then not merely for a single person, single person David. It can't be taken as a personal blessing, but a national blessing. It's an exclusive blessing. Nowhere can this kind of union and communion be found outside of Christ, outside of God the Father. And so we're seeing. The result of the way they live, demonstrating a love for one another, forsaking themselves in order to lift up those who are with them in the refuge provided by God. And then we see the opposite, don't we? The sorrows of those who run after another god shall multiply, their drink offerings of blood I will not pour out, or take their names on my lips. What a contrast it is shown. They don't share in that exclusivity of refuge, do they? Those who are outside the church, outside of the body of Christ, those who run after other gods. No, that refuge is exclusive for God worshipers There's no refuge, no shield, no safety, no security, no pleasure possible in false gods, in idols. They have feet, but they cannot walk. They they make a sound with their throat, that those who make them will become like them. There's exclusive refuge in God for those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. Which is not available to those who have rejected Christ. An exclusivity of inheritance, of heritage. The Lord is my portion of my inheritance and my cop. You support my lot. The lines have fallen to me in my Pleasant places, those who worship idols cannot say that. The inheritance is only for family members. And exceeding exclusive to the members of a particular family and David here drives home the point that is only the members of the family of God, only the saints who will share in this, only those who consider the Lord as their Lord, who can say, the Lord is my portion. Yes, this refuge is exclusive. And finally, the refuge is also future the future sense of refuge. Look at verse seven. I bless the Lord who gives me In the New American Standard, it's reads this way: I will bless the Lord who has counseled me. I have, excuse me, indeed, my mind instructs me in the night Consider that David is looking now forward. That David is now able to consider the future, that he's been dealing in the present sense of his current refuge, that he's thinking of the exclusivity of his refuge. And now he is looking forward with certain hope because of his current state of refuge or trust. Because he's received counsel directly from God Himself. And as we understand these to be the words of Christ as well, we would understand that Christ knows. He knows the beginning from the end. He knows that he will be victorious over sin and death. He knows that he will rise from the grave and be reunited with his Father. To sit on the seat of the throne of God. David has also received counsel directly from his father. And so he has a confident hope. He has a confident hope that his flesh will dwell securely, that he will not be shaken. That his whole being will continue to rejoice, that he will not be abandoned to Sheol. You see, David knows the future as well because His confident trust in the promises of God. David, as the inspired writer, now writes about Jesus Christ, the one who was not abandoned to Sheol, the one who did not see corruption. Peter opened up that for us, didn't he, as we read from Acts chapter 2. Peter takes this psalm, or at least a portion of this psalm, and says, you know what, this is actually speaking of Jesus, it's speaking of Christ. And so, because he was a prophet and knew, meaning speaking of David, that God had sworn to him with an oath to seat one of his descendants on the throne, he looked ahead and spoke of the resurrection of the Christ. That he was neither abandoned to Hades nor did his flesh suffer decay. David knew. David was speaking of Jesus, and this is his confidence The confidence of the future, his confident hope that there would be preservation because Christ His Lord, his Savior would be preserved. He was writing this at a time when Jesus had not yet gone to the cross. But because he was inspired, he he knew the outcome that God would preserve. Did he know the name Jesus? No. Did he know that God would preserve his people through a Savior? Yes. Yes. And so the power of the resurrection shown, even described here in this passage, you will not abandon my soul, the Sheol, nor will you nor will you allow your holy one to undergo decay. Son of God raised with power from the dead according to the Spirit of Holiness, Jesus Christ our Lord. And so David was confident that there'd be preservation for the people of God who have taken refuge in God, who are trusting in God. And that the Lord would make him know the path of life. Please don't miss that. You will make me make known to me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. These words of God penned by the inspired prophet David. Speaking of the work of Christ, you make me to know, you make known to me the path of life. Path of life for Christ was loving his Father and doing His will. The path of life for all others is in Christ Himself. David speaks of fullness of joy in the presence of his Savior. He was confident that he would experience that, that he will experience pleasures forever, that this refuge that he has A present experience of that he knows is exclusive, he knows it will end in eternity And in eternity, as he lives with his Savior, he will experience pleasures forever. The true worship of God in glory. Isn't that the end of the goal of the establishment of the kingdom? As David the king is looking over his kingdom as Jesus Christ preserves his kingdom. Isn't that the end, the true, the full worship of God? Which He has created and molded and shaped worshippers who are full of joy and pleasure as they enter into His eternal presence. David knew the path of life. The question is, do we know it tonight? Do we know the one whose soul was not abandoned to Sheol, who did not descend into hell or damnation? Do we know the one at whose right hand there is pleasure forevermore? This is Christ. Do you know him that way tonight? Brothers and sisters If you're wondering in your heart tonight if I know Christ that way, He's calling out to you. This is our Savior. This is the one who went to the cross, who's shown us the way. You can know him. He calls out to you tonight to forsake your sin, to repent. To believe upon him, to take refuge in him. For he has taken refuge in his Father. His Father has raised him from the dead to life everlasting. And he calls out tonight and tells you to drink from him. And you can have this life In which there is pleasure forevermore. There's fullness of joy only in Christ. Come to him tonight. Yes, the cry for preservation from all those who trust in Christ Jesus is indeed heard by God and answered by God. The Israelites. Under the shadow of the blood of the Passover Lamb were preserved, but that was only a type pointing to the blood of Christ, under which all who trust in Christ are indeed preserved. For pleasures forevermore at his right hand. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, this is such an important psalm. It's so deep, it's so rich. Tonight we have only scratched, maybe not even scratched the surface. O God, help us to meditate upon the truths that are set forth here, the blessings that are set forth within the current refuge that is possible in Christ Jesus, the exclusive refuge. That is only in Christ Jesus and indeed the the future refuge which, Father, is such a blessing as we even consider these words you've given us tonight Help us, Lord God, to know Christ this way, to trust in Christ this way. You have blessed us, Lord. We thank you and praise you. Help us to be a blessing to you now, as we leave with Christ in our hearts We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.