Amen. Return in a copy of your copy of God's Word, the Gospel of Luke. Begin reading there in the first chapter at verse five. As we begin to focus our minds, our hearts upon the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Luke chapter 1. Beginning at verse 5. Let's give attention to God's word. In the days of Herod, king of Judea. There was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abadjah, and he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron. Her name was Elizabeth And they were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. But they had no child Because Elizabeth was barren. And both were advanced in years. Now, while he was serving as priest before God when his division was on duty, According to the custom of the priesthood, he was chosen by lot to enter the temple of the Lord and burn incense. And the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense And there appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. Zechariah was troubled when he saw him. And fear fell upon him. But the angel said to him, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard, and your wife Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John And you will have joy and gladness, and many will rejoice at his birth, for he will be great before the Lord, and he must not drink wine or strong drink, and he will be filled with the Holy Spirit, even from his mother's womb. And he will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. And he will go before him in the spirit and power of Elijah to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, to make ready for the Lord a people prepared. Zechariah said to the angel, How shall I know this? For I'm an old man and my wife is advanced in years. And the angel answered him. I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and to bring you this good news. And behold, you will be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words, which will be fulfilled in their time. And the people were waiting for Zechariah, and they were wondering at his delay in the temple. And when he came out, he was unable to speak to them, and they realized that he had seen a vision in the temple, and he kept making signs to them and remained mute And when his time of service was ended, he went to his home. After these days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and for five months she kept herself hidden, saying, Thus the Lord has done from me in the days when He looked on me, to take away my reproach among people. Thus far in the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, we pray now that you would help us by your Spirit. As the word has been read, we ask that you would add your blessing to it And now, Father, help us. Help us to give attention to your word preached. Help it to take deep root within us. And Father, we pray that you would use it to do all that you have planned. Have your way with us, Father. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember Nehemiah Was greatly troubled as he heard the news that the wall around Jerusalem had been broken down. It was ruined along with the gates. Which had been burned. He heard that the remnant, the Israelites who were there, who had survived We're in great trouble and shame. The wall around Jerusalem, the broken down, the ruined wall and the burned gates were just a demonstration, an outward indication of the shame that had come upon the people. Nehemiah immediately goes to prayer, and he confesses before God that That he and his father's house had sinned against God. Again, the broken down wall and gates were an outward sign. Of what had happened within the hearts of the people. We've acted very corruptly against you and have not kept the commandments So you know what Nehemiah does. He goes to the king, where he was in exile, and he asks for permission to go and repair the wall and the gate because of the shame that had come upon the people. And as he gets finally gets to Jerusalem, he says the same thing to those who would be wall rebuilders. Come, let us rebuild the wall of Jerusalem so that we will no longer be a reproach. That's what the broken wall had done, the burned gates had caused the people to be a reproach to the nations around them The English Standard Version uses the word derision. So we no longer would be a derision, meaning something that is laughed at. Today's passage, we have that word used again here at the end of what we read as Elizabeth Recognizes that the Lord had looked upon her and given her a pregnancy to take away her reproach amongst her people. As we look at this passage today, this is just the beginning of the Gospel of Luke. Luke was writing to Theophilos, not quite sure who he was. But he was setting forth an orderly account of what had taken place amongst them, really an orderly account of Jesus Christ. Certainly of his first advent and of his earthly ministry. And so right away, Luke, as he's Recording this orderly account for Theophilus jumps in to this account of Zechariah and his wife Elizabeth. Today, it's my hope that we will see the reproach of our sin before God is removed by the righteousness and purity of Jesus Christ. The reproach of our sin before God is removed by the righteousness and purity of Jesus Christ. Three heads. The context, the substance, and finally the result. Well, what is the context in which this angel appears To Zechariah. Look at verse 5. In the days of Herod, king of Judea, there was a priest named Zechariah of the division of Abigail. And he had a wife from the daughters of Aaron. And her name was Elizabeth. Both of them were from the tribe of Levi then. Zecharias, Zechariah. Some of your translations will have Zechariah. Priest, one who served in the temple. Only the priest could go in to the temple and serve Levites were intercessors, especially the priests. They would serve God. In a human sense, directly. Think of the way Paul described himself as having confidence in the flesh. Circumcised on the eighth day, a people of Israel, the tribe of Benjamin. Now these, Elizabeth and Zechariah, were of the tribe of Levi, the servants of God. And they were righteous. Luke wasn't done with his description. Look at verse 6. They were both righteous before God, walking blamelessly in all the commandments and statutes of the Lord. At this point in the narrative, as Luke is opening up, things are looking good for Zechariah and Elizabeth, Levites, a priest. They are walking blamelessly, righteous before God, all the commandments and statutes. Calvin noted. John was to be born into a godly family. John had a father and mother that were both righteous before God, both walking blamelessly in the commandments and statutes of God. Consider what God said to Abraham as he entered his new covenant with him in Genesis 17. I'm God Almighty, walk before me and be blameless. That I may make my covenant between me and you and may multiply you greatly. That really points us in the direction that Luke was headed, doesn't it? Walk before me and be blameless, that I may multiply you greatly. Yes, they were righteous before God. They were walking blamelessly before God, but they weren't perfect. No, they had no child. Elizabeth was barren. Calvin writes this: those magnificent commendations which are bestowed upon the servants of God must be taken with some exception. They weren't perfect. They were sinners. And as sinners, now Elizabeth had not been given The privilege of bearing children, yet. It seems to be that which comes from the fact that they were sinners Not a direct correlation, but all kinds of afflictions come upon us as a result of our sin. And so we read, but they had no child because Elizabeth was barren. Their righteousness and blamelessness did not mean that these two were not sinners, sinners and Adam, actual sinners in themselves. And as sinners, they were Not here, multiplying greatly. That's their condition Serving the Lord blamelessly, and yet a reproach among men, and also before God. Elizabeth, because of her barrenness, was a reproach among men. That's the way she understood it. That's the way women of that day looked upon themselves if God had not been pleased to give them children. It could be even in the garden. The promise was four children. I will put enity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. There was to be offspring. But now Elizabeth was suffering a reproach of her barrenness. And see here, part of that context is the fact that Zechariah is chosen by Lot. Now we think, well, that was kind of a random choice. He just happened to be in the temple that day. It could have been anyone. That's not. Really the case, is it? Chosen by lot means that that those who were doing the choosing by lot were looking to God to say, we want you to put in this place the ones you have chosen at the particular time that you've chosen. And so Zechariah was in that place at that time because God Himself had selected and chosen him to be there, to be there as this angel would appear and speak to him. That's the description. That's Luke's description now of Zechariah and Elizabeth, Levites, servants before the Lord, righteous before him and blameless, and yet Barren, suffering, without a child, without one to inherit, without one to carry on the name, without one to care for them in their old age, to bless them and to remove their reproach before men and yet Chosen. That's the context. Now, one more thing we must note in this context was Zechariah's work. There would have been many different tasks for the priests to perform, and Zechariah's division apparently was were the ones Or possibly his task within his division was to burn incense. That's what he did. He wasn't slaying animals, he wasn't Spreading blood about. He wasn't burning animals. No, he was burning incense in the temple. That was his task. And we read that that was a task that went on morning and night. From Exodus chapter 30, and Aaron shall burn fragrant incense on it, meaning on the incense table. Every morning, when he dresses the lamps, he shall burn it. And when Aaron sets up the lamps at twilight, he shall burn it. It was a morning and an evening event. That incense was to be kept burning constantly before the Lord. That was Zechariah's task. That was his Job, one more thing to note, as he was offering incense up, what was happening outside? The people were praying. Verse 10, the whole multitude of the people were praying outside at the hour of incense. Now we must note before we move on this connection between the incense and prayer. They're clearly connected here And it's not just here in Luke or here as Zechariah is offering up the incense and the people are praying outside. It's connected throughout Scripture, Psalm 141, let my prayer be counted as incense before you. Revelation five, and when He had taken the scroll, the four living creatures, and twenty-four elders, fell down before the lamb, each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints Remember, in in the Old Covenant, in the Old Testament, worship was very physical. It was a visual activity. And so the incense now is tied to prayers. It's a visual activity that was occurring day after day, morning and evening, morning and evening, this wafting up of the incense, a sweet aroma in the nostrils of God. And yet it was pointing to what we do, even what they did: continual prayers before God, a sweet aroma in his nostrils. Well, that's the situation. That's the context. That's the summary. I don't want us to be focusing upon the reproach that was present. at this time, the reproach of Elizabeth. And ultimately the reproach of Zechariah. As we dig in deeper, as we go on in other heads, we'll find that Zechariah did not believe the words of the angel. What is reproach? as we're thinking about that this morning. Webster's defined it as shame, disgrace, an object of contempt or scorn or derision. That's the idea. That's how Elizabeth viewed herself. That's how Nehemiah viewed Jerusalem, the people of Jerusalem. Because of that outward exposure, the wall that had been broken down, the gates burned with fires. Brothers and sisters, we sinners are a reproach. an object of derision and contempt in the sight of God outside of Christ In the eyes of a holy God, we are objects of contempt or scorn. In God's eyes, we are those who are the cause of shame and disgrace because of our sin. Like Jerusalem, when the walls were broken down, the gates burned with fire, which was a reproach, we are a reproach in God's sight outside of Jesus Christ. But the call of Christ is to be above reproach in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation. Among whom you appear as lights in the world. Philippians chapter 2. And we can only do that in and through Christ Jesus. Well let's move on to our second point, the substance. We've seen the context in which the angel comes. And now the substance of the angel's appearance. Verse 11. There appeared to him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense. Now I want you to picture the picture this for a moment. The altar of incense stood right before the veil. The veil was that curtain, and to say curtain, it's not like one of these. Very thick. It was very thick It separated the holy place from the Holy of Holies. The Holy of Holies contained the Ark of the Covenant. Where God's law was inside, and the mercy seat was on top. And only the high priest could enter into the Holy of Holies once a year. as it was covered by the veil on the Day of Atonement. But just outside of the Holy of Holies stood The table, the altar of incense. Think of that. This is where Zechariah was serving. Just outside the veil. in front of the altar of incense. And now the angel appears just to the right side of that. They're just about in Not quite. Just about in that place which which they would say, this is the presence of God. Not quite there yet. Jesus hadn't come yet. So the angel stands just to the right. And Zechariah was troubled when he saw him, and fear fell upon him. Now, the appearance of God is Fearful, the Israelites experienced that at Mount Sinai, which was wrapped in smoke, because the Lord had descended upon it. The whole mountain trembled The smoke of it went up like the smoke of a kiln. And God answered Moses in thunder Remember what happened when those came to arrest Jesus Christ and they were asking for him and he finally tells them that I am he and what happens? They draw back and fall to the ground. The presence of God, the appearance of God is a frightening, a terrifying thing And now here's the messenger of God coming and appearing directly to Zechariah. And he's fearful. He's terrified. And now, at place closest to the symbol of God's very presence, the angel Angel speaks God's very words. You see, the terrifying appearance of God's messenger now combined with the comfort of God's words. Zechariah was troubled when he saw him. Fear fell upon him. But now, seemingly for the first time in 400 years. The Lord speaks to one of his people, at least as far as is recorded in Scripture Malachi was the last prophet, other than John the Baptist, and he had spoken about 400 years before this event took place, and now the angel says to Zechariah, Do not be afraid, Zechariah, for your prayer has been heard. Knowing Zechariah's heart, he speaks, or the angel speaks this word. Do not be afraid. The word of God is comforting. They're comforting because they're God's words spoken from his heart, from his dwelling place in the heavens. And secondly, they're comforting because of the substance of his words, aren't they? Because he speaks truth, absolute truth, which is unshakable. And thus there are words which you and I can rest on. And Ian. Think of what I Isaiah wrote in chapter 40, Comfort, comfort, my people, says your God. The Lord comforts Zion, comforts all her waste places, and makes her wilderness like Eden. Beyond then speaking mere words of comfort, do not be afraid. Zechariah was given words of personal comfort, answered prayers. Your prayer has been heard. In fact that prayers of the faithful are heard is really good news, isn't it? And that was part of the good news. God has heard your prayer. You have been praying for a son, and he has heard your prayer. Now I'm here to answer the prayer. You will have a son. Elizabeth will bear you a son, and you shall call his name John. And you will have joy and gladness. The fact that the prayers of the faithful are heard, I think sometimes we take for granted. Maybe we mouth the words. God hears us. But sometimes I'm not sure we really believe it. God hears the prayers of all of his children. Every time we offer our prayers sincerely in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, God hears That's good news. But there's more here. It's more good news than merely hearing, which is great news Zechariah is told that indeed the answer was affirmative, that he would have a son. Elizabeth in her old age would bear a child And here now is the description of the one to be born, John the Baptist. He will be great before the Lord. Wow. Thank you, Lord. If he's going to be great before the Lord, that means he's going to be faithful. That means he's going to trust in God. What better gift could you ask for than a child that would trust in God? That'd be great. Must not drink wine or strong drink. He'll be filled with the Holy Spirit even from his mother's womb. This is really good news. This one is is going to be converted. This this stone of flesh is going to be almost immediately removed. And he's going to be given a heart. flesh. He's going to be given the ability to trust in Jesus Christ. He's going to have the spirit abiding within him. And it gets better. He will turn many of the children of Israel to the Lord their God. He is going to have a lot of work to do. Good work. By the Holy Spirit. He's going to be speaking and proclaiming Jesus Christ. And that will, by the work of the Spirit, turn the hearts. Think of this. The hearts of the fathers to their children, no longer looking upon themselves and concerned for themselves. No, no. The fathers are now going to be concerned about the children, how they're going to walk after the Lord, how they're going to follow Christ. That's what John's task was. Not that he could do that in himself, but the Spirit was going to use him to proclaim, to preach the word. Yes, John had a lot of work to do. But the prophecy was that God would do it. This was the Lord's work, and he was going to use his messenger, John the Baptist, to bring about this foundational earth. Shaking change in the hearts of men, a relational change first, a change in the hearts of men toward the Lord their God, and then, as he did that, a change in the hearts of fathers to the children, and children to their fathers. Fathers now caring about their children as opposed to themselves, and children standing in obedience to their fathers rather than standing in rebellion. That was the substance, that was the centerpiece of the angel's revelation. Yes, he was going to have a son, and that was good news. And his son was going to follow the Lord. I'd be filled with the Spirit, but he was going to have this wonderful work to do, and it was going to have an effect upon the entire nation. That was good news. This one, John the Baptist, would break the silence of God. For 400 years, there hadn't been a prophet, and now he was sending one through Zechariah and Elizabeth. God had not forgotten. The fact that a prophet hadn't been sent didn't mean that God wasn't n that he'd stopped acting, that he'd stopped working. No. He was still involved and and he was preparing the people now to receive even this one, John the Baptist. Let me ask you this morning, what are your doubts and your disbeliefs? Do you feel that God has been silent? Do you think that He's forgotten? These brothers and sisters of ours who were waiting 400 years for him to speak again. Revelation hadn't been complete. Christ hadn't come yet. The Messiah hadn't appeared. 400 years. What about you? There are times when you feel that God's silent, that you doubt his presence with you. That you have disbelief. Brothers and sisters, we need to confess this. God is not silent. He's given us his very word, and it is powerful, and it speaks to us every day Let's repent of our doubt, our disbelief. Confess that the Lord has spoken. And we can rest in that Brings us to our third point, the the result. The result was disbelief, wasn't it? Zechariah said to the angel, how shall I know this? I'm old. My wife is old Zechariah was having a hard time believing that he would father a son, that his wife, who was beyond childbearing age, would actually bear a child. But that wasn't the really good news. That wasn't the hard thing to believe See, Zechariah's problem may have been that he was so fixed on the task at hand that he'd missed the real work. Of hearing and believing. He's a priest. He was he was in the temple to do a job. He had a particular time assigned, a particular task. He was offering up incense morning and evening, making sure it kept down burning so the people outside would pray. And that was his work and he was so focused on it That even as God appeared to him in this messenger and anger, an angel, and spoke God's very words to him, he couldn't hear. You see the irony? His task was to burn incense To be that sweet aroma in God's nostrils, just as our prayers are. And he had been praying, and that's the work that he was about, and yet he was unable to receive the response from God. He refused to receive it. The whole context is one of prayer being offered up, incense being offered up, standing before the table of incense morning and evening. chosen for that service and yet missing the point, the real service of believing. If we're honest, we confess that we do the same. Maybe even coming to this service this morning. Checking off the box, I was here. Did we miss the point? What was the angel's response to Zechariah's unbelief? I'm Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you and bring you this good news. Behold, you'll be silent and unable to speak until the day that these things take place, because you did not believe my words Why the difference? Why the difference between Zechariah and Abraham? Abraham didn't believe when he was told that he was going to have a child by Sarah. Shall Sarah, who's 90 years old, bear a child? Really? Abraham said to God, Oh, that Ishmael might live before you have already got a child. Sarah's old. Abraham was not made mute It's hard to say why there's a difference between the two, why Zechariah is made mute for his disbelief, for his doubt. And yet the same is not applied to Abraham. I think first we can say that God deals with sinners in different ways There's no rule or regulation that requires God to deal with sinners in the same way. So he deals with us differently as we need to be dealt with with is our hearts need to be molded and shaped in different ways. So Abraham is different than Zechariah. But we might also want to consider the time of Abraham and Sarah, there were no other believers around. No one else to see what was happening. We contrast that with the time of Zechariah, and there were more believers. Now the word was going out, not merely to Zechariah, but to the world. This wonderful counselor, this mighty God, this everlasting Father, this Prince of Peace, was about to be born. And it's a bit curious, but wouldn't God want Zechariah to speak Of what he'd seen, of what he'd heard, of what he'd been told. He'd been given a message, and and this was an important message, and and he'd want all people to understand what was happening, what he was going to be doing with John the Baptist Why wouldn't God want Zechariah to tell others of what he saw and heard? Why wouldn't the Lord want this word to be spread? This good news of this baby who was to be born and the task that he would be given to do, why would Zechariah be the only one to hear? At least for a time, at least for nine months. It would later become a message for all believers. We certainly have it up for us today. And we can imagine that once Zechariah's muteness was taken away, he was able now to convey exactly what had happened in the temple. But not until John was born. During those nine months of muteness, the Lord's purpose in sending the message and giving the prophecy and making him mute was for Zechariah to hear and to be changed. Zechariah needed his faith strengthened, or maybe even initiated. He needed to hear these words alone, for God was doing a great work in Zechariah. The disbelief, the doubt would fade and crumble. Zechariah was being built up in his faith through, in part, his silence. The Lord gave Zechariah time to meditate in quietness upon his words, and gave Zechariah the ability to watch the prophetic words of the angel unfold in Elizabeth's womb. Does the Lord do that for you? Of course he does. Not in the same way. God's not sending out special revelation any longer. That canon is closed. But We can rest assured that God works in individual hearts to increase, to solidify, to strengthen faith. Think of the Apostle Paul. Think of his conversion as Jesus himself spoke to Paul. The men who were traveling with him heard the voice. But saw no one. Paul has changed. We don't hear anything about these others traveling with Paul The words of Jesus worked particularly, specially on Paul's heart. Jesus continues to do the same today through the preaching of the Word of God. As the preaching goes out, those hearers, you hearers, are affected differently. That's the work of the Spirit. As he takes up the word and uses it in your hearts. Yes, that word was for Zechariah and for him to have and to meditate upon and to change his heart. How do we know that it was changed? We didn't read it this morning, but Nearly end of chapter one as John is born, Zechariah prophesies and says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. It wasn't speaking about his son John the Baptist. Speaking about Jesus Christ. You see how the Lord had worked in Zechariah's Now, now not only believing that his son was going to be born, not only believing that his son would do all the things that the angel had professed that he would be doing. Now, he's going even one step beyond that and saying, No, no, my son is going to be talking about Jesus God used his words in Zechariah for nine months. specifically for him to bring him and to strengthen his faith. What about John the Baptist? Think about the effect of those words upon John the Baptist now as As Zechariah has nine months to meditate and fix that upon his heart as he now raises John the Baptist is what Calvin was speaking of. What effect would they have had on John the Baptist? His fathers are called to bring up their children in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Think of the discipline and instruction of the Lord that Zechariah now had for his son What effect that had upon his ministry? Brothers and sisters, part of what is being taught to us today, I think, in this passage is that afflictions work. To fix and to build up our faith. Zechariah was made mute for at least nine months. This was a great affliction, and yet it worked for Zechariah's good. All things work together for good to those who are called according to his purpose. Yes, the central theme of this passage was the reproach. The reproach of Elizabeth as she was barren, her reproach amongst men. And then Zechariah, his reproach. Which was seen only by God in his disbelief, in his doubt, and then in his muteness, his reproach was now broadcast to everyone. Elizabeth has been barren for many years, and she had, when she was full of reproach amongst men, and now Zechariah for nine months, his reproach is showing. Jesus had to be given by the Father to take that reproach away. Consider the many prophets who were sent to Israel, to Judah. None of them were able to remove the reproach of the people of God. Consider the animal sacrifices. Not a single one of those animal sacrifices made throughout the redemptive history of Israel were able to remove the reproach of the Israelites. Consider the Ten Commandments which we read this morning. Not one of them were able to remove the reproach of the people. The law only increased it. Consider how the Israelites were delivered from Egypt. From the Egyptians as they walked through the Red Sea on dry land, even that did not remove the reproach of the people as they complained and grumbled against God. No. None of those things, none of the prophets, none of the events, none of the prior words of God, none of the sacrifices had truly removed the reproach of the people in the eyes of God. Now consider what Jesus has done. He's done exactly that which John the Baptist proclaimed he would do. Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. John could have said, he didn't, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the reproach of the people of God. There it is. Jesus Christ becomes that pleasing aroma in the nostrils of his Father. So much so that he removes your reproach from you You're no longer a derision in the eyes of God because of Jesus. He has swallowed up death forever, and the Lord God will wipe away tears. from all faces and the reproach of his people he will take away from the earth. Praise God. Praise God. The reproach of our sin before God is removed by the righteousness and the purity of Jesus Christ. That wall was rebuilt. Nehemiah stood on it. It did guard the city until the Romans tore it down again. Because the reproach wasn't in the wall. It was in the hearts of the people who had sinned against God. Praise God for the baby Jesus and for the God man Jesus. Who does indeed take away the reproach of the world? Amen. Father help us We're full of doubt and disbelief at times. We ask, Lord God, that you'd work in us as you worked in Zechariah. Father, strengthen our faith, even now as we consider the Lord's Supper. Be with us, guide us, direct us, help us, Lord God. Help us to rejoice on the fact that Jesus has removed our reproach. We ask this in his name. Amen.