If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Joshua, it will be in chapter 13 tonight. I believe that's on page 223 of your pew Bibles. I'll begin reading at verse 8. Joshua chapter 13, beginning at verse 8. Let's listen to the word of God, the very word of God. With the other half tribe, half of the tribe of Manasseh, the Reubenites and the Gadites, received their inheritance, which Moses gave them beyond the Jordan eastward, as Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave them, from Arar, which is on the edge of the valley of Arnon. And the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland of Medbah, as far as Dibon, and all the cities of Shion, king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, as far as the boundary of the Ammonites. And Gilead, and the region of the Gesherites, and Macithites, and all Mount Hermon, and all Bashon to Salach. All the kingdom of Og and Bashan, who reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edre, he alone was left of the remnant of the Rephiim. These Moses had struck and driven out. Yet the people of Israel did not drive out the Gesherites or the Makathites, but Gesher and Macath dwell in the midst of Israel to this day. To the tribe of Levi alone, Moses gave no inheritance. The offerings by fire to the Lord God of Israel are their inheritance, as he said to them. And Moses gave it an inheritance to the tribe of the people of Reuben, according to their clans. So their territory was from Aurar, which is on the edge of the valley of Arnon, and the city that is in the middle of the valley, and all the tableland by Medbah. which with Heshbon and all its cities that are that are in the tableland. Dibon and Baalmas Baal and Beth Baal Meon and Jehaz and Kedamath and Mephoth and Kirethim and Sibma and Zereth Shahar on the hill of the valley, and Beth Peor and the slopes of Pizgah, and Beth Jeshmosh which is all the cities of that is, all the cities of the Tableland, and all the kingdoms of Shion, king of the Amorites, who reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses defeated with the leaders of Midian Evi and Rechem and Zur and Hur and Rebbe and the princes of Shion who lived in the land. Balam also, the son of Beor, who the one who practiced divination was killed with the sword by the people of Israel among the rest of their slain. And the border of the people of Reuben was the Jordan as a boundary. This was the inheritance of the people of Reuben according to their clans with their cities and villages. Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad, to the people of Gad, according to their clans. Their territory was Jazir, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the Ammonites, to Arur, which is east of Rabbah. and from Heshban to Ramath Mizpah and Bettoynim, and from Mahanim to the territory of Dabir, in the valley of Beth Haram Beth Nimra, Sucketh, and Zephon, the rest of the kingdom of Shion, king of Heshbon, having the Jordan as a boundary, to the lower end of the sea of Chinnerath, eastward beyond the Jordan This is the inheritance of the people of Gad, according to their clans, with their cities and villages. And Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. It was allotted to the half-tribe of the people of Manasseh according to their clans. The region extended from Mahanim through all Bashan. The whole kingdom of Og, King of Bashan, and all the towns of Ja'ar, which are in Bashan, sixty cities, and half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edre, the cities of the kingdom of Og and Bashan These were allotted to the people of Makir, the son of Manasseh, for the half of the people of Makir according to their clans. These are the inheritances that Moses distributed in the plains of Moab beyond the Jordan, east of Jericho. But to the tribe of Levi, Moses gave no inheritance. The Lord God of Israel is their inheritance, just as he said to them. That's fine. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our God and our Father. At times when we come to passages like this one, we're wondering It's difficult to pronounce these names and Father, what does this mean for us? All these geographic locations, these cities, these kingdoms? Help us, Lord, guide and direct our hearts tonight as we consider your inheritance. Work on our hearts, Father. Help us to even ask ourselves that question. Who is our inheritance? I ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well that does seem to be the question tonight. What kind of inheritance are you seeking? What kind of inheritance? Earlier tonight we read that parable that Jesus preached about the one who planted a vineyard and rented it out to tenants And when the season came for the landlord to seek that fruit that the tenants had grown as part of their service to him as part of the price for their tenancy. We read that they refused. They treated his servants badly, to the extent that they killed one, stoned another, beat another. And finally he sent his son, the landlord's son, to receive from the tenants what he was owed, thinking that they would respect my son. And not only did they not respect him uh they considered to themselves, this is the heir. Come let us kill him and have his inheritance. According to this parable, the wicked tenants thought that they could take, they could steal the inheritance. They acted as though the vineyard was theirs. They believed they had a right to it. Jesus obviously is speaking about the kingdom, the kingdom of God But even as in this parable, the wicked tenants killed the son, the only one who had a right to the inheritance, they gained nothing. But a miserable death. It should help us tonight as we come to this passage in Joshua. As we think of inheritances. As we come to this point in this book of Joshua, the wars are done. As far as Joshua is concerned, the wars are done. He has led his last war. The lands that have been conquered to date are the lands that will be conquered to date as far as Joshua and his leadership is concerned. There have been many supernatural events. The Lord Himself has been leading the Israelites into battle, and every single one, with the exception of AI, at least the first time, they were victorious. The hearts of the kings of the land had melted. And the Israelites had victory after victory. Indeed, as we read in chapter 12, we had a summary of all the victories, starting with Moses on the east side of the Jordan, and then continuing with Joshua, all the thirty-one kings that he had defeated on the west side of the Jordan, as the Israelites entered into and possessed. The promised land. And so tonight we have a beginning of that headline of how the land was divided up between the various tribes of Israel. And what we read tonight was was that division of the east side, east of the Jordan, amongst those two and a half tribes that had determined that that was the land that the Lord was giving them. And so we have this account of how that land was divided up, the inheritance which God had promised on the east side of the Jordan. If we were to have continued reading into chapter 14 and actually through chapter 19, we would read how the land was divided up on the west side of the Jordan. But tonight, tonight as we come to this passage in the last portion of chapter 13, we might sum it up this way. That the Lord Jesus Christ is the inheritance of each and every child of God. Very simply. The Lord Jesus Christ is the inheritance. Of each and every child of God. See that tonight in three points, each of them negative. The inheritance is not worldly. Secondly, the inheritance is not earned. And finally, thirdly, the inheritance is not limited. So as we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you again to be asking yourselves What kind of an inheritance am I seeking? Well, first, the inheritance is not worldly. We're going to be focusing on a couple of passages here really with regard to the tribe of Levi. And as we get to them, they're quite surprising. Verse 14, just look at that for a moment. To the tribe of Levi alone, Moses gave no inheritance. It's repeated in a sense. Almost exactly in verse 33, to the tribe of Levi Moses gave no inheritance. The Lord God of Israel is Their inheritance. It's quite a surprising passage, quite surprising verses. It's powerful because it makes us take our heads and and look up from the Word of God just for a moment, if possible. And ponder why. Why did the Lord not provide the Levites with land? Everyone else gets land. But the Levites Don't. Indeed, the Lord had promised back in Exodus 32, remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, your servants, to whom you swore by your own self, and said to them, I will multiply your offspring as the stars of heaven, and all this land I have promised, I will give to your offspring, and they shall inherit it forever Why? This passage begins with and continues with what will be a repetition What Moses gave as inheritances, verse 8, with the other half of the tribe of Manasseh, the Reubenites and the Gadites received their inheritances Or actually singular inheritance. All the cities of Shion. And we go on and on. The kingdom of Og in verse 15. And Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of the people of Reuben. And verse 24, Moses gave an inheritance to the tribe of Gad. Verse 29, and Moses gave an inheritance to the half-tribe of Manasseh. See the two and a half tribes each named specifically with the land that was given to them. And again, if we were to continue into chapter 14, we would read, these are the inheritance that the people of Israel received in the land of Canaan. Their inheritance was by lot, just as the Lord had commanded. And it continues through chapter 19. The allotment for the tribe of the people of Judah. The allotment for the people of Joseph. But in between, in between describing the land on the east side and the west side and how they were divided up, we read But to the tribe of Levi, Moses gave no inheritance. The Lord God of Israel is their inheritance. Everyone else, every tribe, every person other than the Levites, the Lord was pleased to give the land. But not the Levites. Why? Well, first we can glean something from the placement of these verses Verse 33 is placed in the middle. It's placed smack dab in the middle Those on the west, excuse me, on the east side of the Jordan are mentioned up to the point of verse 33. And then after verse 33 and verse 14, those on the east side are mentioned. The Levites are mentioned right in the middle of the division of the lands between the east and the west. It seems to indicate its significance. It's right in the center. It's the centerpiece of the passage. But to the tribe of Levi, Moses gave no inheritance. The Lord God of Israel is their inheritance. Consider the significance of the Levites just in general. They were physically the closest tribe to the dwelling place of God. They dwelt around the tabernacle. All the other tribes were outside of them. They were the closest. They were set in the middle. The Levites shall keep guard over the tabernacle of the testimony. so that there may be no wrath on the congregation of the people of Israel. They were protectors in such a way. And they were set in the middle of the camp. So we have to ask, what does this mean? What does it mean that the Lord is their inheritance? What does it mean for the Levites to be in the middle? What does it mean for the Levites to be the protectors, so to speak? And initially, as we think of the inheritance, it must mean two at least things on its face. First, that family inheritances differ. And secondly, that this inheritance for the Levites was not material. Well then, firstly Family inheritance is different. First you have to be members of the family, don't you? In our English versions, we we read this word inheritance. It's not quite that in the Hebrew. But that's the way it's been translated, inheritance. As we focus our minds on an inheritance, we think that there's usually some relationship between the one who had whatever it is and who bequeaths it or gives it as an inheritance to a family member usually. There's usually some relationship between the owner The one who possesses the estate and the one who would inherit or be the beneficiary of the estate, that's that's the usual thing that happens at least in our communities, in our country. There's some relationship. And that's the case here. The Levites were part of the family of Jacob, the patriarch. Remember, the tribes The tribes stem from the twelve sons of Jacob. They were each one part of Jacob's family. And so the Levites were as well. Levi was one of Jacob's 12 sons. They were part of his family. So that's what we see here. First, the the Levites who receive an inheritance were part of the family. But not everyone's the same. Everyone's inheritance is not the same. Here we see that great distinction and difference between the inheritance for all of the tribes and the tribe of Levi Everyone else had an inheritance of land, a particular geographic boundary. Their inheritance was of the land, the promised land, and each tribe was receiving and would receive its due portion of that land. But only that particular portion. So even their portions were different. And then the Levites were categorically different. Their inheritance wasn't in the land. You see, everyone receives something different, don't they? They're all different. And Levites were receiving something quite different than everyone else. Our inheritances are different. And that brings us to this second idea that this inheritance that the Levites received wasn't material, it wasn't worldly. As we think of an inheritance in our worldly existence, they're usually things of material, money, stocks, bonds, houses, cars, jewelry, rare old coins, pictures. furniture, something of a physical and earthly nature. Even the promise of the Lord for the land, a promised land, a land flowing with milk and honey. Very valuable. But did you notice that the Levites didn't receive a long-lasting material item as their inheritance? We'll talk about uh two kinds of inheritances that they received. Now I'm talking about their inheritance of the Lord. No land was given to the Levites. No part of the physical earth was given to the Levites as a lasting inheritance. That is significant. Yes, they received meat and grain offerings. We'll talk about that in a moment. But no part of the material creation of the earth were they to receive none of it. So you may be thinking, well, so what? Well anyone who is seeking eternal life now should be paying attention to this passage. You see, that's exactly what the rich young ruler was seeking. The man came up to Jesus saying, Teacher, what good deed must I do to have eternal life? That's what he sought. That's what he at least verbally desired. But the problem for the rich young ruler was that he had as eyes set upon the world Upon material things, as he was seeking eternal life. Just like at the wicked tenants in Jesus' parable, their eyes were on the world. Upon the vineyard, upon maintaining control and having possession of the vineyard Rich John Ruler really had no idea what eternal life was, what it meant. He certainly had no idea of the emptiness of worldly possessions, of his worldly possessions and his complete inability to hang on to them. Just as the tenants in Jesus' parable could not hang on to the inheritance they sought. What do we value What are you hoping for for your inheritance? What are you seeking as an inheritance? Like the rich young ruler, are you are you seeking eternal life while clinging to your thoughts of this world? Of more? More of this world? More things, more house, more car, more vacation, more cash, more fill in the blank. Or are you able to see beyond the creation, the material world? Do you realize That this world, all material things, the earth and everything in it and on it is cursed? The creation is groaning? Isn't that what Paul writes to those in Rome? The creation was subject to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself would be set free from its bondage to corruption. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in pains of childbirth until now. Would you cling to this world? This creation that's groaning? It's in bondage to corruption? Oh. Unless you know what it is to inherit the Lord. Or what it is for the Lord to be your inheritance, you'll never truly pursue Jesus Christ. You will always pursue the world Friends, inheritance is not of this world. Which brings us to our second point, our second head. The inheritance is not earned. There are two different categories, two different kinds of inheritances for the Levites. The first was their food, the second is the Lord. You see that here in verse 14, to the tribe of Levi alone, Moses gave no inheritance, the offerings by fire to the Lord God of Israel are their inheritance, as he said to them. Well what the writer here is s speaking of are the sacrificial offerings that the people of God were to bring to the Levites, to the priests. Some of which were to be completely burned up and used, but other portions were to be given to the Levites to the priests as their support, so to speak, the grain offering Just an example. But the rest of the grain offering shall be for Aaron and his sons. The sin offering. The priest who offers it for sin shall eat it, the guilt offering. Every male among the priests may eat of it, the peace offering, and from it he shall offer one loaf from each offering as a gift to the Lord. It shall belong to the priest who throws the blood of the peace offerings. You see, the priests The Levites were supported in part from these offerings. It was support for their labors and the cultic sacrifices, for their labors in the tabernacle. Which would necessarily keep them from other secular labors. In Numbers 18 we read, I am meaning the Lord, I am your portion and your inheritance among the people of Israel. To the Levites I have given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance In return for their service that they do, their service in the tent of meeting, they shall bear their iniquities That's what the Levites were doing. Levites shall do the service of the tent of meeting, and they shall bear their iniquity. This was in in a sense the support for these who were serving there as they'd receive a portion of the sacrificial offerings as they were standing between the people and God. mediating for them, given every tithe in Israel for an inheritance in return for their service that they do, their service in the tent of meeting. That's one category of their inheritance. The same word is used, but the second category is completely different. That inheritance is then the Lord. See verse 33. The Lord God of Israel is their inheritance, just as he said to them. So while the same word is used, we see that these two inheritances were categorically different. One, the sacrificial offerings were in sense priestly support provided by the people for their priestly duties. But the second, the second, was not a return or a due. The Lord being their inheritance was seeming only because of who they were. Meaning because of their relationship to the God of creation. And as with any inheritance, What is received, or what was received by the Levites as the Lord was something that could not be earned. Just think of worldly inheritances right now. Think of a case of a a wayward or a bad child. Think of the inheritance as they might receive. Assuming the mother or father was kind enough to pass along some material wealth to a wayward child, knowing they didn't deserve it. In fact, if the parent had given the wayward child what he deserved, he would have received nothing, or maybe just the worldly debt that the parent had. Only that would actually be appropriate for a wayward child. But with God, if the Lord is your inheritance, you receive that which you don't deserve You see, if we received what we deserved, we would be in hell right now, or eternal damnation. Or more descriptive, eternal existence without your Heavenly Father. That's hell. In other words, existence without life itself, which can only be described as the living God. That's what each of us deserve. And here the inspired writer is saying that the Levites were to receive the one whom they did not deserve, the greatest gift ever, God Himself. That's what the writer to the Hebrews speaks of in in chapter nine of that book. Therefore he, speaking of Jesus, he's the mediator of a new covenant so that those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance, since a death has occurred, referring to Christ's death, that redeems them from the transgressions committed under the First Covenant. Do you see the greatest gift ever, the inheritance of the Lord, those who are called may receive the promised eternal inheritance. So I think as we apply this to ourselves, we have to ask that question, do you recognize this great gift of inheritance? You see, we read here in in Joshua that this inheritance, uh the Lord being their inheritance, is is now as we as we go move forward into the new covenant It applies to each and every believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, that the Lord is your inheritance if you're believing upon Jesus tonight. Do you recognize this great gift? Because there's no possible way for you to appreciate the magnitude of this gift unless you first begin with that truth that you don't deserve it. You deserve nothing of the sort. You deserve punishment upon punishment upon punishment for each and every one of your sins. The wages of sin is death. You and I deserve the wrath of God, nothing else. Each and every one of what we might consider to be minor or minuscule sins, which really don't exist. There's nothing you can do to earn it. There's nothing you can do to earn the inheritance of the Lord. In part it's because this inheritance is so valuable, in part also because your sins are so wretched. You could never bring enough to pay for it to earn it. You can never do enough to merit this inheritance. It can't be earned. So you should be asking right now, so what is the value of this inheritance, which required the death of the Lord Jesus Christ, for you to have it? Such that the Lord could be your inheritance. What is the value? That brings us to our third point, doesn't it? The inheritance is not limited. So as we try to think upon that value of the Lord being your inheritance tonight, we can really only touch upon this subject. For to describe this inheritance is actually to describe the Creator God, the living God, the covenant-making God, our Lord, the Son of God, our Savior. And so we have to begin with our inability to actually describe it. And that's why each one of these heads are in the negative. As we try to describe God, usually what we begin doing and we end up doing is just describing him in the negative. Giving the sense that we cannot adequately the Lord, even as our inheritance, because we can't adequately and completely describe Him. But we can use some things. We can use some words to help us, to describe the unlimited nature of the inheritance of our Lord. Well first then, the eternality of God Your inheritance tonight, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ, is eternal. Your inheritance will never fade away. Your inheritance will never be used up. Consider your worldly inheritances, those that you inherit in this life. Let's say maybe a sum of money. That your father, your mother passed along to you. It's limited, isn't it? It will be used up. There will become a time, whether in your life or in another's, when the inheritance will be no more. It will be exhausted. It will become only a fading thought. It will be only of use to you or your beneficiaries for a limited time, and certainly for limited things. But if the Lord is your inheritance, there will never be an end to it. There's never going to be an end to the Lord. He always was. And always will be. There's but one only living and true God who's infinite in being and perfection. That's the way the Westminster Confession of Faith puts it. And it's drawing out these passages from Job 11. Can you discover the depths of God? And it's a rhetorical question, isn't it? No. Or Jeremiah, the Lord is the true God, He is the living God and an everlasting King. There's never a time that he was non-existent, and there never will be a time that he won't be existent. That's the scope of your inheritance. In the Lord. That should help us to to begin to put some shape on this inheritance as we consider other aspects. But I do want us to grasp this forever nature. Of God, of Jesus Christ, and thus of your inheritance. There will never be a time in eternity and glory when you won't be able to sit at the feet of Jesus Christ. There will never be a time when you won't be at the king's table. There will never be a time when you're not part of the family, the eternal family of God. There will never be a time when the head, Jesus Christ, will not be the head of the body. And there will never be a time when the Lord Jesus will not be your husband. Married to his eternal bride, the church. He will always be with you Now you might think, well, he's already said, I will never leave you nor forsake you, and that is true, and we praise God. But that's his being with us by his spirit, isn't it? In eternity, He is your everlasting and internal inheritance that you will be with personally. In his presence, in his physical and divine presence forever See, that's the unlimited nature. That's the eternal nature of your inheritance. Secondly, their inheritance is infinite goodness Some inheritances of this world are not to be desired. Indeed, you may inherit debt from those who pass before you. You may inherit that old car which you never liked. You may inherit a dog that constantly barks in his annoyance. Not all inheritances are to be desired. Not all worldly inheritance are considered to be good in our eyes, but God is good. God is so good. The Lord Jesus Christ is righteous, fully and completely righteous and just and all good. And the Father in this life gives you good things on this earth. Every good gift and every perfect gift coming down from heaven, from the Father of light, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. And we know that for those who love God all things work together for what? For good. The Lord as your inheritance is all good. We can't even imagine the goodness that one will receive as the Lord is your inheritance in heaven and glory. Consider today as you take up the Word of God, as you open it, as you receive blessing upon blessing upon blessing, as you read and meditate upon the Word and are showered day by day with new mercies. Now consider receiving these teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ directly from his pure heart and mouth. Consider the food that you have at your dinner table. The Lord has provided such physical goodness to us each and every time we sit down for a meal. What kind of feast will you dine upon? In glory. I'm not quite sure if there's actually going to be food in heaven, but we do know that our nutrition will be received by and through the Lord Jesus Himself. Even as he told us that we must eat his body, drink his blood here in this place, what will it be like to be fed directly by the goodness of the Lord Jesus Christ? to bask in his righteousness, to be immersed in his purity, so much so that you'll become like him Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but what we but we know that when He appears we shall be like Him. John, first John chapter 3 That's the unlimited inheritance of the goodness of the Lord. And third Third is vital divine dependence. Think of the Levites. Think of the Levites and their inheritance. Usually we think of something in the future, but the Levites had it that day. But to the tribe of Levi, the Lord God of Israel is their inheritance Their inheritance that day, as they ministered to the people of God, that was a present reality Does the same concept apply to you tonight if you're trusting in Jesus? Is it a present reality that He is your inheritance? He's certainly your inheritance in glory. You'd be expecting it. You're thinking about that. But what about before you enter glory? Is there any aspect of the inheritance of the Lord? It's a present aspect of your experience today As we consider earthly inheritances, we say, no, no, we have no present benefit. But the analogy is not always exact, is it? We don't have an exact analogy here as we talk about the Lord being our inheritance. The Lord was the inheritance of the Israelites. At that day, on that time, every single time they were ministering. Amongst and in the tabernacle, they were able to enjoy at that time the inheritance of the Lord day by day. And so can you. Because you're trusting in Jesus Christ. He is your present inheritance today. And you may be asking or thinking, well, how? It's by your dependence. And you see, wait a minute, that's not what I'm thinking of when I'm thinking of an inheritance Not that I depend upon upon the one who's giving me things. But you see, as you're in Christ As he has become your inheritance, you're completely dependent upon him. And that is a blessing. He surrounded you with everything you need to live and breathe. Think of Paul's preaching to those at the Areopagus. As he preached, he said, nor is he, meaning God, served by human hands as though he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. In him we live and move and have our being. See, not only does the Lord give you life and breath, your very being, he gives you everything to sustain that. Today And as we think of that, uh I want us to go beyond merely think of our breath, our physicality. I want you to think of your soul tonight. He's giving you a soul and is sustaining and sanctifying your soul. You see, you're completely dependent upon the work of the Spirit of the Lord Jesus Christ, that you would be made blameless for his return. Isn't that what he's doing? Isn't that what you need to be as Jesus returns for his bride? And as your inheritance, he's just doing all that work. He's clothing you in his righteousness. As your inheritance, he's covering you with his precious blood. As your inheritance, he's risen from the dead and is alive and granting you that life as your as your inheritance, death and sin, no longer have any power over him. And over you, because he's your inheritance. As you inherit Jesus, you're inheriting all of that. You've been given all that for your soul tonight It's a present reality. It's a present blessing. And there's no limit to it. There's no limit to what the Lord Jesus Christ will provide to you as your inheritance. He will ensure that you will press on to the end, to glory, to receive that crown of life. Your dependence is complete dependence, and there's no limit to it, for you add nothing to it. And equally, there's no limit to what the Lord Jesus Christ will give you to ensure your ultimate salvation. He will not lose a single one of God's chosen children. This is the will of him who sent me. I should lose nothing of all that he's given me but raise it up on the last day. He'll give you everything you need to be raised up. This is the unlimited inheritance that you receive. And now to tie it to the preaching that we heard this morning, your unlimited inheritance includes the privilege of prayer, doesn't it? Access to God the Father through the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. Anything you ask according to his will be given to you. Do you see how that works and fits in with your dependence upon him and the unlimited nature of your inheritance in Jesus Christ? Anytime you want, every time you want, anything you desire, according to the will of God, you can ask for. In the name of Christ, because he is your inheritance As you trust upon him tonight and throughout this year. It's unlimited. Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ is the inheritance of each and every child of God. Those wicked tenants thought that their inheritance was worldly, earthly, and they killed to get it. And all they received Was death. Tonight, tonight, what are you seeking? What are you seeking as your inheritance? Christ is calling out. And he's saying, through this passage, seek me. Ask for me. I will give myself to you. Call out to Christ tonight. Believe upon Him. He will give Himself to you. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you so much for this passage. Lord, it just seemed at at the outset that this was just a a geographic lesson. A lesson of of places and and and geography in the Middle East, but Father, it's so much more than that. We thank you for this inheritance that we've read of tonight. Thank you certainly for the promised land and for that dwelling place. And we look forward to that dwelling place which will be with you in eternity. And Father, we thank you for that inheritance that you gave us tonight, that you wrote to us of tonight in yourself through your Son. And so help us, Lord. Help us to value and to seek after this inheritance. We thank you for it. Thank you for Christ. We pray, Lord God, that we would take our minds and hearts off of this world and set them wholly and completely upon Jesus. who is the inheritance of every chosen child of God. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.