The Word of God that I'd like to share with you today comes from Matthew chapter one. Verses 1 to 17. Not knowing exactly what you have been going through here on the Lord's Day is always a bit challenging for me. as a as a guest. The fear is that I may pick something that the pastor has already preached on. But I figure what you have here in Matthew chapter 1 is a genealogy. It's a pretty safe that he probably didn't do a genealogy. And so I thought this is a good place to go. Matthew chapter 1, verses 1 to 17. And the Word of God here reads, The Book of the Genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David, the Son of Abraham. Abraham was the father of Isaac, and Isaac the father of Jacob, and Jacob the father of Judah and his brothers, and Judah the father of Paris and Zerah by Tamar. And Paris the father of Hezron, Hezron the father of Ram, Ram the father of Abinadab, Abinadab the father of Nashan, Nashan the father of Salmon, Salmon the father of Boaz By Rayhat And Boaz the father of Obed by Ruth, and Obed the father of Jesse, and Jesse the father of David the king. And David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah, and Solomon the father of Rehoboam, and Rehoboam the father of Abijah, and Abijah the father of Asa. Asaph the father of Jehoshaphat, Jehoshaphat the father of Joram, and Joram the father of Uzziah, and Uzziah the father of Jotham. And Jotham the father of Ahaz, Ahaz the father of Hezekiah, Hezekiah the father of Manasseh, and Manasseh the father of Amos, Amos the father of Josiah Dehosiah the father of Jechaniah and his brothers at the time of the deportation to Babylon. And after the deportation to Babylon, Jehaniah was the father of Shealtiel, and Shealtiel the father of Zerubabel, and Zerubbabel the father of Abayud, and Abayah the father of Aliakim Eliakim the father of Azor, Azor the father of Zadok, Zadok the father of Achim, Achim the father of Eliud, Eliud the father of Eliazar, Eliazar the father For a Masan, Masan, the father of Jacob And Jacob the father of Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom Jesus was born, who is called Christ. So all the generations, from Abraham to David, were fourteen generations And from David to the deportation of Babylon, fourteen generations. And from the deportation of Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. Thus the reading of God's word for this morning. Let's bow in a word of prayer for us. Ask for the Lord to bless us as we meditate on this passage today. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we come before you this morning. We thank you, dear God, for Jesus Christ, your Son. And we pray, Father, that you will be with us now. as we meditate upon this word, a genealogy of his birth. Some Lord would find this very elusive in terms of its meaning, but I do pray that you will be with us through the power of your Holy Spirit. to discern what it is that you want us to hear, to understand how great you are as our God, and what you call for us to do as your people. Be with us, dear Lord, for we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well folks, I'll I'll tell you, I think I may be one of the few, and I'm not sure if you still do this, that does a very ancient tradition practice um and that is making new year's resolutions and I know you know New Year's is about maybe a wow I can't believe it a month and a half I mean I realize we have a lot that's going to happen between now and then. Um but uh every year uh there are some who will go through their practice of making goals for the coming year and and my practice has been Um like I think a lot of God's people, one of many, is to read through the scriptures, the entirety um of the scriptures, which truthfully is not as hard as it might sound The challenge, of course, for God's people whenever they sit this as a good, healthy spiritual exercise in reading the Word of God uh is that there are a few, well how shall we say this, some passages of the Bible that may not stand out as exciting as others. Uh when you open and you start perhaps with the uh book of Genesis, you you start with Genesis 1, and of course we are are marveled with God's act of creation. We could study that and we have, and the church has studied that passage for for many years. We move on to chapter two and see the glory of the creation of humanity in the garden doing the work of God's as his co-regents ruling over all of creation. We get to Genesis chapter three and the sad and unfortunate fall of of humanity, but yet the promise of that blessed seed of the woman. We get to Genesis four and this in the initial sibling rivalry of uh Cain and Abel and and so far we're doing okay. Then we get to Genesis chapter 5 and we run into a very long genealogy of names that are, well, some of them are almost unpronounceable. Truth be told, it took me a few kind of practices to even read Gene Genesis uh Matthew I in preparation uh for this morning. Uh but somehow we kind of power through uh to that genealogy in Genesis 5 and and we move on. In chapter 6 to 9 is the fantastic story of the deluge and the s and the flood of Noah. And we go through that with some enthusiasm and excitement. Then you get to chapter 10. And it's almost like another genealogy, a very long list of the sons of Noah as they are repopulating the earth. But we power through that, and then when you get to chapter 11, another genealogy. This has got to stop. But you so perhaps we just are mildly discouraged and so we think, you know I'll come back to this. I mean I haven't even gotten to Leviticus yet, for goodness sakes, but I'll I'll come back to this and maybe start in the New Testament. And so you open up the New Testament, you open up the Matthew uh the Gospel of Matthew, you open up chapter one, and what do you find? Another genealogy. They're unavoidable. They're everywhere. And so we oftentimes will run into these rather obscure ancient genres of a genealogy and and kind of Scratch our heads a little bit of what exactly they're trying to communicate. What are we to gain? Um they seem rather dull. These are people that we are not related to in any way. My hope and game this morning is, at least as we study this one genealogy, the one here of the uh uh birth of our very blessed Savior Jesus Christ. They will come to appreciate some very important things about a genealogy that'll help us to, I guess, renew our love for what is happening in these rather old unusual pieces of scripture. That through this genealogy that we'll learn three things. First, it tells us that God is true to his promises that he made a long time ago. Secondly, that in the some of the unusual names that we've run into here truthfully in Jesus' genealogical line. that this will show us something about the state of humanity, particularly the fallen state of humanity, and thus our need for faith. And thirdly, what you will see, I hope, in this genealogy, believe it or not, is the message of the gospel. So those are the three points that I hope to share with you today uh the truth um of God that he is true to his promises, uh to see our uh need for faith in Christ, and in fact here the message of the gospel. And my application and hope that my hope for you is that you will come to understand genealogies, just a deeper appreciation as you hopefully will study them more in your near future. First, in regards to our first point, God is true to the promises that He has made in the past, and that is one of the purpose that we see here in the genealogy of Jesus Christ. The importance of the genealogy of any and truthfully all biblical genealogies can be traced back to the very beginning of the Bible, back in Genesis chapter 3. uh in verse 15. Now remember in Genesis 3, uh I'm sure you all uh very well of what happened there. You had the fall of Adam and Eve. And uh the Lord comes to basically pronounce his word of condemnation and wrath. Uh and the word of condemnation that he gives is first to the to the wicked serpent that deceived God's people. Uh and he says to the serpent, of course, that very well known um uh promise in Genesis 315 that I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. Through that promise what we see is that there is going to be a constant war, a tension between the serpent and the woman, but it will be manifested really between their family lines. Their offspring, his offspring, the spr offspring of the serpent. versus the offspring of the woman. And in fact, in many ways, from this time forward in Genesis 3. 15, one way of understanding the entire history of salvation Even to our day-to-day is to see this constant conflict between these two genealogical lines. Uh the line of a woman, that is, versus the line of the serpent. And in many ways the genealogies that I made references to earlier, Genesis 5, Genesis 10, Genesis 11, and others are trying to show you that God is in fact true to the promise that He made. He is preserving the line of the woman. And you see that in these various different genealogies Um, all this shows to you uh that God is in fact truly true to the promise that he made in Genesis three fifteen. There is going to come one who is truly blessed of a woman, an extraordinary individual. And he is going to come, and he is going to crush the head of the serpent. Here in Jesus' genealogy, we are told of two particular significant figures that Jesus' uh descendancy needs to derive from. One is David and the other is Abraham. Now why these two? The reason why these two are specified is because again the Lord promised to these two individuals, to Abraham and to David, that they would come an outstanding descendant within their family lines that would do an extraordinary thing for God's people. Concerning Abraham, remember that God said that he would make Abraham into a great nation back in Genesis chapter 12. And throughout the Bible that we we are told that this promise would in fact come about, but that that would come about through a very particular seed of Abraham, a son of Abraham In fact, when you read Genesis Galatians chapter three and verse fifteen uh and verse sixteen, we are told that Jesus Christ is that one and only seed of Abraham and that through Christ he would bring the great nation that he promised. to Abraham, the church, the eternal kingdom of God. And so you see, uh, this genealogy confirms to us God is true to his promise. He said that he would do it to Abraham, and sure enough, here he is, the great son of Abraham Also concerning David. Remember that in 2 Samuel chapter 7, God promised to David that one of his seed, one of his descendants was always sit on the throne of Israel. And throughout in fact the history of Israel, this is in fact true. Someone in David's family line was always on the seat on the uh throne um of Israel. Then of course the people of God ran into a a rather significant issue. They were all exiled. Um And the uh and removed from the land. When they returned back to the land they knew that God would be eventually true to his promise and restore this king. But this time there would be an ideal son of David, a perfect son of David. that would come. The earthly David, he failed, ended up in exile. But the promise is good. The promise is true. And what we need therefore is the perfect son of David. Now when Israel was restored and returned back uh after the Babylonian captivity, uh the year rush roughly about 500 530-535 BC, right about that period there So for about 530 years, the people of God have been waiting for this ideal, perfect son of David to come. You see, when Matthew begins his genealogy by saying that Jesus Christ is the son of David, what he is saying is that the promise that God made back in 2 Samuel chapter 7 is reliable. It is coming about. It is being fulfilled. You see, God is true to his promise. And the genealogy here confirms to us that that promise that he made He has absolutely fulfilled Jesus Christ. He is the seed of the woman. He is the son of Abraham. He is the son of David. Praise God. Uh the other thing though that we see is not just the fact that God is true to his covenant promises, we also see the need uh that we have for faith. And y and this is brought about by some of the unusual uh features that you see here in Jesus' uh genealogy. There are some uh some eccentricities that you see here. And in fact there are four things that uh are worth pointing out Number one, the mention of women is not really expected. Now truthfully truthfully it's not unusual to have women mentioned in genealogies, even in the ancient world But it's most definitely not expected here in the account here with Christ. Notice the literary formula and the pattern that this genealogy follows A was the father of B, B then was the father of C, C was the father of D, and so forth and so forth. uh and such like. And that is the pattern that Matthew begins here in his genealogy. So whenever Matthew breaks from that pattern then that should grab our attention and help us to see that something new is going on. One of the new elements that Matthew introduces here in the genealogy of Jesus Jesus Christ is the introduction of women, particularly mothers. And there are four really that are mentioned here. Well, truthfully four plus one. So five in total. You have the mention of Tamar in verse three. You have the mention of Rahab and Ruth in verse 5, and then Bathsheba, who is mentioned in verse 6. And then of course even Mary, Jesus' own mother, is mentioned at the very tail end of his genealogy. So again, not Not unusual to have women in a genealogy like this, but definitely not what you would expect given the pattern that the genealogy has set up. The second thing to appreciate here is that at least two of the four women that are listed are definitely non-Israelite. We know that Rahab was a Canaanite. We know that Ruth was a Moabitist. And in fact, the book of Ruth constantly reminds us that whenever Ruth is mentioned, that She is a Moabitist, meaning she is not uh an Israelite. Uh where we don't know really too much about Tamar when she uh comes up uh uh in uh her uh narrative there in the book of Genesis. Uh Bathsheba. The name Bathsheba, uh the name Sheba there uh does seem to have some um uh similarity with the ancient nation of Cush which is in northern Africa. So it's possible that even Datsheba also was not an Israelite, although the scripture never tells us that uh truthfully. So it's very possible that three of the women here are not uh Israelites. What this shows us is that Jesus' family line, it comes from a wide diversity of ethnic backgrounds. It is a racial mixture within his bloodline. Now folks in our day uh this idea of coming from multiple different uh uh backgrounds uh racially it's not a fairly big ish here, at least it's It shouldn't be a big issue. But in the culture of the Jewish community in the New Testament era, this is a major issue And this would have been a very significant problem. And yet here it is in Jesus' line very clearly stated that he does not come from a pure blood. It does not come from a pure Jewish background. A third component, unusual, a bit of an eccentric thing that we see here in Jesus' genealogy, again, regarding the women, is the character of the women that stands out. In regards to Tamar, she is mentioned and the genealogy here alludes to a narrative back in Genesis 38. Tamar was the father-in-law of the patriarch Judah. Not his wife, but his daughter-in-law. Uh Tamar was married to Judah's oldest son, who died, unfortunately. And so Tamar was taken by his next oldest son. who also died in both scenarios leaving no male heir to pass on the family line. Now remember folks, this is the book of Genesis. The whole idea of leaving a male heir has to do everything with the promise of Genesis 315 That promised line has to continue that is ultimately going to give birth to the Messiah. To not have a son that continue on that line is a not just a uh a family issue. It is not it is a theological crisis. It is a covenantal crisis here. And here you have this family line of Judah that simply cannot go on because Judah does have a third son, but he's too young to marry Tamar. And so Judah assures Tamar that when he gets of age, that I will give him to you as a son, so that we can continue on this family line. Again, because of Genesis three uh fifteen. But when his oldest son comes to age, uh Judah unfortunately forgot about this promise, forgot about the the the covenantal promise and the continual line. In what is perhaps a very difficult uh ethical question to work through, and if you'd like we can talk about it after the break uh after the service today. Uh Tamar dresses as a prostitute Alures her father-in-law, Judah, to have physical relations with her, Taymor than conceives and gives birth to sons. Now once Judah realizes what happens, the interesting commentary that he says is that Tamar acted more righteously than him. But the reason why again is because now that family line you see can continue Continue. Here, Tamar, in this scenario, Tamar is acting more out of faith than Judah. She is there for that reason being proclaimed as a woman of faith. The second woman that is mentioned in Jesus' genealogy is, of course, Rahab in verse 5. Rahab, as you know, is a Canaanite who was mentioned in Joshua chapter 2. King Rahab, remember, is the one who took the spies uh that Joshua had sent in and preserved them and hid them away from the uh attacks of the Canaanite king. And the reason why is because she believed in Yahweh. She believed in the Lord and believed in what he was about to do as being a good there in the land of Canaan. Here, when so many Israelites in the context of uh uh that period in Israel's history were turning away from the Lord, worshiping false idols, here is a Canaanite woman who is demonstrating faith in the Lord. Here again is a woman of faith. Ruth is mentioned, the third woman in verse five. Again, Ruth is consistently in the book of Ruth referred to as a Moabitus. Again, to remind us that she is not an Israelite uh woman. But yet it is this Moabite woman who rejected her Moabite family rejected the Moabite people, in fact even rejected the Moabite gods, and did this and embraced Yahweh. And embraced his people and embraced that family and showed, again, more faith than the Israelites themselves. A Moabite woman demonstrating more faith than God's own covenant people Again, a woman who demonstrates faith. Bathsheba, the fourth woman in verse 6, is interesting. In fact, if you read the way that it's phrased there, the the reference to Bathsheba Interestingly, she is not named. Bathsheba is referred to, let's see, uh David was the father of Solomon by the wife of Uriah. Now we know what her name is. In fact, the Bible in the Old Testament very clearly tells us what her name is. And as you see, the precedence here is not to hesitate to name her by name So why not just say that Shiva here? Why say it the way that he says it here? Why call her the wife of your You see by saying it that way the wife of Uriah, it is causing us to go back and remember a very dark time in the life of David, when David in fact committed that uh uh act of adultery with the wife of Uriah And in fact tried to cover up uh and of course she became uh she conceived as a result of that sin. And uh then David trying to cover up that sin by what in essence is a premeditated murderous act In fact, that's such an interesting narrative, folks. If you read the earlier account in the book of Samuel, you know that David also had to run for his life from Saul. One of the tactics that Samuel describes that Saul used to attempt the assassination of David was by putting him in the front lines of war, putting him in harm's way. You see, David, I think, realized this is actually a pretty good idea. It didn't work in this case, but it's a great idea. He does the same exact In fact, when you read the account in the comparison of Saul in in Samuel versus David, uh the the story of David is so dark. I mean, he clearly doesn't come across to us in Samuel as the great model of Israelite monarchy. That's not the impression that you're given when you read Samuel. By the end of the book of Samuel, you really are left with a question, are we really better off? I mean we have David, but is he much better than what we had with Saul? The answer to that question was in regards to morals, no. In terms of the covenant, yes. But in terms of the man, not really, because he really is in many ways just as fallen as Saul. For the genealogy here to reference Dashiva specifically in this way, the wife of Uriah, causes us to remember all of the negative aspects in the sinfulness um of David. And yet here is the genealogy of David's greatest son, Jesus Christ. We will mention a little bit about Mary a little bit later here in in our thoughts and reflections today. But what this stands out is that none of these women really needed to be mentioned at all. Matthew's genealogy, if the intent was to show that Jesus is in fact the true uh descendant of Abraham and David, he didn't have to mention these mothers at all. And the effect would still be perfectly fine. Um but yet Matthew does so. And by doing so and pointing out some of these extraordinary, outstanding, godly women, uh what he is doing is remembering and reminding us of our necessity of faith. These are faithful women who trust. The fourth uh rather unusual thing that you read here in Jesus Genealogy is the reference to Manasseh in verse 10. Now when you read the account of Manasseh in the book of Kings, Uh what you find out is okay, I see some smiles. That's good folks. You see you guys are so well educated. You're so well discipled. You know that if you read about Manasseh, he was uh Clearly uh the the most wicked king in the southern kingdom um of of Judah. Uh he had an extraordinarily long monarchy, fifty-five years. Uh I find it interesting. the recent political campaigns, how all of the political mutton is always, you know, you know, what happened to the nation during the past four years over the past eight years. Folks imagine fifty-five years. Of idolatry, of immorality. What effect that would have on the moral fiber of a community? Fifty-five years of Baalism um of of just uh ethics that is thrown out the water. That's what happened here. Um uh uh Manasseh's greatest son is of course Josiah And we know Josiah because of the reforms that he brought into Egypt, uh excuse me, into Israel. Um but as as as as extraordinary as the reforms of Josiah were, they were simply not enough to fix all the damage caused by Manasseh. When you read the uh end of second Kings in chapter twenty-four that gives a summary of the southern kingdom, uh in verse uh chapter twenty-four and verse three it says this Surely the exile, this, that is, in reference to the exile, came upon Judah at the command of the Lord to remember to remove them out of his sight because of the sins of Manasseh. Manasse. You see, the exile is blamed on Manasseh. He was just that far more far off. Now The genealogy, and we'll talk a little bit about this here in a moment, is uh is a very selective list of names. It really is trying to create sort of a number schematic, three groups of fourteen. Or another way of looking at it would be six groups of seven. And there's a reason why Matthew is trying to create that type of numeric uh grouping from Abraham to the exile, um from Abraham to David, David to the exile, the exile to the birth of Christ. And we'll talk a little bit about why. My point simply is to just point out perhaps the obvious. Clearly more than 14 generations were born during each of those periods. But yet, uh and and so in order to create the number of fourteen, certain names had to be left out. Other names then were included. In other words, Manasseh easily could have been left out. He didn't have to include it and could have put in another name. There was plenty to choose from. If you read uh uh the the book of Chronicles chapters one to nineteen first chronicles one to nine nine chapters folks of genealogies I mean he had plenty of opportunities to pick out a name to create this number schematic of 14. But he doesn't. He mentions Manasseh here by name. Now why Uh Manasseh is sort of, you know, he is because of his very eccentric and more immoral nature, Manasseh is sort of, you know, he's sort of that weird uncle that you don't want to talk about at family reunions. That's sort of what he is. But yet here he is mentioned. When you read about him in Kings, he is absolutely and totally depraved. That's true. And he is blamed for the exile. When you read about Manasseh again in the book of Chronicles, In chapter uh Chronicle Second Chronicles chapter thirty-three, the book of Chronicles says, yes, he is sinful. But yet something the chronicler mentions that Kings does not mention is that Manasseh repented. You see, the picture that we have here again, then of Manasseh, is a wicked sinner. An absolutely wicked sinner, but yet he repented of his sin. A reminder again to God's people that yes, we also are wicked sinners, but we also need to repent. See, by mentioning these specific women, what we see here in many ways, again, is a tremendous need for faith, and to a certain degree, perhaps a critique of the great uh male heroic uh figures of the Old Testament. Judah and his fallen nature, uh his inability to trust in Genesis three fifteen, David in his adultery and his immoralism, and his murderous activities, even Israel as a nation, as a whole. It reminds the Jewish readers of Jesus' day that they need someone who is greater than Abraham, greater than Judah, greater than David. That's what you need. The introduction of Manasseh again is very curious, totally unnecessary, easily could have put in another name. And yet he is mentioned there in Jesus' family line. It's to remind us that someone as grand and as respectable and great as someone like David is really at the same playing field with someone as wicked as Manai. NASA. They are all on the same level. By using some very unexpected individuals like these women, it doesn't allow necessarily the people to stand out. as this is Matthew's way of trying to show that faith stands out. And that what the Jews really need is not to be told that their well-being is going to be preserved because they can trace their family line all the way through David back to Abraham and so. What they need is faith. And this genealogy has affirmed to them that what they need is to believe. And then finally, by including such a wide demographic Men and women, Jews and Gentiles. It shows us that Jesus' reign as a coming king will not be merely over some small uh ethnic group in the ancient Greco-Roman world Jesus will be the king of all. And finally, by using it as a genealogy, a historical account, It reminds us that Jesus is the King of all and has been the King for all of salvation history. So here we read about the practi uh that the genealogy tells us that God is true to his covenant promises That we need faith. We are sinners and we need to have faith. The third thing that you see here is again the message of the gospel. For in fact, we can never talk about and the Bible, folks, never talks about faith as just faith. As if faith alone, just faith, that idea, just faith, is all that you need. Biblical faith is always faith in Christ. He is always faith in the Lord. And even when the Bible, even when the Apostle Paul never says it as such, it is so clearly understood that the faith that we need is centered upon Christ. And so here you see the same thing coming through. The message of the gospel of Jesus Christ And that comes out in two very specific ways. First, you can see this in the fact that the genealogy is grouped into groups of seven, subgroups of seven. Verse 17 tells us that they were 14 generations again from Abraham to David, 14 from David to the Babylonian exile 14 from the exile to the birth of Christ. Again, each group of fourteen then can be divided again into subgroups of seven And there, for that reason, what you have here are six groups of seven. And at the end of that, that introduces us to Jesus. And for that reason, Jesus is being introduced as the seventh seven. Or perhaps another way of putting it, he is the Sabbath seven. I always find that so interesting that the way that the Old Testament scriptures opens with a creation account of six groups that introduces a Sabbath. So the New Testament does the same exact thing in a new creation account. Salvation Act, a group of six that entruts that introduces a seventh, a Sabbath. In other words, here the Lord is trying to teach Matthew is trying to teach us, the Lord is trying to teach us through the inspiration of the text of Matthew that Jesus is the finale. This is it. This is the Sabbath. This is the end. Everything that you have been reading through in the Old Testament is now going to come to its apex. to its crescendo point, and here is the end in the person of Jesus Christ. God's plan of salvation has reached its finality. It has reached The second uh way that this gospel message is communicated is really In the in this very uh surprising mention of Mary. Uh verse 16 uh tells us that um That Jesus' genealogy is traced through Joseph. But again, it gives us more information than that. It tells us that Joseph is the husband of Mary, which again is not necessary. And then it even tells us again, perhaps the obvious thing, that this Mary is of whom Jesus was born Uh again, I mean it it's perhaps telling us uh what we already know, but it clearly wants us to understand the significance of Mary. Saying that Jesus was born of Mary may be due to the fact that there is somewhat of a conundrum in Jesus' conception. Because remember, he is not conceived, according to Matthew, by Joseph. Jesus' conception is by the Holy Spirit, and that's a very important theological idea in our understanding. So in what sense then Jesus is a son of Joseph, we kind of have to put in quotes because that's using a very elastic, broad understanding uh of the word son. In fact, uh you could say that he is a son of Joseph, by and large, because he is born of Mary, who happens to be the wife of Joseph. You see. Um so what we do know, you see then the question is, then what can we say about Jesus' family line? He is clearly in this at uh in this uh genealogy being traced to the family line of Mary Mary, because he Mary's the one who gave birth to her. So what then do we know about Mary? Well, truthfully in Scripture, we don't know a lot about Mary. We do know that she is a relative of Elizabeth who gave birth to John the Baptist in Luke chapter 1 in verse 36. We are also told that Elizabeth came from a priestly line of Aaron, the family line of Aaron, in Luke chapter 1 in verse 2. In other words, folks, there is more perhaps of the priestly line in terms of just blood descendancy. in the birth of Christ than there is in the royal line, you could say, of David. The book of Hebrews, of course, specifies and reminds us that Jesus' priesthood is not of Aaron. It is of a by far better priesthood that you could say of Melchizedek. But that priestly background is most definitely there within his family. By having a father in this genealogy who is of David, and a mother who is from Aaron The portrait that we have here of Jesus is to show him then as a king who is also a priest. A king who is going to rule over all creation and he has been. But yet it is this king who is going to give his life sacrificially, and he will do that because of the sins of his people. And this is the Jesus. It wasn't too long ago, folks, that uh a very dear pastor friend of mine out in California um uh a Korean man. Um and I'm not altogether sure what possessed him to do this, but he decided to uh get uh a DNA test to trace his family family bac family background. Now he was adopted and perhaps that's what it was uh that he wanted to uh uh to understand a little bit more and I can appreciate that. He was told always in his entire life that his uh birth mother was Korean and that his birth father was not. But after this genetic test, uh, what he learned is that in fact both his birth parents were both of Korean descent which uh kind of plays with your mind a little bit in terms of what happened there. And and truthfully that was a struggle for him and he and he did have a hard time with what might have been uh there. His parents had passed at that point, so he really had no way of finding out any end But he kind of finally came to the realization is um what difference does it make at the end of the day? Um uh his identity in Christ uh is not in any way changed by understanding where his genealogy and descendancy came from. The focus is not necessarily who is part of our past. But who is it that we are looking to now as well as the future? Matthew begins his gospel. And in fact, thus the New Testament does this by reminding us that God has been true to his covenant promises all along, and he is remaining faithful and true to this day. Our Savior is here But like so many of us, he also had a fairly eccentric family background. But at the end of the day, what we need is to be part of this family line of Christ And this does not happen by blood ancestry or blood descendancy. It happens by faith. Faith in the true son of David, the true son of Abraham. Let's pray together, folks. Our Father, we uh come before you uh this morning, and we thank you, dear God, for your continual blessings that you give to us so abundantly. in your son Jesus Christ. And you do that at times in the most creative of ways. You do that, Lord, through prophetic texts of the Old Testament. You have done that through Gospels. You do that and proclaim the message of the message of Christ through the letters of the Apostle Paul and of other biblical writers. And you do that even through a genealogy. Thank you, dear God, for the way that you uh uh exhaustively are reminding us over and over again of our fallen nature and our need, Lord, for us. And as we meditate on that truth, I pray, Father, that it'll remind us as we gather as your people today, uh, to look perhaps at our fallen uh uh our fallenness, our sins, perhaps even things that we have committed. even of this morning, thoughts of our hearts, acts that we have performed, uh that we have committed against loved ones. against others. And as we meditate on that, help us, Lord, to rejoice that in Christ there is no condemnation. That these are sins that have been paid for already by his cross. And as we meditate on that truth, uh help us, dear Lord, for that reason to rejoice, to sing songs of praise unto you, for you are our great God Hear us, dear Lord, and be with us this day as we worship you, as we continue in our worship of you, for we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.