Open your Bibles, turn to John chapter twenty-one. John chapter twenty-one and our reading this morning uh from which the message is taken is uh Verses 1 through 19, and particularly verses 15 through 19. But let us now hear the words of the Lord. After these things, Jesus showed himself again to the disciples at the Sea of Tiberias. And in this way he showed himself. Simon Peter, Thomas called the twin, Nathaniel of Canaan and Galilee. Cana in Galilee. The sons of Zebedee and two others of his disciples were gathered. Simon Peter said to them, I am going fishing. They said to him, We are going with you also. They went out and immediately got into a boat. That night they caught nothing. But when the morning had now come, Jesus stood on the shore. Yet the disciples did not know it was him. And Jesus said to them, Children, have you any food? They answered him, No. He said to them, Cast the net on the right side of the boat, and you will find some. So they cast, and now they were not able to draw it in because of the multitude of fish. Therefore, that disciple whom Jesus loved said to Peter, It is the Lord Now, when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he put on his outer garment, for he had removed it, and he plunged into the sea. But the other disciples came in the little boat, for they were not far from land, but about two hundred cubits, dragging the net with the fish. And as soon as they came to land, they saw the fire of coals there, and fish laid on it, and bread Jesus said to them, Bring some of the fish which you have just caught. Simon Peter went up and dragged the net to land, full of large fish, 153. Although there were so many, the net was not broken. Jesus said to them, Come and eat breakfast. Yet none of the disciples dared ask him, Who are you? Knowing that it was the Lord. Jesus then came and took the bread and gave to all of them and likewise the fish This is now the third time Jesus showed himself to his disciples after he was raised from the dead. So when they had eaten breakfast, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Barjonah, do you love me more than these? He said, Yes, Lord, you know I love you. He said to him, feed my lambs. He said to him again a second time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? He said, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Tend my sheep. He said to him a third time, Simon, son of Jonah, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. Most assuredly I say to you, when you were younger, you girded yourself and walked where you wished But when you are old you will stretch out your hands, and another will gird you and carry you where you do not wish. This he spoke, signifying by what death Peter would glorify God And when he had spoken this, he said to him, Follow me. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. We are in the period now a few days after the death and resurrection of Christ and before Christ's ascension into heaven. Chapter 21 of John begins by introducing to us another resurrection appearance of Christ. Indeed, verse 14 makes it clear. that this is the third resurrection appearance of Christ to the disciples. This time The Lord appears to a select number of the set of the disciples, seven of them by my count, along the sea of Tiberias. And they are out fishing. But the focus of this section quickly turns to Peter. And what Jesus has to say to Peter. And I think it's particularly important to pick up the fact That what Jesus is saying to Peter occurs in the context of the resurrection of Jesus. Now we all are familiar with Peter. He is uh probably many of our most favorite, one of our most favorite characters in the Bible. He's one that we can readily identify with because he gets himself into so much trouble. And he often says things before he thinks. But we've seen Jesus bear with Peter for three years as his disciple And there's a rich history of the things that the scripture records about Peter as a disciple of Christ. We see him as, first of all, Peter, the first confessor of Christ among the disciples. In Matthew chapter 8, verse, excuse me, Mark chapter 8, verse 29, Jesus said to his disciples, Whom do you say I am? And Peter said to him, You are the Christ. The Son of the Living God. Of course, you remember how that conversation went on. You're blessed, Peter. Earth hasn't revealed that to you, but my Father in heaven has told you that. But right after Peter makes this wonderful confession about who Jesus is And right after Jesus has called him blessed, Peter then hears words from Jesus that he doesn't like. And those words are these. The Son of Man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders. the chief priests and the scribes to be killed. But after three days rise again from the dead. Jesus spoke that saying openly, and Peter took him aside. And began to rebuke him. It says, rebuke. He began to rebuke the Lord. And when Jesus turned around, he looked on his disciples and rebuked Peter, saying, Get behind me, Satan. You do not savor the things that be of God, but of men. Now, about at one point, the highest you can possibly be with the commendation from Christ and the next minute as low as you can possibly be. And what didn't he understand? The whole death and resurrection of Christ. The whole reason we're here. The whole reason the church has been assembled from time beginning. The foundation of our faith. Peter, the confessor, initially doesn't like what he hears. Not long afterwards, in the Mark tells the story of how Jesus took some of his disciples up on the mountain of Transfiguration. And Peter was there. He was one of the handpicked few Peter, James, and John saw the transfiguration of Christ. Matthew, excuse me. Mark chapter 9, 9 through 10 says that as they came down from the mountain, after they saw what they saw up on the mountain, which was Christ's transfiguration, Also saw the presence of Elijah and Moses. After they saw what they saw, Jesus said to his disciples, the Son of Man Is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him. And after he is killed, he shall rise the third day. But they didn't understand that saying. And they were afraid to ask him. So you see Right again, right after he tells them, after Peter confesses, he takes Peter up on the mountain of transfiguration to witness a very key event And as they're coming down the mountain, Jesus says, again, going to Jerusalem, going to die, but going to raise again. And it says the disciples wondered. What that meant. Actually, there's about four times before the death of Christ. In the scripture text that speak about Jesus revealing to his disciples the same foundational truth of our gospel. That he is going to Jerusalem, he will die, and on the third day he will be raised again from the dead. But still, before the death of Christ and before the resurrection of Christ, Peter and the rest of the disciples have no clue at all. what Jesus needs by his death and resurrection. They cannot comprehend. You know, we can comprehend it Not because we're smart, not because we're better than they were, but because God has chosen to reveal it to us. And he's chosen to reveal the full context of his work and his labors in the scriptures. And the scriptures speak to us and we see it and we believe it but I submit to you if we were there with Peter before the death and resurrection we would be having the same struggles Understanding how this man who has been with them for three years and doing all the great things he did, how he could possibly die. And how the leaders of the Jews would be responsible for orchestrating his death, and the Romans would put him to death. And then of all things Raise again from the dead on the third day. Oh, that's an occurrence we see an awful lot, isn't it? Except Except the disciples did actually see a couple of resurrections during Jesus' ministry. You're pr you're you're you're I'm sure you're familiar with them. Uh There was the time of Lazarus. In John chapter 12 or 11, when Lazarus is in the tomb for three days. And the scripture adds, and he stinks It already started a decomposition. Well Peter was there. He saw him. There's the story of Jairus' daughter. Another one Christ raised from the dead, and Peter was there to see it. He just cannot get it together But that isn't all of the story of Peter. Peter comes out a little bit later. At a time called Pentecost, and he shines forth. Listen to what he says on the day of Pentecost. Fifty days after Christ's death and resurrection, something happened. Listen to what he says. Acts chapter 2, verse 30. This is Peter speaking. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him. That the fruit of his loins, according to his flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne. He seeing this before spoke of the resurrection of Christ. That his soul was not left in hell, neither did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus has God raised up, whereof we are all witnesses But he says, seeing this before spoke of Jesus. And then he adds He will not leave his soul in hell, neither see his flesh. He is quoting Psalm 16, verse 10. See, Peter went back and finally did some research. He looked in his Bible and he found in Psalm 16. Exactly the experience Jesus went through. He, God, would not allow his Holy One to see corruption. in the grave. That's Peter. But we haven't got there yet. Now let's look at our text. Our text is in between, somewhere in between the death and resurrection of Christ and Pentecost. But again, it involves primarily Peter. And I want to zero in on verses 15 and following. Jesus makes another resurrection appearance. And he begins to talk to Peter. He pointedly addresses Peter. Verse 15. So when they had dined, Jesus said to Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, Jonah, do you love me more than these? He said to him, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. He said to him, Feed my lambs. Do you, Peter, love me? Again, just to give you some background, Christ is asking Peter, do you agape me? That's the Greek verb That's used there. And remember, we have looked at this many, many times. Agape is the kind of deep, deep love that always is an act and always involves sacrifice. It is the same love that we see described of Jesus, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten. Peter, do you love me? Well, if you do, Peter, feed my sheep. Here Jesus does not tell, excuse me, feed my lambs. He does not tell Peter what to feed them with Hasn't told him that. But he does tell them that he has a job for Peter to do, and it involves Christ's lambs. And I'm sure Peter would make the connection in his mind. that, well, God is telling me, Jesus is telling me I need to to love him by feeding his people, his sheep, the sheep of his pasture. Now the fact that he uses lambs is quite interesting and important to take note of, for I believe he is uh uh uh focusing peters attention at this point on the young and the immature The ones who need food to grow and to be nourished. You know, lambs are not full grown. But next the situation shifts a little bit. The third second time Jesus comes to him in verse 16. And says, Simon, do you love me? Once again, it's the word agape. He said to him, Lord, you know I love you. He said to him, feed my sheep. suddenly switched from lambs to sheep. That may not necessarily be important. I mean obviously they're the same animal, but one is young and the other is older. And that seems to at least give some thought to the idea of a kind of a continuity of involvement with God's people when they are young and when they are getting more mature But make no mistake about it, even the sheep need to be fed. Even the sheep need to be loved. When Jesus says, Peter, do you love me? Do you adopt me? Essentially what he is connecting in Peter's mind, if you say you love me, Peter, how are you going to view my people? My sheep. What kind of ministry post-resurrection are you going to commit yourself to? Are you going to be involved in? And Peter, are you willing to sacrifice yourself for them? Did you see that? When he says feed them, there's another change in the Greek words there. The first feeding in verse 15 talks just about grazing. You know, kind of material food. This word, feed, is the word for which we get in English Shepherd lead guide protect Peter, are you ready? Are you willing? Do you really love me enough to be my under-shepherd for my people's sake? And then he says to Peter the third time in verse 17, Simon, son of Jonas, do you love me? Peter was grieved because he said to him the third time, Do you love me? And he said to him, Lord, you know all things. You know I love you. And Jesus said to him, Feed my sheep. This time instead of using agape, he uses phileo when he asks him to love him. Do you love me? Phile'o is not the same word as obviously as agape But it doesn't mean the same either. It means to have brotherly affection for one another. Peter, do you like me even as a brother? Do you even care about me as my brother? As your brother? It's not asking him here necessarily to be uh sacrificing on behalf of the sheep. But he says, if you if you if you even just have any kind of feeling for me, positive feeling, will you feed my sheep? This is a threefold discipling moment for Peter. And I believe it matches his threefold denial of Christ before his death. And after all of this is said and done, Christ commands Peter to To feed my sheep and come, follow me. The invitation to Peter is to follow Christ, to be like Christ. In this context, to be the shepherd of the sheep That Christ has loved. To love them as Christ has loved him. This is a special call to Peter But I don't believe it can be separated from the general call that all believers have. To minister to one another in the body of Christ. To make disciples for Jesus Christ. You remember we read Matthew 28, the Great Commission? Go, make disciples. Baptize and teach. That's the agenda for the church It's the resurrected Lord's agenda for the church, for you, not just for your pastor. We at Trinity seek to go about discipling people Evangelizing, teaching, baptizing. We do that vocally, we do that by living, by ministry. In various different ways. This is the agenda for the church until Christ returns It is not simply an agenda whereby you can tick off items. I've done this, I've done that. This is done. I've fulfilled my responsibility. It is not simply an agenda. It also speaks to the matter of our attitudes while trying to do this until Christ returns. Because, you see, remember, first question that comes out of Jesus' mouth to Peter, do you love me? Feed my sheep. Are you ready to pick up this challenge? To follow the Lord and follow Peter and be like him Embracing the Lord's agenda. Doing so in the power of the resurrected Lord. Are you ready to adopt your Savior's discipling methods and his attitudes toward the people of God? Are you ready to love him and faithfully feed his lambs and his sheep? You can argue that's the pastor's job. And you would be right. But we need everybody involved. It cannot be solely the pastor's job. Primarily it's his job. But it's all of our jobs generally. What kind of food are you going to feed them, Peter? I suspect Peter knew the answer. He's not going to run down to southern states and get lamb and sheep food. But he's going to say, like he said to Jesus previously, you have the words of life. Where shall I go, Lord? You have the words of life. That's Peter said that. I suspect he will be sharing them the word of God. So that God's sheep will hear his voice. Your main attitude in caring for God's lambs or his sheep, whatever they will be, is to love Jesus To love Jesus. How is your love and affection for Christ? And by extension, because you see Christ is the head of the body, how was your love for his church? Will you love when the Lord's sheep and the Lord's lambs don't understand you? Will you love them when you teach them repeatedly what you consider to be fundamental and yet they still don't get it How will your love be when you tell them four times of the death and resurrection of Christ and they still don't believe or understand? Or four times of the lection, or four times infra versus superleft Syrianism. Will you love them enough to continue to teach the truth regarding Christ when you get impatient? What loving sacrifice of yourself are you willing to make in order to bear one another's burdens and help them grow? in Christ. How's your patience? How's your love of others? You struggle with that? Welcome to the club. Got a problem with it? Don't just laugh it off. That's just who I am. I'm an impatient jerk. I have trouble loving people. As a Christian, you have no business saying that. You have the Holy Spirit. If you've got problems, ask for help. And he then produces the fruits of the Spirit, which are love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, understanding. And so on. Ask for a double portion of the Holy Spirit. Ask, and you will get opportunities to love. And be patient. The spirit of the resurrected Christ, after all, is the one teaching. How to love. In a most wonderful way, Peter is a case study for how Jesus lovingly loved his disciples. And by extension, how he loves you. Peter, the man who couldn't understand the death and resurrection after Christ, the master teacher And shepherd told him four times of its fact. Peter, a man mostly out to lunch on this point in the Gospels, becomes Peter, the preacher. Pentecost, affirming the death and resurrection of Christ to all who would hear Peter, the preacher of the message of the death and resurrection, the very message he once rebuked Jesus for teaching. Oh, God is strange and has marvelous ways about him. Mysterious. Peter, the man of Christ, who though he had the treasure of the gospel of Christ in his wheat vessel, nevertheless, by the grace of God became Peter the Master Shepherd. the sheep. Peter, who finally did deny himself, take up his cross and follow Jesus. For the glory of our Savior, and in the name of the resurrected Savior, Jesus Christ, Let us covenant to disciple Christ's flock in the same way. Christ disciples you. The same way he disciples his flock. Apostles. Love Christ's lambs and sheep. Feed them the good food of the Word. Bind up the wounds of Christ brokenhearted, preach his gospel to the poor in spirit, proclaim liberty in Christ to the captives. Reach out to the unknown elect sheep wandering in sin. Seek out and find the one of the 99 that has gone astray. Not because it's your job But it's because it's your resurrected life. Christ has encouraged every Christian to love him because he has first loved us. And then the power of Christ. What power? The resurrected power. Because you, my friends, are united to him in his death. It is written, the first Adam was made a living soul. The last Adam was made a life-giving soul. Spirit. Jesus says all authority is given to him in heaven and earth. Go therefore and make disciples. Baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Lo, I'm with you always, even to the end of the world. Go in power, all authority. It's the resurrected Christ's authority That goes with you. Make disciples of others. Make disciples of the world for Christ. That's At the heart of the implication of the resurrection for you today Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we ask you humbly, Lord God Almighty, to help us to Further embrace and to get our minds around the resurrection of Jesus. Get our minds around the fact of it. Get our minds around what it practically means right now For us living here. And Lord, give your people an ever-increasing love for you For truly the scripture reminds us that we are not our own. We are bought with a price. Therefore, we are called to glorify God with our To God be the glory, bless us as we pray, Lord, carrying out your great commission, your agenda for this. the church in the power of the resurrected Christ who goes with us. We thank you that in this job, in this labor, you go with us and you will be with us always. Amen.