Amen. If you turn if your copy of God's Word now to Exodus, we're reading there a portion of chapter four that begins on page 55 of the Pew Bible. Exodus chapter four. We are in the midst of the Unburned Bush event. Chapter four of Exodus, beginning at verse one, let's give attention to God's word Then Moses answered, But behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice, for they will say, the Lord did not appear to you. The Lord said to him, What is that in your hand? He said, A staff. And he said, Throw it on the ground. So he threw it on the ground, and it became a serpent. And Moses ran from it. But the Lord said to Moses, Put out your hand and catch it by the tail. So he put out his hand and caught it, and it became a staff in his hand. That they may believe that the Lord, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, has appeared to you. Again, the Lord said to him, Put your hand inside your cloak. And he put his hand inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous like snow. And God said, put your hand back inside your cloak. So he put his hand back inside his cloak, and when he took it out, behold, it was restored like the rest of his flesh. If they will not believe you, God said, or listen to the first sign, they may believe the latter sign. If they will not believe even these two signs, or listen to your voice. You shall take some water from the Nile and pour it on the dry ground. And the water that you take from the Nile will become blood on the dry ground. But Moses said to the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue. And the Lord said to him, Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I the Lord? Now therefore go But I will be with your mouth and teach you what you shall speak. But he said, Oh, my Lord, please send someone else. Then the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. And he said, Is there not Aaron your brother the Levite? I know that he can speak well. Behold, he is coming out to meet you, and when he sees you, he will be glad in his heart. You shall speak to him. And put the words in his mouth, and I will be with your mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you both what to do. He shall speak for you to the people, and he shall be your mouth, and you shall be as God to him. And take in your hand the staff with which you shall do the signs. This is far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. To play with me. Father, help us. Now we come to a difficult passage. Difficult in that it truly strikes at our hearts. Help us, Lord. Work in us powerfully by your Spirit, each one, shaping and molding us individually and yet collectively as the body of Christ. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I think most of us are familiar with the parable of the talents that Jesus Tells. A man going on a journey has servants, and he gives to three of his servants these talents. I think it's money. One to five, another two, and another one. And he goes away and he gives to each one according to their individual abilities. The first two servants go out and take their talents and make more. The one with five made five more, the one with two made two more. But But the one who had received the one talent determined not to serve his master in the same way and hid his in the ground. When the master returned, we can remember that he blessed the first two, those who had gained more. You've been faithful over a little. I will set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. But with the one who dug and hid. the single talent and said to his master, I knew you to be a hard man, so I was afraid, received a curse. You wicked and slothful servant, who is cast out into the outer darkness where there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth This parable is all about a willing heart, a desire to serve Which comes or flows out of knowing the Lord Jesus Christ, knowing the love of God. This parable has much to tell us with regard to today's passage. Well, we know that the generation of Joseph is dead. We know that there's a new Pharaoh who has been oppressing, putting the Hebrews in bondage, subjecting them to hard labor, and we've been introduced to Moses He is the one who was rescued by Pharaoh's daughter. He is the one who has fled from Egypt because he killed the Egyptian. He's the one who has been in the wilderness now shepherding his father-in-law's sheep, Jethro or Ruel, for forty years. And he is the one who has stood now before the bush Which was on fire and yet not consumed. He's been standing there for some time. We've been reading this passage for some time. He's been standing before the God who is the I am. God, he's been called out now of the wilderness to go and deliver his people. He's being sent to Pharaoh so that the people of God can worship. And Moses has been reassured that those to whom he will go, meaning the Hebrews, meaning the elders of Israel, shall listen to your voice. Things were looking good at this point. God was present, his holiness and power were on display, and the fire which burned and yet did not consume the bush. And God had foretold and promised success. The only thing remaining for Moses was to say, yes, sir, and go. But he doesn't. This morning I want us to see that God is long-suffering as his children doubt his word and are reluctant to serve. God is long-suffering as his children doubt his word and are reluctant to serve. We'll see that in three points this morning. The power of God, the adequacy of God, and finally the patience. of God. Well, as we go through this passage this morning, I want you to be asking yourself Why don't I serve? Or why am I reluctant or hesitant to serve the Lord? This passage strikes directly at our unwilling hearts. So listen. First, power of God's word. Well remember, remember the call, the simple command is go. Go. And now we have a problem that arises. Verse 1: Moses answered, but behold, they will not believe me or listen to my voice. For they will say the Lord did not appear to you. This was a very curious response by Moses. Curious because the Lord had already explicitly told Moses just the opposite, that the people would. Listen, we're going to see underlying this entire passage that Moses' will is not to go His desire is not to be sent. Indeed, his desire was apparently to remain where he was, doing what he was doing. He's been doing it for forty years, and this is a big change. And Moses is called to change and serve in a different way, and now he begins raising objections to going. Interestingly, what the author, the inspired Moses, is doing here is he's allowing us to see more of God. You might be tempted to think that this passage was all about Moses, and really it's not. It's in reality, this is all about God and His Word. So first. Moses telling God himself, they will not believe me or listen to my Two things are going on here, and they're connected. It's good to separate them. First, Moses blatantly denied the truth of God's word, and secondly, Moses is denying the power of God's word. He's denying the truth and he's denying the power of God's word. First, denying the truth. And that's the superficial allegation, isn't it? A direct denial of God's word. Because God had clearly said in verse 18 of chapter 3, they will listen to your voice. And you and the elders of Israel shall go to the king of Egypt and say to him, The Lord, the God of the Hebrews, has met with us. God has already told him this is what's going to happen. They will listen, and indeed the elders of Israel will even say to Pharaoh that God has met with us. Moses might well have said to the Lord, I don't believe you. The Lord had said, they will listen. He had foretold the future. The elders will say God has met with us, but Moses denies the truth of God's word. That age-old problem which began in the Garden of Eden, Moses had just lifted up his own word above that of the God of creation. Brothers and sisters, we must examine our own hearts in this regard. So we look at Moses and we think, how could he do that? And in truth we do it ourselves. Well, not only does he deny the truth But if we penetrate this a bit more, it seems that Moses is denying the power of God's word. Superficially, Moses' concern is that his words wouldn't be received as God's word, but maybe the real concern along that line was the power of God's word was insufficient. That seems to lie behind Moses' denial of God's truth, his word, behind, at least in part, a lack of the fear of God. Think of this just for a moment. The power of God's word lies at least in part in its truth. If God's word is not true, which is what Moses was arguing, then it loses its power. If God's word is not true, then it's not authoritative. It's the same thing with all things that are untrue. If a witness Testifies in the courtroom and speaks lies, that witness has no value for the court or to the jury or to the judge. Similarly, if God's word is not true. It has no power to move the hard hearts of a corrupt people. If God's word is not true, then it becomes meaningless and thus worthless And if God's word is worthless, then Moses would be left standing before Pharaoh with no power. And that was in reality all that Moses would be taking with him to Egypt, the very Word of God. But God's word is true. And it is powerful. Beyond our imagination, powerful. The words of men are powerless. That's what Paul was preaching to those in Corinth, wasn't he? For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel, and not with words of eloquent wisdom. Lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power. Do you see what Paul was saying? I'm not using men's words to preach to you. Because if I did, Christ's cross would be empty, it would be valueless, it had no meaning. But the Word of God has power to change hearts It is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Romans chapter 1, verse 16. God's word is powerful, and it does change hearts. Through the preaching of the word. How does God respond to Moses How do we know that Moses was actually challenging the truth and thus the power of God's word? Consider God's response I think that tells us much about what was happening in Moses' heart. It becomes clear that Moses needed to see the power of God again. And apply that power to God's word. Note that God does not rebuke Moses at this point. He does not simply respond by reminding Moses of what he already said. That's what I would have done. Don't you remember what I just said? That wasn't God's response. He didn't even admonish Moses for not believing in his word. There was no rebuke. In the midst of the suffering of God, Suffering through Moses' doubt and denial. What does God do? This is quite spectacular That Moses' concern on the surface was that they would not believe that God had met with him. And so God provides proof that Moses had actually met with and heard the God of creation. He takes up that superficial concern of Moses while at the same time addressing the root or the source of Moses' disbelief, the power of his word. It was as if God was saying, I showed you once in the bush, now I'll show you again, because you are dull and slow to believe. And so he tells him to take his staff and throw it on the ground, and it becomes a serpent. The bush was stationary, it wasn't going anywhere. Moses wasn't taking that to Egypt, but the staff. The staff was was going along. So he changes the staff to a serpent, the Lord, the God, the creator, the master of creation. Exercising his dominion before Moses' very eyes. And the same happens as he turns his hand leprous The one who made each and every one of us is able to make us clean. And as the hand is put back into his cloak, it comes out clean. And finally, the thought of the Nile, a powerful river, and yet the god of creation, even more powerful. as he changes the substance from water to blood. Once again, the Lord was confirming his power. And thus the power of his word through the supernatural. It's quite amazing that Moses ran from the serpent. And yet was not fearful to call God's word into question. This is part of our sin nature, This is part of our corrupt nature, that we're more fearful of the things of the world than we are of God and of his word. That we may have been driven away from serving God, even in corporate worship, because of our fear of COVID. Like Moses who ran from the serpent, made by the very hand the Word of God, and yet Not fearful of denying his word to assemble in corporate worship every Lord's day, not believing the blessing that's given to us. As we assemble for worship. Isaiah 58. If you turn your foot from the Sabbath from doing your pleasure on my holy day and call the Sabbath delight, I will make you ride on the heights of the earth. I will feed you with the heritage of Jacob, your father, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. A blessing promised. And this is the Christians service. This is the one significant way in which we are all called to serve the living God. So why don't we serve? Why are we why are you reluctant and hesitant to serve? And now I'm speaking not merely of coming to corporate worship. But there are other ways in which we're called to serve this morning, and we sit, we hesitate, we are reluctant. Why? Is it not because we lack a certain aspect of the fear of God? Is it not because we doubt the power of God's word, the promised blessings? Or, in other words, we hesitate or are reluctant because we have a greater fear of the world, a fear of losing that which is worldly, our personal peace, our pleasures. For serving involves certain costs and amount of discomfort. But the blessings which flow from serving God are Uncountable. Deuteronomy 28. And if you faithfully obey the voice of the Lord your God, being careful to do all his commandments that I command you today, the Lord your God will set you High above all the nations of the earth. And these blessings shall come upon you and overtake you if you obey the voice of the Lord your God And it goes on. Enumerating blessing after blessing after blessing Brothers and sisters, I think at times we're not fully convinced of the power of God's word. I think that's what it boils down to. Do we believe his blessings or not? Are we fearful of our God? So much so that we know the power of his word. Brings us to our second point, the adequacy of God. Moses continues, even after the two signs have been given to him, the third one foretold. I said to the Lord, O my Lord, I am not eloquent, either in the past or since you have spoken to your servant, but I am slow of speech and of tongue. On the surface, a humble response by most. No, no, no, I'm not so good. I really don't have all the things I need. I am lowly. I'm insufficient. I don't have the gifts and talents for this. I'm not as good as you think I am. In reality, this was once again an attack upon God, upon his wisdom. And the objection seems to be clearly, God, you've made a poor choice. Your wisdom here is flawed. Your wisdom has a hole in it. It's not adequate. You judged poorly in selecting me. Your desire is for me to speak, but you failed to neglect or or or select a good speaker. Your choice, your judgment, your selection, thus your wisdom are questionable. At best. But how does God respond again? Who has made man's mouth? Who makes him mute or deaf or seeing or blind? Is it not I the Lord In essence, the Lord was confirming that which Moses already knew. And God is using powerful rhetorical questions. First, reminding Moses that he is the God of creation, the one who made all things from nothing in wisdom by the power of his word. And then he had the power to do all that was within his most holy will. But secondly, Secondly, we must note that this misunderstanding of Moses concerning God's choice of him, as a mistake, a poor judgment. In reality, God is saying, no, this was no mistake This was no failure of judgment. This was intentional. This was purposeful. I did not overlook the fact of your weakness. God was using Moses' weakness. Paul brings this truth to light in general terms in 1 Corinthians chapter 1. But God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are. So no human being might boast in the presence of God. But the one who boasts boasts in the Lord. See, God has the power to take the weak, the frail, the poor, the contrite of heart, and make them powerful vessels in His hand, even you. Think of Jesus, born in weakness, taking on human, weak, frail flesh. And yet it's curious, we don't find in Scripture a parallel account where the Son of God is objecting to being sent by the Father. We don't read anywhere in Scripture where Jesus questions whether I'm the right one to be the Messiah. We don't see Jesus pushing back on the wisdom of God, on his sufficiency or adequacy, or maybe whether or not he should send someone else. That's why we read John 17 this morning. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work you gave me to do. I was sent. I did it. For I've given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them. They've come to know in truth that I came from you, and they believe that you sent me. Nowhere do we read the Son of God putting up obstacles to his going, to his being sent, to his serving the will of his Father. You may be thinking, what about the Garden of Gethsemane? Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not as I will, but as you will. Three times Jesus prays, doesn't he? Three times. Is he objecting to being sent? He so wanted to be with the Father that he couldn't even stand the thought of being separated from him. But what did Jesus do when he was tempted to pursue his will? He prayed three times, fervently, and then he led his disciples out to his own betrayal. That's what Jesus did in his weakness. God has called you to serve. When God calls, when he makes his call effectual in your heart, when he enables you to believe and you come to saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and you're repenting. That's not where God stops in his desire for you to serve We see an extraordinary call given here to Moses. And might be tempted to think that this is mere history. We're just looking at this to understand what happened and have intellectual knowledge. But that's not the case. With any scripture, it's not the case. God desires us to apply it to our hearts today. And so God is at work completing the work which He began in you by calling you. To serve. He's given you talents to be used within the bounds of his kingdom. He provides them to you. So that you can use them just like those in the parable, so that they can be multiplied. So as he calls you, He does provide all that you need. You can be confident that the Lord will provide. So How has this God called you to serve today? It's not a question of whether it's how How does he desire you to use your faith? How does he want you to serve your brothers and sisters in this local body? How does he want you to serve the broader church? Have you considered these things? Have you asked that question? Maybe searched. Because he has. Or maybe the question this morning is, what roadblocks have you created? What objections to the call to serve have you raised before God? Are you questioning His wisdom in laying a call upon you. Are you doubting his ability to accomplish his most holy and perfect will through you? Are you questioning his sufficiency or his adequacy? Are you waiting for the Lord to move you? Consider Moses. He was clearly not moved at this point by the Lord Even as he had received an express, an explicit call to go. Yet Moses had an obligation, he had a duty to go, as the Lord has expressed his will to him. I think you we need to ask ourselves, are we merely content sitting at the Lord's table, sitting at the King's table, dining upon the delicacies that He's provided, His Word, His sacraments, His worship? And are we resisting the call to serve? Brothers and sisters, you need to search your own hearts. Repent of your hesitation, repent of your reluctance, and serve if you're not heeding the call. Pray fervently that the Lord would grant you the courage and the confidence in Christ to serve. faithfully and then go. Brings us to our third point, the patience of God It's quite amazing that verse 13 is here. Quite amazing that Moses recorded it. After all this, after the responses that God has given to him, Moses said, O my Lord, please send someone else. This was, as I said before, underlying all of this. As God responded to all of Moses' preliminary objections, now Moses finally speaks his heart. Send someone else. Not that your plan will fail, God. Not that it's not a good idea. Not that the Hebrews don't need deliverance. Plainly, I don't want to go. Send someone else a direct refusal to submit himself to the express will of God. We might think upon Moses' experiences in Egypt, and they were not good. Forced out of his natural birth home, forced to leave his mother, father, brother, and sister, forced to leave his people. Faced with death in the river, placed in a basket, subject to drowning, living forty years among pagans, Hebrews, God haters, and then for the second time Moses considered uh Moses had to flee again because of the threat of death. Killing an Egyptian, death again. Rejected by his own people, not seeing that he was to be the deliverer. For Moses, Egypt seemed to be synonymous with death. But here in the wilderness Peaceful, quiet. Other than wolves, no threats. Didn't God know? But notwithstanding Moses' experiences. This was the height Of asserting one's own will above and clearly against the will of God Finally, speaking his mind and telling the Lord that it was not his will that he would go and be the deliverer. Moses had been literally beating around the bush. We failed to speak our heart, and we began hiding behind other things in an attempt to avoid addressing The real problem. That's when sin just kind of takes root within us. That's what happened in the garden with Adam. She was trying to hide his physical nakedness when the real problem was his spiritual nakedness. One of the greatest sins we can commit is asserting our wills above and against the most holy, perfect, and pure will of God, and then hiding it. With humanly rational or reasonable arguments as to why God's will is not the best, and ours is better. Brothers and sisters, we do that. We have to repent of that. We have to be honest with God. We have to confess what's happening. Lord, I don't want to go. Change me. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. Again, another amazing verse. We might have expected to read this several verses previously. But brothers and sisters, the focus here, Moses' emphasis is not upon the anger of God as he writes this to us. It's not. Notice what happens immediately after he records for us the anger of the Lord was kindled. God continues to condescend to Moses. He continues to show him the way. To go. He doesn't cast him off. He doesn't consume him with the fire What we see being emphasized here throughout this passage is the long suffering of God. Moses thought in a way which was sinful. He spoke in a way which was not holy. He lifted up his own will above the will of the God of creation. This did kindle a righteous anger in God. But we see the long suffering of God in this event. Is there not Aaron your brother the Levite? I know he can speak well. Behold, he's coming out to meet you. And when he sees you, he'll be glad in his heart. Wow. My brother's coming? He knows what's happening? Yeah. God planned that in advance before Moses said any of this. Before it was on the tip of his tongue, before it was a thought in his mind, Aaron was coming. The long suffering of God He continues to condescend. He does not cast off Moses. He knows he's but dust. But he also knows that he's made in the image of God. He knows that he has selected him. He's chosen as the deliverer of Israel. And he knows that his plan is perfect and he's put his plan into place and he's going to see his plan through and and so he deals with Moses in kindness and mercy Time and again, the Lord Almighty dealing gently, slowly, patiently with his servant. See the patience of God Here, so powerfully in this passage, the long suffering of God. This account must teach us about the suffering of God Himself It's not that he changes or that he's emotionally hurt by, oh, you don't think my word is true? No. That's not the long suffering of God. It's his condescension. In creation, in revelation. It's his slow, gentle, patient dealing with us as we sin against. him it's showing Moses the way, not the way out He suffers through our sin. He suffers through our rebellion. He suffers through our rejection of his word. And he suffers as we lift up our wills above his time after time. But he's patient toward you. Not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. That's the long-suffering of God. Wooing Us to Christ through mercy, gentleness Patience. This is the God we serve. God is a long-suffering, as His children doubt His word and are reluctant. To serve. Yes, the parable of the talents is all about that heart, heart that desires to serve the Lord God. Today the call is to fix your minds upon the long-suffering, upon our long-suffering God, who is powerful, who is adequate, who is patient. Be encouraged, brothers and sisters, to serve this God. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, forgive us, Lord. Forgive us for our reluctance or hesitation. Forgive us for doubting your word. Forgive us for discounting the blessings that you promised to us. Forgive us, Lord God, for not fearing you rightly. Forgive us, Father, for not exalting Christ by longing to serve Him. And Father, help us. Give us opportunities. Place calls upon our hearts. Give us the confidence we need in Christ and in Him alone To serve you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Our hymn of response this morning is out of the Trinity Hymn. It's number 108. What error my God ordains is right. Number 108. Let's stand and sing praises to our God. My daughter's right on the still was nearly done. All over the heart. He holds me that I shall no more. There might have things what he never will be seen. I take content what he has said to his friend Where my God all things is right. And so we shall be voice. But where my God old hands is right, shall my son be straight. If I am not forsaken, I thought it's very funny. We hold me that I shall have all, and so to think I believe. Receive now the Lord's blessing. Now the God of peace himself sanctify you completely. And may your whole spirit, soul, and body be preserved blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful, who will also do it. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you now and forever. Amen. I went to know we are like one. Yeah. For you it's like that, right? I'm gonna play.