If you turn your copy of God's word now to Leviticus, I think you'll find chapter nine on page one hundred and three. Leviticus chapter nine follows on the heels of The ordination of Aaron and his sons. Let's give attention now to God's holy word. On the eighth day Moses called Aaron and his sons and all the elders of Israel, and he said to Aaron, Take for yourself a bull calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, both without blemish. And offer them before the Lord, and say to the people of Israel, Take a male goat for a sin offering, and a calf and a lamb, both a year old without blemish, for a burnt offering And an ox and a ram for peace offerings to sacrifice before the Lord, and a grain offering mixed with oil. For today the Lord will appear to you. And they brought what Moses commanded in front of the tent of meeting, and all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord. And Moses said, This is the thing that the Lord commanded you to do. that the glory of the Lord may appear to you. And Moses said to Aaron, draw near to the altar. And offer your sin offering and your burnt offering, and make atonement for yourself and for the people. And bring the offering of the people and make atonement for them, as the Lord has commanded. So Aaron drew near to the altar and killed the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself. And the sons of Aaron presented the blood to him, and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it on the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the base of the altar. But the fat and the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver from the sin offering and he burned on the altar as the Lord commanded Moses. The flesh and the skin he burned up with fire outside the camp Then he killed the burnt offering, and Aaron's sons handed him the blood, and he threw it against the sides of the altar. And they handed the burnt offering to him piece by piece. And the head, and he burned them on the altar. And he washed the entrails and the legs and burned them with the burnt offering. on the altar. Then he presented the people's offering and took the goat as a sin offering that was for the people and killed it and offered it as a sin offering, like the first one. Then he presented the burnt offering and offered it according to the rule. Then he presented the grain offering, took a handful of it, and burned it on the altar besides the burnt offering. Of the morning. Then he killed the ox and the ram, the sacrifice of peace offerings for the people. And Aaron's sons handed him the blood, and he threw it against the sides of the altar. But The fat pieces of the ox and of the ram, the fat tail, and that which covers the entrails and the kidneys and the long lobe of the liver, they put the fat pieces on the breasts. And he burned the fat pieces on the altar. But the breasts and the right thigh, Aaron waved for a wave offering before the Lord as Moses commanded. Then Aaron lifted up his hands toward the people and blessed them. And he came down from the offer from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings. And Moses and Aaron went into the tent of meeting. And when they came out, they blessed the people. And the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. And fire came out from before the Lord, and consumed the burnt offering and the pieces of fat on the altar. And which all the people, and when all the people saw it, they shouted and fell on their faces. Amen. You pray with me. Father our God, we now come back to Leviticus and once again read things that are strange to us, out of the ordinary. And yet, Lord God, you've given this to us for our good, for our benefit, for our edification for drawing us ever closer to Christ. And so help us, Lord, tonight. Help us to see Christ. Help us to be those who, like the Israelites, fall before you and worship and praise and with great shouts, knowing who you are and what you've done. We ask this in Jesus' name. Jesus' name. Amen. Well the Christian religion is many things. One of those things is waiting. The psalmist who wrote Psalm 37 included this within the verses Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for Him. Waiting upon the wisdom, the goodness, the perfection Of our triune God and his plan of redemption. Think of King David just for a moment, anointed to become king But having to wait, having to suffer many things, the dogged pursuit of Saul on the run for his life until in God's good timing David was crowned. Consider the Israelites waiting through their time of slavery in Egypt. Waiting through the ten plagues. Waiting through their deliverance by the route of the Red Sea. Waiting at the foot of Mount Sinai, waiting to see if Moses would actually be able to intercede for them when they sinned with the golden calf and And now here waiting to see if the door to the tabernacle would be opened. Again, we've been led here by Exodus. We've seen a people gathered by God, a people delivered by God, a people delivered to worship, a people who were given promises that God would be their God, that he would take the Israelites to be his people. A God who had met with them on Mount Sinai, who had terrified them. A God who promised to dwell in their midst, who had given them a tabernacle, the pattern of the tabernacle. Watched as they constructed it. And then at the end of Exodus, we saw that Moses was not able to enter because of the Shekinah glory of God, which filled the tabernacle. And so they wait. They continue to wait. And in this passage, this evening that we have in Leviticus, they're waiting to enter the tabernacle comes to an end. Tonight I want us to see that as communion with the living God is re-established through Jesus Christ, true worship can and does take place. As communion with the living God is re-established through Jesus Christ, true worship can and does take place. Well three very simple points tonight. First the blood, secondly the blessings, and then finally the bowing. The blood, the blessings, and the bowing The bowing. Well, first, the blood. This narrative in Leviticus 9 is really a continuation of Leviticus 8. They go together. Leviticus 8 was a description of the ordination, very generally the ordination of the priests. And if we just jump back for a second into the eighth chapter, we would read that it Aaron and his sons were to remain for seven days. If you remember that. You shall not go outside the entrance to the tent of meeting for seven days. For it will take seven days to ordain you. At the entrance of the tent of meeting you shall remain day and night for seven days. Seven being a biblical number of completeness And for three times it was stated there in that passage, again, an indication of fullness or maybe truth. They had to wait seven days. And here as we open up chapter 9, we see on the eighth day. So those seven days have been completed. They waited. Just as God had instructed them. Aaron and his sons have been ordained. That means being established in a particular office, as Webster gives it to us. They satisfied the ordination requirements to serve God for these past seven days. The process of being set apart, of being called out of the people, being those Levites, has run its course And they've subjected themselves to God's will such that Aaron and his sons, the Levites, were prepared now to serve the Lord as his priestly ministers. We might think from our human perspective that it's over, it's complete, Aaron's ready, but that's not the case Aaron and his sons were yet sinners. The people of God were sinners. There needed to be another offering of blood given, as well as a demonstration of continuing submission to the will of God. And so we see we see in chapter eight that they were law keepers. That they kept the commands of God. Throughout chapter 8, we read several times. Moses did as the Lord commanded him, or something very similar to it. It's recorded at least six times in Leviticus 8. And at the end of Leviticus 8, we read Aaron and his sons did all the things that the Lord had commanded by Moses. They were keeping the law. Or keeping his commands. His commands were revered. His word was upheld and honored by unto their obedience as Aaron and his sons were ordained. And that same thing happens here in chapter 9. Indeed, it begins with obedience. It begins with the demonstration of their continuing submission to the Lord God the Creator, God Almighty, for the preparation to come into his presence. Look at verse 2. Take for yourself a bull, a calf for a sin offering, a ram for a burnt offering. Verse 3, say to the people of Israel, take a male goat for a sin offering, a calf, and a lamb, both the year old, thou blemish for a burnt offering. Ox and a ram for peace offerings. A command coming through God through Moses. Obedient to this one. Moses, the ambassador of God, the one who had been chosen of God. And what do we read? Verse 5. And they brought what Moses commanded in front of the tent of meeting. And all the congregation drew near and stood before the Lord. And it doesn't stop there. Moses commands Aaron, draw near to the altar, offer your sin offering and your burnt offering. Make atonement for yourself and for the people And Aaron drew near. Aaron does exactly that which Moses commands as the one who's representing God, calling him Then he killed the burnt offering. Aaron's son was handed him blood. He threw it against the sides of the altar. Then he presented the people's offering, took the go-to sin offering, killed it. Presented the grain offering, presented the burnt offering, killed the ox and the ram, to sacrifice the peace offerings to the people. And through the blood against the side of the altar. Aaron, the priest, the obedient priest, following the call, the command of Moses, who is merely repeating the commands of God. We could open this up and get lost in the details. But I don't think we need to. I want us to think generally of the obedience that we read of in chapter 8, in chapter 9. Indeed, think of the obedience of the entire nation. As God gives them a pattern for the tabernacle, and then they get to work. They do it exactly as God has given them plans for it, exactly according to the commands of God. All the furnishings, all the utensils, the tent itself. And then how it was anointed and consecrated and set apart to the Lord. God was so pleased with it. He's pleased with their obedience that he descends upon the tabernacle and fills it with the Shekinah glory. And now these men, following the commands of God, putting to work what we learned in chapters 1 through 7, As they offer up sacrifices, as they ordain the priests, and now as they offer more sacrifices so that they're going to be able to enter the tenth meeting. And we're strictly obeying the command, the word of God. But did you notice that all this obedience was with regard to blood. The ordination itself involved some things other than blood, including clothing and anointing. Yes, appear in Leviticus 9, the ordination was complete And all of this obedience, we read it in chapter 9, all of this work was submission that involved blood, more blood. You see, even as they were obeying God's commands, even as they were moving closer and closer to the tent of meeting to entering the tabernacle, Moses and Aaron and Aaron's sons were still in sin. They were still sinners. That hadn't changed. Their sin was mixed with their obedience. It could not be separated. Isaiah the prophet speaks of this. For all of us have become like one who is unclean, and all our righteous deeds are like a filthy garment. As a result, the blood was yet required. A sacrifice had to be made on their behalf, even as they were seeking to obey Even as we read of what we might consider to be strict obedience to the Word of God, a loving submission to the will of God, and yet there was sin mixed with their good work. Not Moses, not Aaron, not his sons had pure hearts. They were all tainted by their sinful thoughts, their sinful motives, and their sinful pride. And they needed the priests needed as well as the people cleansing The feeble attempts to obey the Word of God was just as insufficient as ours is today Well, this is where we see a great contrast to Jesus Christ only. After Jesus' ordination And we think of Jesus' baptism by the Spirit as his ordination, we never read of any sacrifices No blood was ever shed to accompany the obedience of Christ except his own. We only read of the Father being pleased with him. At his baptism, as the Spirit of God descends upon him like a dove and rests upon him, we hear a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. On the Mount of Transfiguration. Again, that voice from heaven, the Father speaking, this is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. Listen to him. As Jesus is in the midst of his earthly ministry, the Father is well pleased with him. He doesn't say, go, go and sacrifice a bull. No. He's pleased with them. Jesus Christ's life was marked by his perfect obedience. It was indeed fitting that we should have such a high priest, holy, innocent, unsane, separated from sinners. Hebrews seven. Or as Peter preaches. But you deny the holy and righteous one speaking of Jesus Christ. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. Great contrast. The priests, the Levites needing blood. Jesus Christ Bringing only his own. Let me ask tonight, do you ever consider why it is that God accepts your good works? You know that as a believer, you're called to engage in them. Indeed, God has prepared them for you. The priests needed to sprinkle and carry about sacrificial blood with them so that their works would be accepted. What do you need? What's Mr. Confession of Faith opening up the scriptures tells us That your ability to do good works is not at all of yourself, but wholly from the Spirit of Christ. She's only as Christ works in you through his spirit that you can't even desire to do good works. It's through the work of the Spirit. That's what you need. And then you mean Christ. Paragraph six of Westminster Confession, chapter sixteen, we read this way, notwithstanding the persons, the believers being accepted through Christ, Their good works are also accepted in him. You see, it's in Christ that your good works are accepted. It's not because you're sinless, because your sin is mixed in such that your good works are in a sense filthy rags, but in Christ they're not filthy rags anymore. In Christ they're accepted. In Christ they're welcome. Indeed. Think of Abel, who by faith Offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. Why was it that his sacrifice was accepted? It was because of his faith in a Savior, in a redeemer. Yes. Brothers and sisters, we're called to pursue good works. We know we can only do it by the work of the Spirit and through Christ. Brings us to our second point, the blessings. Aaron and his sons now were intercessors. They've been fully qualified, fully dressed, anointed and ordained, and selected and set apart for this ministry. It's in a sense it's their first day on the job. And they're now being directed by this one, Moses, who stands in the shoes of God, calling out directions according to his will, not Moses, but God. Telling Aaron and his sons how to serve the living God on this first day of the work they were now entering into. At services, representatives of the people of God, working, interceding on behalf of the nation of Israel, the church. And they're moving closer Now we come to what might be the centerpiece of this chapter. Remember, as we completed the book of Exodus, we saw that the tabernacle is constructed According to the command of God was filled with his Shekinah glory, so much so that no one could enter. More was needed. And up to this point in Leviticus, these nine chapters, we still have not read at the entry of Moses and Aaron into the tabernacle. It still hasn't happened. The purpose for which it was constructed, the dwelling place of God, the meeting place of God with his representative people, had not yet occurred There had been no meeting within the tent. The tabernacle had not yet been put to its ultimate use. And the people have been waiting. Think of that. They're watching the construction of the tabernacle. Moses comes down with a whole set of plans. This is what we need. We needed to gather materials, bring them. The people did it. And they have workmen, laborers going and constructing the tabernacle just according to God's plan. They've been waiting, they've been watching. And they've been learning about these sacrifices. It's as if they were in a class sitting down and Moses was opening up to them the burnt offering, the peace offering, the guilt offering, the sin offering, the grain offering. And waiting. Waiting upon the God's good timing. And now the day was here. All has been done in accordance with God's word, the tabernacle constructed, the priests set aside, everything consecrated that had been ordained according to the sacrificial animals that have been presented, and now The head priest had been atoned for with the blood of another bull. The smoke of the burnt offering was yet wafting up. to become that sweet aroma in the nostrils of God. And now Aaron blesses the people. You see that first blessing? Has to have a picture. The sacrifices were all done. Aaron has been at the altar, which sits outside of the tent of meeting. The fire is going, the smoke is going up, and now Aaron lifts up his hands toward the people and blesses them As he's coming down from offering the sin offering and the burnt offering and the peace offerings. Why? Why did he do this? It was at least a symbol of the completeness of this first set of sacrifices The whole cultic system was now being first put into use The offerings were were made according to God's command. structures that he had commanded to be built and in the way that he had called for them to be done by The person that he had anointed and ordained to do it. And that person, now the priest, raises his hands and blesses the people. The ceremonial rites which represented the cleansing, the atonement for the purification for the people, represented that blessing and it's done. You've been purified Aaron's lip-lifting thing, their eyes off heavenward. Because God has done it all. Pointing to the Lord, the one who made all of them, the one who was remaking him in his image, the one who was providing a way back to commune with him. In a sense, Aaron was proclaiming to the people with raised hands, the Lord bless you. You have been cleansed by God Almighty. Come, serve, and enjoy. Your Lord. It's not written in scriptures. But we can imagine. That's the sense of this blessing. Sacrifices, the tent, everything done truly complete. And now Aaron makes his way down from the altar as the sacrifice has been offered up and according to the command of God that everything's complete in a sense. All that God had for Moses and Aaron now to enter into the tent of meeting was finished complete. Since they were given key now. After waiting upon the Lord. As the congregation watches, Moses and Aaron enter the tenth. All of this leading up to that. You could say that almost all scripture up to this point was leading up to this point. And there's just this one portion of the verse and Moses and Aaron went into the We don't have any details. No revelation to what occurs inside. We know that the whole idea behind the tent of meeting was that sanctuary, that dwelling place of God, where he would meet with his representatives of his people. And so we might think we might speculate that this is exactly what happens as Moses and Aaron enter into this now consecrated purified tension, meaning as purified people, as people who have been atoned for that they commune now of the living God. They've been washed clean. They've been set aside. They've been sanctified. So much so that they can now meet with the Holy God. Ordaining serve ministers to himself and doing so as representatives of the people who were waiting outside. What do they do? When they exit. Look at verse twenty-three. When do they have meeting and when they came out they blessed the people? This is the second blessing. Indeed, it may be considered to be the culmination of priests, the people have been symbolically purified, sacrifices have been offered to atone for their sins. And the representatives, Moses and Aaron, have now gone into the tent of the meeting to meet with the living God, and then they come out to receive all that he would give to the people. And again we have no detail that we can As Moses and Aaron meet with God, they bring from God to the people all that he has for them on that day and that hour. They're intercessors And that's that's part of what it means. Usually we think it's Jesus interceding for us with God, and that's the only way we've got to be able to do that. No, it comes back the other way as well. The go-between. Here the priest, Aaron, is the intercessor and he's bringing to the people all that he has received from God. Isn't that what Jesus does? Isn't that exactly what Jesus does? In Mark's gospel, Mark records that Jesus said, let us go somewhere else to the town nearby so that I may preach there also, for that is what I came to do. Jesus brings the word of God. He proclaims God, he represents, God, he tells the people, he tells us all that God has given to us through his son. He's a preacher. And he's a healer, isn't he? We've read that in that gospel more than once. As he removes demons from demon-possessed people, as he cast out spirits, as he heals all who are illnesses to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. He himself took our infirmities and carried away our diseases. Jesus Christ giving to God's people all that he has for them Removing our sin. For our sake made him to be sin who knew no sin that we might become the righteousness of God. Do you see that that is exactly what our Savior does, our intercessor does? He proclaims God's word. He carries away our diseases and infirmities so that he can replace it with his righteousness. That's all that God has for you. Even tonight. We see that through your intercessor, through your Savior, through your Lord. That brings us to our third point of knowing. We come to the end of Leviticus 9. And as Moses and Aaron have been rendered the tenth meeting finally finally blessed people as that communion with God has been re-established. What happens? Look at verse twenty twenty-three. And the glory of the Lord appeared to all the people. Remember what Moses told there, Aaron. The Lord's going to appear today. And now it happens. He said that he would dwell with his people. And how the Lord condescends and comes And fulfills the purpose of the tabernacle. He comes and dwells among his people and he appears. Everything has been done according to his word. And now God Himself condescends, He descends, and appears to the people, not on the mountaintop, not with them at the foot of the mountain. No, no, no. He is close, he's within their view His glory appears visibly. His splendor, his magic, beauty, luster appears. How we don't know. We're not told. Pre incarnate ignorance of the Lord Jesus Christ very possible. Was it in the pillar of cloud and fire? We don't know. But we do know though that he appears, his glory is visible to the people. He was near. And then we read the fire comes out of the Lord It consumes the burnt offering the pieces of fat on the altar. Fire goes out from before the Lord As the people are watching, as his glory is appearing to them and part of that glory is this consuming of the offering. As one commentator put it, the Lord demonstrates the fact that he was pleased with the offerings and sacrifices, the obedience liked by consuming them. As such, the Holy, Holy, Holy God Almighty would receive them to symbolize the atonement of the people and is agreeing now to live amongst his people and commune with them So how do other people respond? The Lord has appeared to them. He's gonna assume How do they respond to the blessing? How do they respond to the supernatural event? How do they respond to the appearance of God Himself? How do they respond to the consuming fire fire comes out Very very briefly. When all people saw it shouted and fell on their face. It was worse. It was an expression of being blessed, being privileged by the very presence of God. There was joy in the fulfillment of his promises to be their God and to dwell in their midst, there was an exuberance in the re-establishment of the communion with the Creator and their society It was a demonstration of continued submission and obedience in their vow. The people have been waiting. Moses has been working hard. The people have been working hard. It's not because of their hard work, it was because of the Lord's mercy and grace. And finally in his timing the door to the testimony was opened. This place For to worship a peaceful, blessed life in the presence of the Lord had been established. And the people were worshiped. He's the one who has done all things. He's the one who waited the cross for his father. To end the eternal wrath that was being poured out on him for your sins. Fully completely so that there's not one drop left of the wrath of God, the eternal wrath of God taken by Jesus Christ all so that tonight you can come Worship of Worshiping God. Also that your communion with the living God might be re-established. Not by the blood of a bull. But by the blood of the Son. Do you feel that way tonight? That you're ready to prostrate yourself To fall on our face, to shout that Jesus has done all praise God for Jesus, that you've done all things, that you've done all things well To feel that you're not able to attend for true worship because he has blessed you. Brothers and sisters, what a what a what a blessed people we are. The Lord Jesus Christ has indeed appeared to us by and through his word. So much more complete. And what the Israelites saw, whatever it was that they saw. It's blood. It's perfect blood. Has been shared covers you tonight. And his righteousness closes you. So that you can and do communion Yes, communion with the living God is re-established through Jesus Christ. True worship can and does take place. What a blessing it is to wait upon God. Wait upon his son who came and did all that he was sent to do. And is promised So now we wait. We wait. Knowing that's what we're doing. That even as he comes, he's blessing us. By and through our communion with the triumph of the Father, with the Son, and with the Spirit. Amen. Father God, I thank you for these pictures, certainly truths. It's certainly history in Leviticus. Some hard. Hard to understand we see through these pictures Christ. So we thank you tonight for this one. For our sacrifice. For the one who's gone to the cross, who's taken our sins upon himself, the singless one. who has suffered and waited on your goodness for his resurrection. We thank you for God we have life in Christ. We thank you for the blessings of worship. We thank you for our communion through Christ. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen