The passage I want to look at, uh although I want to take a bird's eye view to start with, but we eventually intend to focus in on verses 31 through 36. Then Jesus said to those Jews who believed him, If you abide in my word, you are disciples indeed. And you shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free. They answered him, We are Abraham's descendants, and have never been in bondage to anyone. How can you say we will be made free? Jesus answered them, Most assuredly I say to you, whoever commits sin is a slave of sin, and a slave does not abide in the house forever But the sun abides forever. Therefore, if the sun makes you free, you shall be free indeed. I uh do want to begin with kind of a a bird's eye view or a context at 30,000 feet, and then focus in on some of this passage from John chapter 8. Uh I have been preaching quite a bit through the Gospel of John. Uh I think I preached on this passage to you eleven years ago, so I don't know if you'll remember any of it. But actually I'm taking a little different perspective on it. Uh again, g beginning with a wider context. And I I will start this way. There's an old saying, God moves in a mysterious way. And that is true God is so much bigger than we are. We don't really know everything that He's doing, but we know some of what He's doing And so when we say God moves in a mysterious way, it is meant to, I think, enable us to see that we don't understand everything. and yet we trust in God. But it should not be an excuse to avoid finding out as much as we can About God and how God acts. We can't predict with precision how God will act, how he will answer A given prayer, he'll answer it. Maybe yes, maybe no, maybe wait. Uh But we can't predict with precision how he will do many things. We can predict with precision that Jesus will come again, but we can't say when. And yet, we have to know some things about God and how he acts if we're to know him. There's a mystery of the cross. That's the great mystery of mysteries Why would God send his son into the world to save sinners? Well, you say that I know the answer to that, because he loves us. Yeah, well, why does he love you? Now there's a mystery really. Because he has to, we're not all that lovable. We're rebels In one real sense, we're hateful if you get down to what we are without the grace of God acting in our lives. And God doesn't ultimately save everybody at the last day There are some who will be lost. And so the mystery is why any are saved, not why aren't all saved. There's mystery, but we have to know something. We have to know that the cross was necessary. For us to be saved, even though we don't understand all the mystery of the cross, we have to understand some Of the things that are true about the cross. That God had to pay the price for our sins, or we would be lost. We have to know that And so this morning I want to say that's sort of the large perspective, the mystery of mysteries, as we look into what we might say other mysteries that are derived from that Kind of mystery. The way in which God does things. God does things in ways that are so surprising to us We can say that that's true in natural life. There is an organic way in which God acts. He takes a sperm and an egg, and eventually the mystery of a baby emerges, and then the baby emerges into A full human adult? It's already a human, but a full human adult. And out of those small beginnings, you might have a great world leader or a great religious leader or an awful person that created So organically God begins with small things And makes big things. We find that in his miracle-working way, which is not as organic He also acts in this mysterious way that sometimes moves from the small to the great. He takes dust, dirt from the ground, and breathes the breath of life into it. makes the beginner of the whole human race. He takes decay and decoration And raises it not just to life, the way he made life from the dust of the ground, but resurrection life. Christ is raised from the dead. So, whether it's through what we call more natural, organic ways, or God's Miraculous kind of breaking in supernatural ways, God does things In his way, and it often involves this kind of surprising movement from weakness to strength. And we see Paul reflect upon that in terms of a daily life lesson. God's strength is made perfect. In our weakness. We would like God to answer prayer by just zapping the situation. I know I would. You know, you get sick, you have a problem. Problems that sometimes are common. Some of them are more common to you as you get older and you pray. And uh sometimes You're praying for the doctor to be smart, but other times you're praying that, God, would you just take it away? And God could do that. And occasionally God has done that kind of thing. But it's the rare occasion because he more often works through what we might so call the more natural organic way, but he can break in And do a miracle when and where and how he wants. But even in his miracles, he often takes weakness And then brings out strength. Well, I'm giving you this background Of how God does things, not that we know in detail how He's going to do things, but this characteristic of how God does things To help us think about how Jesus does things here in John chapter 8. Jesus is God, after all. And Jesus is revealing himself to people, but he does it in his own way, in his own time. And he does it in steps, not all at once. We can say that there are three phases, generally speaking of Jesus self-revelation that we can notice in the Bible and in the Gospel of John particularly. I I kind of have been thinking about this because I've been spending time in the Gospel of John. There's God's truth about Jesus that is largely hidden in the beginning. And then there's God's truth about Jesus that becomes progressively revealed over time. And then there is this greater revelation of who Jesus is that creates a crisis And a greater division among people over time, those who believe and those who oppose him. And Roughly parallel to those three phases, there are three audiences that we can say define the ministry of Jesus before the cross. And before his glorious resurrection, the empty tomb. And the three audiences can be said to be a trusted group Of inner disciples, an inner core of disciples, a trusted group, a general group of people who are looking for a Messiah, wondering if Jesus could be Messiah. The common people, perhaps, is the way you could describe them. And then a more hostile group. Of religious leaders primarily, that are opposed to Jesus just about from the beginning of his self-revelation. Now, there are nuances here because except for that three real inner core of Jesus' disciples, John, James. And Peter, we know there was one disciple that couldn't be trusted And in the common people, not all of them come to faith in Jesus. Some of them do. I have puzzled over verses 31 and 32, or verses 31 and 33. It says, then Jesus said to those Jews who believed him. So there appear to be a group that believe. But then there's a they who answered him, and these people that get into the dialogue with Jesus from verse 33 on and on Don't appear to believe in him. And John doesn't explain this to us right here, but if you back up to chapter 7 You'll find out that there is a division among the people, among the Jewish people. Some say Maybe he's the Christ. Some say maybe he's the prophet. Others not. Can that be? How can that be? There's No great thing that comes from Nazareth. Does the Messiah come from there? How can that be? So there there's division, there's confusion. So you have these audiences, and among the religious leaders, although there's generally speaking opposition We know there's one or two that are not set upon crucifying Jesus Nicodemus, Joseph of Arimathea. So it's not a hundred percent These three categories, or especially the two categories of the circle of disciples and the circle of opposition. There is in every church some who ultimately fall away There is a problem in trying to avoid persecution that there will be churches where there will somebody who will betray the flock. We shouldn't be surprised, even though we will be surprised, when somebody goes the wrong way. We get disappointed. I hope that that great man of apologetics as he was thought of. Indeed, trusted in Christ at the end of his life, but we know he had some problems. I hesitate to name Names, but you may know the name. Famous radio ministry turned out to have some moral problems that came to light after he died And we say, how can that be? We get dis surprised and disappointed. You know what it does It should remind us that there's only one person you can trust a hundred percent. And that's Jesus. There are people who get disappointed sometimes and disillusioned because they think Jesus isn't doing what they think he ought to be doing. But if we believe that he loved us so much that he gave himself for us, then we ought to believe that he knows what's best for us. And that he's trustworthy. And if we're disappointed with him, what we're really disappointed with is what we thought he should do. Not his real faithfulness. Because he is faithful. We're the ones that have a problem being faithful. So we have this bird's eye view, we have this sense of Jesus Disclosing himself here in John chapter eight in a surprising way More publicly to those who might oppose him than we normally see earlier in his ministry And we see the public reaction to it that they're ready to kill him. So we could say this is Somewhere down the line, in that development of public disclosure of Jesus, Jesus starts out and he only reveals himself. To a few at the beginning of his public ministry, although he does things that gain attention of people right away. It's to the group of disciples that we see that first sign in John The miracle of turning water into wine at Cana of Galilee. Who else knows that? I guess the servants that put the water in the jugs in the jars, but and the disciples they they seem to be somehow aware of it, but it's not a highly public thing I guess Mary must have known that Jesus could do something and was surprised. But It's as time goes on through his public ministry that Jesus allows the tension to build. As Jesus speaks more directly to those who oppose him in a way that reveals who he is more clearly. And so we have two places where Jesus calls himself the I am. Actually, there's a number of places. In John, where there is an I am statement. I'm the true bread come down from heaven, I'm the way, the truth, and the life. life. I am the good shepherd. I am the door. All of these I am. I am the light of the world. But back in verse 24 It says, Therefore I said to you that you will die in your sins, for if you do not believe that I am, some versions add the word he, but it should be I am. You will die in your sins. And then at the end of this chapter, Jesus says, Before Abraham was, I am. And this is the fullness of God's revelation in Christ that He is the I Am. He is the eternal one. He is God. He is from everlasting. But en route to that Final statement before Abraham was I am. There is an interesting discussion about who Abraham's son is. I think that's part of the illusion. We're Abraham's children and have never been enslaved to anyone. Now you might say, how could you say such a thing? Egypt, that was slavery. I think those who are saying that are picking up on the fact that Jesus is is speaking in a deeper level than just political slavery. You shall know the truth and the truth shall make you free. Interesting That particular verse has been used by very secular people. That particular verse has been used to exalt the cause of education, especially education as people think you ought to be educated. Or re-educated, or whatever. When Jesus says, You shall know the truth And the truth shall make you free. I believe Jesus has primarily in mind not just so many factual truths, but you shall know the one who is the truth. The way, the truth, and the life. And this will make you free. This truth, Jesus, who is the truth, shall make you free Because he goes on later and says, if the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. So there's a connection there. Now, this is being played out against An allusion to the fact that Abraham did have children. We know he had at least two famous sons. Isaac and Ishmael. And we know that Isaac was the free son. Ishmael was the one who was born of a slave woman. And eventually there came a point in time where the slave woman and her son were expelled from the tents of Abraham. They didn't remain in the tenth forever. They didn't remain in the in the tent for the rest of their lives even. They didn't have a place. In Abraham's tent at a certain point in time. But Isaac was the free one. And he was the inheritor of the promises of Abraham. So this is part of the history and the background, and when Jesus says, I know that you are children of Abraham, on one level that's saying, so what? So was Ishmael, if you're just going by biology. But this is something larger. And it's taken up in Galatians chapter 3 and 4. I think John was likely one of the latter books written in the New Testament the gospel that was preached in Galatians, whether Galatians was written or not, I think it probably was, but whether John was consciously thinking of Galatians or just the message of Galatians. That message that the true church of God are the true children of Abraham because they have the faith of Abraham And they have freedom. Freedom. Boy, this country loves freedom I'm not sure that we're on a free course, freedom course right now, but we love freedom, but it's an odd kind of freedom we love. Freedom to do whatever we want. That's not exactly the freedom that we have in Christ Until you qualify it by saying God will enable you to want the right things. And then you can say, yeah, then it's freedom to do what you want. want because God is transforming your will and changing your will. But the freedom That Christ comes to deliver the freedom that he speaks of when he says, if the Son shall make you free, you shall be free indeed. Exceeds any kind of political freedom that we might dream of It's a freedom from something more tyrannical. We can face a lot of oppression in this life. Being a Christian doesn't mean you will not have a bad boss, or sometimes sadly A spouse or a family member that is kind of oppressive, or that you'll live in a country where the government is oppressive. That's there's no guarantee that you'll be relieved of that kind of oppression. But there is a guarantee that you will be free in Christ. So what kind of freedom are we talking about? Well, primarily Jesus says, he who sins is a slave to sin. It's a freedom from the power of sin in our lives. Because sin is a horrible oppressor Sin is the worst oppressor. Sin is what brings about horrible addictions. Brings about obsessions, brings about the inability to sleep at night because of grudges Because of hatred, because of lack of peace. There are people who can live In a difficult country or family that sometimes still find a chance to sleep occasionally and have inner peace But sin is a horrible oppressor. And then when you combine that with a conscience That knows that you're guilty. How can you have peace? There is the oppression of how do I get free from my guilt. Not only the power of sin in my life that I can't seem to get away from, but the guilt. Oh, we may have daily temptations, and temptations can be oppressive, but temptation is not the same thing as Sin and the power of sin captivating us because we have the ability to be free. Oh, sure, we're not perfect in this life. But we are in principle made free through Jesus Christ. If He lives in you, the Holy Spirit of God lives in you and has caused you in some very real sense to die to sin. You still have the fight, you still have the temptations, and those can feel oppressive at times, but they're not the same thing. thing as the oppression of being a slave to sin. Christ breaks that yoke. And if the Son makes you free, you shall be free indeed. There is the power of sin. That we're freed from. There is the power of false or antiquated values that were made free. From. Antiquated, there were certain rules of the Old Testament that were good for their time. Not bad in and of themselves, but no longer mandatory for the believer in Christ. The dietary laws, all of the ceremonies of the Old Testament. Those were are now antiquated, but there are also false values, things that people put upon you as their expectations for you. And you adopt those expectations because you're not secure enough in Christ to know that Christ is the one who you need to obey. Because you obey Christ, you may go along as you should with certain governmental rules, but they are not the rules of conscience. and of themselves. There are rules that we follow because we're not rebels against authority. But we can have the discernment, the freedom of our hearts and minds. To analyze and think about whether those things are right or wrong Because if we don't use our hearts and minds under God's grace to think, how will you know when Caesar tells you to do something that God has forbidden? We must obey God rather than man. It's not an excuse to just do whatever we want But it is the provision by which we do what God says, and not what man says, caving into the artificial values of this world Artificial and false values that unfortunately are sometimes taught in our public institutions. It's why we need to not be conformed to the image of this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, living in the Word of God. Having the Word of God in our hearts so that we have discernment. So Christ makes us free from the power of sin in our life. He makes us free from the false or antiquated values that the world would use to bind our conscience. And he makes us free from guilt of sins we've actually committed. So that you can go to bed tonight and say, I'm forgiven for Jesus' sake. The cross were back there. The mystery of the cross. In ordinary life, if someone Makes a sacrifice for us because we've done wrong. We may feel a great deal of guilt And that's potentially the way you think of the cross of Christ. But let me challenge you this morning to get your eyes on Off of yourself. And to say, praise God. My eyes are on him. He took away my sin at the cross. Not so that I would sit here and navel gaze and focus so much on my own guilt that I forget the that guilt was paid for. Jesus paid it all. All to him I owe. But he doesn't expect me to go around constantly trying to add to that payment by heaping a little extra guilt portion on the side. He paid it all so that your guilt and your feelings Of guilt may be brought under subjection to the one who paid it all. If the Son shall make you free, You shall be free indeed. Are you free in Christ? Trust in him, surrender to him, and he will make you free. Let us pray O Lord, how marvelous are your works We see them in creation, but the marvelous work in redemption, the way in which you progressively Show us the way in which you do things, leading up to that great deed of paying for our sins and coming out. of an empty tomb because it's all paid for. We rejoice in that sacrifice of love And pray that we may live in that freedom and show that joy in our lives that others May be drawn to the one who makes free. We pray in his name. Amen. Let us pray that