Please direct your attention now to the Word of God, as it's revealed to us in verse 17 of Hebrews chapter 11. As we begin, as we have been, excuse me, verse 23 of Hebrews chapter 11. And we'll be reading through verse Uh, twenty nine Hear the word of the Lord. By faith, Moses, when he was born, was hidden three months by his parents because they saw he was a beautiful child And they were not afraid of the king's commands. By faith, Moses, when he became of age, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he looked to the reward. By faith, he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king. For he endured as seeing him who is invisible. By faith he kept the Passover and the sprinkling of blood. lest he who destroyed the firstborn should touch them. By faith they passed through the Red Sea as by dry land Whereas the Egyptians, attempting to do so, were drowned. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please now be seated. And our attention this morning will be on the life of Moses, the early life of Moses, as it's revealed to us in verses 24 through 26. today. Let us now offer up prayer. Our great and heavenly Father, we ask now, Father, that you attend to the preaching of your word That your spirit, Lord, would work mightily in all of our hearts. And that, Lord, our ears would be opened and able, Lord, to hear. To hear the message that you have for us from your word. Lord, that you would rule and overrule the things that I might say. That Lord rule in the sense of applying truth to your people and overrule in the sense of forbidding your people to hear error. And we ask, O Lord God, that ultimately the name Not of Moses, but of Jesus. Jesus Christ would be honored by this time of preaching Your word. The sermon I preached last week focused on Moses as a baby. And now the verses today talk about him growing up. in Egypt. We're not told his exact age in these verses. And we might Attempt to glean from a few phrases the proximity within proximity to his age. But ultimately, that is not as important as the choices that Moses made. So what are the choices that Moses made? They're very clearly laid out. The first one that comes to our attention is in verse 24. He refused to be called the daughter the son of Pharaoh's daughter. He refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter. As you just heard from Exodus 3, 2, verse 3, you've heard how Moses' parents made an attempt to hide him. Then that's due to the fact that the, as we talked about last week, that the Pharaoh had issued an edict to drown all the male children born to the Hebrews. And the midwives were responsible for executing the king's command the Pharaoh's commands, by the grace of God many of them refused. And Moses' midwife refused. And so Moses lived, but it was a perilous early life. His life was always close to being forfeited if his existence was discovered. And so they hid him three months, but apparently it became impossible to hide him any longer. And so they placed him in an arc or in a A small container, it calls it an arc, but a small container of bull rushes covered with asphalt and tire the tar, the bottom of which so that the child would not sink as they placed him in the reeds along the riverbank, which I assume probably was the Nile. Miriam, who is Moses' oldest, excuse me, older sister, stood off in the distance to see what was going to happen And you remember that story as we read it again, but just to refresh you, Pharaoh's daughter came down to the river to bathe. And she spied the ark in the bull rushes. She went over or had one go over for her. Then she opened it and saw the baby. And the baby cried. And it says she had compassion on him. And said, This is one of the Hebrew children. Now think about that. The daughter of Pharaoh knew That this was a Hebrew child. And she knew, I would guess, that her father wanted this child dead But she took him anyway, out of the river, and Miriam, being close by, took the opportunity, To propose to this daughter that someone would be his midwife, and that someone Mary had in mind to be Moses' wife. Actual mother. And so the plan was hatched, and Moses' mother nursed her son. Who she had literally given up to the Lord's providence. And the child thrived. He grew. And Pharaoh's daughter eventually took him into her own house and gave him His name, and it says he became her son. Don't you just love the irony of divine providence at work here? The very Pharaoh who commands Moses' death winds up being betrayed by his own daughter. As she takes a Hebrew as her son, names him Moses, and Pharaoh's stepson lives in Pharaoh's palace. Under Pharaoh's protection. I am beyond grateful to declare the truth. That we believers come to love, the truth being that we are very blessed to live under the providence of Jehovah the Merciful. A providence, you see, which is always oriented toward fulfilling God's will and vindicating the name and honor of Christ. And God's plan. Even though Moses was in this privileged position of being elevated To Pharaoh's court. I mean, this guy's got status in Pharaoh's court. He's a prince. We find the text going on, verse 24, he refused to be called Pharaoh's daughter's son. And that word refused is usually translated deny. However, it can also be translated refused or repudiate. Which makes it a rather strong word. It's not just a kind of a I'll deny them, you know, when I have to, kind of thing. It's very prominent, very strong denial. And just to have you understand how strong this word denial is, is to realize that all four of the Gospels use this word deny To describe Peter's denial of Jesus on the night of his betrayal. They all use the same word. Some might be tempted to find fault with Moses' thinking here, saying he's ungrateful to all that Pharaoh's daughter had done for him. For saving his life, because that's what she did. But there's so much more to see here than to get hung up on that. In verse 25, we see what some of that so much more is that's involved here. Moses, you see, verse 25, is said to choose rather to suffer affliction. with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Moses' rejection as an Egyptian carries with it a deliberate choice to identify with the Hebrews, the people of God. Not only to identify with them, but to what? Suffer affliction with them. That suffering affliction with them is in the present tense. So it's not like Moses said, well, I'll deny being an Egyptian. And then I'll go out one day and I'll tramp in the mud pits with God's people making bricks. No, the text says it's a present tense. He was opting out for ongoing suffering. Isn't that something? He's choosing ongoing suffering instead of living in the palace of eat of Pharaoh and all the pleasures that that implies Some psychologists might venture an opinion, and I'm sure some people would join with them and say that Moses' choice betrays a death wish. Or others might just say he's crazy. He is crazy. And the best you can say just by reading it on the surface is that Moses is taking an awfully unusual path. And that's even more unusual considering that he may have done this at a young age. It says, the only thing we know is it says when Moses grew big. What does that mean? It could mean when he's 30, it could mean when he's 13 From the perspective of being a child, What Moses says, though, by this decision is that, think about this, that his people, the Hebrews, are more important to him than his own personal well-being. He shows a kind of love for them, not only to choose them over Egypt, which really represented the best things the world could give. But a love that gets alongside of his people and suffers with them. Surely, there's an element here of Christ's humiliation being prefigured We see the same kind, but the kind that's elevated to the nth degree, the same kind of love prefigured in Christ. A love that leads Jesus Christ to redeeming his children, his elect children. A love that leads Jesus Christ to be their good shepherd, to lead them through the valley of the shadow of death and into eternal life. Rather But insist on his divine prerogatives. Others might also take aim at Moses and criticize him for his repudiation of an Egyptian. Saying such things as, look at what he could have been, look at what he could have done, look at what he could have done for his people. Okay, He could have indulged in any lust or pleasure that he desired. He could have been rich beyond imagination. Everything would have come to him on a silver platter But it also says the text is quick to remind us that the pleasures of sin are passing. Or temporary, or lasting only a period of time. But what comes after the pleasures of sin You know guilt disgrace Shame Who can calculate among us the impact of the pleasures of sin on the well-being of a human soul? Some of you may recall the musician called Prince. Who used to surround himself by these gorgeous women, kind of his plaything. You might recall that there was one named Vanity. She was a woman who at one point was at the top of the heap of enjoying the pleasures of sin. Lust for cocaine and sex overcame her her and her thinking and in her mind She died this past week, at the age of fifty-seven Her story, her life story, however sad it was Is now because of the grace of God, one of all joy, because you see her time with Prince was not the final chapter of her life The Lord brought vanity, whatever her real name was, but he brought her to saving faith in Christ. Very little. And she died, with a reputation of being an evangelist for Christ, and trying to lead others out of the lifestyle that once had entrapped her. Glory to God, I say. Because that's exactly what He's done to all of us. But you see, for Moses, any of the lusts of Egypt he could have had. Money, fame, women, any vice were all his That he just would shut his mouth and stay an Egyptian. Maybe one day such a man might become even Pharaoh of Egypt. And as the Pharaoh of Egypt, he would be one of the great leaders of the world's kingdom. All could have been his But he chose to identify and suffer with his people. As a slave, rather than be a prince of Passion in Egypt Why did he do that? And verse twenty-six gives clarity to that question. But it also in verse 26 in the end shows us the secret of our own salvation. Why did Moses do that choice? It says, because he esteemed the reproach of Christ greater riches. Than the treasures of Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. The reproach of Christ Was of so much greater value to Moses than the storehouse of Egypt's treasures of sin And that doesn't that text kind of puzzle you a little bit? How in the world, for example, how in the world did Moses How in the world did Moses know about Christ's reproach? How could he know about that in order to choose to esteem him more? Than the riches that his own sinful heart would most naturally attract him to. Might I suggest to you That this could only come to him from the influence of his mother, Joshabel, who was nursing him as his midwife I suspect that she must have told him about covenant, God's covenant promises in Abraham. And that has those covenant promises include blessing to all the nations through a Redeemer who is Abraham's seed. He had respect for the recompense of the reward. He believed that whereas men would think him nuts, God would highly honor him. I titled the sermon, The Choices Moses Made. And throughout the sermon, I have displayed those choices for you. Clearly, Moses was an amazing man, and clearly he was used greatly by God. And I could say to you that Moses is commended here for the choices he made to serve God. And so we should all do likewise if we're going to gain God's favor. I pray by now that many of you, if you're not bothered by what I have just said, I pray by now that many of you, if not all of you, are bothered by what I just said. For you see, this sermon is not about Moses' choice as at all. But as verse 24 begins. This section, we see Moses' choices were not his own, but they are made by faith. It is not as though Moses made these great choices for God, for the Hebrews, and against Egypt And then his faith was strengthened and confirmed? No. Not at all. God forbid. It is by faith, and only by God-given faith, that Moses could and did make these choices to seek after God's glory and not his own lusts. And this God given faith is so clearly In Moses is so clearly like the faith of your Savior Jesus. Moses, you see, is Christ's light in so many ways. You'd have to be blind, deaf, and dumb not to see it or understand it. Moses reveals by type to the Hebrews of his day and to us today the gospel of the seed of Abraham. Jesus. At the early age At some young age, he rejects identification with the kingdoms of the world. And he identifies with God's kingdom first and foremost. And with his people. As Joseph and Mary One day lost little Jesus in the crowds of Jerusalem, and they were frantic searching for him Luke chapter 2 verse 49 records they found him in the temple. And after the customary greetings, you know, and the the uh the rejoicing was now over with, that they had found him. The Lord Jesus said, How is it that you sought me? Didn't you know I'd be about my father's business? Christ isn't repudiating his parents. He respects them, but he makes it absolutely clear to them and to everybody else early on. that God's business was his first priority. As he would later make that same point clear to Satan As he rejects Satan's temptation to give Jesus all the kingdoms of the world, if Jesus would just bow down and worship him. Moses' faith led him to suffer affliction with his people, than to enjoy the passing pleasures of sin. Doesn't Isaiah 53 describe the Lord Jesus as the suffering servant of God? Does not Hebrews chapter 10, verse 7, teach us that Jesus came in the volume of the book, it is written of me to do Thy will, O God, not mine. And that will, of course, included his suffering and his death What was the Father's will for Jesus? Not only to suffer and die, but to be humiliated every minute of his life on earth. By such sinners as we, that he might save some of us By his death and by his resurrection, and declare us righteous by faith in the Father's sight. Does Christ Also not reject heaven itself temporarily In order to come to earth and suffer and die for God's plan to be fulfilled and to save his people from their sin. Does is God's will for Christ? Is it not God's will for Christ to be the Emmanuel? God with us, not just in joys, but in trials, in tribulations, in suffering. And death. Moses typifies Christ and suffers reproach from his own people, just delivered from slavery. It's a little bit beyond this passage, but you remember how they treated him. So our Lord Jesus was reproached throughout his life by the same national people. The repeated attempts by sinful puny men to trick Christ. The hostility from self-righteous leaders of the Jewish faith. Christ's own people grew to hate him because he had the audacity to heal a man on the Sabbath. They engineered and conspired and succeeded at killing him. And all mankind, except for a few of his family and a few disciples, gathered together at his execution. To mock and revile the Son of God in his death. Moses embraced the reward of eternal life And to be with God by faith in Christ. He treasures that reward more than anything else. more than all the wealth the world could offer. He is like the person Jesus describes in Matthew chapter 13, verses 44 and following. The kingdom of heaven is like to a treasure hidden a field, the which when a man finds it, he hides it, and for the joy thereof he goes and sells all he has. and buys the field. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man, seeking goodly pearls, who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had. bought another and bought the field. Now, the application of this verse, these passages, about Moses's many choices is simply this. strip man of every possibility that he can choose Christ. For if we can choose Christ, we will believe we don't need Christ. The application is to cause us all to give thanks to God for giving us each such God-given faith in Christ. For only by such God given Christ will we be saved, and only by such faith will we be led to live for the glory of our great triumph God, God the Father, God the Son, and God the Father. Holy Spirit. Amen. Let us pray. Oh God, we have asked for you to give clarity. Of these words, we pray, O Lord, that that has been done, but it isn't because of my abilities or the ways in which I say things It can only be done by your spirit. So we covet the spirits working in the hearts of your people, so that they too, O Lord. Might by grace, through faith, live for you and crucify the things of the world to their lot to their hearts. In Christ's name we pray, Amen