Our second reading from Scripture this morning is from the book of the Gospel of John, chapter 13, verses 31 to 35. And this is at the occasion of the Last Supper, when the Lord washed his disciples' feet, when Judas left the dinner to go betray the Lord Jesus. And when the Lord Jesus gave the disciples such wonderful instructions that we see in chapters 13 through 16 or 17. It's just a marvelous um ongoing th list of things the Lord tells us uh in these chapters. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for training in righteousness. That the man of God may be adequate or complete, equipped for every good work. Since that is so, let us not simply hear, or let us not simply read along. But let us seek to prayerfully take to heart, apply to our hearts the truths of this God's holy and inerrant word. Gospel of John chapter 13 verse 31. Therefore, when he had gone out, Judas had gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of Man glorified, and God is glorified in him If God is glorified in him, God will also glorify him in himself and glorify him immediately. Little children, I am with you a little while longer. You will seek me. And as I said to the Jews, now I also say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another. Even as I have loved you, then you also love one another. By this all men will know that you are my disciples, if you have love for one another. This is God's true word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we try to love. Apart from you, our attempts at loving, our affection, caring, infatuation. Tenderness, and oftentimes simply lust. But Father, we are made by you to live as you would have us live. And you made us to love one another as your people. In fellowship with you as our Maker. And knowing the Lord Jesus as our Redeemer. And then to be in fellowship with one another. O Father, we pray that you would teach us from your Holy Word how it is that you instruct us to love and live with one another. That we might better learn how it is we are to love you. We ask your blessing on your message in Jesus' name. Amen. I remember with the few weeks ago I uh Kenneth mentioned that I'm the director of the Mason Retreat and Conference Center down in Highland County, Virginia's about an hour west of Stanton, um sort of central West Virginia, uh state of Virginia, not West Virginia, but the western part of Virginia. And we had a wonderful conference. There was uh uh two men who were pastors, one who'd come from a family that had been persecuted in Eritrea. He escaped there with his life, literally. He was being persecuted by the authorities there. It's not legal to be a Christian there. The other man had been found by the Lord in solitary confinement in prison, federal prison, where he was serving time for armed robbery. Among other things. But the Lord reached in and grabbed him. And the topic of the conference this past Labor Day was on uh communion with God. And it's not just simply communion. Well, when you think of communion with God, it's the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Because as we learn in the New Testament, and as we have sort of foreshadowings in the Old Testament God is to be known. He wants us to know him as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And we you learned as you as you grow in Christ that At some point before, Ephesians chapter 1 verse 4 says that God chose his people in Christ before the foundation of the world. That's obviously to use a silly expression that's way above my pay grade in terms of understanding. But at some point before he even made the world, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit decided how they were going to save mankind because they knew what would happen with Adam and Eve in the garden. They would make man. But the th one thing that points to also is the fact that there is a Father, Son, and Holy Spirit, and they are in fellowship with one another. The Father is always the Father to the Son. The Son is always the Son to the Father. And the Spirit is is apart from them but part of but part of the Godhead and goes out to to do to do the work. Of God. And I turn to this passage in the Lord's Upper Room Discourse, as it's sometimes called, because here it continues that theme of being in community. When we think of the the the Trinity and community, that's that's really, you know, as the prophet says, is those thoughts are higher than my thoughts. That's really way beyond what I can think of. But I can think of people. I can imagine walking with Jesus. I think he would have been an amazing person to be with, but nonetheless. We know what it's like to be with people. So let's look at what God says about being with one another, as I said in the title of the sermon. And here he blends his teaching on love in general. God's love for people. With the love that he wants his people to have in community. Because none of us, you've probably heard the expression, there are no lone ranger Christians. I mean most God doesn't call most people to be his people and live on an island by themselves. We are meant to be in community. And so it's that love that we will lead others to know that we are disciples, as the as the hymn we've heard of says, they'll know that we're Christians by our love. Well, Jesus intends that. And, you know, to some they will be an aroma of life. I look at my own heart and behavior at times, they wouldn't know Jesus and me at times the way I behave, but we're supposed to be attractive to others in some fashion. So what's this called to one another? Jesus says here in verse 34, love one another. And he says that again in the verse, that you also love one another. Well there's a Greek word that means that that that comes from, it's alelus, and it means one another, or each other, or mutually. Love each other. Love one another or each other. And six times the Lord Jesus Christ uses that expression. The blessing of computers, you can do this word search. There are six times that this expression comes up that Jesus says it. But there are 46 times that it's used by Paul, James, Peter, and John in a positive sense. Forty-six times they refer to ways that God's people should be one another. And there's 11 times and a negative one. And why is this? Well, it's because just as the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have lived in community from a Trinity, so too we, God's people, are called because of His love. And we're to exhibit the love that he had first loved us with. We're supposed to be showing it with each with each other. They'll know we're Christians by love. If others don't know of you by any love, you should be looking at yourself and wondering, am I truly a Christian? And if you are, Why am I not showing his love? I should be. And I want to put forth the idea that we learn how to love and we learn what it means to love just in a general sense by Jesus' example And by knowing how to love one another. And I'll approach this by looking at four categories of exhortations. And the first one is to be in fellowship one with another. And we're reminded here, in being called to be in fellowship with one another, of the amazing fact that God, who is holy, no one can be in his presence who is sinful. God has chosen, has gone out of his way to have fellowship with us. Sometimes people will mistakenly make a statement that points to God needed us. No, no. He made us. But he chose. He decided. He decided to put his love on us. To choose us in Christ. He didn't have to. We are sinners. We deserve his anger and his wrath. But he decided that he would set apart some people that he would love. That he would redeem, that the Lord Jesus would be punished for. And so, I mean in fact if you look in Ephesians chapter 2, it talks about who are we apart from Christ? If we don't trust in Jesus Christ as our Savior, who are we? Well, Ephesians chapter 2 has a laundry list of ways to describe us apart from that. We are separate from Christ. Well, that's obvious. We're not in him and he's not in us. We're excluded from the Commonwealth of Israel. Israel is described as not simply some kingdom that existed BC in the Middle East. But it's referred to as the people of God. We're excluded from the commonwealth of Israel. We are strangers to the covenants of promise. When you had the when you had the apostles speaking to people after the resurrection of Christ, they made reference to God's covenant and how God's covenant promises were for God's people. Well we're excluded we we are strangers to this covenant If we don't trust in Christ. And we have no hope. We have no hope. I can remember a time in my life before I was saved. I remember a time in my life when I wound up going through a period of of heavy drinking. Wouldn't know it to look at you know, neat fellow here, but I did. It was horrible. I had no hope. And the last thing is, we are without God in the world. Well, that's the last thing. If you're apart from God, you're without God. And He is the one who made you. That's pretty hopeless. That whole description is like, how low can you go? We were by nature, as Paul tells us, children of wrath. God's anger. We're children of wrath, deserving of God's punishment and anger because of our sin. We don't deserve, we don't earn his favor. We don't deserve salvation. No one does But Romans chapter 5, verse 8, Paul tells us God demonstrated his own love for us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Again, he didn't have to. He decided that he wanted to. God did. And he wrote reach he chose to reach out to us to save us and have fellowship with us. And in fact, the very verse before what uh Elder um Fields read a few minutes ago from 1 John 1 7, John says, if we walk in the light as he himself is in the light, meaning Jesus. We have fellowship with one another because of Christ, and the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. That's who we are in the body of Christ. So here we are in fellowship with one another. In fellowship with one another. It's one of those things that's presupposed. Of course. We are in fellowship with the one another is the most obvious one is, well, we're with other people, therefore it's fellowship. But you can be in a crowd alone, can't you? It's very easy. You can be a room full of people alone. It's very easy to be alone in a stadium. Full capacity. Very easy. If you if you have nothing to do with anyone else and don't reach out and don't care, the natural thing is that we would be in fellowship. That that implies reaching out. So it it's interesting. I've thought for many years when you think of someone who comes to saving faith in Christ, they see themselves as the sinner that they are. They realize there's a God. That yes, he's speaking here. And he tells them, I sent my son to be punished for your sins. Trust in him. Follow him. You can know forgiveness of sins. You can have fellowship with me, the Father. And a person when that happens to a person as it did to me when I was twenty-nine years old, Uh, even though I'd been a churchgoer all my life, I didn't I wasn't a Christian. When that happens to you, you wind up want realizing I must be with God's people somewhere. Some people who understand God this way too And I've come to realize if you look at Hebrews chapter 13, verse 17, it's a marvelous what I've thought of as proof text. For one of those teachings of the Bible that oft sometimes people say, well, that word's not in the Bible, so it's not biblical. Like the tr word Trinity is not in the Bible. Even though what it describes is. Well the word is church membership. Well, Hebrews 13, 17, I submit to you, you can't obey this if you don't have church membership. It says, you know, obey your leaders and submit to them. For they keep watch over your souls as those who will give an account. Let them do this with joy and not with grief, for this will be unprofitable for you. I think that's the number one verse for church membership. Who's my leader? Some elder in Montana? No. Some elder over in Columbia? No. An elder in a particular I mean when you think leader and you look through the New Testament you realize they're talking about elders. And you know, who is this person? Well it'll be somebody in a particular local church. And they're not just some what does leader mean? Well part of what it means is someone who keeps watch over your soul. That's pretty heavy duty. God considers this person to somehow being, they're held accountable for your soul? It sounds wild, but that's what God says. So strange as it might seem, that is the case. Well, who is that? Somebody that I recognize I put myself under your authority in joining this church And that elder says, Yes, I see you, Bennett. You are joining this church. I am now in authority over you. Mutual recognition, you put yourself into membership. The thing is, when you do this, you're in a place where you have leaders, and these leaders know them and they And they and their leaders recognize their roles toward one another. Well, that's part of the fellowship. You're in a community. A church fellowship. That's what is being referred to again and again and again. I mean I can I actually years ago made up a a uh I usually never usually refer to a prop, but I did something where I printed out all the verses of the one anotherings. I can send somebody a Word document copy later if you'd like it. And highlighted in the yellow all the positive ones and sort of pinkish the the negative ones. But all of those things, life in the body. Who's the one another you're supposed to be doing this with? Every Tom, Dick, and Harry in the world? No, it's referencing with God's people in your fellowship. These are good behaviors outside as well, but it's referencing with God's people. Because we're in community with one another. Well you're not. You're like alone in the stadium. But there's 63 times that God, through his Holy Spirit, speaks of lives, our lives with one another. Commands and almost all of them are imperatives in the Greek. There's a thing called an imperative, which is a command. And he's instructing us how to act so we can be better be in fellowship with one another and reflect his love for his people. So we're with one another, we're in fellowship with one another. Well the second category is be forgiving with one another. If you're living in the body, if you're living, well, you could be living as a non-believer, you're going to be in a circumstance of life that you'll need to forgive someone else for something. And they'll need to forgive you for something, I'm sure. There aren't too many people in the world who've probably gone through life without having to be forgiven for the way they acted. And we are still sinful men and women. We offend and hurt who? One another. So The Lord Jesus, when he was asked by his disciples how to pray, taught them what? What we know is the Lord's Prayer. And it opens by referencing our relationship with God. We can now refer him to him as Father. Which was brand new in in in Judaism. And we're sinners, we've been in rebellion against him. We've now been brought near. Reconciled to God by the work of Christ on the cross. We pray so that we pray, may you be seen as holy. Hallowed be your name. We want you to be considered and seen as holy We ask for the forgiveness of our sins, our trespasses or debts or whatever. But we ask for the forgiveness of our sins and the enablement to forgive others who sin against us. It's interesting when I looked at this, Matthew, Mark, and Luke all have the Lord's Prayer. Luke in particular is the one that says, doesn't say debts, but it actually says sins. Forgive us our sins. As we forgive those who are in debt to us. It was interesting. It actually reverts to the debt part in the second half. But what that helps you understand, as referencing to a debt, we're not talking about owing money. Forgive us our debts. That's not what's being talked about. As Luke as Luke has references, uh a better way to understand the word is these are wrongs that we've done one to the other. And as James says in chapter 5, verse 16, he says, confess your sins to one another. One of the ones on my list, one of the 46. And pray for one another. Well there he doubled them up. Pray for one another. So that you may be healed. We can see the call to forestall need for forgiving each other by praying for one another. We want to have the most healthy life in the body that we can. We're going to misunderstand each other. We're going to be mean to each other at times. We're going to take something wrong. And we're going to need to heal that. I mean it's interesting if you look at the penalties for sin in the Old Testament, you're still penalized for unintentional sins. But it's less than the intentional one. But there's a wound that happens whether it's intentional or not. So it you there's a break in the relationship. That's why you need to heal that. That's why in Psalm 51 we have this wonderful thing, you know, create in me a clean heart, renew a right spirit within me. David had had his sins forgiven because of what Christ would do years later upon the cross. David trusted in God. He was the Lord's. All of his sins have been forgiven. But in his daily life, there he was being confronted by Nathan with his own sin. And he knew that I've now put a break in the relationship with God. I need to have that healed. And likewise in the body, we need to do that all the time. And we need to expect others to come to us and we need to be able to go to others lovingly. One on one on one, not in a crowd. Especially if we're talking about forgiveness of sins, it's it's a private thing. But one-on-one with the other person if there's been a wrong done. And you know, Paul seeks to forestall any need by arguing against having lawsuits with one another. In other words, don't have lawsuits with one another 1 Corinthians 6. If there's any offense, major or minor or misunderstanding, we should seek harmony. As Jesus says in Mark 9:50, what does he say? Have peace with one another. Again, one of all those times that Jesus says, one another. We who have had our sins forgiven by the Holy God Shouldn't we be amongst the ones that would be most ready to be able to forgive another who sins against us? Understanding that as believers The two verses that that neither Ken nor I read from 1 John 1, well no, he did read verse 8. We both we all sin. We can't say we're without sinner, we call God a liar, and the truth is not in us. So we will sin, so we need to be able to be quick to forgive others. Third, be admonishing with one another. Seems an odd way to phrase it. But this is closely related to the previous point, but where the one before spoke of a one-on-one personal relationship There was a personal offense. This is where we as a group of Christians following our Lord, you might see a brother or sister in Christ straying. Or committing an error. And they seek to be used by God to bring them back to the truth. I mean, as I said, when Nathan spoke to King David in 2 Samuel 12. I mean, yes, you can say, well, he was the court prophet. It was his job to do this with David. But we're not told of any other instances where he did it. He may have. But nonetheless, you have a brother in Christ. Coming alongside another and saying, I see you've committed this sin. That is a wrong before God. And David, and Nathan did that with David. And this is loving, blessed one anothering. We need to be able to come alongside each other like that. I mean Colossians 3. 16, the Apostle Paul commands his readers, and here, notice how admonishing one another. Admonishing is you're telling somebody else they're doing something that's not quite right. You're telling someone else they're doing something wrong. Flat out. You're sort of correcting them. That seems like a real in your face kind of thing. Rude almost. But here's the Apostle Paul tucking it in in two different places. Colossians 3. 16. Let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. Well, isn't that wonderful? With all wisdom and teaching. Oh, that's good, great. We have a Bible study. And admonishing other one another. Admonishing is the next thing in line? He he just sees that as natural. Well, it's gonna be needed. You're gonna need to forgive one another, but you'll need to admonish one another as well. Admonishing one another, and then how do you do it? The way he phrases it is something that you need to take time studying With psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. You're admonishing with that? It's part of the normal life of the body. Again, I'm not doing this in front of a crowd of people saying, you're wrong on X. I'm speaking privately one-on-one. Especially if you need to correct somebody. If somebody were correcting me, I'd like them to do it one-on-one apart from others But I need to hear what they say. It may well be that God is sending them to me to draw me back from error. Then in Romans 15, 14, Paul says, Concerning you, my brethren, I'm convinced that you yourselves are full of all goodness. Oh, that's wonderful. People in Rome are listening to this letter going, Yeah, aren't we though? Filled with all knowledge, yeah, yeah, aren't we? Abel also would admonish one another. Why would we need to? After what you just said. But again, they're sinful human beings, redeemed, but sinful. And they're going to need to be able to admonish one another. I mean I'm not I'm not calling upon everybody to go start running off to your brother and sister around here and start telling everybody they're wrong. Something is meant to be done incredibly prayerfully. You may even want to touch base with an elder for advice. But the thing is, not every kind of wrong on a person's part, whether it's a forgiveness of sin or demolishing someone else, has to start with their elder. Don't you have friends in Christ in the body? If we should. We should love and care for each other such that we would reach out to each other. And to be a and you if you do truly care about someone, there's a cliche about friendship, it's like, well if you were my friend you'd back me up. No, it's because I'm your friend that I'm telling you you you're you're messing up. If I wasn't your friend, I wouldn't waste my time. I got other things I can do. But I care. I knew you wouldn't like hearing it. But I know you need to hear it, so that's why I'm telling you. That's the whole thing. Is that who we are in the body? We should be. Because I know I'm a sinner. I hope you all know you are too I mean having been forgiven your sins by Christ doesn't undo all this. You're not you didn't stop sinning So we need to be careful with this, and there has to be a relationship of love with the person, if it's somebody you barely know in the body You're m you may not be the person to talk to them. You may be aware of the issue. Talk to their elder. Your elder can reach out and talk to them. Their elder should know them. You know, we need to be in then we're in a position where Paul says in Romans fifteen, seventeen, accept one another. Sometimes there it's love covering a multitude of sins sins. But accept one another just as Christ also accepted us, the glory of God. And the the the fourth section, the last, is be loving one another. That gets the point that I could have started with. I started with fellowship because it was sort of the the whole, you know, framework of what we're looking at at all. We're in fellowship. How can you be what's the one another? Well, we're in fellowship with one another. But here it's the loving one another, and it's the one that Christ Himself had pointed to so strongly. See, all our lives with each other in the body is summed up by the Apostle John's almost exclusive term. I mean the Apostle John in both the gospel and in the and in his letters, he almost is always saying love one another. Others will say encourage, you know, other other types of things. Build up, all sorts of things. But he simply says, love one another. And Christ Himself is our great example there. of how he lived out one another. The way we see him living out with the with the disciples, with the apostles. We see there, I mean to encourage one another, one of our commands. Well, even though they showed they poorly understood him, Jesus encouraged his disciples. Be hospitable to one another is another phrase of Christ associated with sinners. That's pretty hospitable. Serve one another. He did the job of the lowest servant, washing the disciples' feet. He pointed to the job of being the servant. Bear one another's burdens. Well, Christ bore the burden of our sins, didn't he? What we should be able to bear a lot. And care a lot for the needs of others when we know what the Lord did for us. Comfort one another The Lord sent the Holy Spirit, the Comforter, to us. He's one we he we knew he he was tempted as we are. He's one who knew who knew human emotions. He wept at at death. When Lazarus died, he wept at sin. See, whether we're in fellowship or we're forgiving, admonishing, as I've recounted, all the other ways that are described. such as praying for, comforting, serving, bearing burdens, or encouraging. All of these are subsumed under the one big heading. Given to us by the Lord Jesus Himself, of this new commandment to us, that we love one another. We love one another in the body. And it was part of his plan that he would have Paul and James and John tell us more and more information about ways of living with each other, all these different sixty-some ways. We should and should not be with one another, reflecting his love. And they all come out of his love for his people. His love for us. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, whoever believes in him won't perish. That's God's love. See, if we live our lives this way, and if we teach others to do the same thing, then we too like like the repentant David, the contrite David. Can be used by the Lord to teach transgressors his ways, as David said at the end of Psalm 51, that they might then turn to God. And be saved. David cont could continue to be an instrument of God after he repented of his sin and came back to the Lord. So let us love one another. And sisters, to the glory of God. Let us pray. Heavenly Father You have shown such love for us, we who are so unlovely. We are sinners. And though redeemed. We yet have eyes to look at ourselves and still see so much sin. We still at times will, by habit, cling to our own filthy rags of unrighteousness. Instead of clinging to you, we will commit a sin because we're scared to take the risk of obeying you. We're scared to do the hard thing of being true to you. And in the body. We are scared of rejection, so we don't reach out. We don't expend any affection and time. We won't be hurt Father, that is not how you want us to act. Let us love one another, let us care for one another, let us come alongside each other, let us lift each other up, hold each other up, at times correcting and rebuking. So much of the time simply holding one another up in Christ and pointing to you We ask that you would enable us to learn these lessons from your word and follow them. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.