If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Psalms once again, tonight we'll be back in Psalm 1. the second part of our two part series in this psalm. I believe that's on page five hundred and twenty-eight. I think I got that one right. We'll read the whole Psalm tonight, but our focus will be on the last verse as we continue our study. Let's give our attention once again to the very Word of God. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season. And its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. But the Lord knows the way of the righteous But the way of the wicked will perish. That's part of the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, now as we come to the preaching of your word, we ask that you would be with your servant. For Father, I am weak, frail, a sinner, saved only by grace. And tonight we need the Spirit to lead and guide all of us. That we would hear your word. That Father you would give us understanding. And not mere understanding, Father, but that you would use your word drawing us ever closer to Jesus, that we would, Father, be those who would exalt the Lord Jesus Christ as we hear your word preached. That we would set our minds and hearts upon the one who has done all things and done all things well. That we would praise Him. That we would adore Him. And that you would make us more like Him. Do all this, Lord, do your most holy and perfect will in our hearts tonight, as we hear your word opened. Grant us this now, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, do you know Jesus Christ? Really? Do you really know Jesus? It's an important question. If you remember, toward the end of the Sermon on the Mount, that is, in a sense, the question that Jesus is asking after he has preached that long sermon. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? Then I will declare to them. I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. You see, those who proclaimed their works Of prophesying, of casting out demons, of mighty works, did not truly know the Lord Jesus. For if they had, they would not have been speaking or boasting of their works. They would have been boasting of Jesus' works. They had not come to know, truly know the only true God and Jesus Christ, whom He sent. In a sense, that's what we have tonight in this first psalm. As one commentator put it, this is the beginning of the Psalms, obviously, but it seems as though according to his Theory that there is an emphasis upon the fundamentals as we enter this book of Psalms in this first psalm Spurgeon puts it this way, that this first psalm, the psalmist's desire, was to teach us the way to blessedness and to warn us of the sure destruction of sinners. Last time we entered into studying the psalm, we learned about what it was to be blessed in the meditation upon God's Word. That was God's own definition of a blessed or a happy man. Tonight, as we continue our study in the second part, we will be looking at the last verse. And considering this, that the Spirit leads the children of God to and on the path of life, but leaves the wicked to their own way. The Spirit of God leads the children of God to and on the path of life, but leaves the wicked to their own way. We'll see that in two heads or two doctrines tonight. First, the Lord knows the way of the righteous, and secondly, the Lord does not know the way of the wicked. Again, as we go through this last verse of Psalm six, I'd like you to begin asking yourself Examining yourself, do I truly know the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, first, the Lord knows the way of the righteous. Well how can the blessed man do it? Last time we were in this psalm we read and and studied the the first Five verses which begins this way: Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord and on the law he meditates day and night. How does the man, this man that's referred to here, how does he do it Why is it that this man does not walk with sinners? How is it that this man can do such a thing? To resist the call of the world? The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, to say no to joining in the revelry, the rebellion that is so enjoyed and promoted by the world. How is that possible? I think we can all agree that this is a description of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what we are given in this psalm as it speaks of the man who is happy or the man who is Blessed. He is the only man, certainly the God man, who completely and perfectly separated his heart from walking in the counsel of the wicked. He separated his heart from standing in the way of sinners. He separated his heart from sitting in the seat of scoffers. And who positively delighted in the law of the Lord and meditated upon his law day and night Yes. We would all agree that's a description of the Lord Jesus Christ. But what about others? Consider the corruption of man since the fall from grace. We read in chapter six of Genesis, the Lord saw that the wickedness of Man was great in the earth that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually The psalmist of Psalm 14 picks up on that truth and writes, The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. they have all turned aside. Together they've become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one. And so as we think of this description of the blessed man, we we would understand that this cannot be done. in man's own strength. It can't be done in the power of a sinful man. Westminster Confession puts it this way, by this sin, referring to the sin of Adam and Eve, they fell from their original righteousness. And so became dead in sin, wholly defiled in all the parts and faculties of soul and body. And from this original construc corruption, whereby we, referring to all of us, Are utterly indisposed, disabled, and made opposite to all good, and wholly inclined to all evil. That's our condition. Paul sums it up this way in Romans chapter 7, for I do not understand my own actions. I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing that I hate. Paul, the apostle, the one called by God to proclaim his word. Admits, he professes, he confesses that I do the very thing that I hate. It cannot be done by trying hard. This description cannot be met merely by trying hard. As the children of Adam, none of us have the ability or the capacity to live a life free of walking in the council of the wicked or standing in the way of sinners or sitting in the seat of scoffers, or live a life of constant meditation, delighting in the law of the Lord. Day and night. Again, as Paul recognized, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. It can't be done in our own strength. How then? Solely as the Lord knows the way of the righteous. You see, I think that's why the psalmist then pens this last verse 4. The Lord knows the way of the righteous. It's a summary. It's it's taking the first five verses and saying, okay, this is how it's done. This is how the man who is blessed walks not in the counsel of the wicked nor stands in the way of sinners, but meditates day and night on the law of the Lord as his delight. For The Lord knows the way of the righteous. These words, then, knows the way, are really important for us to understand. this passage, this verse, or how it can be. And it's not that God foresees what it is that the righteous man will do A psalmist is not stating that the Lord merely is aware of or able to predict or foreknow what will be the way taken by the man who is blessed. This verse should not be understood as telling us that the Lord, in a sense, is watching a video clip of the man which takes place in the future and thus knows the way of the righteous man. This verse is not merely stating that the Lord has knowledge or that he knows those who are or will become righteous in his sight. Given our recognition of the inability of man to become righteous, it must be saying much more than that. The Lord knows the way. The New American or New International Version is helpful here as it translates nose as watches over. The Lord watches over the way. It's then the active involvement of God in the heart of this one and in the events of the life of this one. That's how. Job writes this, or in Job we read this, but he knows the way I take. When he has tried me, I shall come forth as gold. Do you see the connection between the Lord knowing and Job then coming forth as gold? Or Psalm 37, the Lord knows the days of the blameless. Their inheritance will be forever. Or as David writes in Psalm 139, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. The Lord keeps all who love him, but the wicked he will destroy. Psalm 145. But Psalm 142 really helps us Here, understand this passage. When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, you knew my path. So that doesn't suggest that the righteous man was on such a path in his own strength that the Lord was just looking down and watching. No, his spirit is overwhelmed. He's unable to press on. And he says, Well, you knew my path. There's no escape for me. No one cares for my soul. I cried out to you The psalmist is seeking the Lord. I said, You are my refuge, my portion in the land of the living. He's relying upon the Lord to bring him out of this overwhelming situation. There's no escape for me. That's the idea of the Lord knowing the way of the righteous Doesn't the Lord show us that very thing in the accounts of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, even David, men who were sinners? And yet by and through the guiding hand of the Spirit of God, they each one trusted in him, as we see their sinful steps throughout time, throughout the history of redemption. Yet in the providential workings of God, as he knew or watched over them, watched over their ways and their hearts, these men became righteous by and through their faith. Their belief, their trust. Abraham, time and again exhibiting a lack of faith, a lack of trust that God would raise up Isaac. But he does come to believe, doesn't he? David sinning against God with Bathsheba, and yet becomes the writer of Psalm 51, as he believed the Lord was able to make his heart white as snow. And restore the joy of his salvation. Yes. God the Lord knows the way. He guides the way of those whom he makes righteous through faith Notice that the psalmist writes that the Lord knows the way of the righteous. He does not merely state that the Lord knows the righteous. But that he knows the way of the righteous. That's critical to our understanding of the meaning here. That Hebrew word translated in our NI, excuse me, in our ESV as the way could be translated as the road. It could be translated as the path. Could be even trained be translated as the journey. Here then we have a concept or the truth that God The Lord knows the way of salvation. You may be thinking, well, of course he does. That might be an obvious understatement, but that seems to be exactly what the psalmist is getting at. And John 10 really brings out the active involvement of God in leading his people in the way of his righteousness. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life. He who is a hired hand and not a shepherd, who is not the owner of the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees He flees because he's a hired hand and is not concerned about the sheep. I am the good shepherd. Jesus says, I watch over my sheep. I keep them. I know my own, and my own know me. An active, caring shepherd then protects the sheep from wolves. Provides that tender grass and quiet waters, a place for the sheep to be nurtured and to grow and to multiply. Think of the narrow gate that Jesus describes in the Sermon on the Mount. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life. And those who find it are few. Notice the gate, the way to destruction is wide, but the way to life, eternal life, is a narrow gate or door. And notice that Jesus said that the way is hard that leads to life. It seems as though Jesus might possibly have been referring back to this psalm The Lord knows the way of the righteous. The Lord knows the way to and through this narrow gate. And so now we can see. It's the Lord who knows the way, and thus the Lord who becomes the guide. Isn't that what we see throughout Scripture as Adam and Eve sin against the Lord and he places them outside of the garden? So they won't have access to the tree of life and eat forever? He drives out the man and he places the flaming sword and the cherubim at the way back. The narrow gate. There was no way for Adam to return, to get back in. The gate was too narrow. The gate was guarded. It would only be opened by the seat of the woman, the promise that he had given them before he takes them out. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He's opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. You see, he's the one. He's the one who leads and guides us through the gates. He's the shepherd who restores our souls. He's the one who leads us in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Even though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death, he is guiding. He is leading. So much so that the psalmist is confident that I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You see, he's the perfect and the only God, the risen, ascended, mediating prophet, priest, and king, the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know him? Does he know you You see, it's for only for those that he knows that he will lead. I have other sheep that are not of this fold. I must bring them also. And they will listen to my voice. Do you see the connection to Psalm 1? Do you see the connection to Psalm 1 and Jesus being the shepherd who leads in God? Do you see the connection to Psalm 1 and Jesus being the one who knows the way of the righteous, who's leading and guiding the righteous to that narrow gate, that gate of life, the gate that Adam and Eve could not get back through yet Until Jesus came and suffered on the cross at Calvary for their sin. And for your sin tonight, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Yes, the the only way that you can be that blessed man or blessed woman is if the Lord knows the way for you. And if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ tonight. That brings us to the second part of this short verse, and the heading here now is that the Lord does not know. the way of the wicked. This verse again, verse six, reads this way, for the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. And that again reminds us that there are only two ways. There are only two eternal destinations. As remember that our souls are eternal and that they will exist forever. We must find a moment here to remember that there are only two places in which we will exist eternally. This psalm at the beginning of the 150 Psalms reminds us of that, appropriately reminding us of that foundational truth. But there are only two categories of people. There are those who are saved by faith through grace in the Lord Jesus Christ, and there are those who are not. Who are condemned to hell and damnation for their sins. These are the only two categories of people. Jesus Christ refers to them as the sheep and the goats. Every single person will fit into one of these two categories. Those who have been justified by Christ And those who have been rejected that justification. Those who are in Jesus Christ will live a blessed life forever with their Savior as their sins have been washed away as far as the East is from the West. Those who are not in Christ will exist eternally in a state of damnation and eternal fire and torment outside of the presence of the living God as punishment for their unwashed and unrepentant sins. And so this psalm reminds us of those two categories. And here in the last verse we're reminded of the two ways. The way of life and the way of eternal death. So who are The wicked referred to in the last portion of this verse, but the way of the wicked will perish Well we can go back to the first five verses and get a description, can't we? The wicked are sinners and scoffers. The wicked are not among those who delight in the law, but hate the law. The wicked will not meditate upon the law. The wicked will not yield fruit pleasing to the Lord and will wither. The wicked will not prosper eternally. Moreover, the wicked are like chaff that the wind drives away. The wicked will not stand in the judgment. Or sinners in this congregation of the righteousness of the righteous, excuse me. This describes the way of the wicked in general. So why is it that the wicked will perish? You might be thinking, well you just answered that question, but let me make it a bit more particular. Notice the difference in the verse. The Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. He knows the way of the righteous, but that same does not follow for the wicked. The Lord is guiding, he's overseeing, he's directing, he's keeping the righteous righteous. But he's removed his restraining hand from the wicked, so to speak, not completely. But so much so that they've been allowed to go their own way. The wicked have planted themselves in such a way to ensure their growth in sin. Not their growth in grace. To ensure their continued unrepentant rebellion goes on and on and on against the God of creation. The wicked have placed a hedge of protection, so to speak, around their own ears and hearts, such that they will keep on hearing but not understand. They will keep on seeing but not perceive. Their hearts remain dull, their ears remain heavy, their eyes remain blind to the things of God, especially his word. because they have placed that hedge of protection around themselves. Ultimately, the perishing way of the wicked is this We're all sinners. There is no one who does not sin. We can all state that we are wicked. But then what is the difference between the way of the righteous and the way of the wicked? It's because the wicked refuse to repent and believe. Now the spirit must work in order for one to repent and believe, and we know that. But with the wicked, there's this refusal. The time is at hand. The kingdom of God is at hand. Excuse me, the time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe in the gospel. That's Jesus' first sermon he preaches as Mark records it. It's a command, it's a call to all to repent and believe in the gospel. And that is the way, the ultimate way of the wicked. They refuse. to repent and believe. They refuse to trust in Jesus Christ. They refuse to submit to His Lordship. They refuse to love and obey the God who made them That's the way of the wicked. And the way of the wicked will perish. What does that mean? As we alluded to earlier on, Jesus Christ is as those come before him and say, Lord, Lord, did we not Cast out demons in your name? Did we not do mighty works in your name? He will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. These will go away into eternal punishment. As Luke records the parable of the rich man in Lazarus, as the rich man is suffering In hell, he cries out, he calls out, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Send Lazarus to dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in this flame Abraham said, Child, remember that you received good things in your lifetime. And Lazarus in a like manner bad things. But now he's comforted. And besides all this, between us and you a great chasm has been fixed. In order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able. That's the definition of perishing. Being without the Lord, being without the Creator God, being outside of His presence forever That's what the eternal fires and the worm that does not die describe. Having an eternal existence without life. That's the perishing of the wicked. The two ways, the two peoples Bring us to this point tonight. The wisdom of God. The Psalms are referred to as wisdom literature, and that's what we have tonight before us. The first Psalm, beginning of the book of Psalms. And it's in his wisdom, in God's wisdom, that he has revealed himself to his children. This is the method that he's chosen. And that's what Psalm 1 is describing. That God has chosen to provide His word to His children, communicated in such a way That those who have ears to hear and eyes to see will understand by the work of the Spirit. They will be drawn to Jesus Christ and will be changed. Changed first. I'm given understanding. I'm brought to faith And so this psalm provides and set forth this design of God, that his word is given to men. whom he inspires, filled with the Spirit, and then the word is inscripturated, written down, recorded for us For all to see and hear. But then he grants ears to hear clearly, to see by the Spirit, to understand. He grants new hearts, tender hearts, fleshly hearts. Which give the ability, the power to receive the word. And not merely to receive it, but to love it. To long after it, such that it's read and meditated upon and now becomes part of you by the work of the Spirit. The word abides within all the children of God. Your word I've treasured in my heart that I might not sin against you, Psalm 119 Jesus said, if you continue in my word, then you're truly disciples of mine. John 8. If you abide in me and my word abides in you, ask whatever you wish. Or Paul writing to those at Colossae, let the word of Christ richly dwell within you. Or in 1 John, as for you, let that abide in you which you heard from the beginning. Do you see, this is God's way. This is what Psalm 1 speaks of. The very word of God, along with the work of the Spirit abiding in you. Causing all those who hear this word, who abide in this word, to walk in the counsel of the upright. To stand in the path of the blameless, to sit in the assembly of the righteous. That's God's way. That's God's plan of sanctification in the lives of His children. You see, that's what he's doing, isn't he, in your lives right now as you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. Could he have translated you into glory the moment he saved you? Yes, he could have. But he decided not to. In his wisdom, he's kept you here. And so Psalm 1 sets forth in part God's grand design, his design to prepare his children for their homecoming in his wisdom. It's through the working of the Word and the Spirit, abiding within that which He molds and shapes within each child as needed. Until he does bring you home. And so we see in God's wisdom at the beginning of this of this book of Psalms, he's calling his children to delight in his word, in his law, to meditate upon it. That which is holy, which is good and righteous. The law of liberty. And so he calls you tonight. As he's guiding you in the way of salvation, he's calling you once again. Love my word. Read my word. Meditate upon my word. Delight in my word. For it reveals to you your God and your Savior, Jesus Christ, and the way of salvation. Spirit leads the children of God to and on the path of life, but leaves the wicked to their own way. Do you know Jesus? Better question I think is does Jesus know you? Tonight, once again, this is a call for us to examine ourselves. Do we really love the Word of God? Do we delight in the Word of God? If your answer tonight is, I don't know, cry out to Jesus. Ask him to change your heart. That indeed, you would long to know more of him and more of his father. That you would ask him to open up his word to you, to make it clear, that you may not only understand it, but be convicted by it and drawn ever closer. To the only Savior, the only one that knows the way of the righteous. Amen. Father and our God, we ask for help. Father, there are times when it's difficult for us to open your word. It becomes at times even a burden for some. And so we ask, Lord God, that you would work powerfully in our hearts, that you would continue to change us That we would be those who long to be in your word, who can't wait for the next time that we've had that quiet time. And open it and meditate upon it. And are drawn never closer to Jesus through it. Well Father, we We're such a blessed people that you know the way of the righteous. And so we ask that you'd continue to guide and direct. And Father, where conversion still needs to take place, we ask for that even tonight. We pray, Lord God, that you would continue changing hearts from stone to flesh in all that you've chosen. And help us to be, as we even learned this morning, to be those who continue in prayer. Asking for all these things that we might be lights of Christ. Help us, Lord. Help us to overcome ourselves. And continue to change our hearts to be more like Christ. We ask all this in his precious name. Amen.