Now the reading of God's Word comes to us from Acts chapter 2. Acts chapter 2, verses 25 through 33. We saw these incidents in Acts chapter 2. First, we saw the Holy Spirit coming down from heaven, being poured out by the Lord Jesus Christ. As he went up into heaven, he sent his spirit to come down. We saw that what happened there was the disciples were able to speak in other tongues. They were able to speak of the works of God such that people from many parts of the earth recognized what was being said in their own language. Um some heard this happening and saw this happening and thought that it was a matter of public drunkenness taking place, some kind of spectacle that was um completely um inappropriate and yet Peter stands up and explains what's going on. No, this is the fulfillment of prophecy This is the Spirit of God being poured out, as the prophet Joel had said earlier, and this is confirmation that Jesus is the Christ. That Jesus, who was crucified, has also been raised from the dead, that he is the Savior, the one who has overturned death by his own death on the cross. And so now we're in this section of Peter's speech in verses 25 through 33 of Acts 2. And here in this section, Peter um refers to some words from David. So again, he started out by referring to this prophecy from the prophet Joel. Now he's going to refer to these words of David. And these words of David are from Psalm 16, the reading that So again, Peter is going to explain what has happened in light of Jesus Christ, also in light of what David says. In Psalm 16. So this is the reading for this morning and the sermon passage. Acts chapter 2, verses 25 to 33. Listen to the reading of God's Word. For David says, concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is at my right hand that I may not be shaken. Therefore my heart rejoiced, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, my flesh also will rest in hope. For you will not leave my soul in Hades, nor will you allow your Holy One to see corruption. You have made known to me the ways of life. You will make me full of joy in your presence. Men and brethren, let me speak freely to you of the patriarch David. That he is both dead and buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Therefore, being a prophet and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, That of the fruit of his body, according to the flesh, he would raise up the Christ to sit on his throne. He, foreseeing this, spoke concerning the resurrection of the Christ That his soul was not left in Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption. This Jesus God has raised up, of which we are all witnesses. Therefore, being exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit He poured out this which you now see and hear. Thus far, the reading of God's Word, may He add his blessing to it and to his preaching. Well, you ought to understand that it does make a lot of sense for Peter to appeal to David. As a man, and to words that were spoken and written by David in his speech in this setting, after all, where is Peter at this moment? Where are they? Who are they in the midst of? They are in Jerusalem. They are in the midst of a crowd that has gathered for the purpose of an Old Testament Jewish feast. So these are people who are devoted to God, devoted to the Old Testament enough that they have made the journey And made the pilgrimage from other places in order to be present for a feast. So these are people who are serious about worshiping the God of Israel, serious about following the ways of the God of Israel. So doesn't it make sense for Peter to appeal to the character David in the Bible in order to make his point? After all, people who are serious about worshiping the God of Israel and following his word, especially from the Old Testament point of view, if there's one figure they will be familiar with and should be familiar with That one figure is David. David. David, one of the most prominent characters in all of Scripture One of the characters most prominently displayed and shown to us in all the scriptures and in the Old Testament in particular. No other single individual figure really stands out in the portrayal of his character more than David. I suppose you might try to throw in there someone like Moses. But at the same time, David looms large over the entirety of the Old Testament. And again, these are people who are practicing Jews, so they are gathered in Jerusalem to worship the God of the Old Testament, the God of the Bible. And as they worship him, who will they be familiar with? They will be familiar with David. David's life unfolded in the books like 1 and 2 Samuel. But also David's internal spiritual life unfolded in so many of the Psalms that are ascribed to his name. If there's one person whom these people ought to recognize and ought to receive the authority of. It's someone like David. David is not just recognizable, David is also somebody whose perspective will be viewed sympathetically. David is someone whom these people would want to listen to, someone whose credibility would be assured. David is the great hero of God's people. David is the great founder of the kingdom of Israel, the great human king over that kingdom that God gave to him. But David is the one who brings Israel into its life as the kingdom of God. David is the great giant killer, the one who is known for taking down the giant Goliath, that great and fearsome enemy. of Israel. David as human king used by God was one who brought great peace and dominion to God's people David is one who, through his courage, through his bravery, through his wisdom, fought back a number of enemies in the land that were all around the people of God. A number of enemies who had been thorns in the side of God's people for a long time. David is the one who brought a great measure of stability and enjoyment in the land that had been previously unknown and previously unexperienced by the people of Israel. David establishes Israel as a kingdom. As a kingdom that is and is called to be the kingdom of God. You see, David is a great hero. David as a great hero is someone whom they ought to listen to. Apart from just a few blemishes on his record, David stands out for his courage, his bravery, his faith in the Lord, also his faithfulness both to God and to men, even under extraordinary circumstances. So you see, Peter appeals to David as someone who would be known. Peter appeals to David as someone who ought to be considered even heroic. And someone whom you should listen to, whom someone whom you'd be inclined to listen to if you worship the God of Israel and were familiar with His Word Another reason to listen to David, though, are the great promises that are tied to David and his line. After all, David is not just a great hero, he's also someone to whom great promises were made. And someone through whom God promised to fulfill great things. The bringing of a kingdom. The bringing of a kingdom of God that would last forever. A son who was born into the line of David, who would establish God's kingdom forever. David himself is named as the one through whom these great promises will come to pass. So much to the point that even in the prophets, places in Ezekiel and Jeremiah and Hosea, David is named as the king who brings blessing to God's people, even though by that point David was gone and dead. So it's not that David himself would actually personally bring the promises of God to pass, but the blessing is so closely connected to him and his name that his name comes to represent the promises that God intended to fulfill through him. So again, we see David as this great figure. David is this great Old Testament figure. David is someone who's recognizable on the pages of the Old Testament. David, who's someone heroic and brave, someone whose character is by and large to be emulated. David, who is the subject of divine promise, David as the one through whom the kingdom of God would come, as God said. These are a lot of reasons to listen to David. These are a lot of reasons for the people who are present as Peter is speaking. A lot of reasons why they ought to listen to David. David should be and would be something of an authority. David would have some credibility. But as they are called to listen to David, as Peter calls them to listen to David, What should they receive from David? And what is the point they should take away from what David is saying? Well Peter points to what David says Because Peter believes that David is pointing them and all people to Jesus Christ. Listen to David, because David points you to Jesus Christ. That's very much the point Peter is making here. If you really listen to David, You will see. David wants you to look to Christ. Why? Because David himself looked to Christ. And we see that in those words from Psalm 16. Again, those words from Psalm 16 are quoted mostly in verse 25 to verse 28 of our text. And we read Psalm 16 earlier in the service. You saw how um some of that, you know, was reflective of David's own life. And yet how does David in these verses point us to Jesus Christ. Well it seems like David in these verses is experiencing some kind of threat against his life, some kind of threat of immediate death. Somebody is go coming after him. Trying to pursue him to death. Now we know there were at least a few occasions, um, notably David was hunted down by King Saul. Saul had become jealous of David. Jealous of the popularity that David had attained. Saul had sought to put him to death over this. We know that that's a lot of what David experienced in the way of being pursued to death. We know that this is What's recorded for us in 1 Samuel especially. But even in the midst of some threat against his life, someone pursuing him to death, David has confidence. He has confidence. But where is it that his confidence is rooted? Where is his confidence anchored? What comes at the end of Psalm 16, in verse 11 of Psalm 16, which is also verse 28, in our passage basically. David has this assurance that no matter what comes, no matter what befalls him, he will come to an end where Not in death, but in life. Life in the presence of God. Life that is full of joy in the presence of God. And a life that in Psalm 1611 is eternal life. Pleasures in God's presence forevermore No matter what David experiences in this life, the end he is appointed to, the end he is assured of, is life and joy in the presence of God forever. This is the basis of David's hope. This is the basis of David's assurance. We understand that David, what he was looking for, was not simply was not simply temporary deliverance for a time. Not simply deliverance from his circumstances for a time, even though he did pray to the Lord for that deliverance. But what is David looking for in the end? His great hope and the thing that makes him happy, the thing that brings him satisfaction, is that he will be brought to the presence of God in the end, and there he will find life and joy. In the very presence of God forever. Now, how is it possible for David to be assured of this? How is it possible for David to know that that's what he is headed towards? Again, he's in the midst of some kind of temporary threat upon his life. We know he has this assurance in some way. We know he is resting in the promises of God. We know that he knows From God that eternal life is the end of God's people, the end that they are appointed to? How can David be so sure Well, however it was that David was so sure, Peter is telling us now how it is that that this came about, right? Because who is it who brings us into the presence of God? Who is it who would bring David into the presence of God in the end? The one who is David's son, the one who would come through David's own body, the fruit of David's own body? That one would come, and that one, though David's son, would also come to be David's savior and David's Lord. And in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, Christ receives the life that David is speaking of. David speaks of this life as a life of joy in God's presence. Christ receives that life in his resurrection. Christ also gives that life, that same resurrection life he gives to David and to others through the Holy Spirit, whom he receives and also pours out. And so here we see how David points us to Jesus Christ. Again, David has this great assurance. Well, Peter shows us that that assurance that David has is ultimately rooted in the Lord Jesus Christ. For the Lord Jesus Christ, who would come generations later, down through the line of David, he is the one who would bring to pass all the promises that were given to David. The kingdom of David would be fulfilled. The kingdom of David would be completed. The purpose for which God gave the kingdom of David would be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. But how? And it's significant to notice how, in our text, Christ would come and sit on David's throne in verse 30. Now this is interesting. Christ would come and would sit on David's throne. Notice why this is interesting. Where is David's throne? Many who would have heard these words and perhaps taken them at face value might have thought that the throne of David would be on in Jerusalem, upon this earth, in the Jerusalem that is here upon the earth. And yet Christ comes and sits on David's throne. Where? Up in heaven. And again, we saw that. So we saw that earlier in the book of Acts. We saw that back in Acts chapter 1. When the Lord Jesus Christ went up into heaven. that he was going up there um to to be received by the father and to receive the spirit. Well now we're shown here, in the words of Peter, that Christ going up into heaven was going to sit on David's throne. How is the kingdom of David fulfilled through Jesus Christ? It's fulfilled because Christ goes up into heaven and from there pours out the Holy Spirit. And do you know what that means? That means that the kingdom of God extends not through military victory, not through geopolitical expansion, not through the church becoming a geopolitical entity or nation. But it expands by means of the Spirit going forth. By means of the Word of God spreading, the Spirit going and opening men's hearts to the Word of God, to the Word of Christ Here's how the kingdom of God extends. See, here Peter is showing us the answer to some of what was raised earlier in the book. Back in Acts chapter 1, in the earlier part of the book, especially verses 7 to 8, you know, the disciples were wondering, now that Jesus is raised from the dead, how is it that he is going to, or when is it that he is going to restore the kingdom? to Israel. You know, there they still have their minds and their hearts set upon earthly things. They see the resurrection of Jesus Christ as the Son of David as um you know, uh proof that he's ready then to restore the kingdom to Israel here upon this earth. But here we see the answer. How is the kingdom of Israel restored? How is the kingdom of David fulfilled? How is the purpose of the kingdom of Israel fulfilled? How is the purpose of the Kingdom of David fulfilled By Jesus Christ going up into heaven, sending down his spirit, sending his gospel to the ends of the earth. Here's how the kingdom of God spreads The kingdom of God during this age, it is not a geopolitical entity, it is not about political victory, it is not about military victory. It is about victory. But it's about victory that comes by the work of the Holy Spirit. Again, as the Spirit works upon the hearts of men, he brings men to embrace the gospel of Jesus Christ. And as this happens, it is Christ who is fulfilling the kingdom of David. It is Christ who is accomplishing the kingdom of God. He does so by the Holy Spirit. Again, not by ruling on a throne here in Jerusalem upon this earth, but by sitting on David's throne up in heaven. Again, the throne of David on the earth in Jerusalem, it always pointed forward to the throne that Christ would sit on in heaven. It was a symbol and a type of the throne that Christ would sit uh on in heaven. And so the kingdom of David, you have to ask that question. The fulfillment of it. Is it an earthly fulfillment? Or is it a fulfillment that points to Christ and points to the work he would do through the gospel And through the Spirit. Peter shows us. It's clearly the kingdom of David was always meant to point forward to the gospel of Christ. It was all always meant forward to point forward to the work Christ would do in extending his church. And bringing his gospel to the ends of the earth. So here we see, um, if you listen to David, if you really listen to him You will understand that he speaks to you of eternal things. And you will understand that the eternal things he speaks to you of point directly to Jesus Christ. To Jesus Christ's resurrection, to Jesus Christ's ascension, to Jesus Christ's enthronement in heaven on high. Christ is David's son, but as David's son, he is so much greater than David. He's also David's Savior. He is also David's Lord. If you would listen to David, then listen to him by looking to Christ, because he looked to Christ. Christ is the one who has defeated death. Christ is the one who has overturned the effects of sin. Christ is the one who has won for us the same eternal life that David received and also will receive. on the same day that we receive it. Well, because that's true, let's continue to look to our God, let's continue to look to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's remember who we are. Let's remember how the church is to live in this world, not as a military institution, not as a political institution, but as an institution for the kingdom of God that comes about through the preaching of the gospel. And also through the work of the Holy Spirit. Let's remember that we have received salvation through the Son of David. Let's also continue to participate in the spread of that salvation as we um play our part in spreading the same message and the same savior whom David was saved by. Let's remember who we are and let's continue to live in this Knowing that one day we will come to that very same end in Christ that David was assured he would come to. Life in God's presence. Joy in God's presence forever. That is our anchor here in this life. That is our anchor no matter what it is we go through here in this life. We have this anchor, this assurance, this promise. That because Christ was raised from the dead, we too, who are united to him through faith, will live in his presence, in the presence of God forever. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we give praise to you this day, and we ascribe all glory and honor to you for the work you have done through the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you that he, though your son, is also the son of David, has become the son of David through his birth into David's line. Thank you, O Father, that you established him as the king over your kingdom. You established him as the one who is seated on the throne. He is seated at your right hand. He has received the promised Holy Spirit, and has also poured him out upon us, your church. Father, we pray that you be gracious to us, that you use us as servants within your church, that you use us to spread that word, that good news about Jesus Christ. Help us, O Father, to receive that good news, and then also to pass on what we have received, much as David himself did. David found comfort, David found consolation in your promises He found consolation in the Lord Jesus Christ and in the resurrection of Christ as he looked forward to it. Help us to find that same consolation, we pray, by your Spirit working in us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen