If you don't bump up your copy of God's Word now back to Matthew's gospel, tonight we'll reread a portion of that which we read this morning. Our focus on the preaching of the word tonight will be on verses 37 and 38, but let's read a little bit more for context. Matthew chapter twenty-two at verse thirty-four. Let's give attention to the very word of God. When the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together, and one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. teacher, which is the great commandment in the law. And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. As far as the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Father and our God, we come now to important, a critical passage in your word. We ask now that you'd quiet our hearts. That you would fix our minds upon Christ. And that you would teach us, Lord, all that you'd have us for tonight. I ask all this in Jesus' name. Well, how do you love God? This text tonight that's before us seems to ask that question. How? How do you love God If you're familiar with that account where the disciples are in the boat and the boat is rocking and it's being tossed to and fro by the winds and waves. Jesus is not in it yet. And the disciples then see him walking on the water, coming. to them. They're frightened. They're scared. They're not sure who this is. And ultimately they recognize this one as Jesus. And if you're familiar with the with the account, uh Jesus calls Paul, excuse me, Peter To come to him, to walk on the water. He's called by Jesus. And we realize that he could not do this on his own. He wasn't capable. He had no power, just like you or I. And yet, as long as Peter gazed upon Jesus Christ, as long as he was in union with Jesus, as long as he was connected to Jesus, at least with his eyesight. And certainly his trust. He remained afloat. But then when he took his eyes off of Jesus and he looked at the wind and heard it and Became fearful he sank. It seems an appropriate example for us to consider When we ask ourselves that question, how do I love God? How is it even possible? Again, as we learned this morning, Jesus has continued to reveal to the disciples and those who would listen to him. The kingdom of heaven. He's been preaching it. He's been teaching it. He's been displaying it as he cleansed the temple. And we turned it to a place of prayer and praise and healing. And even as we saw this morning, Jesus continued to teach as questions were brought to him. Revealing more and more about the kingdom of heaven. Tonight, as we come to one of those questions, but more importantly, as we come to the answer. We can sum this up very simply by using the very words of God. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. Tonight we're going to see that in three truths. First, love is a problem. Secondly, love is Jesus, and then finally, love is supernatural. As we go through this passage, this very short passage on the greatest commandment I do want you to be asking that question of yourself. How do I love God? Well first, love is a problem. Remember the significance here of this passage as a lawyer, one of the Pharisees, an expert in the law, asks Jesus that third and final question in this series. which is the greatest commandment in the law. Now we know that it was a test. We know that this lawyer as well as well as the Pharisees that accompanied him were not seeking the truth. They were testing Jesus. It was an exam. They were seeking to discredit Jesus and lower him in the eyes of the hearts of the people. But nevertheless, as with the first two questions, Jesus does not ignore He does not disengage, but he answers the question. Even as he knew that he was being tested, even as he knew that this was a malicious question by these unbelievers at this time He answers, he could have walked away, knowing their intent, but he doesn't So he said to the lawyer, he said to this Pharisee, this scribe, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart. With all your soul and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment So Martin Lord Jones would say, very good, now we know. Now we know the greatest commandment. So what's the significance? This was the Pharisees' question. That was their decision to bring it, this one. It wasn't Jesus'. Jesus didn't select this from a list of topics. for teaching of that day. No, it was brought by others. So is it significant? Or was Jesus merely answering this question, stating a truth, and was he ready to move on? Would he call us to move on? Well, Jesus actually appears to answer that question as we continue to read this passage. This passage that was providentially, or this question that was providentially asked, so that Jesus could make that statement and make this one. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. That word depend in the Greek is used elsewhere in the New Testament. It's used in Acts chapter 10, where we read, they put him to death by hanging him on a tree. It's the same Greek word. The Greek dictionary says that the door hangs on its hinges. That's the idea. So the whole Old Testament hangs on these two commandments. Everything. Everything hangs on these two commandments, which are centered upon love. Loving God and loving your neighbor. Now it cannot be that every truth, all truth, all truth that is contained in the special revelation of God, the entire Bible, the Word of God, hangs or is founded upon these two commandments. God did not create all things based upon his command to love him. The salvation of the Israelites through the Red Sea did not hang upon or depend upon their love for God. If it had, they would have drowned. Well God saved because he loved. God saved because he is gracious and glorious. But seemingly what Jesus is saying that all the commands as given, as that is the context of the question, isn't it? Which is the greatest command? Each and every imperative, each called to live in a particular way are tied or hang down from or depend upon these two commands. It's as if you have a tree and these two commands are the root and all the other commands spring out of these two. And so Jesus sums up the first four in the greatest commandment. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And so that's why we read Exus tonight. That's why we read the first four For those first four commands, including you shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or then earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. It depends upon or hangs upon you shall love the Lord your God And Jesus sums up the last six and the second as the second greatest. You shall love the Lord, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. And so you shall not murder, you shall not commit adultery I'll hang upon a second. They're tied back to, they're founded in, you shall love your neighbor. So there's great significance of this greatest commandments. The Pharisees could not have asked a more significant question. Our Maker, our relationship with our Maker is set forth here. Our relationship with our fellow man is set forth here. The way we are called to live day after day hangs upon these commands to love. Indeed, all imperative truth. That means all commands hang upon these two commandments to love. So this passage is so significant, it's hard to grasp. But then we also have to understand, given this text, given the scenario in which the question was asked. That we would conclude that knowing is not loving. In the parallel text, we have from Mark, the scribe is identified by Mark, who's this lawyer, this Pharisee, asks the question, and as Jesus answers The scribe where the lawyer now repeats, You're right, teacher, you've truly said that he is one. There's no other besides him, and to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding. With all the strength and to love one's neighbor as oneself is much more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. And Jesus says, You've answered wisely. He said to him, You're not far From the kingdom of God. Why would Jesus say that? You're not far Didn't he answer correctly? Wasn't that what Jesus said? Didn't he know the correct answer? Wasn't that enough to enter the kingdom of heaven? How could he still be Not far. Seemingly because mere knowing is not the same as believing, and it's not the same as doing. I think that's why Jesus could look at this scribe, this lawyer, who was exactly right in his answer, in his response to Jesus. And yet say y you're not far. Meaning you're not there yet. Knowing is not believing, and knowing is certainly not doing. And so we have to begin tonight to answer this question, how do I love God with the truth that we are all sinners? And sinners in their heart have no love for God. Sinners have no desire for God. No desire to be with God. No desire to fellowship with God. That's what John's Gospel tells us This is the judgment. The light has come into the world. People loved the darkness rather than the light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, thus his works should be exposed. And so this is where we must begin as we consider the greatest commandment. For if we begin thinking that we know what love is and we know how to love, we begin on a false premise. As sinners, we certainly do not know how to love In Genesis chapter 6, we have this revelation. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And so we have a problem. We all of us are called to love, the greatest commandment. But none of us are lovers. None of us are predisposed to love. Indeed, none of us truly know how to love. So that brings us to our second point, that love is Jesus. We know so very clearly that we love because he first loved us. I can't think of a better place to begin the explanation of what love is and how to love. As Paul writes to the saints in Rome, he writes that God shows his love for us, and that while we were still sinners. Christ died for us. Paul writes to the saints that, Corinth, love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It's not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on its own way. It is not irritable or resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. It bears all things, it believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things, love never ends Tonight we could take each of those words and start breaking them down, but I think the better way to know love, to know how to love, is to look to Christ. The greatest lover of all. And so first we'd have to say that love is desirous. Jesus gives us the definition of eternal life in his high priestly prayer. As he's praying to his father, he says, this is eternal life. that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent And so Jesus is saying that as you change a heart, you're laying upon that heart a desire to know you, to know his son. John writes of this desire in his first epistle As he begins writing about Jesus Christ, that which was from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, as he's writing about Jesus, the life was made manifest, we've seen it. and testify to it and proclaim to you, to his readers, uh the eternal life. He's referring to Jesus Christ, which was with the Father and was made manifest to us Yet which we have seen and heard we proclaim, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And indeed, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. John is writing about the desire. A desire to have fellowship with, to be in communion with God Himself through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. And he ends this section by saying, We're writing these things so that our joy may be complete. See John's desire? His desire was to be in fellowship, to bring others into that fellowship that he was already in. So that our joy may be complete. So love then involves Wanting fellowship. It involves wanting communion. It involves wanting to be with God and Christ, not apart from them. Consider the Apostle Paul as he writes to the church at Philippi. For me to live is Christ and to die is gain. What an astounding statement. To die is gain. If I'm to live on in the flesh, that means fruitful labor for me yet Which I shall choose, I cannot tell till he is debating between continuing his life on earth or continuing life with Christ. I'm hard-pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. Do you see Paul's desire? Isn't that part of love? Loving God. To be with Him through His Son. And isn't that Jesus' desire? Again in his high priestly prayer, he prays this, I desire that they Also, meaning those whom you have given to me may be with me where I am. Jesus' desire is to have the people of God present with him to see my glory. To give me, because you loved me before the foundation of the world. See, Jesus' desire. is to have you with him if you're trusting in him tonight. Yes. Love is desirous Secondly, love is obedient. Again, in John's first epistle, he writes just that. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar, and the truth is not in him, but Whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. John speaks of obedience. He speaks of keeping the commandments and that being equated to love. We don't think that way. But the apostle did. Consider Jesus' statement to the disciples as they return after his conversation with the Samaritan woman at the well. If you remember that scenario, that account, the disciples had gone out to get food, and now Jesus was engaged in conversation with the Samaritan woman at the well. He identifies himself as as the Messiah. He offers for living water. She leaves. Remember, she leaves her water pot. No longer important. She's she's heard from Jesus, the bread of life, the living water, and she goes to tell others. And now the disciples return. They'd gone out for food and they offer him food. They're urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat But he said to them, I have food that you do not know about. He was speaking of his desire to do the will of his father. My food is to do the will of Him who sent me and to accomplish His work. Jesus was so anxious and longed to be an obedient son that he likened it to his food. How do we understand food? Certainly that which we all need for our physical health and well-being and sustenance, we know that. We can't exist, we can't continue to exist without it. But it's also that which we enjoy, that which we desire and partake and happily. We look forward to our next meal. And that's what Jesus was telling his disciples. Yes, he was sustained, spiritually sustained by doing his Father's will. Can you imagine that? By being obedient, but not merely sustained, but desiring to do it. Enjoying the privilege of fulfilling that which his father had sent him to do, longing to do it. Looking forward to doing it and doing it well, seeking to please his father. That's the love of a son to his divine father. Yeah, love is obedience Thirdly, love is also submissive. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. For it does not submit to God's law. Romans 8 Or James chapter 4. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. You see the connection between submission And the rule of God. Again, as Paul defines love in 1 Corinthians 13, he writes: this: it does not insist on its own Way. That's submission, isn't it? Now you might consider that obedience and submission are really one and the same, but they're not. One can be obedient without actually being submissive. Children, think about being asked to clean your rooms. That's a good and right thing for your parents to ask you to do. It's common. It's an ordinary task. And it's one thing for you to actually do so. It's another to do it submissively. Anyone can carry out a task and do it even well from a physical perspective all the while shaking his fist at the one who called him to the task. But a submissive, loving heart does not shake a fist, but rejoices. In being called to the task, submitting physically and emotionally and spiritually to the one who called him to it. You see, that describes the love of Jesus for his father, doesn't it? For in the Garden of Gethsemane, as he is ready to head to the cross, it's just down the road. He wholly and completely aligned his will with the will of his fathers. Father, if you're willing, remove this cup from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. You see that he would go to the cross. That Jesus would drink the cup of his father's wrath to its dregs, meaning until it was empty. Not shaking his fist, no, but with heartfelt submission, looking forward to the joy set before him. Yes, despising the shame, but he endured the cross for the joy that was set before him. Yes, love is submissive. And fourth, love is complete. Did you notice? You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is a direct quote from Deuteronomy chapter 6. And as Mark has the parallel text, he actually adds to it. With all your mind. One commentator, Hendrickson, notes the repetitive use of the word all. Nothing is left out in this description. Body, soul, strength, mind, everything. Each and every part, the whole being. Nothing is left behind. Nothing is left for other activity, so to speak. Nothing is left for other actions, other love. Nothing. Now this doesn't mean that we shouldn't love our neighbors. In fact, he follows this greatest commandment with just that But the idea is that all is given, the whole being, your whole being is given to God. It's not partial. There's no reserving a part for another. There is a complete giving over. Nothing's left out. Nothing is reserved. Love is complete. A giving over of yourself to God I think I'm on the number five. That would be love is sacrificial. As Paul describes love again, he writes, love is patient and kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. You might sum these words up by saying that love is sacrificial. That love lifts up the interests of others before your own interests. Love thinks so much of others. That it will think little of self. Isn't that how we pursue patience and kindness? Isn't that how we cast off envy and boasting and arrogance and rudeness? True love must be sacrificial. As John writes of Jesus in the 15th chapter of his gospel, he writes this: greater love has no one than this. That someone lay down his life for his friends. What was it that Jesus gave up or sacrificed as he lay down his life? Or went to the cross at Calvary. I'm sure you would immediately say, well, of course he gave up his very life, everything He gave up walking in the streets of Jerusalem and entering into the temple to worship. He gave up his teaching, his preaching. He gave up his family, relationships. He gave up anything and everything he enjoyed while he walked on the face of this earth. He gave up the beauty of the creation which he was involved in. He gave up his being. He gave up his heartbeat, his breath, he gave up his comfort, his physical comfort. He suffered excruciating pain, and so he gave up that comfort as well. He gave up justice as he suffered for wrongs that he did not commit. He gave up peace as he suffered mocking and hatred, which spewed forth from some, even of those who had been shouting earlier, crying out earlier, Hosanna in the highest. And now calling for his crucifixion. He gave up his friendship with Judas, who betrayed him with a kiss and led others to arrest him. He gave up the fellowship that he had with Peter and the other disciples as they ran from him and denied him and sat before the council. He gave up all these earthly pleasures and relationships, even the limited peace that he enjoyed. Yes, Jesus sacrificed all of this. But friends, none of those things compares to his giving up communion with his father. As Jesus hung on the cross dying, as the sins of the world were laid upon him, the innocent for the guilty. The father in one significant way had to turn away from his son. The father had to break his communion. with his son who had now become sin, as the scriptures tell us. See, the Father could no longer at this point in time as his wrath was being poured out upon his son, commune with it and display his eternal and everlasting love for his son at that moment. And so Jesus cries out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? See, Jesus was alone. As he gave up that most unique and singular communion with his father, Jesus was walking through the valley of death. Not the shadow of death, but the valley of death alone, and his father turned away. That is what Jesus sacrificed. There's a sense that we can't truly grasp the gravity, the significance of that sacrifice. But that was its core. It was the center of Jesus' sacrifice for you. This was the greatest demonstration of God's love for you as he watched his son suffer without being at his side. Has Jesus suffered and died without seeing and feeling the love of his Father. That is sacrificial love. That is how to love That brings us to our third point, or truth, that love is supernatural. We began with the problem. And whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in darkness. We began with the problem that we are sinners and we really don't know what love is or how to do it. But there's a solution, isn't there? Nicodemus learned of the solution as he comes and visits Jesus. in the night time and and says to him, We know that you're a teacher, come from God, for no one can do these signs that you do unless God is with them and Jesus tells him I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. He was telling Nicodemus that, Nicodemus, you don't know who God is. You can't even see God. And if you can't see God, you can't love God He was telling Nicodemus that you don't love God. Because you haven't been born again yet And so Jesus gave Nicodemus a solution. Indeed, love is supernatural, and you must be born again To be able to love. You have to be conformed to the image of Jesus Christ in order to love. But it's a good thing. Paul warns us not to be conformed to this world, and and that is the problem, isn't it? If we're conformed to the world, there's no way that we can love God. But we have to be transformed by the renewal of our minds. Have to be conformed to the image of Jesus. Have to be born again. And so the lesson tonight is if you know Jesus Christ. If you know him truly as your Lord and Savior, then He's taught you, hasn't He? He's taught you through His sacrificial love how to love. It doesn't mean that you do it perfectly, none of us do. But with the abiding of the Spirit we continue to learn because you've been supernaturally changed. But if you're here tonight and you're thinking, I don't know how to love, run to Christ. Run to Jesus He's the only one who can change your heart, the only one who can supernaturally take your heart of stone and convert it into a heart of flesh. And teach you how to love, to follow the greatest commandment of all. Shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. Paul was supernaturally walking on the water, wasn't he? Because Jesus had called him. And as long as he was in union with Christ, We could do it. As long as we are in union with Jesus Christ, we can love. Not perfectly. But we can love the Lord our God with all that's in us. As He wills and as He continues to change our hearts. Amen. Father and our God, we ask now, even now, Lord Jesus, help us. I confess that we are sinners, and as sinners, we don't know how to love, and yet as you've changed our hearts, Holy Spirit, we thank you, we praise you, and we ask that you'd continue to teach us and lead us. that we would be those obedient servants, desirous servants, complete servants, loving the servants, and sacrificial servants, loving you with all of our heart, soul, mind and strength. Lord, help us. Conform us more and more to the image of Christ, the greatest lover. Of all time. We ask all this in his name. Amen