You turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of John. Chapter eleven. I believe that's on page one thousand sixty-six of your pew Bibles. John chapter eleven. I'll read a few verses in the beginning of the verse and jump down to verse seventeen. Just give attention to the very Word of God, John chapter 11. Now a certain man was ill, Lazarus of Bethany, the village of Mary, and her sister Martha. It was Mary who anointed the Lord with ointment and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was ill. So the sisters sent to him saying, Lord, he whom you love is ill. But when Jesus heard it, he said, this illness does not lead to death. It is for the glory of God. So the Son of God may be glorified through it. Let's jump down to verse 17 now. Lazarus has died. Now when Jesus came he found that Lazarus had already been in the tomb four days. Bethany was near Jerusalem about two miles off. And many of the Jews had come to Martha and Mary to console them concerning their brother. So when Martha heard that Jesus was coming, she went and met him, but Mary remained seated in the house. Martha said to Jesus, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died, but even now I know that whatever you ask from God, God will give you. Jesus said to her, Your brother will rise again. Martha said to him, I know that he will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live. And every one who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe this? She said to him, Yes, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, who is coming into the world. When she had said this, she went and called her sister Mary, saying in private, the teacher is here and is calling for you. And when she heard it, she rose quickly and went to him. Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha had met him. When the Jews who were with her in the house, consoling her, saw Mary rise quickly and go out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb to weep there. Now, when Mary came to Jesus, to where Jesus was and saw him, she fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus saw her weeping, and the Jews who had come with her also weeping, he was moved deeply in his spirit and greatly troubled. And he said, Where have you laid him? They said to him, Lord, come and see. Jesus wept. So the Jews said, see how he loved him. But some of them said, Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying Then Jesus, deeply moved again, came to the tomb. It was a cave, and a stone lay against it. Jesus said, Take away the stone. Martha, the sister of the dead man, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be an odor. For he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not tell you that if you believed, you would see the glory of God? So they took away the stone. And Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but I said this on account of the people standing around that they may believe that you sent me. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come out. The man who had died came out, his hands and feet bound with linen strips, and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, Unbind him and let him go. Many of the Jews, therefore, who had come with Mary and had seen what he did, believed in him. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. We'll stop there. Praise be to God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, now as we have read your word, we pray that you'd add your blessing to it. And Father, by your Spirit, you open our eyes, our hearts. to receive your word. And we ask, Father, that you plant it deeply and produce a great crop. 30, 60, 100fold. Work your will in us, Father. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Have you seen the glory of God? It's an important question. Give or wonder as the G as the disciples walked with Jesus why they didn't see The glory of God. Mark records that as they were going down the road and Jesus was walking ahead of them and twelve were following. began to tell them what was going to happen. This is one of those accounts in Matthew and Mark 10 where Jesus tells him that the Son of Man will be delivered over to the chief priests and the scribes. They'll condemn him to death. Deliver him to the Gentiles. He'll be mocked and spit upon, flogged and killed, and after three days he will rise again. And it's at that very time that James and John ask Jesus to do whatever we want you to do for us. And when Jesus asked the question, what do you want me to do for you? The answer is, grant us to sit one at your right and one at your left in your glory. Why was it that the disciples who were walking with Jesus were unable to see the glory of Jesus? I think that's a question that is being answered in part here in John chapter eleven. Here in John chapter 11, many things have happened. I know we're not studying this book. This is just one sermon on one portion of the Gospel of John. But Jesus has fed the five thousand. And yet, despite the supernatural works that Jesus has been doing, it seems that people are not seeing his glory. Even his brothers mock him. Even as he opens the eyes of a blind man, even as he continued to do the works of his father, There were those who would claim he has a demon and is insane. Why listen to him This morning, as we come to chapter 11, I want us to see that the glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. The glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. A very simple point. See that in three points, not not according to your insert this morning. That was For Reverend Johnson's sermon. But these points. Glory is seen in the death of death. Secondly, glory is seen in the removal of blindness. And finally, glory is seen in the resurrection. Going through this portion of John's Gospel, again, I want you to be asking yourself that question. Have I seen the glory of Christ. Well first, glory is seen in the death of death. This passage before us in John 11 is full of death. Indeed, there are at least 22 references to illness, death, attum, to weeping. This passage begins with illness. Now a certain man was ill. His brother Lazarus was ill. Lord, he whom you love is ill. John wants us to make sure we understand. Illness leads to death, sickness. Lazarus has fallen asleep. Code words for death. A misunderstanding of the disciples about death. The tomb which holds death or the lifeless body of Lazarus consoling. Mary by the Jews as a result of death. The statement, Lazarus will rise from the tomb from death, the weeping of Mary because of death, the weeping of the Jews, the troubled spirit of Jesus. Even his weeping seems to be all connected to death. That's throughout this passage. And there are at least two things which we can take away from this focus upon death. First, it was unexpected and untimely from the perspective of those who loved him, meaning Martha and Mary and the Jews. It was clearly sudden or unexpected. A grave illness Which led to an unexpected or untimely death, again, from the human perspective. Lazarus was probably not approaching the end of life in terms of his age. Otherwise, this situation wouldn't be as expressive as it was here in John 11. In a sense, it was a death that should not have happened Again, from a human perspective. If Jesus had been present, this illness, this minor problem, from Martha and Mary's perspective, could have been cured. It could have been avoided. Jesus, if you had done our will, things would not have happened the way they did. But the Lord's will was done. Indeed, when we speak of anyone dying too soon or too early or in an untimely or premature death, we're seeing that the Lord's will was inappropriate or premature. There's a second thing about this death, it comes out from the passage, and that was that it was permanent. It seems to be the thinking of those who surrounded Jesus as he comes, this thought that death was final, incurable, undefeatable. We see it in the words of Martha. The Jews, even the disciples. Verse 16, which we didn't read, Thomas, called the twin, said to his fellow disciples, Let us go also go that we may die with him. From Thomas's perspective, the only help that Jesus and his disciples could offer to Lazarus at that point was to die with him. Death had captured Lazarus. We know that the last enemy to be destroyed is death. We know that as a result of Adam and Eve's sin they have ushered in death. And we know that as a result of our sins, we have ushered in death. And that's the picture here. Death is seemingly taking center stage. The power of illness, the human condition under sin, caused by sin, leading to death, which strikes the living seemingly with a permanent separation. We see that in the tomb, don't we? There are those who are outside the tomb and there's one who's inside the tomb. From a human perspective of a permanent separation. From family, friends, indeed seemingly from God So no one realized that Jesus was sent to address that very issue. Indeed, he was working, even then he was working to vanquish death. We see his work here in this place. We see clearly that the illness, the death, was providentially planned by God to display the glory of the Father through defeating death. Verse 4, this illness does not lead to death. You're scratching your heads and you're wondering as you read through this passage: wait a minute, he did die. What does Jesus mean? He knew that he would raise Lazarus. And he knew that through raising Lazarus it was going to bring glory to his father. It is for the glory of God. So that the Son of God may be glorified through it, through his powerful, loving, unthwarted, unimpeded work. This is the central work of Jesus. Yes, glorifying the Father is the primary work, but he does so through this work, through defeating death. The illness, the unexpected death of Lazarus, was providentially provided to give the disciples, the Jews, Martha and Mary, a foretaste of the end of his work. The assurance that Jesus would indeed win. His word could not be thwarted by those seeking to kill him. By illness, by death, nothing would stand in the weight, no matter how strong or how powerful it appeared to be Indeed we see that in verse nine. Again, I didn't read that. Are there not twelve hours in the day? Jesus is answering his disciples as they say, No, no, no. We don't go back there. Don't go back to Judea. The Jews are trying to kill you And he says to them, Are not there are not twelve hours in the day? If anyone walks in the day, he does not stumble because he sees the light of this world. But if anyone walks in the night, he stumbles because the light is not in him. You see what he was saying? We've got to go. We've got to go back. Even though the Jews are trying to kill me, I've got to go because I'm seeking to do the will of the Father, and as long as he did that As long as he was seeking the will of the Father, there would be no stumbling. There would be no failure. And so we see Jesus calling Lazarus from the dead. We see Jesus having victory, uh at least temporary victory over over death, like the rising of the sun above the horizon at daybreak, we should begin to see the glory of Christ Even in this passage, and appreciate why Jesus was sent. And the power that he has over all things, including death So we started with illness, with death, if we begin here with the condition of all those who descend from Adam, and we begin remembering and grasping the ultimate end of our wretched sin, which is an abomination before God And the inevitable eternal deadness and separation from God, which our sin brings about. And we see not merely the difficulty of the work, but the depth of the love of Christ. Which moved him, which moved him to tears To weep. See, it's a work of love to defeat sin and resulting death. For these things were and continue to be offensive to God. Do you consider how Jesus Christ is is working through his Spirit? To slay death within you. If you're trusting in Christ this morning, that's exactly what's happening. You may be thinking, wait a minute, I think I'm returning to dust. I think that's what's happening to me. aches and pains and sickness even as I grow older, I think I'm just returning to death. I'm actually living less and less Well, that's physically true. But it's not spiritually true. Spiritually, you're being made more alive day by day. That's what the Westminster Confession tells us as we open up chapter 13 and consider the work of sanctification. And we're told that As the Spirit works, as the Spirit dwells within you, as you're trusting in Jesus Christ, the whole dominion of the whole body of sin is destroyed. Just think of that. As the Spirit works, the dominion of the whole body of sin is destroyed. That's what Jesus is doing by and through his spirit. And not only that, as the several lusts thereof are more and more weakened and mortified, this is the daily work of the Spirit And they are more and more, speaking of those who are trusting in Christ, more and more quickened. That means being made alive and strengthened in all-saving graces. That's happening. The only question is, do you see it? Because that's the glory of Christ Do you see the glory of Christ in that? His work in your hearts by and through his indwelling spirit, day in, day out, by his providential hand. Think of that. He's caused you to be in worship this morning. There's so many other things you could be doing. There's so many other things the world is calling you to be doing this morning. But he's brought you here. He's changed you such that you desire to be here. Worshiping the triune God. That's evidence, yes, of his change in you, but of his glory. Look for it. Look for that day by day change Which is being brought about by the Spirit, which is actually making you more alive. Like Lazarus. That brings us to our second head. Gloria seen in the removal of blindness. There's another theme throughout this passage. The first theme is death. The second theme is really unbelief. It was appropriate to begin with illness. That's where John began. But there's the this second theme, and that is that There are many who are surrounding Jesus who are not believing. They are blind to who he is and what he's doing. They're not yet enlightened. They were not understanding. They're living and thinking earthly thoughts. There's a great sense in which the illness and death of Lazarus is It's a picture of the hearts of those watching the wonders, the supernatural works of Jesus Christ, hearing his words, yet remaining lifeless toward his ministry. Well they were not at this point clearly seeing the kingdom of God, and Jesus told Nicodemus, You can't even see the kingdom of God unless you're born again. And so they were not able to see, truly see the glory of the Son of God who had veiled his glory in his human nature. And so there's this significant focus on the physical. That appears to be the primary focus of all those who are around Jesus Christ. It's not a spiritual focus, it's a it's a physical focus. Nicodemus was focused on the physical. Can a man enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born again? Is that possible? He's focused on the physical. The Samaritan woman at the well And John chapter 4 was focused on the physical. If you've got living water, and I don't have to come back and forth for it every single day, then give me that so I can put this water pot down and and forget all this hard labor Even here, the focus was on earthly life, the physical existence of Lazarus. They're weeping. Why are they weeping? Because now they're separated from him. They want Lazarus back. They want to be able to commune and fellowship with him, love him, hug him, enjoy his presence among them. They're fixed upon the physical Could not he who opened the eyes of the blind man also have kept this man from dying? Physical. There's a depth of unbelief. It begins with the disciples. And continues with Martha and Mary. But Jesus' focus was on the spiritual. Notice what he tells his disciples. Notice what he did not say. Jesus didn't say to his disciples, let us go and console Martha and Mary. He was not going to provide comfort to the greeting. He was not going to proclaim a eulogy for his friend. He wasn't even going first to Martha and Mary. He was going to do battle with death. Jesus said, let us go to him, meaning Lazarus. Why? Because he was going to awaken Lazarus so that people would believe. That's the point. In light of the remaining unbelief, even in Martha, who tells Jesus, Lord, if you'd been here, my brother would not have died. Martha was thinking of what life would be like if Lazarus was still alive. That's what she longed for. And so she sought a physical cure. And she doesn't really expect that Jesus can do anything about it right now. If you'd been here when he was sick, you might have been able to do something, but now that he's dead, forget it. You can't do anything. Death was too powerful for Jesus, from Martha's perspective. And then Jesus asks that question. Having that conversation with Martha, he tells her that I am the resurrection. When she says, Yeah, I know that I know that Lazarus is going to rise again at the resurrection. And Jesus responds and says, Well, I think you got it wrong. Resurrection isn't an event. I am the resurrection. Do you believe this? Why was that important? Why was that important for Jesus to ask Martha? Why did he need to question her? She says, I know you will rise again in the resurrection on the last day. He asks her that question because for Martha the resurrection and the Messiah were not connected. She said, I know you're the Messiah. I know he's going to rise again at the last day. They weren't connected. They were so separated she couldn't even draw a line between them. She had no idea that he had come as the resurrection. And so he questions her. To show her, like others, that their beliefs were not only incomplete but mistaken. Indeed, they're words of the tomb. By this time there's going to be an odor. He's dead. You can't do anything about that. His body is beginning to decay. Don't don't open it. She's not believing upon the power or ability of Jesus to raise Lazarus from the dead or to overcome that which she she understood had already begun to happen. He's returning to dust. Don't open the tomb. And so Jesus questions Martha to make that connection, to open those blind eyes. The Messiah. came as the resurrection. Indeed, he was standing right in front of her, speaking to her, proclaiming the good news to her. But no one was understanding. No one in the passage, not the disciples, not Martha, not Mary, not the Jews were understanding the spiritual significance of Jesus and what he was about to do. They're all blinded by their fixation on the material world. And thus their in their unbelief. And yet Jesus continued to act in accord with his father's will We read that in John 5. The works that the Father has given me to accomplish, the very works that I'm doing, bear witness about me that the Father has sent me. And so what was the solution? How does Jesus break through into these hard hearts, these hearts of unbelief? Praise. Look at verse 41. So they took away the stone, and Jesus lifted up his eyes and said, Father. I thank you that you have heard me. Now I think this references the prayer of Jesus that we don't actually have recorded. It's my speculation But Jesus says, I thank you that you have heard me. Jesus was praying. Even as the stone is being rolled away from the tomb, Jesus was praying to the Father. For he wanted the people, the Jews, Martha, Mary, the disciples, to know that the Father heard him and hears him. He was demonstrating without question that he was doing that, only that, which God could do. And only that which God would do, as his son, calls to him. The word and works of Jesus go hand in hand. They cannot be separated. And so Jesus here communes with his father and the hearing of the people and connects that word with the raising of Lazarus. They can't be separated. All. Certainly first for the glory of his father, but secondly that some of those hearts which heard That day, heard the words of Christ, would be broken into and believe What does it take for blindness to be removed so that the glory of God can be seen Oh certainly is first the work of the Lord, isn't it? He must be the one He must be the one who who causes one to call upon the Lord. He must be the one who works that in a heart, that a heart would then call upon the Lord and forsake his wicked way. Isaiah 55, verse 6. We read it. Let him return to the Lord that he may have compassion on him and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. It's the work of the Lord. Isaiah points to that. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declare the Lord, for as high as the heavens are, higher than the earth, so my ways are higher than your ways. Who would have thought or planned the illness of Lazarus, the death of Lazarus, to bring glory to God? Who would have delayed two days such that the death would seem to be irreversible? Who would have wept before these witnesses? Who would have prayed out loud so that the blindness would turn to sight? So that many would be enabled to hear the word and see the works of Jesus Christ and thus his glory in raising this one to life. Who would plan to save a people from their sin-stained hearts by and through his son, the word who goes out? For as the rain and snow come down from heaven and do not return there but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, so my word that goes out from my mouth shall not return to me empty. But it shall accomplish that which I purpose. That's how. That's how broken, hardened hearts will be penetrated Such that the scales will fall from the eyes, they'll be able to see the glory of Christ. It's exactly what Jesus was doing. He calls Lazarus out from the grip of death. He's calling upon his father to use that to break into these stony hearts. That they would be able to see his glory. We think this passage is all about Lazarus. It's really not. It's all about the glory of God in Christ. And it took the rising, the raising of this one, in order for the glory to penetrate. Brings us into our third point. The resurrection is the glory of God through Christ. The passage now culminates, at least from a worldly perspective, in this temporary triumph over the grave. Verse 44, the man who had died came out. His hands and feet bound with linen strips and his face wrapped with a cloth. Jesus said to them, unbind him and let him go. Notice the supernatural power of Jesus Christ. As he called to his Father, it was on display in an even greater way. Marks of death, the linen strips representing that Lazarus was engulfed in or by death, and now at the command of Jesus Christ, he's removed from that estate. He's brought to life. That irresistible grace, the voice of Jesus Christ, calling out, calling Lazarus from death, unbinding this one from the grip of death, only for a time. Why? Think of that. Lazarus was made subject again to the misery of this life. He had died. His soul had departed. And yet Jesus brings it back. And causes him to live again the misery and sin of this life. It was all for the glory of God. It's for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified through it as his human nature which was veiled And those around who who were watching Lazarus now walk out of the tomb and were unbinding him, seeing his life had returned, his soul had returned. And now they're seeing just a glimpse of the glory of Jesus Christ. That human nature is still there, but in a sense, just pulled back a little bit. In this temporary resurrection, the Lord Jesus Christ glorified his Father and Himself. You see? You see the glory here? There's something missing, isn't there? This passage begins with so much sorrow, so much weeping. Mary's weeping, Martha's weeping, Jesus' weeping. Grief upon grief. And now we get to this resurrection of Lazarus. He has now been brought to life. He's with his sisters again. What's missing? Where's the celebration? Where's the cheering? Where where is Martha and Mary coming and embracing their brother? Praising and thanking Jesus Christ if it happened and probably it did, it's not recorded here. Why not? Such a buildup, so many tears, so much grief, so much sorrow, and no celebration. Why? Because Lazarus wasn't the focus. Lazarus is not the end of the story, is it? Verse 45. Many of the Jews therefore who had come with Mary and had seen what he did believed in him. That's the story. That's why Lazarus was raised. And that's what John wants you to see. Yes, I'm sure there was celebration. I'm sure there were tears of joy. But the focal point, the centerpiece of this passage is that Many Jews believed in him. That was the purpose. That was the reason that Jesus delayed in going. That's why Lazarus was ill. That's why Lazarus died. That's why he was raised from the dead, so that these who were there that day could gaze upon the glory of Jesus Christ. Do you see it? Do you see the glory of God here? That is that's the question for you to answer this morning for yourselves. Do you see the glory of God here? There seems to be a glory which all can see, isn't there? Heavens declare the glory of God, the sky above proclaims his handiwork, day to day pours out speech, night to night reveal his knowledge. There seems to be a glory of God which everyone can see, even if they might deny it. And then there's the glory of God which can only be seen by those with faith. I think that's John's point. See, those who believed saw the glory of Christ in this passage. Did I not tell you that if you believed, he's telling this to Martha, if you believed, you would see the glory of God. It's the glory of God and his work of salvation. Here the resurrection of Lazarus, prefiguring the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, and thus the resurrection of all believers in Christ, is clearly seen in faith as the glory of God. And here is the glory of God. He sent his son to do this work. The one whom he loved from eternity past. The only one. He gives him up. He gives him up for you. You who didn't love God, who didn't love Jesus Christ, who hated him, who ran as far away as you could from him, who loved your sin so much that you would not believe upon Jesus. Until he went to the cross for you. Until his father gave him up. Until his father poured out his eternal wrath upon his son, the innocent one for you. Indeed, even at that moment, we all know that we hated him. That's the glory of God, isn't it? That he would do that. That his love would be so deep, wide and broad and high, that you can't understand it. But that he did it for you. It's the glory of God and sending his son. What about the glory of Jesus? Do you see it here? Do you see a sacrificial heart? Risking his own life to go back to Judea? Where the Jews wanted to kill him So that he could raise this one Lazarus from the dead so that others would believe. That's why he goes back. That's why he puts his life in danger. Do you see his unconditional love? What did Lazarus do to deserve the love of Christ? What did Lazarus do to be raised? Nothing. It was only because of Christ's unconditional love that he would endure or be long suffering rather than strike down Lazarus. And Martha and Mary for slowness of belief. You see the glory of Christ in his human nature. He wept. He wept as he sees those weeping around as a result of the loss of their communion and fellowship with Lazarus. He's weeping because he knows this is what sin does. This is the offense that's been caused to my heavenly Father by your sin. This is the wretchedness of sin. He's weeping over that. His glory is in his compassion and pity, isn't it? But we see that tender love of Jesus Christ. You may think, oh, how unsympathetic is Jesus by not returning when he was ill and waiting until he dies. And yet, this is part of the glory of God in Christ. That he's able and does come. In our time of greatest need. And we see the power and authority of Jesus, don't we? Oh, it's so glorious. Lazarus didn't decay. Somehow, some way, Jesus sustained his body. There was no stench, no odor If he could do this for Lazarus before his own resurrection, how much more can he do it for you, even after he's been resurrected? This is all the glory of Christ. Does that change your worship of Him? If you're trusting in Christ today, you've been enabled to see the kingdom. And by and through this text today, I'm hoping that you've seen a bit more of the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. You've been given a gift. Many of those who even witnessed the resurrection, even the temporary resurrection of Lazarus, did not. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them what Jesus had done. John is saying that there were those who did not believe that day. John is saying that there were those who did not see the glory of Christ that day. But if you're trusting in Christ this morning, you have. How does that change your worship? Remember the people here didn't cheer. There's at least there's no record of the celebration The record is quietness, isn't it? They left the place believing because they saw the glory of Christ. Have you seen the glory of Christ? He is the resurrection. And because he is, he glorifies his Father. Have you seen it? Oh, he calls you this morning to gaze upon him. And to revel in his glory. Yes, the glory of God is seen when one believes upon the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. The disciples, as they argued amongst each other, were unable at that moment in time to see the glory of Christ, even the resurrection as he stood before them, even as they were following him. But he is glorious. And he calls you this morning to gaze upon his glory and for that to enrich your worship. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, help us. We are a weak people, and just like the disciples, at times we seek our own glory, even as we're seeking to follow Jesus. Help us, Lord. Even through this passage this morning, through the resurrection of Lazarus, even as a temporary event in the history of redemption, is that which pointed to his Physical and spiritual resurrection. Father, we ask, Lord God, that through this event in history you'd help us to see the glory of Christ, to revel in it, and that this would change our worship. As we're drawn ever closer to you through your Son, help us, Lord God, to see His glory. I ask all this in Jesus' precious name. Amen.