Psalm 1. Psalm 1, verses 1 through 6. Listen, because this is the word of our God. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked Nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water. that yields its fruit in its season and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does he prospers The wicked are not so, but are like the chaff that the wind drives away Therefore, the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. It's God's word. Let's pray his blessing on it. Our Father, we have your words now on our ears. We desire that your words be on our hearts. And so we look to God the Holy Spirit, the one who is able to take the Word and cause it to live in our hearts, cause it to be written on our hearts, the one who causes our hearts to be receptive, who constrains us to receive the word with gladness and respond with delight and obedience. We ask that we might not be like the foolish ones Who hear the word and don't act upon it. We pray rather that we will be like the wise ones who build on solid rock. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Will you please be seated? And uh we come this evening to uh Psalm uh one right at the very beginning of the book of Psalms. You might perhaps say, why is uh Psalm one Psalm one And uh someone has pointed out that when we come to the Book of Psalms, those one hundred and fifty praises of God's people Uh Psalm 1 and Psalm 2 stand apart. They are like a big double door through which we enter into the world of the Psalms. We enter into uh Psalter world if you like, when we come to uh Psalms one and Psalm two. So this evening we're going to think a little bit about uh Psalm uh one and uh if you think about uh Psalm 1, it's as if we are standing on the threshold of the Psalter. And as we stand on the threshold of the Psalter, the very uh first word that we hear is The word blessed. Isn't that great? We come to this book, the largest book in the Bible, inspired by God, like the rest of Scripture. Uh the first word that we hear is a word of blessing. That kind of encourages us to uh be attentive. We want to uh uh we want to uh learn more. If we're standing on the threshold, we want to press on in uh to hear what uh the psalmist is speaking about. But uh as we do so, good for us to remember that our God is a God who provides blessing. In fact every A blessing that we enjoy. It's something that comes from the hand of our God. Blessed uh is the man. Some people would want to translate that word blessed as happy, but really it's a it's a richer word than that. Oh yes there's uh happiness there but it's the idea of the deep settled satisfaction that comes from being right with God. I think of Psalm 32 where the psalmist says, Blessed is the one whose transgressions are forgiven, whose sin is atoned for. The one who has had the uh barrier, the obstruction uh between himself or herself and God, covered over in the blood of the Lord Jesus uh so that we have fellowship with God, so that uh we are able to look on God as our heavenly father. That's the kind of blessedness that the psalmist is uh thinking about blessed is the man, not to imply that it's only men who can enjoy that blessing. This is not some kind of uh boys' club that we're standing on the uh uh threshold of. Uh no this is the uh Pattern of biblical wisdom where uh where uh the the pattern is of a father addressing his son. So the psalm follows that pattern. It's a wisdom psalm. It's about uh wise living And we heard Jesus talk about uh two builders, one of whom was very wise, uh, the other of whom was uh very, very foolish. This is a wisdom song. Blessed uh is the uh blessed is the man and we might look at those verses and uh we might look at that statement and think blessed is The man, and of course uh the man who enjoys uh that blessedness by right is the Lord Jesus. The Lord Jesus is the man who has fulfilled all righteousness So when we come to Psalm 1, uh we're uh meeting the Lord Jesus right there. He is the He is the man who is blessed. And then of course, as Paul explains to us in the New Testament In Jesus Christ, as we trust in the Lord Jesus, then in Jesus Christ we're blessed with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly realm. So that the blessedness that Jesus secures by his obedience, he is the beloved Son. He is the faithful son, the blessedness that Jesus inherits becomes ours as we trust in him. In our verses this evening, we have a kind of little biography. uh of a blessed man, a blessed individual, blessed man, blessed woman. A little biography of uh someone who is a follower of the Lord Jesus, who's uh listening to Jesus' words who's uh receiving them with faith, who in Jesus becomes an heir uh to the blessings that God provides. So I want us to look at our six uh verses uh this evening and uh here are here are three things that we're going to see from those six verses. In verses one and two uh we're going to see the uh blessed one starting out Now we're going to see him starting out. In verses three and four we're going to see him keeping on. And in verses five and six we're going to see him finishing up. So there you go. Little biography of the Blessed Man starting out keeping on, finishing up. And uh as we uh come to the first couple of verses and uh here is the uh uh blessed uh here is the uh blessed man starting off uh we find immediately he's someone who has made a choice. Isn't that right? The Blessed One is someone who has made a choice. He does not Walk in the counsel of the wicked. He doesn't stand in the way of sinners. He doesn't sit in the seat of scoffers or mockers. Uh if you think uh we've used the idea of walking into a building, crossing the threshold, you've probably come into some of those great big uh buildings and and perhaps seen the plaque on the wall with different arrows pointing off in different directions And you've got to make a choice which uh way, which direction am I going to go in? Uh this man uh or woman has made a choice. They have decided they have started off with a choice and they've made a wise choice. When we encounter the Lord Jesus, We are confronted with a choice. That's something that we find repeated time after time in the Gospels, isn't it? Jesus coming to Peter and James and John inviting them to leave behind their boots and their nets and follow him. Uh he confronts uh Levi with a choice. Remember Levi sitting at his uh receipt of custom and uh Jesus presents him with a choice. He invites Levi to follow him. Levi made a good choice. He followed Uh you remember another man, a rich young ruler, who came to the Lord Jesus, and Jesus presented him with a choice. And that uh young man made a an unwise choice. He went away sorrowful because there was something else that was more dear to his heart than the Lord Jesus. Remember Saul of Tarsus uh who was uh confronted with a choice. He could have all the uh prestige and all the credit that went uh with his career as a rising light in the world of Pharisees. But uh Saul of Tarsus was ready to leave all of that behind for the sake of the Lord Jesus. He counted it as refuse, like trash, uh in comparison to following Jesus. Jesus confronts us with a choice. And uh here is uh here is a wise man who is making a choice. Uh he is Not going to walk in the counsel of the ungodly. He's not going to stand in the way of sinners. He's not going to sit in the seat of mockers or scoffers Uh and and the choice that's presented in the the Psalm uh in verse one is the uh the the choice who are you going to listen to? Who's who are you going to allow to influence you. The blessed man has made a decision that he's not going to be influenced by the ungodly. He's not going to be uh influenced by sinners. He's not going to be influenced by uh those who are scoffers. And you and I are surrounded by all kinds of individuals who are seeking to influence us And many of them are seeking to influence us in all kinds of uh bad uh and harmful ways. We live in a world where we're constantly exposed to well they're they're even called influencers. They exert an influence. They you see them on your screen. You you hear their podcasts, you uh read the material they they put out, you th they they write books, they Uh they occupy positions of power. They exert influence, but oftentimes the influence they exert is an unhealthy, uh damaging influence. Those uh uh there's almost a kind of uh You can almost see a progression. The uh these ungodly ones who uh well, the uh the ones who uh give counsel uh we're not to uh be guided by their counsel, we're not to stand with the sinners, we're not to uh we're not to uh take up our residence among people like that. We're not to sit in this seat of scoffers. It's almost Uh as if uh someone has uh listened to those influencers and has uh joined company with them and then oh wow, now he's a professor of scoffing Uh he's sitting in the scoffer's chair. He's teaching others to uh blaspheme God. He's teaching others that God is irrelevant or unnecessary. Watch out for those kinds of influencers. The writer to the Hebrews In Hebrews chapter 13, verse 7 says, Remember your leaders, those who spoke the word of God to you. consider their the outcome of their lives. God blesses us. with people, men and women who are godly examples, godly leaders, who exert a godly influence. Give thanks for people like that Uh and I'm sure every one of us here this evening can think of people like that uh in our lives. Godly leaders. Uh and the writer to the Hebrew says, consider those people. Remember the ones who told you uh about the Lord Jesus who spoke the word of God to you. Consider their way of life and and how the out and the outcome uh of their lives. Good for us to be shaped by people like that. Those are not the rich and famous Uh many times those are very ordinary people, but those are important people. The blessed uh person uh meditates instead he uh he uh meditates on God's law day and night. He wants to be instructed by God. His desire is to be taught by God. Psalm 86 verse 11 says, Teach me your way. and I will walk in your truth. We we live in a day it's and it's uh really rather ridiculous when uh people talk about everyone having their own truth. I have my truth, you have your truth Who are you to say that my truth is wrong? Who am I to say that your truth is wrong, even though those truths may not be in agreement with one another? The wise man? The wise woman says to God, Teach me your way, and I will walk in. Your truth. At the end of the day, there's only one truth because the Lord Jesus is the one who is the way, the truth, and the life. The Lord Jesus gives us His Holy Spirit to guide us uh into to guide us into truth, to lead us. He's the the teacher, the prophet Jeremiah uh speaks about, who when we uh digress to the left or to the right, he says, and our ear speaks to our hearts. This is the way. Walk in it What a blessed thing it is for us to know the abiding presence of the Holy Spirit who takes the scriptures and uses them to guide us. in paths of truth and righteousness. He's the Spirit of truth. So here's the uh here's the righteous person starting out. He's uh he is making a choice, she's making a choice Uh we're not going to be influenced by ungodly influences. We're going to be influenced by God. We're going to be instructed by God's law, God's teaching, his instruction. But uh in verses uh three and four uh we find the uh blessed person keeping on. Not enough just to start out, you've got to keep on Not right. Uh the person who uh gets off the starting blocks uh real quickly and makes a great start, they've got to keep on going right until they get to the uh through to the finishing line. Or uh the person who well you remember the Lord Jesus uh parable, the person receiving the word with the and getting all excited about it Uh the one who's like the seed that falls on the stony soil. It springs up. But then quickly it dies back. Why is that? Because Jesus says there's no depth of soil Uh there's there's not depth there. Uh this person described in verses three and four is not a bit like that. Jesus says he is like a tree Planted by streams of water that bears its fruit in its season, its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers Uh and you've maybe have seen pictures, maybe you've even uh been in some of those desert places and and uh uh there's all the sand and rock and then there's a tree. And some of those palm trees or Joshua trees that seem to to manage in in very harsh and severe climates. You look at that tree and you say, How can that tree possibly be surviving? Uh but that tree is able to survive because it's got roots that are thrust down to where there is a source of water. The blessed person Uh says the scripture is the one who's like a tree planted by streams of water. Now this is the one who's meditating on God's law, who's being instructed in God's truth, and that uh truth of God's word becomes a source of nourishment and spiritual strength so that that individual doesn't just survive but thrives. And we live in desert places, don't we? Spiritually desert places. Uh it's not easy. It's a harsh spiritual climate. You know that. You the the folk that you move among, the the places where you work, family members who Uh don't love the Lord Jesus. People who laugh at you because on a Sunday evening you're you're here at Trinity. That's a harsh environment for us to uh live in But as we look to the scriptures, we find the the source of living water. We're directed to the uh the Lord Jesus, the one who provides for us living water And our hearts are refreshed because we come to the scriptures and the scriptures are constantly pointing us to Jesus. pushing us in the direction of the Savior, the man or woman who meditates on God's law, who meditates on God's word. is going to find herself or himself being directed to the Savior because the Holy Spirit delights to take God's word that he has caused to be written down and use that word to show us Jesus. So that when we say, Teach me your way, O Lord, our God teaches us about the Savior, the one whom we need to know. The one who says to us in John chapter fifteen Abide in me and I in you. Abide in me and you will bear much fruit and your fruit will abide. Isn't that great? You and I need to keep close to the Lord Jesus. Otherwise our lives are going to dry out and shrivel up. We're going to be unproductive and unfruitful. But as we trust in the Lord Jesus, We have spiritual nourishment, spiritual strength. We come to the Savior's table and by faith participate in the sacrament of the Lord's Supper. Our souls are nourished. and strengthened as we persevere in the Lord Jesus, the Holy Spirit brings forth in our lives an abundance of fruit. Remember the way Paul describes that in Galatians five, the love, the joy, the peace. Those kinds of fruits are borne out in the lives of people who stay close to Jesus, who abide uh in Jesus. And we bring forth fruit like that. And that glorifies the Savior. And even as we go through difficult times or seasons, we bear uh we bear fruit. Uh Charles Spurgeon who's uh always got uh the great uh quotation Spurgeon says in seasons of affliction. The Holy Spirit brings forth uh endurance. In seasons of trial he brings forth faith. In seasons of prosperity uh he brings uh forth a holy joy. You see there's fruit uh born in season. Isn't that a marvelous thing? And and we go through seasons of life as well, don't we? Uh there are times when we're able to do this or that, and then other times when we're not able to do this or that, but we're able to do other things We sang uh earlier in our service from Psalm ninety two, right at the end of Psalm ninety two, uh the psalmist describes the uh the saint of God who even in old age is like a tree planted in the courts of God. And even to old age that those saints are still f green and full of salf, full of juice. I think that's great. I'm getting a bit older and some of the rest of us uh are as well. We change the seasons of life change and sometimes we think, well I'm not going to be fruitful now. I was able to be fruitful when I was young because I was energetic and vigorous and had all my uh oh I was a quick thinker and uh all the thing and now I'm older and I'm limited and I'm not able to do those things that The Bible says, no. No. Stay close to the Lord Jesus. Be like that tree planted in the courts of God that even in old age we're still we're still green. We're still spiritually lively and uh spiritually vigorous and still glorify God and as Psalm ninety-two says uh the Lord our w they declare the Lord is uh our God is righteous. There's no one righteousness uh in him. So here's the uh the righteous uh one, the blessed one who starts out, who is keeping on staying close. to the Lord Jesus being nourished by fellowship with the Saviour. What about the wicked? Oh, the wicked are not so. Uh says verse four. The wicked are not so. They are like chaff, not like the green tree with the It's a lush uh uh with its lush leaves that produces fruit that uh is thriving, that is prosperous, and so successful know that the wicked ones they're like chaff, they're like the dust. They are dry and dead and the wind blows them away. You know, some of those uh wicked ones, they are oh they're mighty, they're powerful, they're influential, they've got money, they've got uh uh all kinds of uh influence that they can exert, but they spiritually are dry and dead. It won't last. Brothers and sisters, keep on persevering. Keep on walking with the Lord Jesus. Stay close to the Savior. Be refreshed. uh by him. Give thanks for the grace that has been made known to you in Jesus. The wicked they are not so. The uh Greek translation of the Old Testament uh speaks about the uh that uh righteous person who's like the tree and then says, Not so the wicked. Not so Not don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. The wicked ones, uh, for all their pretense, for all their appearances, the end of the day And that brings us to our last couple of verses, verses five and six, because the verses five and six describe the the finish of it all. The uh one who's made a wise choice at the outset, who's persevered uh in that choice, is staying close to the Lord Jesus, that righteous one. Uh well, uh the way of the wicked will perish, but the Lord watches over the way of the righteous. Isn't that great? As we walk with the Lord Jesus, our Heavenly Father watches over our way. That's a beautiful thing. Our Heavenly Father has his eye on those who are his children. The uh the Lord, the King James Version says the Lord knows the way of the righteous. It's the that Old Testament usage of know that means not just knowing about It means knowing very, very intimately. God has an intimate concern in your life. He watches over your way. As you walk with the Lord Jesus and as you find yourself sometimes in those desert places where the going is tough You have a Heavenly Father who watches over your way, and he does so with delight. He does so with pleasure and satisfaction that you are honoring him by walking with the Lord Jesus, the Savior. watches over the way of the righteous because the Savior knows what it is to walk that path. He knows about the difficulties. He has experienced them. He knows about the hardships because he has felt those hardships. He knows about the uh scoffing that sometimes is directed to the one who walks in God's ways because Jesus has experienced that scoffing. That's why Jesus is our great and faithful high priest who intercedes for us. And uh the righteous, uh the Lord watches over the way of the righteous. Now as we read through this psalm, you'll see there are two kinds of people. There's the righteous one and there are the wicked ones. And you might think, well, the wicked ones surely must be the awfully b bad and heinous individuals who commit the most scandalous and terrible crimes and and most awful uh perform uh the most awfully wicked and cruel things. But really that word wicked is just the word ungodly. You see, we sometimes imagine that uh to be wicked in this sense you really need to do something terrible, but to push back against God. To deny God, to blaspheme God, to disobey God, to rebel against God, that is wicked. That is wickedness. And the way of the wicked, what does the psalmist say? The way of the wicked will perish Uh those ones, some of them outwardly are nice people, but if they are in rebellion against God, if they Will not follow the the Lord Jesus if they don't trust in the Savior, they will perish It's that clear, that simple. Sometimes when we're starting out uh on our way, it's good for us to ask, what's the destination I'm aiming for? What's the destination you're aiming for? Are you aiming to perish? Or are you aiming to be in the presence of a Heavenly Father who watches over you? That kind of shapes the choices we make, but we know that while the wicked will not stand uh in the day of judgment. The Lord watches over his people. Those wicked ones want of a leg to stand on Uh God the judge will look upon them. Paul uh in Romans chapter three verse nineteen says, Every mouth will be stopped. They they don't have a leg to stand on. They have nothing to say for themselves because they don't have a savior. Uh and what about us? What about us? Well the hymn writer summarizes it uh so beautifully and so well. Uh Charles Wesley says, No condemnation now I dread Jesus and all in him is mine. Alive in him, my living head, and clothed with righteousness divine. Bold I approach. the eternal throne and claim the crown through Christ my own. We are clothed in the righteousness of the Lord Jesus And in the Lord Jesus, we are blessed. And we are thankful for the God who provides such a great salvation. Let's pray together.