That's on page 557 of your Pew Bibles. We'll continue our study of this Psalm. Tonight I'll read it all the way through We'll be studying verses four through seven in particular tonight. Let's give attention to the holy inspired and infallible Word of God. To the choirmaster of the sons of Korah, according to Almaf, a song God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore we will not fear though the earth gives way, though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea. Though its waters roar and foam, though the mountains tremble at its swelling. There is a river whose streams make glad the city of God The holy habitation of the Most High. God is in the midst of her. She shall not be moved. God will help her when morning dawns. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice, the earth melts. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Come, behold the works of the Lord, how he has brought desolations on the earth. He makes wars cease to the end of the earth. He breaks the bow and shatters the spear. He burns the chariots with fire. Be still. And know that I am God. I will be exalted among the nations. I will be exalted in the earth. The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our fortress. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father our God, we ask now that you would quiet our hearts There is much, much outside this building, much that we are involved in. Many things of the world. We ask for God now that you would give us a calmness, a peace, quietness, that we would wait upon you, that we would listen, that we would hear your voice. That we would be moved as you speak to us. And so help us now. Grant us listening ears. And hearing your very word. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. At the end of exodus In chapter 40, we read of the completion of the tabernacle. It was finished. Finally. The construction done, all of the utensils brought in. The garments for the priests were woven together. And now the Lord descends upon the tabernacle, and we read that the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. So much so that Moses could not even go inside. Everything changed at that moment. God was now dwelling amongst his people. Now that didn't mean that sin had stopped. In fact, that was one reason why the tabernacle was there. To be the picture of that which erased and dealt with sin, so to speak. As God dwelt among his people. It was a temporary structure meant to be able to move about as they traveled throughout the wilderness. But every single moment of every single day, the Lord was dwelling among his people. It was a picture of the city of God, which the psalmist in Psalm 46 writes of for us tonight. We don't know much about this particular psalm as we learned last week. It's by the sons of Korah, most famous Korah was the one who rebelled against God and Moses, but I don't believe that he's involved in writing this particular psalm. It's difficult to know more about the background, the history of this psalm, but the words of it really speak to our hearts. And so let's jump into it tonight. I'd like us to see verses four through seven tonight as telling us that Jesus Christ makes glad the eternal dwelling place of his Father. with his children. Jesus Christ makes glad the eternal dwelling place of his Father with his children. We'll see that in three points tonight. The river, the rock, and the rage. As we go through this portion of Psalm forty six tonight, I'd like you to be asking yourselves. Do I know Jesus Christ as this one? as this one who makes me glad. Well first, the river. This verse four seems out of place In Psalm 46. Deep read, God is our refuge and strength, a very pleasant help in trouble, and then we read about the trouble. At the earth gives way, the mountains moved near the holy sea, the waters Roman four and foam. And then? Then we have verse four. There's a river whose streams make glad the city of God. It seems odd, it seems inconsistent with the first three verses. How does Psalmist go from God being our refuge and help in trouble to the city of God, actually? This could not be in a better place, according to the Spirit of God You see, the psalmist has described the turmoil, the tribulation that we experience in this world. And now Now he's describing, in a sense, a different world. He's describing the city of God. And he's telling us that which is necessary to sustain life. There's a river whose streams make glad the city of God He has now transitioned from this world now to the spiritual world. He's transitioned from the tribulation, the trouble of this place, and now He's describing that where there is no trouble or tribulation. And he begins by describing it with a river. As a river whose streams make glad the city of God. Water, that which is necessary to sustain life, is flowing gently as a stream. In contrast to the waters roaring and foaming, here we read of a river whose streams make glad the river, the city of God. It reminds us of Psalm 23. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leaves me beside still waters. Not torrential. Not a raging current, but gently providing for all those in need who come to its banks. What is necessary for life but water Christ described himself as living water to the Samaritan woman, didn't he? As she came to the well, as she had trudged once again on her daily walk to the well to get water, water for life. And Jesus tells her that he was and is the living water. Whoever drinks of the water that I give him shall never thirst. But the water that I give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. Life Jesus is necessary. And he's pictured here As a river whose streams make glad the city of God. That's what we read in Revelation 22, didn't we? As As John is describing uh the city of God, he describes it this way, he showed me a river of the water of life, clear as crystal, coming from the throne of God and of the Lamb Abundant life comes through Jesus Christ I think that's what the psalmist is pointing us to as he speaks of a river whose streams make glad the city of God, and not just a city. single river, but streams branching out from that river, multiple streams abundantly providing. Think of the rock in the wilderness. As the Israelites are complaining, grumbling that they don't have water, what does God do? He sends Moses. I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb. And you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out of it, and the people will drink. And Moses did so. How many people Six hundred thousand men, plus women and children, and all their animals. A river branching out into streams, satisfying the multitude Just like the spirit being poured out at Pentecost, pictured as multiple tongues of fire, not one. Going out and touching each one as God has had planned and purposed. Abundant life. That's what makes the city of God glad. All of it's summed up in those two words we have in our English translations. Making glad. That same word in the Hebrew is used in Psalm nineteen. The precepts of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. That word rejoicing is the same Hebrew word that we have here translated. In verse four, there's a river whose streams make glad the city of God. See, all the inhabitants of the city of God are are immersed in life. All have been given a stream of living water founded in the atoning, the cleansing work of Christ being clothed in his righteousness and being permitted entry then into this eternal city of bliss, the city of God, where the Most High Himself dwells. Think of that. If the precepts of the Lord, meaning the word of God, make the heart rejoice. How much more will being in his very presence cause one to be glad? The city of God is a picture of the eternal peace, of being justified before God Himself. Remember, our focus needs to be not on the material, but on the spiritual. I don't think that the psalmist was actually writing about the physical world. Through the psalm, he is certainly writing about the spiritual. But he gives us that imagery that can help us to consider the turmoil and tribulation of being in rebellion against God, the unrest of living in sin, versus the peace and the tranquility to be found in Jesus Christ as He atones for sin. And reconciles a sinner to God. Isn't that the image of the streams flowing from the river of life? As a river whose streams make glad the city of God. The psalmist makes clear of the peace which it flows from the mere presence of God amongst his people, as God dwells in the midst of the of his people, it becomes evident that the battle has ceased. That's the picture we have of the tabernacle being in the middle of the camp of the six hundred thousand men, Israelites. The battle had ceased. Since we've been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. No longer children of wrath, no longer enemies. For if while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. That's what we have in this psalm. He dwells only because his son has accomplished reconciliation through his blood shed and his righteous keeping of the law. God dwells only because he himself has fully satisfied his justice for the sins you've committed against him. He's fully satisfied that in Christ. This is exactly what the prophet Zephaniah proclaims in chapter 3. The Lord has taken away his judgments against you. He's taken them away. He's cleared away your enemies. The King of Israel, the Lord, is in your midst. You will fear disaster no more. See, he couldn't be in your midst if he had not cleared away your enemies, taken away his judgments against you. Us eternal peace, because of being made righteous, being declared justified in the eyes of God, as he sees his people through the blood of Christ, that peace flows, that river. Makes glad the city of God. And so we see here that Jesus may certainly be equated with that river whose streams make glad. The city of God. Jesus, the obedient Son of God, who truly makes the Father glad. Just think of that picture. As Jesus ascends, after he has gone to the cross, after he has done all things and done all things well, after he's risen from the tomb, as he ascends. Let's picture how he and the Father engage one another for the first time, so to speak, after his atonement. The smile on God's face, the favor that He has for His Son. He's made glad. He's made glad by now being reunited with the presence of his Son. He, Jesus, is the one who makes glad the city of God All in contrast to the to the sons of Adam. All in contrast to those who are outside of Jesus, who can never make glad the city of God. That seems to be the headline. This is the teaching And it's Jesus who makes glad the city of God. If you walk away with nothing else tonight, please leave with this. It's Jesus alone. Who makes glad the city of God. That brings us to our second point, the rock. There's a sense in which these three verses, four through seven, are set in complete contrast, in a sense, to the first three verses. God is in the midst of her, she shall not be moved. God will help her when the morning dawns. There's a great contrast set forth before here. Between the temporal and the eternal, between that place of tribulation and that place of peace, between destruction and prosperity. In other words, the psalmist now looks forward and he contrasts the state of depravity with the estate of holy righteousness. Well, first the temple temporal versus the eternal. We've seen that the psalmist has set forth the temporal nature of creation. Even that which appears to us, mere humans, as being eternal, the creation, the earth, the heavens. But here, in these first three verses, we see the temporal nation, temporal nature of the creation. It's brought out. It's brought forth all that man sees of the place where he was put to exercise dominion, to keep, to care, to cause it, to produce. They're not eternal. There will come an end. Verse 2 of Psalm 46, though the earth gives way. In other words, though the earth comes to an end. Peter writes of that The same word, the heavens and the earth that now exist are stored up for fire. The day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar. And since all these things are thus to be dissolved, heavens will be set on fire, heavenly bodies will be melt. As they burn. But That does not mean there's an end to existence. And that's the contrast we see, isn't it? This is one of the great errors, the great Misunderstandings, the rebellion of those who rebel against God, that all will be gone. No. We're waiting for a new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells That's again from Peter. Psalmist here sets forth the city of God, the kingdom of God, that which is enduring, that which is eternal. She will not be moved. Think of that. The city of God, glory. His dwelling place is immovable, unchangeable. It will not slip into the heart of the sea. It does not change with the breath of the wind. She will not be moved. Why? Because God dwells there. She is in He is in her midst. City of God is that place that Mount Sinai pointed to as he descended upon it. That was the tabernacle represented. Carried about from place to place as the Israelites moved throughout the wilderness. It's that which Jerusalem of the city of David was temporarily. It's that which God helps. Which he maintains and sustains. The place where he dwells. It is eternal because he is eternal. And then we might consider the tribulation versus peace. In this place, the city of God, there will be no tribulation. There will be no trouble. Isn't that what we read? In Revelation, nothing unclean will ever enter it, nor anyone who does what is detestable or false. But only those who are written in the Lamb's Book of Life. Troubled tribulation is to be expected and experienced in this life on this earth. Though the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roam, roar, and foam. But in glory, in the city of God, there is no movement. There is no tribulation because there's no sin. There is no movement because there's no rebellion. All on earth has been characterized by the psalmist as moving, as constant motion, as constant change, mountain slipping Waters roaring and foaming, mountains quaking and trembling and shaking, all suggesting, describing motion, being moved and changed, and not for the better But in the city of God, there is a foundation, an unshakable foundation, a solid rock. And that's Jesus Christ. It's the place where he dwells. Jesus is described as the solid rock, isn't he? He's described as the foundation. He's described as the chief cornerstone. In Psalm 40, the psalmist describes it this way: He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay, and he set my feet on a rock. Making my footsteps firm. You see the peace, the stability, the foundation of Christ is found only in the city of God. And then we might compare the destruction versus the prosperity. Here the earth, all of creation, is pictured as a place of destruction. The city of God is pictured as a place of joy and thus prosperity. It is a river whose streams make glad the city of God. I would say that gladness comes from the holiness of God Himself, of Jesus Christ alone. Yes, Jesus is the foundation. He is the rock, but he's also the helper, isn't he? God is in the midst of her, she will shall not be moved. God will help her. when morning dawns. Another contrast is set forth by the psalmist. The help comes when morning dawns. Meaning that there will be and is darkness. There were in a time of darkness Consider the description. Though the earth gives way, the mountains be moved into the heart of the sea, though its waters roar and foam. It's a picture of darkness as the mountains tremble. As sin abounds, we're in a world of darkness. And we're waiting for the dawn. We're waiting for the light that will penetrate the darkness. As the psalmist writes in Psalm 130, my soul waits for the Lord more than watchmen for the morning, more than watchmen for the morning. Well, who is the morning? Who is the new day? Who is the brightness of the morning sun? Is it not Christ? Is that not the idea? God will help her when morning dawns? Isn't that the idea of the return of Jesus? Isn't it Jesus who will part and destroy the darkness of this world? Was he not sent to destroy the works of Satan, the prince of this world? Who's blinded the minds of unbelievers to keep them from seeing the light of the gospel, of the glory of Christ, who's the image of God? Is that not why Jesus came? Yes. Is he your help tonight? There's a sense and that's what the psalmist is asking us. God is in her midst. She shall not be moved. God will help her. When morning dawns, are you waiting for Christ to break through the darkness? Are you waiting for that brightness? Are you longing for it? Are you praying for it? That brings us to our third point, the rage. Now we see the truth of the rebellion of men. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter. He utters his voice. The earth melts. You see, the psalmist is speaking of men here. Because the creation does not and cannot rebel against God. The beasts of the field were not created in the image of God, the fish of the sea were not created as moral creatures. And so every creature of God, of God's making, and that includes everything, every creature does his perfect will, with one exception. Man. This is how Isaiah begins his prophecy. Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Children I have reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. The ox knows its owner. And the donkey, its master's crib. But Israel does not know. And so this description here in Psalm 46, the second and third verses, could be seen as a result, a picture of the rebellion of men. Rebellion is so prevalent that the earth gives way, the mountains are indeed moved into the heart of the sea. that the waters roar and foam. Indeed, the rebellion of men culminates at the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, as described by Peter, I believe, in his sermon in Acts chapter 4. For truly in this city there were gathered together against your holy servant, Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel. Rebellion, seemingly at its culmination, and the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. But there's hope, because that rebellion is and will be quashed. That's exactly what the psalmist tells us tonight. The nations rage, the kingdoms totter, he utters his voice, the earth melts. The voice of God causes this rebellion to come to an end. He raised his voice, the earth. Melted. arises as men strive actively against God, wanting to throw off his authority and his rule, wanting to rule themselves. You're seeking to break into and overrun the city of God. That's the picture. There's nothing new in that. Remember the Tower of Babel. Come let us build up for ourselves a city, a tower whose top will reach into heaven. That's exactly what men wanted to do. We want to break into heaven. And so now God speaks. He spoke everything into existence By his powerful word. And now he crushes the rebellion once again by his powerful word. The rebellion created out of the wickedness of the hearts of men, now crushed, now melted as if it were butter in the hot sun All for the purpose of preserving his city. That's how the city of God will not be moved because it is God himself. He's in her midst. It's God himself who is preserving her. It's God himself who will help her when the morning dawns It's God Himself who's not merely defensive, but offensive as well, as He speaks against those who would seek to enter His kingdom. He raised his voice, the earth melted. Those who rebel, those who rage against God, those who move against the city of God, against heaven itself, will not succeed. God will ensure it. You may be asking yourselves, well how? How will this happen? How will the Lord of hosts being with us, how is he our fortress? And the answer is clear tonight. It's by his word. Isn't that amazing? By the power of his word. John writes, all things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. It's a description of the Word of God. It's a description of the Son of God. It's a description of Jesus Christ. It's the description of the word. The writer to the Hebrews puts it this way: the Word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirits of joints and marrow discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. No creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account You see, it's the word of God. The power of the word of God. The word Jesus removes, it melts away by his voice, the rebels and the enemies of God. And it's the same word. It's the same voice that he uses to call sinners to himself. So hear him tonight. Come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. He who has no money, come buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money, without price Listen diligently to me. Eat what is good. Delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear. And come to me. Hear That your soul may live. Yes, there's a river whose streams make glad the city of God. That's Jesus' voice calling out, calling you to himself, calling you to hear and to live. And to not be destroyed as those who rebel against him and continue in their rebellion will be Yes, Jesus makes glad the eternal dwelling place of his Father with His children. Tabernacle Tabernacle represented that dwelling place of God amongst the people of God. And the psalmist tonight calls us To consider, to know that there is the city of God. And it's been made glad by the presence of the very Son of God, Jesus Christ. He's coming for us to take us home, to be with him forever. Praise God. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for this psalm. Lord God, it's amazing to us how long ago it was written and how much truth. is contained in it. It's all true. Father, but it points us to so many doctrines and so many aspects of the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so we are thankful. We're praising you tonight. Oh Lord God, we look forward to being brought into entering into the city of God, where the Lamb will be our light. Where we will be made glad, dwelling with our Savior and with you and with the Spirit forever. Oh Father, we ask even now, Jesus, come quickly. Help us. Help us to strive, Father, as we look forward to this day, that we will be able to enter in.