Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Joshua eleven, beginning at verse one. When Jabin, king of Hazor, heard of this, he sent to Jobab, king of Madan, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Ashaf. And to the kings who were in the northern hill country and in the Erabah, south of Chinnaroth, and in the lowland, in Nephath, Dor on the west, to the Canaanites in the east and the west. The Amorites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, then the Jebuzites in the Hill Country, and the Hivites under Hermon in the land of Mizpah. And they came out with all their troops, a great horde in number, like the sand that is on the seashore, with very many horses and chariots. And all these kings joined their forces and came and encamped together at the waters of Marom to fight against Israel. And the Lord said to Joshua, do not be afraid of them, for tomorrow at this time I will give over all of them slain to Israel. You shall hamstring your horses and burn their chariots with fire. So Joshua and all his warriors came suddenly against them by the waters of Meram and fell upon them. And the Lord gave them into the hand of Israel. who struck them and chased them as far as Great Sidon and Misraphat Mayum, and eastward as far as the valley of Mizpah And they struck them until he left none remaining. And Joshua did to them just as the Lord had said to him. He hamstrung their horses and burned their chariots with fire. Joshua turned back at that time and captured Hazor and struck its king with the sword, for Hazor formerly was the head of all those kingdoms, and they struck with the sword all who were in it, devoting them to destruction. There was none left that breathed. And he burned Hazor with fire. And all the cities of those kings and all their kings, Joshua captured and struck them with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction, just as Moses the servant of the Lord had commanded. But none of the cities that stood on the mounds on mounds did Israel burn, except Hazor alone. That Joshua burned. And all the spoils of these cities and the livestock the people of Israel took for their plunder, but every person they struck with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them, and they did not leave any who breathed Just as the Lord had commanded Moses, his servant. So Moses commanded Joshua. And so Joshua did. He left nothing undone of all that the Lord had commanded Moses. So Joshua took all that land, the hill country and all the negative, and all the land of Goshen and the lowland and the Arabah, and the hill country of Israel in its lowland, from Mount Hellech, which rises towards Seir. As far as Baal God in the valley of Lebanon below Mount Herman, and he captured all their kings and struck them and put them to death. Joshua had made war a long time with all those kings. There was not a city that made peace with the people of Israel except the Hivites, the inhabitants of Gibeon. They took them all in battle. For it was the Lord's doing to harden their hearts that they should come against Israel in battle, in order that they should be devoted to destruction, and should receive no mercy but be destroyed Just as the Lord commanded Moses. And Joshua came at that time and cut off the Anakim from the hill country, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the hill country of Judah, and from all the hill country of Israel. Joshua devoted them to destruction with their cities. There was none of the Anakim left in the land of the people of Israel. Only in Gaza, in Gath. And in Ashdod did some remain. So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the Lord had spoken to Moses. And Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel, according to their tribal allotments. And the land had rest from war. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come to a passage of scripture. And we need help. Holy Spirit, we need you to guide us this evening. Direct us. Direct our hearts Father, the the passage is is not difficult to read and understand, but it is hard on our hearts. And so we pray, Holy Spirit, encourage us in Christ. Convict us certainly of sin. Father, we pray that you'd help us to seek that rest, that rest which can only be had in Christ. Give that to us tonight, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, what kind of rest do you seek? This passage tonight that we have before us speaks of rest. Jesus spoke of rest as he preached his parables. If you remember that a parable of the land of a rich man which had produced uh much. It was plentiful, according to Luke's description in chapter twelve. And that man thought to himself, How am I going to take all this produce And keep it. Where am I going to store it? And so he said, I'll tear down my barns and build larger ones. So I will store all my grains and goods and say to myself You've laid up ample goods for many years. Relax. Eat. Drink. Be merry. Rest. Rest in that which the land has produced for you as you built these bigger barns and caring for yourself. If you know the parable, God says to him, Fool this night your souls required of you, and the things you have prepared. He sought rest in himself. He sought rest in the material things of the world. He sought rest in the produce which the land had provided for him. He did not store up treasure He was not rich toward God. He sought after the wrong kind of rest. And so we come to this passage tonight in Joshua, and I think we're pointed to the right kind of rest in this passage. We know that Israel The Israelites had been wandering for 40 years. They were likely tired. They needed rest. But the question is, what kind of rest would they seek? God had been with them. He'd been preparing them. He'd prepared forty thousand men for battle. They'd cross Uh the Jordan had gone in as he'd separated the waters for them, and the battles had begun. We've read about uh Jericho being defeated, the supernatural victory, the walls falling down. We've seen We've read of those battles. We read of Ai. We've read of how they consistently destroyed the inhabitants of the land just as Moses had commanded, just as the Lord had commanded Moses. Victory after victory after victory. Those in the land were devoted to destruction We see that even tonight in this passage. Indeed, we come to this passage, and this is the last battle scene described for us in Joshua. And it's complete. There were none of the Anakim left in the land of Israel. Joshua took the whole land according to all the Lord had spoken. to Moses. We have complete victory described in this passage, at least as far as Joshua was concerned, as far as his leadership was concerned. And then it ends this way, and the land had rest from war. Tonight, I'd like us to sum up the teaching here this way, that sinners may enjoy true eternal spiritual rest only in Jesus Christ. Sinners may enjoy true eternal. Eternal spiritual rest only in Jesus Christ. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, sinners defiled the land. Secondly, sinners struggle in unrest. And then finally, sinners enjoy rest in Christ. As we go through this passage tonight, as we skim through it in a sense Want you to be asking yourself, what kind of rest am I seeking tonight? Well, first, sinners defiled the land We see here that the passage begins with an attack on Israel. They came out with all their troops, a great horde, in number like the sand of the sea. with many horses and chariots. The kings joined their forces together. They encamped against Israel at the waters of Marem Y to fight against Israel. They hated Israel. They hated the people of God. Just as Cain hated Abel and wanted to rid himself of Abel. These kings gathered together to rid themselves of the people of God, those who were seeking to take the land. And so we see the war continued. And just as the Lord has said, even in the garden, just as he had told Adam and Eve, as he had told the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. See that enmity is shining forth so clearly in this passage. As the war continues, as the battle, the fight continues, as these Kings come together to fight against Israel, to hate Israel, to destroy Israel, to fight against Israel. That's that enity that God spoke of to the serpent, even in the garden. That war will continue until Jesus returns. But there was victory. At least a temporal victory described here And it's been described to us as we've been marching through these chapters and it in a sense it ends at this point in chapter eleven. God tells Joshua, do not be afraid of them. Consider the massing of troops. They came out with all their troops, a great horde in number like the sand that is on the seashore. with many horses and chariots. The Lord tells Joshua, do not be afraid of them. I will give them over All of them slain to Israel. And then we read that the that Joshua captured and struck them with the edge of the sword, devoting them to destruction. every person they struck with the edge of the sword until they had destroyed them and they did not leave any who breathed. It's a picture of complete destruction again of the wicked Again, why is is God bringing Israel into the land? It's not because Israel is righteous, it's because the people of the land were wicked, and he was destroying them It's a picture of great bloodshed. It's a picture of death and destruction. Certainly it's a picture of victory for the righteous. But can you imagine As every person they struck with the edge of the sword were destroyed. They didn't leave any who breathed. Can you imagine the blood poured out on the ground? As we read of this event, it seems that it took place overnight. But it didn't. Look at verse 18. Joshua made war a long time with all those kings. Again, this is the last chapter that describes the battles waged by Joshua. And describes Israel's victories over those who had attacked, who had previously occupied the land. And this comes at the conclusion of this long string of battle after battle after battle, bloodshed after bloodshed after bloodshed, destruction. After destruction. And here we have the last battle described. Not that the fighting is over, we know that's not the case. As we continue reading in Scripture and Samuel and Chronicles and Kings, we we hear more fighting, more battles. But the author here represents Joshua as completing his task, his work, his battles in his time. There's a sense in there's there's this closing of military advances at this point under the banner of Joshua And so there's a conclusion in a sense. The rest of Joshua, this book uh tells us about how the land is divided up. This is a headline. So Joshua took the whole land according to all that the Lord had spoken to Moses, and Joshua gave it for an inheritance to Israel according to their tribal allotments. In a sense, we could stop there. And go to judges. But that's not the Lord's will. He wants us to understand the division, the dividing up of the land, the the occupation of the land by the people of God. But this isn't the end of the description of the battles. The covenant of God coming to pass in part. He has given them the land. So much so that the chapter ends with that verse, the land had rest from war. And so I want to take some time to open that tonight. I want to see that there is a connection between the land and those who occupy it. It's consistent throughout Scripture. As we read that Joshua took the whole land, that the battle was over, that the land had rest. The inspired writer here puts the the end of these battles in that very interesting way. The land had rest, so that there's a connection between what's going on on the surface of the ground on the land and those And the land itself, those who live in it, and its effect upon the immaterial world Joshua had completed his tasking. The battles were over. The bloodshed was complete as far as Joshua's leadership was concerned. And so the blood of men was no longer being spilled. on the land under Joshua's leadership. The battles had come to an end. The effect on the land with regard to these wars was over. At least for a time. And so these wicked nations assigned to Joshua had been purged to an extent, and his war was complete. So much so that the land had rest from war. The lifeless creation is pictured as being affected by the actions of men. Don't we see that in other places? Don't we see as Adam sins against God? We see the entire earth is put under a curse. as a result of Adam's sin. The lifeless material world is cursed. As a result of Adam's sin Because you've listened to the voice of your wife and have eaten of the tree of which I told you I commanded you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Remember, the ground was made very good, not cursed. The garden was prolific, producing not thorns and thistles. But edible and very good fruit. And so man suffers because the ground was cursed. And the land suffers. As we bring the life to the immaterial world, the land suffers because man sinned. That's what Paul writes in Romans chapter 8, for the creation was subjected to fu futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption. That's how Paul writes of the land Being subjected to bondage, to corruption, because of the sins of men. The whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. The lifeless world is given life, so to speak, in the scriptures as it as it cries out, as it groans. Why? Because of our sin. The earth suffers, so to speak, under the sin of Adam. And so we have to think of that truth. What does that mean? It must mean in Adam that we have in our corruption defiled the earth. And just as Adam and Eve defiled the garden, consider their exile. As soon as they sinned against God, they were no longer able to remain in the garden. They were removed immediately, and you think, well, yeah, the tree of life was there, but but they had defiled the garden. And so God had to remove them from his presence. From the land that he had put them in. That perfect sinless place that God had created, made with his own hands. Thus the sinful could no longer stay in that sinless place. In a sense, the land had spit them out. And we've defiled the place where he's placed us, so much so that it groans under the weight of our sin. Think of what the Lord told Cain as he kills Abel. What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. The ground is pictured as crying out as as Cain kills his brother, spills his blood on the ground. It's as if the lifeless dirt, the ground, the land, the earth, the creation, the material creation, comes to life in rejection and rebellion against the sins of man. It's as if the land, the material world, is in agony. A sinful man now inhabits it. And speaks against the sins of man. The picture is graphic. The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground. See, many times we fail to hear the grieving of God as we sin against him. But the land, the material world, is pictured as crying out against Cain's rebellion against God by murdering his brother, crying out against the rebellion. It's as if the earth is able to speak and speak for its grief over the sins of men Remember, the earth, the material world, the animals are all doing exactly that which God has purposed them for. Perfectly. Every single time. And so we have a picture of the imperfect or the sinful coming into contact, close contact with that which is perfectly doing that which God wills. It's like oil and water. The two don't mix. The material world cries out against the wickedness of evil men. There was a case here in Joshua. The inspired writer pictures the land at rest as if it were a living being. He pictures the land as needing rest. And it's pictured as as looking forward to that day when it the land will be rid of the weight of our sin. As John writes in Revelation, I then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, the first heaven and the first earth passed away. And the sea was no more. I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem coming down. From the heaven from God. The battle's over. At least as far as Joshua is concerned. The fighting of men, the destruction of the wicked was complete for now. And the land enjoyed rest. That brings us to our second point. The sinners need for rest. So as we consider these words at the end of this chapter in the landhead rest from war, we have a picture of our need for rest. The constant battles on the land that we've read about up to this point give us that picture of turmoil, tribulation on the land. Bringing the land to the point that it needed rest. It needed a quiet environment for a time. And it's a picture of the hearts of men, isn't it? It points to our need for rest. Ever since Adam and Eve's fall from grace, ever since they sinned against the holy and pure God of creation Humankind, all of humankind has been in a state of unrest. The human heart has been in this in a state of turmoil. We refer to that as the estate of sin and misery. But it can be defined and described as a state of unrest, of tribulation. That's the estate in which each of us lived in our total depravity outside of Christ. Paul describes it this way in Ephesians in chapter 2. You're dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked. That's the turmoil, that's the tribulation. You're walking in your sins, in your trespasses, following the course of this world. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. That turmoil, living in the passions of your flesh, meaning living in your sin. carrying out the desires of the body and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. That's how Paul describes each and every one of us in our total depravity outside of Jesus Christ. Children of wrath, children of war, warring against God, at war with God. As we sin against God, which is an everyday occurrence of those born of Adam, meaning all of us, we live in a state of turmoil. Why? Very simply, because things are not right between us and our Maker. That's why As we sin against God, the living God, our relationship with the one whom we desire intimacy with is broken. You see, we all desire fellowship with God. We all need fellowship with God Even if one is outside of Christ, that need doesn't change. Admit it or not, there is truly only one that you must have an intimate relation with, and that is the God who made you. And as you sin against him, that relationship is impossible outside of Christ. As you sin against God outside of Christ, that relationship with the one who made you is broken. It is shattered. It can't go on. For the mind that is set on flesh is hostile to God. Hostile at war. We might just substitute for the mind that is set on the flesh is at war with God. The natural person doesn't accept the things of the Spirit of God. They're folly to Him. You don't want them. Indeed, you hate them. And your sin, you cannot ascend to the holy hill of God in order to fellowship and communion with Him. Who shall stand in His holy place? Who shall ascend the holy hill of the Lord? He who has clean hands and a pure heart. In our sin it's impossible. To ascend the holy hill of God. It's impossible to truly commune with Him. And without communion with the one who made us, we are in constant turmoil. Outside of Jesus. One is living in a constant state of tension. Do you see it? We were made for communion with God. As we sin against him without repentance, we're in that constant state of tension. That's our natural inclination. Our natural desire is to be with God, the one who made us. But as we sin against Him without repentance, without trusting in Jesus Christ, we cannot commune with Him. We can't satisfy that longing that each of us have, admit it or not. You may be saying to yourself, I'm just not convinced. Well, let me point you to Cain. Remember In the course of time, Cain and Abel brought their offerings to the Lord. Abel's offering was regarded, and Abel was regarded by the Lord. Cain's offering wasn't, and neither was Cain. What happens? Cain has his face that's fallen. He's angry. And the Lord says to him, if you do well, will you not be accepted? Why did the Lord say that? Because he knew it was on Cain's heart to be accepted. He made him that way. To have communion with him. Will you not be accepted? Now, Cain wouldn't follow the Lord's guidance. And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Cain didn't want to rule over his sin. He wanted sin to rule over him. But nonetheless, the Lord knew that I made you this way, that it's your desire to be accepted. You see, everyone, everyone was made to commune with God Maybe you're still not convinced. Let's talk about Paul. Let's talk about the struggle sinners have who are saved. Paul recognized that he was a sinner, for I do not understand my own actions, for I do not do what I want, but I do the very thing I hate. Paul recognized that he sinned. He was struggling with his sin. He was in unrest, even as one who had been saved by Jesus Christ. For I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. Now if I do not do what I want, it is no longer I who do it, but sin that dwells in me. He's struggling with sin. He's in unrest. He's in turmoil in a sense. I see my members, in my members, another law waging war against the law of my mind and making me a captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. What was it that Paul desired? Was it not fellowship, pure fellowship with Jesus Christ? Did he lack fellowship? No, he had fellowship, but did he have enough? No, he wanted more. He wanted pure, innocent, perfect fellowship with Christ. That was his only desire. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that's far better He he wanted to be in glory. Because he knew that in glory there would no be there would be no sin. There'd be no nothing to take him away from Christ. He would be completely with Christ. That was his desire. My desire is to part and to be with Christ. He was struggling with sin. There was a certain amount of unrest yet in Paul. Consider what sin does to your heart. Consider what brings about turmoil and unrest. A few weeks ago we spoke about anxiety or worry. Webster defines that as being greatly concerned. Being in painful suspense, full of solicitude, unquiet. You see, that's what anxiety does to us. It puts us into a state of unrest. What about bitterness? It's probably one of those minimal sins we think about. It's really not too significant. What does bitterness do to us? Webster's defines it this way: extreme enity, grudge, hatred. Sharpness, painful affliction, deep distress of mind. That's what happens when we become bitter. When somebody does something, says something, we're not treated the way we think we should be, and now we become bitter against that person. Deep distress of the mind. What about lacking contentment? Doesn't that actually become a synonym for unrest? I'm not happy with the things that the Lord has given me. I want something different. I'm longing for something else. We can put coveting or or envy in there with it as well, because they're all connected. It lacks rest. It obviously lacks contentment. And if you lack contentment, you're seeking something else. That Jesus just isn't enough. And so there's something better for me. I might also think of pride. An unreasonable conceit of one's own superiority and talents, beauty, wealth, accomplishments. Webster's, in addition to that definition, states that it often results in contempt of others. As you lift yourself up in pride, what else are you doing? You're reducing everyone else around you. Do you see the unrest in each of these? You see, that's what happens in our sin. That's what we do even in these these little sins of anxiety, discontentment, envy, coveting coveting, pride, bitterness. They put us into an estate of unrest. Well, what's the solution? Brings us to our third point. Sinners enjoy rest in Christ. That gets back to our question, doesn't it? What kind of rest are you seeking? The land was given rest by God. Isn't that what we read? All the land had rest from war. Well, how is it that the war was completed? It's only completed because God brought it about. And the Lord said to Joshua, do not be afraid of them, for tomorrow at this time I will give over all of them slain to Israel. It's God's work. Right? He's the one who brought the wars to completion. He's the one who gave Joshua victory. And not just chapter 11, but every single battle that they entered into. It was the Lord who was fighting. He was the one who provided victory for the Israelites. He was the one who provided rest to the land. How are you going to get rest? It's only by and through the work of God, through his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So how? How do you pursue that rest that God can give to you through His Son? Well, first we must be convicted and convinced that there is the possibility of rest. In our sins, there's no possibility. None. Not by ourselves, not in our own strength. There's only unrest in our sins. So is there a possibility of rest? Well, that's why we read Hebrews. Chapter 4, we read this. For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. Brothers and sisters, this is a takeaway promise tonight. There remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. We read this portion of Joshua, we read of the land having rest from war. We understand that it was a temporal rest. that there were battles to come, but there was a point in time when there was rest and and it calls us to think about our need for rest. And and we read here Even as the writer to the Hebrew speaks of Joshua, if he had actually given them rest, there would be no need to speak of another day later on. And now he says, no, that there is a Sabbath rest. Brothers and sisters, you can take consolation and know and be confident that there is a day of complete rest coming in Christ. As he returns from his throne, sitting at the right hand of God the Father, right now, he's coming back for his bride. Why is he coming? He's coming to gather his bride. That he's made beautiful. That he has dressed in his royal righteous robes to take her home with him, meaning the church, meaning you, if you're trusting in Christ. There remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. Jesus Christ is going to return to take his bride home to rest. Yes, that's a promise. That's coming And then there's a call to enter into that rest. At least here, in this world. Remember, the land had rest from war. It enjoyed. If we can ascribe the life to the land, and that's what the author's doing At that very time, the land experienced rest. And the idea is we can too. Verse 11 of chapter 4 of Hebrews, let us therefore strive to enter that rest. He's calling you, he's telling you. Not only does there remain a future rest An ultimate rest for the people of God. There remains a rest that you can enter into today. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. A call to enter the rest. To know that it's possible. To know that in Christ it will come about, but to know that actually in Christ you can have it today, not completely, not fully, just like the land. There are more battles to come, but there's a call to enter into that today. And the question is how How? Well, there's a reason that the writer to the Hebrews writes this, for the word of God is living and active, sharper. than any two-edged sword piercing to the division of soul and of spear of joints of the marrow, discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. There's a sense in which the author is saying, go to the Word of God. Immerse yourself in the Word of God. Trust in the promises that He sets forth in His Word. Believe upon them. Know that he's either fulfilled them or he will fulfill them. Go to the Word of God. But there's an opposite side of that coin as well, isn't there? Because the word of God is also that which pierces, it divides, and it discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart. And he follows it with this. No creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account. What kind of rest are you seeking? There's coming a day of judgment. And that's what the writer of the Hebrews is speaking of. Rest is possible, rest is coming. You can enter it today, or you can remain in your sin. And if you remain in your sin, your unrepentant sin without trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, you will come to judgment and you must give an account for what you've done. And there will be condemnation for you. But if you're in Christ, if you're in the Word of God, if you're trusting in Jesus Christ, Then there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Brothers and sisters, that's rest today. That's our rest today, that you can know, believe, trust, that today there will be no condemnation for you if you're in Christ. Jesus said, I'm the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger. Whoever believes in me shall never thirst. Now he he seems to be talking about physical things, but he's talking about spiritual things. Isn't that rest as well? Knowing that there's no condemnation, but also knowing that He's going to feed you and satisfy you. I got this table here. And in a moment we're going to feed upon Christ. This is a table of rest. It's a table of comfort. His word is comfort. But in a few moments we're going to have tangible elements. It will consume. As we do so, we're going to be taken up to glory and feed upon Him as we rest in Him. Do you see? There's no condemnation if you're in Jesus Christ. That's rest. But even today, knowing that, believing upon that, you can feed upon Him. And that's true rest, isn't it? Sinners may enjoy true, eternal, spiritual rest only. In Jesus Christ. A parable of the land of the rich man gives us the opposite side of the coin, doesn't it? He was resting in the material world. Brothers and sisters, the call tonight is to rest in only one. Only that one who can give you that true spiritual rest and thus the communion. That you long for with your Heavenly Father, the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen Father in heaven, oh how we thank you for your word. Tonight it has been clearly that lamp into our feet, a light into our path. You've led us to think about, to meditate upon that rest. That we have and can have in Christ. And so I ask, Lord God, that you would convict us even more. Convince us even more. Of the rest that Christ is returning to draw us into ultimately and finally But Lord, would you also convict us that it's possible for us to enter into that rest today? Not completely, not fully. It's the already and the not yet. And so help us. Help us each one to study your word, to study Christ, to know more of Christ And we might rest in Him, even as we now, in a moment, take the supper. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.