Turn in your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 10, and we'll begin reading at verse 11 and read on through verse uh to verse through verse 18. Hebrews ten, verses eleven through eighteen. Hear the word of the Lord And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. From that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified The Holy Spirit also witnesses to us, for after he had said before, this is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds I will write them. And then he adds, their sins and their lawless deeds. I will remember no more. Now, where there is remission of these, there is no longer an offering for sin. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Please be seated. Um the Title of this morning's sermon is The Excellence of God's Salvation Plan. I'm running out of words to use to try to encapsulate the uh the idea of the greatness of God's redeeming work in Jesus Christ And since I'm running out of words, I would really appreciate it if you would all take a personal challenge. The challenge would be to go through Hebrews chapter 5 through 10. Meditate upon it, and write down all the many ways in which Jesus Christ's ministry what his ministry accomplishes and how it is superior. And perhaps having done that, you will be blessed as I have been blessed going through Hebrews And you will help me to find out other words I can use for excellent or superior or other ways to describe the ministry of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Christ, in particular, his sacrifice for our sins. Because that's what Hebrews 5 through 10 is primarily talking about. Today we want to look at our verses in chapter 10, verses 11 through 18, where more of the grace of God in the gospel is on display. So I ask you to open your hearts, to engage your minds and your hearts as we focus on the first part of this section, verses 11 through 15. And as we have been seeing in the past, the author begins his discussion of Christ's excellent ministry by referring back to the sacrifices that were made for sin in the Old Testament. We see that in verse 11. Every priest Stands daily ministering offering and ministering and offering often the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. Obviously, what the author of Hebrews is talking about here, when he says every priest offering daily, he's going back into the Old Testament. He's going back to the days of the sacrifices in the temple performed by the high priest. Not just talking about the sacrifices, but the priests themselves and their labors. And he concludes by noting that there are deficiencies in those sacrifices and in those labors. And he points out several of those deficiencies, and we've looked at these in our previous discussions. Verse 4 of chapter 10. It's not possible that the blood of bulls and goats could take away sins. The Old Testament sacrifices, bulls and goats, their blood sacrificed, could not take away sins. And one might ask the question, well, why were they offered? Why make such offerings if they couldn't take away sin? Well, verse 3 of chapter 10 of Hebrews gives the answer. In those sacrifices, there is remembrance again of sin every year. In other words, those Old Testament sacrifices were expressly Commanded by God to remind the people of their sin. It couldn't take away the sins, but it could remind them. And of course, we don't want to be reminded. So we have to have lots of sacrifices. And that's exactly what those offerings were. They did remind the people of their sin, but they couldn't take them away. They couldn't remit their sins, even as verse 11 puts it. The sacrifices can never take away sin. Verse 11. Couldn't take away their sins couldn't make payment for their sins, could not make them perfect in the eyes of God, could not cleanse their consciences from dead works. Hebrews chapter 9, verse 14. But they did remind them, all they did remind them that they had sinned. And that was constantly before them. And of course When is it going to happen when a sacrifice is made that actually does take away sin? It would spur a certain hope and anticipation. of something greater coming along the line. You could say With regard to the redemption of God's people in the Old Testament, those sacrifices were futile. Over and over again, they were offered. The same sacrifices were offered over and over again. This is part of the reason why Hebrews verse 10, chapter 10, verse 11, depicts the Old Testament priests. As standing and doing their offerings daily Do you see that? Every priest, Old Testament priest, stands daily ministering and offering the same sacrifice Well, why are those two words important? Well, the ministry of the offering of sacrifices, first of all, demanded the priest to stand while offering. They stood. They didn't get on their knees. They weren't laying on the ground. But they had to physically stand to offer the various sacrifices. It was also daily. With the exception of the one sacrifice on the Day of Atonement, sacrifices were always being offered. Maybe they weren't the Day of Atonement offering, but they were such things as grain offerings, sin offerings, burnt offerings, and a whole list of other offerings. They were daily sacrificing offerings, standing while they did so. And the reason for this standing, and the reason for them daily doing so was because the sacrifices were de facto. God's people's sins were not being taken away from the eyes of the only one that mattered, who is God. These offerings were futile, but they contain within them the hope, a hope that the author of Hebrews has already pointed out. in chapter five through ver chapter seven, that a great high priest would one day come And he would offer the sacrifice that was very different. That he would accomplish by his sacrifice Our forgiveness in the eyes of God. He would accomplish our redemption. He would accomplish our being made holy before God. That great high priest, whom all those sacrifices pointed forward to, that great high priest was Jesus. By faith in Christ, your sins are taken away by his one-time offering forever. You were declared righteous through faith in Christ because of this man's sacrifice. You're being made holy by this man's spirit, which now dwells in you And is characterized by Hebrews 15, excuse me, 1 Corinthians 15, verse 45, as a life-giving spirit, a spirit that gives life. With verses 12 through 14, the author begins to accelerate the contrast between Christ and the Old Testament priests. Verse 12. This man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. Do you see that very simplistic but very meaningful way in which Christ's sacrifice is contrasted to the Old Testament priests. The Old Testament priests every day Standing. The work is not done. The sacrifices are futile, but they need to be offered to remind people of their sins. But this man This man, when he had made one offering, one offering, one offering Jesus, when he had made the offering of himself at the cross to die for our sins, he sat down I I had a a a friend of mine who was a pastor who actually preached on one sermon on he, one sermon on sat, and one sermon on down. when he came to this this uh this section. But we don't we're not gonna do that. And I'm sure that most of you are happy about that But this man, when he offered one sacrifice, there was only one sacrifice that was needed. And that speaks to the questions. How great must this one sacrifice be if the multitude of sacrifices were futile? The multitude of the blood of bulls and goats sacrifices were futile. How great must this sacrifice be? How powerful! How awesome! How effective must it be? Why is Christ able to do what multiple You would think that m many, many sacrifices ought to be better than one. Why was he able to do what none of those other things were able to do? None of the blood of bulls and goats could do, even though they were offered in accordance with God's commands. Why why did why were they futile? Well I think you all understand that because you do understand something about how the Bible depicts Jesus Jesus. It does indeed call him the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. But at the very same breath, he is revealed to us as God Himself, the Son of God, the one who has The very substance, the very same substance, the very same power, the very same glory as the Father and the Holy Spirit. So his sacrifice, you see, is not the blood of bulls and goats, but it's the blood of the God man It's the blood of God dying on the cross. I can't say it any more explicitly than that. And it's the blood of a perfect man. Who dies for our imperfections? It's efficacious. It only has to be offered one time because what greater offering could there be? for your sins or my sins, than God dying in your place Tell me what more could you want? And our Father, the Heavenly Father, is well pleased that the Son took that burden on and accomplished salvation He doesn't stand anymore. There's no more sacrifice that could be offered. He's sitting down. He's sitting down. The work is done. The work of redemption is completed. Everything that needed to be accomplished was accomplished When Christ died at Calvary, God left nothing absent from Christ's redeeming work There is no do-overs. There are no do-overs needed. Nothing is missing from Jesus' sacrifice. God forgot nothing. God made no mistakes. I can't help but muse upon the fact that when I write sermons, I'm constantly involved in do-overs. Multiple revisions. And then very often after I preach, I'm reminded of the fact that I forgot something. And somebody will come up to me and do one of the more amazing things. They will say a very good point which I didn't even get. But God, you see, forgot nothing. He forgot nothing in Christ's one-time sacrifice. It was perfect. It's downright incredible And it's a clear declaration of anyone who would teach and say they're teaching God's word, saying to you who believe in Jesus Christ. You got more to do. Such teaching that would say that there's more that you've got to do to actuate your faith in Christ Christ is blasphemy. It's blasphemy against the perfection of Christ's sacrifice. The work of redemption God designed, including the cross of Jesus Christ and the resurrection, has completed your work. Salvation. I remind you that when Jesus said it is finished from the cross, he didn't just mean that his life was finished. He also meant that his sacrifice was finished Not only is Christ's sacrifice finished, but verse 14 picks up the idea that it's forever finished. Verse 14 of Hebrews chapter 10 reads this way. For by one offering he has perfected forever Those who are being sanctified. Perfected forever Redemption has been accomplished. From now until the end of time, my friends, Jesus Christ is not coming back to do another sacrifice. For man, for any reason. Not because the times have changed, nor because all men deserve another chance. Or any other reason you want to attach to it. Christ's once-for-all death is all the sacrifice man is ever going to receive from the gracious hand of God. Don't expect Jesus to do a new sacrifice when he returns on the day of judgment. To save some from the skin of their teeth. It is faith in him now. Faith in his cross. Faith in his once-for-all sufficient sacrifice. sacrifice or it will be judgment. But I'd like to bring to you another thought about why Jesus is sitting. Why Jesus is He's pictured as sitting. It's not just that his work of sacrifice is completed and finished and is accepted by God. But when you look at that text where it where it says in verse uh thirteen Excuse me, verse 12. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. sat down at the right hand of God from that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool Now those of you who listened a little bit earlier this morning heard that we read from Psalm 110. And it's that whole thought of The enemies being made your footstool. That's quoted from Psalm 10. Hebrews, the author of Hebrews is looking at the death of Jesus Christ And he's bringing Psalm 110 right into this passage. And as you read Psalm 110, as we read it earlier, Christ is pictured as sitting. Psalm 110, verse 1, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at thy right hand until I make thine enemies thy footstool, from henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool The scene has shifted in Psalm 110 to heaven. And there is a communication going, a conversation going on between Jesus and the Father. The Lord said to my Lord. And in that communication, God says to Jesus Sit at my right hand until your enemies are made your footstool. That is a motif. The enemies being made your footstool is a motif that is prevalent in Oriental thought. It's the idea of the king, the successful king Bringing all of his enemies into court, all of the countries, all the leaders of the world that he has conquered. And they're in the court of the king And he parades them before him. And at each instance where he parades them before him, The king puts his foot on the neck of his enemies as the enemy is lying prostate before the king. And the king, at that very moment, has the man's life or death in his foot. And the king, if he so wishes, could break the man's neck, or he could let him live. That's the motif that's going on here. Jesus is sitting next. Where is he sitting? He's sitting next to the Father. Sit at my right hand. You're in a kingdom. You're in a court. You're in the court of God and sitting next to the Father is Jesus. Sitting because his work is done. And what is God doing? He's taking all the enemies of Jesus Christ and parading him before him, making them his footstool. He's sitting because his work is done. He's sitting because he doesn't have to go out and fight the war. The war is done. The war is over. And what are who are Jesus' enemies? All those aligned against the cross. All those who believe that Christ's work is unimportant or insignificant, or those who reject Christ The f chief among whom is Satan himself. The absolute rule and sovereignty over the conquered ones is on, is being witnessed to here as to why Jesus is sitting. And it says, notice something, it also says, from henceforth, expecting till his enemies be made his footstool. Just want to pick up on that word henceforth. It suggests, you see, that the king, in this case, King Jesus Is constantly expanding his kingdom, that there's a never-ending parade of his enemies before him And he is destroying his enemies. It speaks of the ongoing success of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Nothing can stop its spread. I know, I know, I know we're in a period of great, looking like decline of the gospel, but it isn't true. It isn't true. There are enemies lined up against Jesus, but you cannot silence the work of Christ. It goes on. It conquers people's hearts. It conquers your heart. It conquered my heart. And that's the victory. You can't stop that. You can kill everybody. But you can't kill you can't kill the gospel. You can't kill the truth. You can't kill the truth that Christ saves sinners. As Paul put it, among whom I am the chief. That idea goes on. And of course not everybody. I mean, you stamp out Christianity in one place and it raises up in another. Look at Africa today. Look at Bolivia. Look at Peru. Look at Central and South America. The gospel is is having an awakening there. In certain places in Africa, ninety-five percent of the sh of the whole country is Christian. Man in his folly tries to think that you can kill the messenger and therefore kill the message But God has a different agenda. And his agenda goes forward. And it goes forward from heaven. Christ reigns now. Nothing can stop the spread of the gospel, nothing will be successful against it or stem the tide. Of the enemies of Christ being eternally paraded before Christ in glory And being either welcomed into the kingdom through the power of the gospel and personal faith in Christ, or destroyed if they reject that message. Jesus is the King. He's the King of life and death forever The rest of Psalm 110 depicts the very scene of the enemies of God being overcome or destroyed by Christ. Being destroyed by the king and by his gospel. Verse 2: the Lord shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion. Thou shalt rule in the midst of thine enemies. For thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power. And the beauty of holiness from the womb of the morning. Thou hast the do of thy youth. The Lord has sworn and will not repent. Thou art a priest forever after the order of Melchizedek. The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath. He shall judge among the heathen. He shall fill the places with dead bodies. That is not a sign of of a king who is impotent That's the sign of the mighty King, the Almighty, executing his judgment and his wrath upon his enemy. enemies. He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies, he shall wound the heads over many countries. He shall drink of the brook and the way, therefore shall he lift up his head. Amid the devastation of the wicked by Jesus the Almighty Jesus is depicted as simply drinking from the cool and calm of the brook. Stunning. Um some of you know in our backyard we have a little pond Certainly isn't a brook. It certainly isn't a a gigantic waterfall. But it does make noise. You know the noise that of r of water over rushing rocks? For some reason that's calming. Peaceful. The king is drinking from the brook. Calm Calm and at peace, because he has done all that was needed to do. And his victory It's not only true it so in verse fourteen The contrast between Christ's sacrifices and the many sacrifices and offerings of the Old Testament priesthood has one last superior note about it, written about it. For by one offering he has perfected them forever, who are being sanctified. Not only is it true that Christ has offered one sacrifice for sins to be removed forever, It is also true that by the same sacrifice, he is perfecting them who are being sanctified. Christ's sacrifice leads to God's people being declared holy and being made holy. He cleanses their conscience from dead works. and sin and death forever. We are depicted as not old creatures, but new creatures. Therefore, if anyone who is in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed. The agent of such cleansing is the Holy Spirit, the one who was promised in Ezekiel 36, 26. I will put my spirit within you, cause you to walk in my statutes and keep my judgments. Jeremiah 31, 33 This shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days I shall put my law in their hearts, excuse me, in their inward parts, and write it on their hearts, I will be their God Another comforter you see bursts forth from Christ's sacrifice. Not only is the sacrifice better, not only is it take away sins forever, but it unleashes the spirit. of God, which makes you perfected and sanctified in the presence of God. Jesus again And we are elect in Christ Jesus to be holy and blameless in his love. God forgot nothing God doesn't make any do-overs with the sacrifice of Christ. You are now, you are his people. And that process will go on Forever. Only Christ's death accomplishes your redemption. And the Spirit applies it. You're being made holy because of Christ's one-time offering. Redemption not only accomplished, but redemption also applied. As your king sits on the throne in heaven, he is destroying his and your enemies. And he prepares you to be a people holy enough to live forever with him. Amen. I must confess to you But to call this the excellence of God's saving plan does not do it justice Let's pray. Our Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, for your ministry to us in the Word today. We pray for the Spirit's work. To apply these words to our hearts, so that, Lord, we might be constantly being conformed to the image of your beloved Son. And Lord, that you are getting us ready to be with you forever. We thank you, Lord, that because of Christ's resurrection and our being united with Him in His death and resurrection, we are already seated in the heavenly places with Christ. But Lord, as we live here in this world, there are so many times, Lord, that we are prone to doubt and we are prone to wonder what in the world is going on. And we get weary, we get fearful. But Lord, give us a vision. Give us, Lord, your spirit that we might hold on to such precious truths as Hebrews. Hebrews 10, 11 through 15 has spoken to us today. We thank you, Lord, for your plan, for your perfect reason. Redeeming plan and pray, O Lord God, that you will continue to encourage us as we walk by faith and not by sight. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.