Please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter seven, verses twelve through fourteen. The passage of scripture we're looking at comes towards the end of Jesus' Sermon on the Mount, a well-known sermon in the near the beginning of Matthew's gospel. And in this sermon he gives people a high standard of Christian living. But this isn't an entrance example This sermon isn't telling you how to get into heaven. This is a sermon telling us how to live because we are God's people. Not in order to become God's people, but how do you live because you already are? However, while it's not an entrance exam, and while we still battle with sin, it also describes how a Christian Ought to live, what the Christian life ought to look like. Sinclair Ferguson has said that the Sermon on the Mount is not asking us whether we will live a Christ-life uh life in heaven, it is calling us to lead that life on earth as Jesus Himself did to perfection. It is not a sermon about an ideal life in an ideal world, but about the kingdom life in a fallen world. And so with this in mind, let's look at this morning's sermon text beginning in verse 12 of Matthew 7. So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life, and those who find it are f you. So the word of God that he's graciously given to his people, let's pray for his blessing on it. Our Father in heaven, please enable us to not only hear your word, but to do what it says. We confess that we are people who need help in doing this. We need your spirit to be at work in our hearts and lives, enabling us to obey. So please take your word, plant it deep within us, and change us and mold us into the image of Christ increasingly Each day, even this morning. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Some of you have perhaps given presentations Or speeches in your life. Perhaps in school you've had to do that, or part of a speech and debate class, or maybe a presentation at work or in the office. And when you're giving a speech or a Sunday school lesson, or something like that, it can be hard to know how to wind it to a conclusion. How do you summarize everything that you said? How do you kind of end on that high note that you want to end on? Well what do you say to get people motivated to act and apply the principles that you've just said or to believe what you've been trying to convince and persuade them of Well, Jesus brings this sermon to a conclusion by summarizing our moral obligations in a single command. And then he encourages us to act on what he says. And he does so by giving us a choice. to make a choice of two different options and he'll actually continue pressing that theme of choosing home uh in the verses that we won't be looking at uh this morning. And so the question basically is, will we live as members of his kingdom or will we not? Or will we remain, will we remain in him or will we will we remain outside of Christ? We'll consider this text with two main questions, as you can see in the outlines in the bulletin. First, how should we live? And the answer, of course, is to follow the golden rule. And then secondly, which way should we go? And the answer will be to go through the narrow gate that Christ offers. So first the question to consider is how should we live? And the answer, again, is in verse 12, and it contains that well-known Golden rule, what people have called the golden rule. Jesus says, so whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Now, Jesus' words here aren't entirely unique. It's been well noted that others have made similar pronouncements. So you might you don't have to be a Christian, you don't have to go to the Bible to find something akin to the golden rule. So for example, Rabbi Hillel was challenged by a Gentile to summarize all of the law, all the Old Testament law. And this was done in around A. D. twenty, so about thirteen years. Years before Jesus spoke these words-ish, and uh a couple of decades before the Gospels were written, and he was challenged to summarize the law and the amount of time he could stand on one leg. Depending on how fit he was, maybe that was long time or a short time. But what he replied was this, what is hateful to you, do not do to anyone else. This is the whole law. All the rest is commentary. Likewise, you could go to China 500 years earlier, and the Chinese philosopher Confucius said, what you do not wish for yourself, do not do to others. Now it shouldn't be surprising to us that we find people who aren't Christians saying similar things, or people from another continent away from Jesus, a couple hundred years before him, saying similar things Something similar to our Lord. After all, Romans two teaches us that God's law is written on our heart. So we should expect people to be arriving at some These kind of common grace conclusions. However, an important observation about these versions of the Golden Rule is that they're all stated negatively. You notice that? Don't do to others what you don't want them to do to you. If you don't want someone to make fun of you, don't make fun of them. If you don't want to be excluded by others, Well don't exclude others yourself. If you don't want someone to gossip, murder, hate, exploit, objectify, or be rude to you, then don't do those kind of things to other people But Jesus doesn't stop there. Jesus instead expands this to a positive command, not just don't do something. He says, do to others what you wish they would do to you. So do you see how much broader that command is? You see how much grouder it is. In other words, not only should I avoid harming people, I should actively be seeking how to bless them, how to do good to them And this is illustrated later in Matthew's gospel in Matthew twenty-five. Sheep and goats. And the key difference is going to be how they treated other people. Jesus says that the sheep cared for the poor, strangers and prisoners, but the goats saw these needs and did nothing to help them. They may not have caused someone's poverty, but they certainly didn't do anything to help it either. Uh unlike the Good Samaritan, they just passed by on the other side of the road, not offering the help they could give. So it's one thing to avoid harming someone else It's a much more radical way to live, to actively seek to do them good. But it's also much more like living like the children of our Father in heaven. Consider again what God has done for us. He certainly didn't do us any wrong, but he didn't stop there, did he? He didn't stop there. He's done much more in Matthew 5. 45. Jesus says he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good and sends. And coming in context here in Matthew seven, uh just if you look up a few verses earlier, Jesus has taught us that God answers our prayers. So God delights to give good gifts to the He does good to people, in fact even to the unjust sometimes. Of course, we see God's goodness ultimately displayed at the end of Matthew Uh there we read how Jesus fulfilled the mission that the Father had sent him to do. Jesus went to the cross for our sins. Jesus took the wrath and curse of God that we deserved on his own shoulders. He died in our place for our sins. And that's not something he had to do for us. It would have been perfectly just to leave us alone. He certainly didn't do us any harm if he had left us alone But he went further. He sought us while we were sinners and did good for us by dying in our place. He canceled our sins and opened heaven's gates for us. And here's the point. If God loved us while we were still sinners, shouldn't we love others? Even others who have Mistreated us or who we ha don't deserve our affection. If Jesus sought us while we were sinners, shouldn't we seek after others to do good to them? Shouldn't we search out ways in which we can bless others? It's not enough to simply say, I haven't hurt anyone. First of all, it's probably not true In fact, it's almost certainly not true. But even if it were true, not having hurt anyone is not the standard. It's not enough. We must imitate our God and seek to do good to others You see, living by this golden rule is a really radical way of living. It's also a Christ-like way of living And it's also actually living in accordance with God's law. In fact, Jesus is really summing up much of his sermon with this command. Uh you see, Jesus' commands aren't contrary to God's law. This isn't like the Old Testament had law and now Jesus is introducing mercy and grace. In fact, Jesus, if you look back in Matthew 5. 17, Jesus says, I have not come to abolish the law or the p or the prophets, but to fulfill them Now, the Golden Rule isn't an exact quotation of any Old Testament law, but it's actually very similar if we look back to Leviticus 19, 18. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. This is one reason why an Old Testament rabbi, a rabbi studying the Old Testament, could come to the conclusion I cited earlier. Jesus actually cites Leviticus nineteen eighteen as the second greatest commandment, later in Matthew twenty-two. The greatest being Deuteronomy 6's command to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so the golden rule really serves as a kind of litmus text. Do you love your neighbor as yourself? Then do to them what you would wish for them to do to you. Or else you probably don't love your neighbor as yourself. Do you really love God? Then love your neighbor and seek to do good to them. After all, 1 John 4:20 says, you can't love God who is unseen. You can't even love your neighbor who is seen. Okay, so that's all good in theory. I I hope you're tracking with me. I hope you're persuaded and agree. But how do we actually apply this? How do we put this into practice? Let me give you just five principles and then an additional application I'm sure this isn't exhaustive, and so you can go home and think of other ways to apply this yourself. But a first application is to just examine your own heart So ask yourself some diagnostic questions. Do I love other people? Do I consider others more important than myself? Now before you give the easy yes, of course I do, keep asking some questions. Ask yourself, am I really more concerned about their own welfare Th than mine. And you need to ask these kind of questions because if you don't fundamentally change your heart, then it's going to be impossible to apply the golden rule. If you are a fundamentally selfish person, Really no technique is going to make you a kind or loving person if you don't actually love people. It's all going to fall apart at some point. To love others, to do them what we to do to them what we want to do to us, we need to have our hearts properly aligned. And if they're not, all else goes off the rail. It'd be kind of like having a really sharp buzzsaw. And if If it's tilted the wrong direction, it's never going to cut the straight line that you want. Or if your car isn't properly aligned, if you take your hands off the wheels, it doesn't matter how good the wheels are, the car is going to start drifting. Right? And so the same thing with our hearts. If they're not properly aligned, all the other techniques are still going to drift off into some form of selfishness or self-interest. Well, a second principle, after examining yourself, or maybe while examining yourself, is to pray. Begin by asking the Holy Spirit to diagnose your heart and to convict you of any sin. Begin by asking the Holy Spirit to to search and to change you. You need God's help to do that. It's kinda like Doing your own physical exam, people need to go to doctors to kinda get x-rays and to get checked over and to see what's going on. You can't always do that yourself. We also need God's help in loving others and and for his strength to do what we really don't have the strength to do on our After all, loving someone more than yourself or loving God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength is not something you can just kind of muster up on your own. You need God's help. Well the third principle here is to put yourself in someone else's shoes. So after you've diagnosed your heart and prayed, try to put yourself in someone else's shoes and think about how you would feel to be in their position So ask yourself, how would I like to be treated if I were them in that position? Would I want to be spoken to like this or treated like this? Would I want other people judging me by this standard I'm judging them with? Or more positively, what would I want someone to do to help me in that situation? And and by the way, asking that question may actually enable you to help them in ways that are dignifying and And and encouraging. Sometimes when someone's in need, I think we can kinda jump in and you know, I don't know, Hey, you hurt your back, I'm gonna clean your bathroom and someone might be like, I'd rather you buy my groceries I'd rather do that. You know? I don't know. Like just try to put yourself in their in their position and um otherwise it's not wrong to have someone else clean your bathroom and I'm just making something up off the cuff. I really just think, think, would this really encourage this person or would there be something some other way that might encourage them and and bless them? And you know, doing everything for someone, for example, another example may not encourage them. They may actually also want to be able to help you. And if you if you refuse to allow them to help you You know, it's kind of patronizing. And so just really put yourself in their shoes and and think how it would feel A fourth principle is applying this will often mean getting to know someone, getting to know them in order to understand their perspective. So what's encouraging to one person isn't always encouraging to someone else. The way one person likes to be helped is not the way someone else likes to be helped. So sometimes that's just because of different cultural or family backgrounds or just each individual person who is just a unique unique individual. So to use an illustration, if you want to take someone out to eat, just as a nice thing to do for them or for someone in your family, you have to know what they like, right? You take someone out for sushi and they might be like, ugh. You take someone else out for burgers and you find out they're vegetarian, right? Uh you you have to know this person Now, of course, doing to others which you would want them to do to you is doesn't always require intimate knowledge. So, you know, traffic gets backed up here a lot properly, at least when it's not COVID times And traffic's lined up and you see someone waiting to get out, I'm pretty sure they would appreciate space and you letting them out first. You don't have to know them to to treat them them like that. Other times you do need to really get to know the person. A fifth principle in applying this is to just be active in looking for ways to love others. So don't be passive. Remember the commandment is do to others what you would want them do to you, not don't do to others what you wouldn't want them to do to you. So think about ways, actively seeking out ways to bless others. You might start by asking yourself just this question, what can I do for someone else this week? What can I do for someone else this week? Now admittedly that may be harder still with some restrictions on with the coronavirus. We have perhaps a few less opportunities than we've had in the past, but they're still there. So think how can I bless someone? Could be as simple as calling a grandparent or or an elderly parent. be uh helping a neighbor in a way that they need. Just think through ways that you could do this. By the way, the coronavirus is another good example. I'm not sure any of us like that masks. I mean who who says like, hey, we would I long to wear a ma a mask to go grocery shopping. But it's a way of loving your neighbor, right? I mean it's just uh something when you do washing your hands which no one will see if you've done it or not. That's another way to love your neighbor, right? And so I think this has always been true, but it's particularly true nowadays, where we can love others by trying to do our part to not not make them sick. So that's the this the first thing this text teaches us is how we should live. And the answer is we should live according to the golden rule. To do to others what we would want them to do to us And Jesus brings his moral teaching in the Sermon on the Mount to conclusion with this command. He then closes it by calling us to act And in verses thirteen to fourteen, he gives us two choices to make. Will we live as members of his kingdom? Will we remain outside of him? In other words, which way will we go? And that's the second thing I want us to consider in verses thirteen to fourteen. So again, look there at verse 13 and 14. Enter by the narrow gate, for the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. For the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Now, as Americans, we love choices. We love choices. I mean if you go into the grocery store, it's gonna be dizzying how many different types of cereal there are, or how many different types of ice cream there are And they're often mint chocolate chip in in so many different flavor uh companies, right? Being from Lancaster, by the way, I would say go with Turkey Hill if it's cheap, but uh but you know it's you can get mint chocolate chip of any different kind and you don't like mint chocolate chip you can get chocolate or you can get cherry and I do like raspberry ice cream Some people don't know why you would like fruity ice cream, but there's options you can have a chocolate or a fruit flavored or anything. And it's dizzying. We and the same thing with restaurants, at least when they're all open. Do you want Mexican Do you want Chinese? Do you want uh American comfort kind of food? Do you want burgers? Do you have you can get almost anything you want, uh from fast food all the way up to really expensive, maybe out of your price range kind of food here. And yet Jesus here is kind of boiling all our choices down to two. You go right or you go left. You go to the road that leads to life, or you go on the road that leads to just Now, it may not seem like there are only two choices. I mean, as you survey the all the religions in America, there are more than two, right? They're way more than two Uh you could choose to be a a Hindu, uh a Buddhist, you could be a to be a Muslim, you could be a Jew, you could be Jewish, you In terms of what religion you follow, there's so many choices. You choose to have no religion. You could be an atheist. As Charles Spurgeon once said, there are a thousand paths that lead to hell, but only one that leads to heaven. And when Jesus says there are two ways here, he's not disputing the fact that you could have uh many different forms of religion. But what he's really saying is they're all really the same part of the same broad path. Maybe little side roads on one big road that are all leading in the wrong direction versus one path that is leading in the right direction. And let's be clear here on this one point, every road leads somewhere. I think we all know that. Anytime you get on a road, it's going somewhere, even if it's to a dead end. It's going somewhere. And it's going that direction, whether you think it's going there or not. So imagine you get off, you're heading up 95, and you get off the rest stop And you get back on and you think you're going ninety-five north to Baltimore. And y what do how do you know you're actually going ninety five north to Baltimore? north to Baltimore. Well you can wait till you see a sign or nowadays we might pull out our phones and look at our GPS. But what you don't do is take a poll of the people in the car and say, which way are we going? If everyone votes to say we're going 95 north to Baltimore, it doesn't matter. If you're actually heading south, north to New York rather, I mean, if you're actually 95 going 95 south to Baltimore, that's where you're going. You're going to end up in Baltimore whether you believe it or not. And this is true also with Jesus' words. There are two paths, and you're on one, whether you know it or not. And same with all our friends and all our family. And so there's a very important point of application for us is never just go with the crowd. The crowd says you're going north and you're going south The crowd is wrong. Start going north if you want to get to New York. Right? And same thing here, if we want to get to heaven, if we want to spend eternity with God. If we want to know Him as our Father, we need to believe in Jesus, whether everyone is saying that's necessary or not. Well, let's think a little more about where each of these paths end. So consider again the wide gate and the easy road that leads to destruction. Uh when we think about a path to destruction, uh we may think of a really serious theological error. So given our denomination's history, if you're familiar with it, you may think of liberal Christianity. Machin wrote a a really excellent book, Christianity and Liberalism, where he shows the error of liberalism. And you could think of errors such as denying the virgin birth of Christ or that Jesus is the only way to be safe. Those are serious errors, and we should be concerned about attempts to undermine those, and we should be concerned for someone who doesn't believe that Jesus is really God or in the virgin birth But there are many other ways that people go astray, other than theological error. And quite frankly, um they can be more deceptive and we may not notice them. And so we shouldn't limit uh the broad path to outright theological error in that sense. of denying core truth. Doing to others as we want them to be done to us is a key characteristic of a Christian as we just seen in verse twelve. And sometimes we get off the narrow path by not really loving God or loving others Right? A Christian again should be recognized by his or her love. We should be recognized by this because we serve a God who is love, who sent Jesus to die for us. And sometimes we can be Or sometimes people can be, let me say, wolves in sheep's clothing. They may give intellectual assent and claim the right set of doctrines But there's no real love for God, no real love for other people in it. You can just be putting on a show. People like Jesus criticizes in the Sermon on the the mount, who fast really just for a show, who pray so that people will think much of them. People do that. I hope no one here does that By God's grace. But there are people who do that. And we need to beware of that. We need to beware because of the great danger we're in. If that is us, That is you, then you are on the d broad path to destruction, not the narrow path that leads to life. And this warning here, let me Uh remind us that this is not just like a minor car accident or a I don't know in that day your broken leg for your donkey or something This is serious destruction. This is like a total wreck. Just death, a fatal accident that leads to eternal separation from God. This is where any But thankfully, there's a better option here. The second option is to enter by the narrow gate, Jesus said. And what is that gate? What's Jesus Himself, as he says in John 10, 9, I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. So the narrow path is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, if you were to flip back a few pages in Matthew to just before the Sermon on the Mount, to Matthew chapter 4, you'll notice that in verse 17, Jesus begins his public ministry with these words: repent. So again, the Sermon on the Mount is not an entrance exam. Even loving your neighbor uh or doing to others as you would have them do to you is not an entrance exam. It's not do to others as you would have them do to you. Then Jesus will open wide the door and you can go in and go to heaven. No, no. It's always repent of our sins. Repent and believe in Jesus. Believe that Jesus has died for my sins, including my failure to do to others what I would have as I would have them do to me. But then, because he has opened the door through his mercy, and because I have entered, I am to live as his child, as is fitting for his child. And by the way, if I have absolutely zero interest in doing that, then it probably shows I'm not his child. But if you are his child, you will still struggle to do this, right? So what we want to see as we're on this narrow grid. Road is a repentant obedience, repenting every time we fall short, and trusting in God for His mercy every time we fail to do what we should do. But Jesus also here in Matthew 7 makes this point that this path isn't going to be easy and that actually relatively few will find it. And so that's a really grievous thing to think about. About? But the encouraging thing is we shouldn't overread that statement. We shouldn't read that statement too expansively. So compared to the vast numbers perishing down the wrong path Really few find the way into the narrow way to eternal life. And yet, the encouraging word is Jesus is still building his church. Uh Jesus says later in Matthew sixteen that the gates of hell will not prevail against his church. So he is indeed building it. And later in Revelation seven nine, right near the End of the Bible, we read of a great multitude that no one could number from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and languages standing before the throne and before the land. So take heart if you ever feel alone. You're not alone. Elijah, remember, felt like that once and he said there are yet God says there are yet seven thousand who have not found the knee to be Whenever you feel alone, remember God is still building his church. At the same time, be prepared. Be prepared, because again, the path will be hard, Jesus. Jesus says persecution will come. The Bible frequently warns us about this. If they hated Jesus, our Master, they will hate us too. It will be painful to resist at times to do what you know is right. It's not fun when people revile you or call you hateful or mock your beliefs. To walk down the road of Christ is to embrace a life of sacrifice of service, of conformity to Christ, of resisting sin. However, there's more good news. Matthew 11, 30, Jesus says, My yoke is easy and my burden is light. So as you walk down this hard path, you walk with a light backpack as it It were. You don't have bear the weight of your sin on your shoulders. You don't bear the weight of uncertainty. Will I make it? Yes, I will make it, because Jesus has guaranteed I will make it. Because Jesus has died for my sins and I'm not going to get kicked out of the family because I know he loves me because of the cross. And so we walk light, even if We also walk energized by the Spirit, energized and able and equipped to handle that difficult path He has laid for us. Yeah, the road is hard again, but the burden is life. And again, the great news is that this path leads to eternal life. Life better than anything we can imagine. Life better than a thousand times better than your best moments here on earth. So this is the great news. And so as we come to a close here, the question for all of us is: which road are we on? Have we entered the road that leads to life, or are we still wasting our time traveling down the path And this is not a question we can sit the fence on. To not to choose not to decide is essentially to choose to be on the path that leads to destruction. To destruction. And by the way, this is also true for all our loved ones. And whenever they don't decide for Christ, they are deciding to stay on a path that leads to destruction. And so we must be earnest in our own decision to follow Christ. We must also be earnest in our prayers and our evangelism to others. And as we walk this path We must also seek to live in a life in a manner worthy of our calling. If you are on that narrow path, keep pressing on Keep pressing on because Jesus has died for you. Keep pressing on because you have confidence that this road leads to glory. Therefore you can walk in a manner pleasing to God, knowing the destination. that you will arrive at. Let's pray and ask for His grace in carrying on the sp