This morning we are looking at this song of Moses. I've called it the rock song. not because uh we're talking about the genre of rock and roll or jazz or anything like that, but because Uh, one of the words that keeps showing up in this song of Moses is the word rock. God is called a rock here, and um we want to explore a little bit some of the reasons for that. uh I'll give you a a sentence, a theme, or a thread to perhaps tie together uh some of the thoughts here behind uh this thirty second chapter uh of Deuteronomy and I I I chose to make a sentence using a lot of Rs. So maybe Maybe that'll help you remember it. God gives a song to his people so that they will remember his rock-like righteousness God gives a song to his people so that they will remember his rock-like righteousness. Brother Ken gave a a good introduction to the reading of Deuteronomy thirty two. I thought he was gonna run away with my sermon there for a moment because th I I I have some of the same thoughts. Perhaps I I can repeat them, but uh there are a couple of reasons for giving things to us in musical form, in a song fashion. And indeed one of them is so that our emotions are reached Music has a way of reaching our emotions, shaping our emotions And Christianity addresses every part of our being, our intellect, our emotion, our will. Now, it is the case that very often people are too much controlled by their emotions, and they're not controlled enough about by the objective nature of God's truth. We might say doctrine, teaching, instruction, those things that our mind is able to get a hold of to some degree And uh our emotions often need to be held in check by the uh the objective truth of God's word instead of, you know, I get up this morning and I just don't feel spiritual. Well, it's five forty-five in the morning. The alarm clock went off. Who feels spiritual at five forty five in the morning? But if you just go by what you feel like, you're being led about by something that just shifts back and forth. People go to a wonderful Christian conference and there's wonderful singing and there's fellowship and everybody agrees and maybe the speaker is very stimulating and you feel real great You say, oh, I really feel spiritual, okay. But then you have to go home, don't you? And you have to go to the office or deal with the neighbor or deal with the kids. And it's not quite the same. And you don't necessarily feel the same way. So our emotions cannot be the barometer or gauge Of our spiritual standing, we need to look to God's word, his truth, his promises. And we need to take God's promises and say, this is my promise from God. Maybe I don't feel like I can give up some particular sin, but God gives me a promise that there's no temptation. that has overcome me, that is not common to man, but God is faithful, who will provide the way of escape that we may be able to endure it. And so that promise is there from God in 1 Corinthians 10. And instead of just saying, oh, I don't feel like I can ever deal with this. Uh we need to say, it doesn't matter how I feel. It matters what God says That said, God still gives us songs, songs that communicate his truth. Songs that communicate his promises, and songs that reach our emotions, because Our emotions are intertwined with all of our being. And so that's one of the reasons God gives us songs. The other reason uh among perhaps others, is that songs help us remember things. We teach our children songs. We teach them the simple song, Jesus loves me, this I know, or the Bible tells me so. We teach them that at an early age. So that they will have it into their being. It will be a part of them. It'll be a part of their consciousness. It'll be what they think of when they think of Jesus. I know that there have sometimes been distorted understandings of Jesus that have been communicated, but certainly the understanding that Jesus loves me, that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. This is where God reaches us in the the most wonderful and intimate way. So God gives us songs Because we tend to remember songs better than we remember just narratives. We may remember stories. Narratives better than we remember laws. And uh that was the other part of Brother Ken's introduction. I was thinking about a little bit. It is interesting, isn't it, that Moses would be the instrument God uses to give a song, because what kind of literature do we think of when we think of Moses? We think Of law. The law was given by Moses. Of course, ultimately it was given by God, but the law was given by Moses. There is a Scottish politician from two or three hundred years ago, I think, and he had a famous saying, and I don't know that I could really quote it exactly, so I'll paraphrase it. maybe improve upon it if I may be so boastful. But uh th this uh individual was reported to have said I'll let you write the laws and you let me write the songs. We'll see who wins the culture war. You write the loss, I'll write the songs, we'll see who wins the culture war. Now that's really a paraphrase of what he said. Because I don't think they used the term culture war two or three hundred years ago. But that's, I think, a profound idea. Why is it that our politicians love to uh surround themselves with uh musicians or artists or Hollywood people or whatever it is Because these people seem to be where a lot of us spend our time thinking Watching Netflix or whatever, you know. And so there is an influence on our consciousness. That comes through the popular culture that influences the way we tend to think And so if you are in the position of being an artist who writes the songs, writes the plays, writes the stories, produces the movies, then you're in a very powerful position to affect people thinking And we ought to recognize that there are other people. Presumably most of us are not artists. musicians, maybe some of you are, but uh there are other people that are in a position to powerfully influence the way uh we think And we ought to be on our guard. When I was growing up, uh my mother died when I was fifteen and My dad had not had uh a great family situation himself growing up. And uh here he was with two kids, one of them particularly Ornery, and it wasn't my sister. Uh And how do you uh how do you deal with that? Well, in the popular media that day we only had about three or four television channels. And I don't know that I would even commend all the programming back then, but it was things like Father Knows Best And at least it wasn't, you know, the Simpsons or something like that. Something about uh how to keep order within the family. And so maybe a lot of this was Pollyanish, maybe it it was a a little bit unrealistic at times, but it wasn't as overtly subversive when it came to providing some thoughts of how do you lead a family And so my father, I know he watched some of those things and I don't know how much he gained from those uh those programs, but I'm glad he he had those programs instead of The Simpsons to watch back then. So songs. They help us remember things. God wants his people to remember everything that he says, but when he gives Moses This song in Deuteronomy 32, you get the impression he particularly wants them to remember this This is one of the last two major productions of Moses. The next chapter is going to be a series of benedictions or blessings. And so this song is kind of a summing up. Uh that's what a lawyer does at the end of his case. He sums it up. He tries to make it memorable, he tries to put it all together. And this song is a kind of summing up of what he wants his people to really remember doesn't mean that they're free to forget everything that God has given elsewhere in the book of Deuteronomy, but perhaps this song will help them. What does he want them to remember? Well, uh I've chosen one verse as perhaps the the major thing, but there there's a lot more than that. Verse 4, he is the rock, that's God. His work is perfect, for all his ways are justice A God of truth and without injustice, righteous and upright is He. Now, as you go through This uh song, you'll encounter something that Looks like it's talking about past failure, but is really talking just as much, if not more, about future failure When you read through it and you see that this psalm or this song in Deuteronomy thirty-two is speaking about Israel's failure. It's looking towards the future Yes, Israel failed prior to Deuteronomy thirty-two. They grumbled in the wilderness. They griped, they committed idolatry, they did some of those things. That's why it was not automatic that they would go into the promised land right away. But now we're coming to the point where Israel is just about to go into the promised land. And you might say, oh, new beginnings here, new start Time for a good motivational speech about how you're going to be new now. You're going to be different. You're going to be faithful. But the song doesn't exactly say that. It talks about failure, and if you look at verse 14, it says Something about what God provides for his people, curds from the cattle and milk of the flock, with fat of lambs and rams of the breed of Bashin and goats. with the choicest wheat and you drank wine, the blood of grapes. When did they do that? I don't think they did that. In the desert In the wilderness, they're about to go into the land that is flowing with milk and honey. So, in an interesting way, this is prophetic. Perhaps some of it is alluding to past failure. At least it would be, you know, you were consistent with you're gonna be consistent with your past, but but I think it's looking towards the future Now that's a peculiar thing. That sounds like setting people up for failure. You know, we we're warned, be careful about uh uh stigmatizing our children and say you're always gonna be a failure or something like that I remember uh being so frustrated sometimes, uh, when the personal computer was just really growing and I would come into the living room and there was my son sitting at the computer and uh we kept it there in the living room for obvious reasons and uh he would be sitting there all the time and I'd get so frustrated Say, you're never gonna make a living sitting in front of a computer all the time. Well, you know the how that story turned out. Uh he's making a very fine living sitting in front of a computer. But uh a coach of a football team uh doesn't go out and say you're gonna go out there and fail He tries to get people's minds uh uh focused on success Now, I know that there is a too much of a secular version of that, the power of positive thinking, and not recognizing uh that we need to come to grips with our weakness with our sin and with our failure. But certainly in everyday life confidence does have an important role to play. in terms of uh being daring and willing to step out, our confidence should not be in ourself. That's the problem. It's where our confidence is. But we should have confidence that God can work in us to make us more capable. more able, whether it's in terms of our spiritual life or our daily uh the calling and our activities that we can pray to God to make us better workers in the workplace. And that's that's a perfectly fine thing. So this is kind of an odd thing from one perspective. You know, God giving a prophetic word about failure. Does God do that very often? Well Certainly he warns about apostasy falling away. Generally speaking, that's in general terms. Uh there's a couple of places in the Bible, I suppose, where it gets more specific. God sends a prophet to Hazel, I think, one of the Syrian leaders and tells about some of the sin that he will commit. He warns his disciples. uh in the night in which he's betrayed that they will all desert him. And Peter, in a burst of overconfidence, says, maybe these guys, but not me And uh Jesus straightens Peter out on that. He says, No, you too. You too. And so there is a place for identifying this kind of serious failure as a real possibility. I don't know if colleges still do it, but we used to have freshman orientation and the story is you go into the big lecture hall and the person doing the orientation says, take a look around you This room will be half empty in another semester. A bunch of you are going to fail out. You might say, well, that isn't such good motivation. Actually, what it is when you think about it, is it's just a different kind of motivation. Which fifty percent do you want to be in? Are you going to get serious here or not? Because this isn't high school anymore. And so that's, I think, just a different kind of motivation. And so God gives this song So that people will remember, his people will remember his rock-like righteousness. Yes, even after they failed. So that they will recognize. There's another R if you want to list some R's. So that they will recognize. Maybe repent if you want another R. So that they will recognize that God knows us better than we know ourselves. And that we need to be serious if we want to be in, here's another R word, a remnant that doesn't fail. You see, God has always had a remnant throughout the Bible Sometimes a pretty small remnant that remains in covenant with him, that remains faithful to him And so which part would you rather be? The part that is on that wide road to destruction? That many are going down, or the remnant road, the narrow road. And yet, a real road that has real people on it. People who have been saved by God's grace. people who have been saved by Jesus Christ who gave his life for them and who called them out. People who you might say, these are the most unlikely bunch of people. for being saved I've ever seen. Amen. I'm thankful for that God has his people. He wants his people to recognize when there is failure. And so the song is given. But then there's this other R, rock-like, God's rock-like righteousness. Rock. We uh see that sometimes rock is a complement A boxer that's called Rocky is perhaps gonna be a tough guy. Uh i a rock can be an insult. You say somebody is as dumb as a bag of rocks or something like that. That's not a compliment The rock here is speaking to some particular understanding we're to have of God. It's not a metaphor about consciousness. Rocks have no consciousness No intelligence. It's a metaphor if we can use that word, although creation is really a metaphor or a reflection of God's character. We sometimes uh forget which is original and which is the derivative, but the uh the rock-like character of God's righteousness Rocks of all the things that God created generally have this feature of relative permanence. I say relative permanence because even rocks, I suppose, given enough time will erode. But uh of all the things God makes You know. Rock, paper, scissors, all of that. Rocks, uh rocks have that feature of perhaps symbolizing more than other things, God's image. Immutability, his unchangeability. The fact that he is incorruptible. He doesn't die. He remains the same God's rock-like righteousness, his unchanging righteousness. And uh because I wanted to give you our words, I I I I couldn't fit in one here for grace, but let's put that in there. God's unchanging grace, too. God's character doesn't change. His righteousness and his goodness. His goodness reflected also in his grace. And so this song is meant to send the message that the people will remember. That when failure comes, that the failure is not going to be because God moved. That God changed. That God somehow did something different. The failure is going to be because somehow we Have changed, or we have done something. We have not remained faithful to God's covenant. And so this word rock is meant to send that message that this unchanging God, but again A personal God, which Rock doesn't bring that aspect out so clearly, but The story up to this point of Deuteronomy 32 shows that there is something personal in the rock because where did they get water in the wilderness? From the rock. And 1 Corinthians 10 verse 4 tells us the rock was Christ. The unchanging Christ, the Word from all eternity The one who in his own way appeared to Abraham and to Moses and with the children of Israel in the wilderness. He was there all along the line. And he's still the rock. It's interesting, there's two words. Uh Hebrew wasn't my best subject, but there's two words for rock or stone. One is this idea of a boulder. Something you probably don't chip away at. And in one respect, that's what we're talking about here. That word when we talk about the rock was Christ. But there is also this word stone, the stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. Same kind of material, but when you're building with stone, you are trying to shape it a little bit. Here's the wonder of Christ. Why was he rejected? Well, I guess he just didn't open himself to being shaped the way those builders wanted to shape the temple. And yet, he becomes the chief cornerstone of God's real temple. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. And so when He promises to be with you always, even to the end of the age. That's not a promise that is good only for the moment. It's a promise that God has given us rooted in his rock-like righteousness as the covenant keeping God. God wants his people to remember his rock-like righteousness. So he gives them a song. And now we sing songs like Rock of Ages. You can find uh an inspiration for that song in Isaiah twenty-six verse four. Rock of Ages, we sing the praise of our God, of our Christ, because In his righteousness, he found a way to deal with our failure. He found the way to deal with our failure He sent his son to pay the penalty, which we could never pay unless we were to spend eternity separated from God in hell. He sent his son to make that payment because of his rock-like righteousness and goodness and grace. Is unchanging grace. A grace that you can turn to this morning if you have failed, if you have strayed If you've started to forget, we have sometimes a forgettery instead of a memory, and especially when it comes to things that God wants us to remember He wants us to remember that he's there. He knows our failure in advance, and he has provided the solution to that failure So that we can sing songs of praise. This isn't the only song of Moses, there's one in Exodus 15 Probably Psalm ninety. Perhaps the one in Exodus fifteen. is the first song in the Bible, although there is a peculiar little song it looks like in Genesis This four from Lamick that isn't nearly as edifying. But there's something about being on the women's side that makes you want to see Lamech was deceived in thinking he would always be the winner. But God sent the way God gives us a song because we're on the winning side in Jesus Christ. A good reason to sing. Let us pray. Lord, we pray that if anyone here doesn't know Jesus, that you will draw them to your side. Help them to know the joy of salvation that gives a song in our hearts, a reason for singing and rejoicing and remembering. your wonderful, unchanging righteousness and grace as the rock of our salvation Help us all to keep that firmly in our memory and consciousness, that we may honor you all of our days. We ask in Jesus' name.