The reading of God's Word comes to us from First Kings three. So now here we are in First Kings three. Yet another um Section about Solomon. Um, when we were together two months ago, the last time I was here for the afternoon service, we started to make our way through this section. That tells about Solomon's rule as he was established as king after his father David. Last time we were together, we saw in the first fifteen verses that He had been prompted by the Lord to ask something from him. And what did he ask for? The request he made was a wise request. He asked for wisdom. And we saw how the Lord blessed him with wisdom, with a very unparalleled wisdom, a very remarkable wisdom. Well now what we're going to see in this section is an illustration of that wisdom. Look how great is the wisdom that he received from God. A very amazing demonstration of wisdom is what we see in these verses. So 1 Kings chapter 3, verses 16 to the end of the chapter. Having asked for wisdom from God, he receives wisdom from God. And here we're going to see what that wisdom from God looks like in practice and in action. So the reading of God's Word comes to us from 1 Kings 3, verses 16 through 28. Now two women who were harlots came to the king and stood before him. And one woman said, O my lord, this woman and I dwell in the same house And I gave birth while she was in the house. Then it happened the third day after I had given birth that this woman also gave birth. And we were together. No one was with us in the house, except the two of us in the house. And this woman's son died in the night because she lay on him. So she arose in the middle of the night and took my son from my side while your maidservant slept. And laid him in her bosom, and laid her dead child in my bosom. And when I rose in the morning to nurse my son, there he was dead But when I had examined him in the morning, indeed, he was not my son, whom I had born. Then the other woman said, No, but the living one is my son, and the dead one is your son. And the first woman said, No, but the dead one is your son, and the living one is my son. Thus they spoke before the king. And the king said, The one says, This is my son who lives, and your son is the dead one. And the other says, No, but your son is the dead one, and my son is the living one. Then the king said, Bring me a sword. So they brought a sword before the king. And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to one, and half to the other. Then the woman whose son was living spoke to the king, for she yearned with compassion for her son. And she said, O my lord, give her the living child, and by no means kill him. But the other said, Let him be neither mine nor yours, but divide him. So the king answered and said, Give the first woman the living child, and by no means kill him She is his mother. And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had rendered, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to administer justice. Mes fire the reading of God's word. May He bless its preaching in our midst this afternoon Well again, as I noted, what an amazing uh illustration or demonstration of the wisdom that Solomon possessed at this point. In our text. That's what this text really is. It's an illustration of the wisdom of Solomon, the wisdom he had received from God. After all, you recall from the last time we were in 1 Kings 3 together earlier in this chapter, you know, you had this incident where the Lord had called upon Solomon and basically invited him to make this very open request. In verse 5 of 1 Kings chapter 3, the um the request is made, or the the instruction is made to Solomon from the Lord, ask, what shall I give you? A very open-ended request. He could ask really for anything. What does Solomon ask the Lord for? He doesn't ask the Lord for long life, as you might think a think a king might ask. He doesn't ask the Lord for riches, which is another thing a king might ask for. He doesn't ask that his enemies would be rooted up from the earth, cleared away before him, perish from before him, whether in battle. Or otherwise. He makes this request, and what he asks for from God is wisdom. He recognizes that it takes wisdom to rule well. It'll take wisdom to rule God's people, Israel. And so he asks for wisdom. The Lord has given to Solomon wisdom. And we see that, especially now in this text, for the Lord answers the request in the earlier part of 1 Kings chapter 3. But here in this section, section verses 16 through 28, we see the wisdom that Solomon receives. We see what wisdom he received from God. It's a wisdom that stands out among all those who are alive in his day. 1 Kings 3, verse 12 describes the kind of wisdom the Lord would give to the King Solomon. We read in verse 12 of chapter 3, Behold, the Lord says, I have done according to your words. See, I have given you a wise and understanding heart, so that there has not been anyone like you before, nor shall any like you arise after you The wisdom that Solomon is given is much greater than anything that's come before, and greater than those who would come after him. It's a very high degree of wisdom he's been given, a very special kind of wisdom. And we see that wisdom on display in our text. Now, it's a really remarkable case, and it's a really challenging case. Can you imagine being put in Solomon's position Being the one who has to try to figure out this case. The two women are both saying the same thing. They both have accusations to make against each other. And they're basically making the same accusation against each other. When two people are insisting on their own version of the truth. How do you decide which one is right? It's a very difficult situation, isn't it? Or it can be. And two people insisting upon it. With equal level of insistence, how do you decide the truth? Well, in this case, Solomon um deals with the truth, and we see his wisdom come to light in this text. Now Again, notice the situation. Two women, they both have a baby. They each have a baby, but something tragic happened. One of the babies died. The baby died in the night because one of the women accidentally lay on top of her baby and accidentally killed her baby And so in the morning, two women awake. One has a living baby, one has a dead baby. Which one is which? Now, one is claiming that the other switched them in the night. The one who accidentally lay on it switched the babies. So that she could have a a living baby, so the the other one would have a dead baby. Now, we see that at least one of the women is lying, right? It's very clear that both of these mothers cannot be right about who has the living baby and who has the dead baby. They're both claiming, well, the you know, I have the b living baby belongs to me. But the dead baby belongs to her. Now, at least one of them is lying. Why would the one woman lie? Um I mean, really taking someone else's baby is that really going to replace what she's lost in the way of losing her own baby? Can you imagine what it would be like to be that mother? The mother who accidentally killed her own child. Can you imagine what that would be like? I'm surely there would be a lot of grief associated with the loss of her baby She might even feel a sense of guilt, a sense of guilt over the tragedy of accidentally killing her own baby. And sh cer certainly her emotions are bound to be raw at this point in her life concerning what's happened to her baby. Yet we all know what happens when you reach a point of desperation, when you are filled with grief and don't just don't know what to do with it, when you've lost something or someone very precious to you. And you don't know what to do with that loss and you feel the g uh you feel this gap of something missing or someone missing from what what is lost. We all know how easy it is to try to fill the gap of what's been lost with something and just to reach for anything. Um, you know, uh you know, replacing the baby with with the other baby isn't really going to help her. It's not really going to replace what's been lost, right? No mother who has ever lost a child or who ev has even thought about losing a child um would say that, oh, you know, that some other child is just as good as the one that I lost. No no mother would ever say that And yet, um, for some reason, this woman is driven. She's driven to replace her own dead child with the living child, the one this is the mother who is lying. Now, um it's not really going to replace the mother, is it? Or it's not really going to replace the child, is it? It's not really going to fill what's missing in her life, is it? Um again, simply replacing one child with another child um just isn't the same. And all all mothers know that. And so do other people too. Um we all know that that it's not going to satisfy the mother to replace um to replace the child with another child. But whether or not that is the outcome of what will happen, Solomon understands human nature, doesn't he? He understands it might be an irrational lie, and truly it is an irrational lie, right? Yeah, I mean this is what I'm trying to get at. It is an irrational lie for the mother to think that she could replace her own child with another child But Solomon understands human nature. What does he understand? He understands why a woman like that might lie. You know, even if it's not actually going to replace her child, is there still a reason why she would lie? There is. Solomon gets it. He understands it. Not only does he get it, He's also able to put pressure on the two women and on their two differing motivations. And he's able to put such pressure that he can draw a dividing line and cut through the difference between truth and falsehood. How amazing it is that he's able to do this. Now, what kind of boldness and guts would it take to do what Solomon does? He has a sword brought out. Is Solomon actually going to have that child cut into? No. We don't expect that he would, right? We don't think that that's really the result he's driving after. But he has the sword brought out. He has it right there and he's he's instructing, you know, whoever has it to to have it ready to divide the living child in two. He proposes, this is what we're actually going to do. Now Solomon's not really gonna do that, right? But what's he doing? He's pushing on the pressure points of these two women. in order to separate falsehood from truth. Now again, it's a little bit risky to do what he's doing. You know, um really what Solomon's doing is he's bluffing, right? He's bluffing. Um what if the women call the bluff? What if they say, okay, yeah. You want to divide the living and child too? That sounds like a good plan. What if they both say that? Now, of course they're not both going to say that, and Solomon knows that. But the reason he knows that is because he has this this true insight, this true wisdom And it's a wisdom that comes from God. He knows that the result that happens is what is going to happen. Why? Because he knows human nature. And he understands the depths of motivation in both women. So obviously, you know, the woman who's the true mother will do exactly what the true mother does in this text. She loves her her own child so much that she would give the child up rather than see the child senselessly killed. And of course as the result. We ought to expect. You know, certainly in retrospect, it's it's easy for us to s to see that as the obvious answer, the obvious outcome to this once we've read it. But why would the other mother lie? Why would the other mother lie? Notice what the other mother is doing. You know, the other mother holds fast and says, No, go ahead and divide divide the child, right? And let's each take half. So the other mother The other mother basically prompting Solomon to cut the child in two. Why would she do this? Well obviously it's because she is not the true mother, but is there a motivation for her to do what she's doing? Notice what her motivation surely must be Why would a a mother call for another mother's child to be killed? A mother who accidentally killed her own child and therefore is dealing with the loss of that child and also the guilt over the accidental Death of her own child? Why would she call for another mother's child to be taken from her as well? Well here now we see the point. She doesn't really want the child. She's not really trying to replace the child. She just wants the other mother to experience what she's experienced. So the same thing that has been inflicted upon her, mysteriously, she projects and inflicts upon someone else. And that's what Now, there's a c lesson here for us to be careful that when we suffer loss under God's good hand That we're not inclined to react out of bitterness or envy because truly it is envy. It's not that she actually wants the other child. She wants um she wants someone else to suffer the same loss that she's suffered. And yet when the Lord in his mysterious will sometimes allows us to experience um such tragedies and difficulties in our own life. We need to be careful to Submit to his providence, we need to be careful not to act act out against others trying to inflict upon them the same thing that God has perhaps mysteriously inflicted upon us. But we also need to be careful, to be to be ready to come to the aid of those who are struggling and suffering, so that we can help them in the midst of what they're going through. rather than um have them uh go to these extreme measures like this woman is going to. And yet, you know, the the big point here is of course this remarkable wisdom that Solomon has Solomon saw this outcome even from the beginning. He could see it coming, and so he knew how to bring it out. And so he did bring it out. And yet the whole point of this is that Solomon is ri remarkably wise with a wisdom that comes from God. That wisdom that comes from God is what all Israel hears about at the end of our text. It's they too hear of this judgment, they too are amazed. They come to respect and to fear him as their king, and they see the wisdom that God has given him. We see this in verse 28. Notice the the outcome of this text. And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had rendered, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him to administer justice. So they're brought to recognize true wisdom from God. They're brought to recognize that this is what Solomon had, that this is what Solomon was given. Now, we see that Solomon has this great remarkable wisdom here in our text. But we also have to ask concerning Solomon's wisdom. Where does his wisdom get him at the end of the day? And where does all this wisdom lead to in the end of the day? Now of course having such wisdom is a good thing. We see the benefit of it immediately here in our passage, don't we? This wisdom helped him to rule well in the midst of God's people. Surely this one case is one sample of the cases that he saw, is just one sample. Surely the same remarkable wisdom was exercised in other cases as well. So not just this one case with these two women But surely other cases throughout the time of his rule. We also see other ways that God blessed and prospered the reign of Solomon and his rule in the midst of God's people. We see that it was Under the rule of Solomon, that the temple was built, a glorious reality for the people of God. We also see in the midst of Solomon's rule great prosperity and even expansion of the kingdom of Israel The kingdom prospering under his hand. The kingdom prospering under his hand. But also notice Where Solomon has this great wisdom and is able to do good in the midst of the people of Israel in this day. Notice that as much as this wisdom that he had from God is what enabled him to do this. All the progress that was made for God's kingdom, and all the prospering that he saw for the kingdom of God, even with this wisdom he had from God. All that progress, all that prosperity, just as much as it was gained, was also just as easily eventually lost. So notice, everything that Solomon does with this God-given wisdom is good. But it also comes to an end. The temple that he was able to build was eventually destroyed. The kingdom that expanded and grew under his rule. also got overrun, and the people also got sent into exile. So for all that Solomon was able to do with his wisdom, we ought to appreciate the wisdom that comes from God. But we also ought to understand that wisdom from God, even wisdom from God, is not necessarily enough. to see success in the kingdom of God and to see the prosperity of God's kingdom. And something for us to be cognizant of. We are also in the book of Ecclesiastes in our morning service these days, and as we look at Ecclesiastes, we see Solomon come to the point where he he has great wisdom and recognizes the great wisdom he has from God. But he also recognizes the limits of it. So wisdom is a good thing. It's a blessing from God. But it's not ultimately what determines the success of God's kingdom, is it? Wisdom can go so far. Now we are shown in the fact of Solomon's wisdom and the way God's God's kingdom in in the form it's under. is able to prosper in the Old Testament under Solomon's rule. The fact of this shows us a glimpse of the fullness of God's kingdom But the fact that that kingdom was able to fail and end in failure is also a picture of the fact that something greater than Solomon was needed. And so again, Solomon is great in his wisdom because it's wisdom from God. But Solomon points to somebody much greater than Solomon. He points us to the fact that it takes more than just God given wisdom for the kingdom to be established. What does it take? It takes the God man, Jesus Christ, bearing the sins of the world, in order to save those who belong to him. It takes uh Christ. Christ is the true wisdom from God, who comes down from heaven And saves us. He saves us not by instructing us in God's ways. That's not the way he saves us. But he saves us by bearing our sins in his own flesh. And so this is what this passage really points us to. We see the greatness of Solomon. He points us to the need for someone greater than Solomon, and he points us to that one who is greater than Solomon. He points us to the Lord Jesus Christ so that we would know him, and so that we would look to him and see God's kingdom established in his work. Well, praise God that we have such a Savior. We have a Savior who is wiser than Solomon, you know, even wiser than this great remarkable wisdom that Solomon shows, a wisdom that comes from God. And a wisdom that saves us. And a wisdom that saves us because he comes and bears our sins for us. Let's give thanks to him for this, and let's give thanks to him for his salvation. Amen. Let's pray. Well, Father, we do uh recognize uh much like the people of Israel did in our text, we Stand amazed and we stand in fear at the wisdom that you granted Solomon. Oh Lord, what remarkable wisdom it would have taken to sort through that issue the way it did. We praise you that you enabled this, but we also look to our Savior, who is greater than Solomon, and give thanks to you for him. We thank you that Solomon points us to Christ, and we thank you that Christ is the faithful Savior. Thank you that he is wisdom from God, not in that he just comes to instruct us and just to tell us the way of true wisdom, but he embodies wisdom. And he accomplishes our salvation by burying our sins upon the tree in his own body. Lord We rejoice that we have such a Savior. We ask you that you would continue to prosper your kingdom, that you would prosper your church. That you would help us to look for its prosperity not in our own wisdom, but in the work of Jesus Christ and in his salvation. We pray that the kingdom of God would indeed grow and be manifest on this earth by the working of the Holy Spirit, who works things that are greater than the wisdom of men. We ask all these things um for the sake of Christ. We pray these things in his name. Amen