Please open with me in your copy of God's Word to the book of Judges, way back toward the beginning of the Bible on page 238 in the Pew Bibles. The book of Judges. Perhaps if you were to choose a story most familiar from Judges, it might be Samson. Or perhaps you remember Deborah and Barak. But this morning we'll hear of how God worked through his judge named Ehud. Hear now the Word of God from Judges chapter 3, beginning in verse 12 through verse 30. And the people of Israel again did what was evil in the sight of the Lord And the Lord strengthened Eglon, king of Moab, against Israel, because they had done what was evil in the sight of the Lord. He gathered to himself the Ammonites and the Amalekites, and went and defeated Israel. And they took possession of the city of Palms. And the people of Israel served Eglon, the king of Moab, eighteen years. Then the people of Israel cried out to the Lord, and the Lord raised up for them a deliverer. Ehud, the son of Gerah, the Benjaminite, a left-handed man. The people of Israel sent tribute by him to Eglon, the king of Moab. And Ehud made for himself a sword with two edges, a cubit in length, and he bound it on his right thigh under his clothes. And he presented the tribute to Eglon, king of Moab. Now Eglon was a very fat man. And when Ehud had finished presenting the tribute, he sent away the people who carried the tribute. But he himself turned back at the idols near Gilgal and said, I have a secret message for you, O king. And he commanded, silence. And all his attendants went out from his presence. And Ehud came to him as he was sitting alone in his cool roofed chamber And Ehud said, I have a message from God for you. And he arose from his seat. And Ehud reached with his left hand, took the sword from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly And the hilt also went in after the blade, and the fat closed over the blade, for he did not pull the sword out of his belly, and the dung came out. Then Ahud went out into the porch and closed the doors of the roof chamber behind him, and locked them. When he had gone, the servants came. And when they saw that the doors of the roof chamber were locked, they thought, surely he is relieving himself in the cool of the clo of in the closet of the cool chamber. And they waited till they were embarrassed. But when he still did not open the doors of the roof chamber, they took the key and opened them, and there lay their Lord dead on the floor. Ehud escaped while they delayed, and he passed beyond the idols and escaped to Sirah. When he arrived, he sounded the trumpet in the hill country of Ephraim. Then the people of Israel went down with him from the hill country, and he was their leader. And he said to them, Follow after me, for the Lord has given your enemies, the Moabites, into your hands. So they went down after him and seized the fords of the Jordan against the Moabites, and did not allow anyone to pass over. And they killed at that time about ten thousand of the Moabites, all strong, able bodied men. Not a man escaped. So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel, and the land had rest for 80 years. That is God's word. Would you please be seated? Let us pray. Our Father, we come before your word and it searches us. We ask that you would apply your word to our hearts, that we would see our Savior more clearly, that we would grow in love for Him. That we would see the salvation that you have given to us, and that we would be those who are conformed after the image of godliness by the preaching of your word. For this is the work of your spirit. All this we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Well back in eighteen oh five In an October day, the British Navy was at sea, back in the era of tall wooden ships. And as the sun rose on that morning, the the lookouts on the masts noted that the horizon had changed a little bit The British fleet was at sea because there was a threat, and finally the threat was apparent because the horizon was now dotted with numerous white sails of the combined French and Spanish fleets. Napoleon had sent the navy against the British to try to defeat them one last time at sea, to crush them so that he could land troops on British soil and expand his empires to the edge of Europe. For the outnumbered British Navy, the stakes couldn't have been higher And they arranged themselves in their battle formations, and as they did so, the lead ship was the flagship of their admiral, Lord Nelson. And he took the lead on the attack, and as the lookouts watched the rigging on the HMS victory, they saw him run up one last message to his sailors. And it simply said, England expects, every man will do his duty. As we come to the book of Judges, we find that the same message is given to each of these judges That God expects each of these judges to do his duty or her duty in the case of Deborah But what is it that God requires of them? There's a criteria that appears time and again throughout the book of Judges. How will the judge care for the people of God? How will he judge them? Will he judge them rightly? And perhaps most importantly, what will he do about the right worship of God? Will he maintain the right worship of God if he inherited worship that was healthy? And will he restore it if he inherits worship that had turned astray? You see, the stories of Judges show us different aspects of who the Messiah needed to be. Each story shows us a little piece that Israel could see and understand that we need a greater Savior. We need one who will not turn aside, will not wink at sin. We need one who will deal with sin head on, who will deliver his people, who will care for his people. And we see that the story of Ehud fits into the first half of the book of Judges, where the judges are generally pretty good. If you continue reading through judges, you'll find that at Gideon there's a tipping point. And the judges start to get a little worse and a little worse and a little worse until at the very end it's a complete catastrophe. But Israel had come at this point through their wilderness wanderings. Moses had died Joshua had begun the conquest, and then he left it to Israel to finish, to complete the conquest that God had mandated. And throughout the book of Judges, we find that that conquest was left fairly well undone. And so this story begins, like many of the stories in the Book of Judges. With the people of Israel yet again doing evil in the sight of the Lord. And we see that in the first verse in verse 12 During this time of turmoil, it seems that every story begins with Israel doing what was evil in the sight of the Lord. And perhaps they looked back at the wilderness wanderings and thought, There was the golden age of obedience. Except for the golden calf, except for that incident at Baal Peor, except for all the other incidents, maybe it was just better back in the wilderness. Of course the people in the wilderness had said the same thing, didn't they? They said maybe it was better back in Egypt The problem is looking backward is not looking forward to Christ. There was a greater Savior that was needed to deliver God's people from doing evil in the sight of the Lord. But what was this evil that Israel did for which God would strengthen the Moabite king against them? The author does not say for us. Simply, Israel did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. We've heard God's law this morning, that we are to be renewed. That our minds are to be transformed by the Word of God. That same mandate was given for the people of Israel They knew the moral law of God. They knew how God expected his people to behave and they turned aside, looking to their own strength. They could not They could not accomplish righteousness for themselves, just as we, looking to our own strength, cannot accomplish righteousness for ourselves. And so, with no more knowledge than that evil simply was done, we see the Lord through the sword of a pagan king bringing judgment upon Israel. Moab allies itself with the Ammonites, an arch enemy of the Israelites. And even worse, with the Amalekites. These are neighbors to Moab by location and by family ties. And with this alliance formed, Moab now has the strength to attack and to destroy Israel, which they promptly do. And they take possession of the city of Palms. And this city is most likely a reference to the city of Jericho, situated just at the north end of the Dead Sea in the Jordan Valley. You might remember Jericho from earlier on in the book of Joshua. Joshua had commanded that after the destruction of Jericho, at the cost of his firstborn shall he lay its foundation, and at the cost of his youngest son shall shall he set up its gates. That's from Joshua 6. 26. Jericho was not to be rebuilt. So likely by the time we get to this story, in Judges chapter three, Jericho had only been partially restructured by the Moabite king. It had probably not been fortified, and so it stood unfortified at the northern tip of the Dead Sea And now it's the seat of power from which Eglon could wield power over Israel, controlling the passage east and west across the Jordan River. And for 18 years time passes by, and there's quite a bit of space there between verses 14 and 15. Because 18 years leaves a fair bit of time for things to happen. Children grow up. The elders of the previous generation who remembered the things that were evil that they'd done in the sight of the Lord grow old and they begin to die. An eglon's rule over the people of Israel becomes just another fact of life. It's amazing what people can get used to in 18 years. And Eglon's rule was not something that the Israelites particularly desired. They knew that something else was what God had promised for them. They needed a deliverer. They stood under oppression and realized that they needed God's own Savior to come to them These children grow up and become teenagers under the reign of Eglon. Their parents tell them of the evil that they had done, which God had judged them for, and the people remember Yahweh. They remember the God who delivered them from Egypt all those years ago, who had promised to be their God, and had promised that they would be his people, and they cry out to the Lord for help. We see that in verse 15, a simple thing that the people of Israel do. They cried out to the Lord. How often do we find ourselves in that situation? Where we see the odds stacked against us, that sin would stand against us and would condemn us. Where do we turn? We, like the Israelites, cry out to the Lord. God tells us whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. When God gives you a promise, grab onto it with both hands. That promise is for you. And so in verse 15 Their help is sent from God. For just as God had once strengthened Eglon against Israel, now he raises up Ehud to be the deliverer of Israel. And that word deliverer in the Hebrew is a familiar one. It's Messiah. He shows forth what the kind of deliverer would be that God would send to finally destroy the seed of the serpent. And we have very limited information about Ahu. Hebrew is pretty terse. It doesn't explain lots of detail. We don't really know what Ehud thinks. We don't really know what he looks like. What we know, though, is important. He has an Israelite lineage through his father. He is an Israelite. He is an inheritance. He's one to whom the inheritance of promise is given. He's a Benjaminite. And we get one more interesting descriptor of Ehud. He's a left-handed man. And you say, that's an interesting detail. Now left-handed is a perfectly legitimate translation of what happened here. The text, if you were going to translate it literally, would say bound of right hand. And how do you describe that? Left-handed. But it's not a common phrase in the Bible. In fact, it only appears again in Judges chapter twenty, verse sixteen, where we get the same phrase, the left-handed men from the tribe of Benjamin. And there The same phrase, bound of right hand, is in the context of a person who seems particularly skilled in combat. Many commentators have wrestled with that. Why is it that the skilled Israelite warriors are left-handed? One Old Testament professor has offered perhaps the most straightforward explanation. Among the warriors of Israel, there were a few chosen to be bound of right hand in their training. Who were trained to use their left hands in combat as quickly as their right. And so they were equally capable. They were ambidextrous, which is actually how the Septuagint translates this passage, the Greek Old Testament. So what does all that interesting observation about left-handedness actually mean for us here in Judges chapter 3? But well, we find out that God had raised up a particular man. With a particular skill set to deal with the particular problem facing Israel. As the people of Israel had cried out to the Lord, the Lord sends them Ehud, whom he had been training from far before the people of Israel cried out. Before the people ever lifted their voices to the Lord, God was already working salvation for them, preparing the way before them. How often in our own lives do we come to the Lord only to find out that someone has been praying for us? That many times we'd heard the gospel and responded with hardness of heart until the day that the Spirit breathes new life into us. Our God has been working salvation from of old. Well, with the scene set like this and the camera zoomed in now on the special forces warrior that's been sent to judge Israel. we see Ehud, hammer in hand, forging a special purpose blade for himself. Apparently he had something in mind particularly, because he forms for himself a dagger. A cubit is about the length of a forearm. And this is a sword with two mouths, or you say a a two-edged dagger. It wasn't designed to be used in heavy combat It wouldn't turn a sword blow very effectively. However, it was the ideal blade for the sort of cloak and dagger diplomacy that Ehud seemed to have in mind. And what's more, this capable left-handed man bound the dagger under his outer garment on the right thigh In a day and age when everybody could see if you were armed simply by looking at your left thigh, because that's where right-handed people wore their swords, Ehud puts his on the opposite hot side and hides it under a cloak. He knew that conquered people presenting tribute to the king wouldn't receive a friendly welcome if they showed up armed to the teeth. He also knew that people were used to those right-handed warriors. And so he made the most of his left-handed ability and he hides his weapon on the opposite side that wouldn't receive anything, maybe only a passing glance from the guards outside of Eglon's presence. And now the camera shifts again, and we're taken into the king's receiving room with Ehud presenting the tribute before Eglon. And this time the camera focuses in on Eglon. And after 18 years, he's grown accustomed to his rule over what had been formerly the territory of Israel Perhaps in his youth he'd been the fit warrior king, able to lead the troops in battle, but now rule over years had softened him, and food and drink had taken their toll, and he's put on some weight. But that's not the point of the text here. Because eglon's name is even a bit of a pun. Because in Hebrew the word for calf, like a baby cow, and the word for eglon sound the same. And so we have the fatted calf in the presence of the special forces warrior in the king's receiving room. And commentators have noted that this is clearly intended to set up some dramatic tension for us. But it's interesting wordplay, but what can Ahud do? He's surrounded by people. He has responsibilities for his men who he's brought with him to deliver the tribute. He can't lead them into their death, and there's no way that Here in the city of Palms they'd be able to fight their way out. And so he puts this plan into action. And we see in verse eighteen, he sends everyone away with him who had carried the tribute along with him. Having accompanied them to an apparently safe distance back away from the city of Palms, Ahud now turns back toward the city. And in verse 19. He entices the king. He says, I have a secret message for you, O king. So you turn back by the idols at Gilgal to deliver a message. You see this word though, message, is another one of those interesting wordplay words for the Hebrews. Listening to this, they could hear that word and think message, or they could simply think thing. Ehud might have said, I have a secret thing for you, okay? And he was telling the truth. He absolutely did. Context determines how to understand statements. Anyone who's had a miscommunication in their household knows how much context comes into play. Ehud here is employing a double entendre, much like if a person grabbed a checkbook in one hand and a fishing pole in the other instead of going to the bank You'd have to ask what bank? Are you going to the bank to deposit the check or are you going to the bank to go fishing? Context matters. So Eglon hears, I have a secret message for you. What Ehud says, and what we hear is, I have a secret thing for you. And the Israelites reading the story would be chuckling a little bit at this point. Here is the fatted calf. Once more in the presence of the special forces warrior, and now we know that he's got a secret thing for him. Well, Eglon is enticed. He sends out all of his attendants. There's something secret for me. These guys don't need to hear about this. This is a secret. So he grants a private audience to Ehud. I wonder what's going to happen, the Hebrews would be saying at this point. But verse 20 draws us in even further. Eglon is in his receiving chamber, the upper room of two stories. There's actually archaeological evidence that shows how these were constructed. That these were were big structures built over a running water because you could if you were in charge of the city, you could have your own private commode with its own plumbing system. Well, we find out a little bit more about what the secret thing is. Ehud says, I have a message from God for you. And Ehud doesn't mean words. He's going to deliver something on behalf of God to Egwon. Eglon is totally hooked at this point. He the the hook is set in his mouth and Ehud is reeling him in. And he gets up, and the story slows down a little bit for us. He rises up out of his seat And Ehud steps forward. And he reaches his left hand. A pretty innocuous gesture. He reaches his left hand and takes out his sword from his right thigh. and stabs it into Eglon. And the narrator here in our story gives us more detail. Detail that highlights how great Ehud's skill was and how great Eglon had become. The dagger, about the length of a forearm, sinks into Eglon and the dung comes out. And you might say, is this just Gratuitous violence? Do we really need to know that? Well, so far the narrator has been showing us that details matter in the story. That this is going to come back again. And indeed it does. So with Eglon lying dead or dying on the floor in some degree of stench, Ehud goes out onto the porch and locks the doors. And we're left to wonder how can Ehud escape now? He's just climbed into the second story. He's in the city of the king and he's locked the doors behind him. And he couldn't when they when they come in, they're going to find him, and it's going to be pretty obvious what he did. But now we see the servants in verse 24. And they see that the doors are locked. They've come back to check on the king. And they say, we're used to this. We know how to deal with this. This is his own private room. And wouldn't you know the door is locked? And we see the little detail about the dung coming out coming into play once more. They have evidence to support their theory that Eglon is busy. And so the servants mill about outside until they become embarrassed. We can't wait any longer, we've got to go check on them. And so they decide to risk the rebuke. They take out the key, they open the door, and there is Eglon dead on the floor, and the camera immediately shifts. And we see Ehud, who slipped away. The Hebrew actually adds through the toilet chute, which might have been intended to Caused some more chuckles. The Hebrews are here now realizing the genius of their deliverer. They're seeing the foolishness of the enemy king and they're seeing God's plan coming together and it's causing some degree of of mirth And Ehud slips past the idols while he's escaping. Once more, we see Ehud going past idols. And arriving to his destination, he blows the horn in the hill country of Ephraim. And the pace of the story is picked up dramatically, and the Israelites respond to the call, they muster before him, he cries out before them that God has delivered them from the Moabites. And so they take up their arms, they go down to the city, and they seize the fords across the Jordan, and they cut off any access from the city of Palms to the rest of the Moabites. The city of Palms would be on the western bank of the Jordan, and Moab is to the east. And they strike down ten thousand Moabites. Not a single man escapes. And after eighteen years, they finally are back in charge of the land that the Lord their God had given to them as an inheritance. And what's more, the story closes with eighty years of rest for the land. That characteristic sign of blessing, twice as much as the rest won by Oatniel in the preceding story. Now to any of us, this might seem like an unmitigated victory. Eighty years of rest. But to the Hebrew hearers and to us, there are a couple of things that might slow our wholesale rejoicing at Ehud's victory. The first is there in verse 19. Ehud is the judge of Israel. Why are there idols in place at Gilgal? And the second is in verse twenty-six. Where in his flight back to Ephraim, he's noted as passing by the idols once more. Why did he leave them standing? The victory was his. There was nothing to stop him from tearing those idols down. So imagine that you're hearing this story during the time of Israel's Babylonian exile. You've been carried away to a foreign land. God has judged Israel, and you're asking yourself. What led to this? Did it suddenly happen to us? We were having a wonderful time of the glory days in Israel with David as king. Why did it suddenly turn aside? Well, the story of Ehud tells us that God's judgment on Israel wasn't a spur-of-the-moment decision. Our God is patient and He is long-suffering. He relents over disaster. He is full of steadfast love and mercy. He is slow to anger. And even in this otherwise positive story, this deliverance by God, we see how God works the situation exactly according to his plan. That even before Israel was ready to call out for their need, he had sent the deliverer that they would need. And that's that's where each of us are today. That as we realize our sin and our need, we look to the deliverer that God has already raised up for us. We look to the author and perfecter of our faith, to Jesus Christ, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despised the shame, and is now seated at the right hand of God. We see also the true godly king cannot turn a blind eye to idolatry. Ehud won eighty years of rest for the land. And that's certainly nothing to sneeze at. That might be a whole life. That you can live in the rest that AHUD had won for you. But in the scheme of history, eighty years is a blip on the radar. Eighty years of rest is far, far less than God holds out to us in Christ Jesus. And so for all of his wordplay and for all of his cleverness, Ehud couldn't be the one to win the final rest. For all this combat skill, he couldn't be the one to win the decisive victory. Another would have to come. One who would be righteous, who would do righteously, who would deliver his people finally. See, when the the Jews first heard the story of Ehud, they knew that there was one to come, but they didn't know what his name would be. We do. We have the sure testimony of the apostles. As Peter writes, the prophetic word is more fully confirmed, to which we would do well to pay attention. That the prophets looked forward to the one who would be born in Bethlehem in Micah 5, 2, and we see that accomplished in the Gospels. We would look forward to the one who would be the man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, that he would be stricken That he would be pierced for our transgressions and crushed for our iniquities, and we see that accomplished by Christ at the cross, and we see that God would not let his holy one see corruption, and we see that Christ was raised from the dead. And he has ascended. And he is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. And that he's reigning for the good of his people. And that promise is for each of us. You see, this is what Paul latches on to in the book of Acts, back when he's preaching at the Areopagus. The Greeks worshipped everything they could think of. They had idols all the way down the road, and they even had a blank idol stand. To the unknown God. And Paul says, this God, whom you don't know, is the only God. He is the true God, and he is jealous for the right worship. that he is due alone. You might hear the words of Isaiah 42. 8 ringing in your ears, I am Yahweh. That is my name. My glory I give to no other, nor my praise to carved idols. This God, Paul says, we have seen in Christ Jesus. Jesus himself says, if you have seen me, you have seen the Father. And having known this God, we are now accountable for that knowledge. None of us are able to stand on that last day and say, I didn't know. I didn't know. So, what does Judges 3 teach us about Jesus? We understand that all of the Old Testament points forward to Christ. So, in the first place, it shows us Christ's zeal for the right worship of God. Ehud failed to judge Israel's idolatry rightly. But what does Jesus say? Repent and believe. This is the free offer of the gospel that's held out that's held out to everyone. And what is repentance? But turning aside from dead works, seeing the mercy of God that's freely offered and laying hold of Christ Jesus Himself. That is a gift of God's Spirit. If you hear the gospel proclaimed that Christ Jesus, the second person of the Trinity, took on flesh, He lived perfectly for us, that His righteousness is held out to us. That he became sin at the cross so that we might become the righteousness of God. And that Christ and all of his benefits are held out to you, then rejoice that God is speaking to you. Rejoice that you have heard from the one who spoke all things into being by the word of his power. That there is, to paraphrase the Puritan Richard Sibbs, more grace in Christ Jesus than there is sin in you If you haven't known this Jesus, then turn to him. Turn and call upon the name of the Lord and you will be saved. For if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, then you will be saved. There's no preparation that we can make that will prepare us to come to Christ, but he calls to us. And all we can do is respond to God's call by the power of his spirit. And if you know this call, if you have heard Christ's voice, if you are one of his sheep, then know what attitude God calls us to have toward our sin. That we are called now by the power of God to put it to death. It's a task that God gives to us daily to root out the sin in our hearts and to be merciless in putting it to death. We cannot walk by the idols that we've set up in our hearts. And wink at them and pretend that they're not there. We are called to look upon them and judge them. What's the last thing that John writes in 1 John? Little children, keep yourselves from idols. But Ahud shows us another thing about our Savior. He shows us the type of victory that's won by Christ for us. Ahud didn't ask someone else to go make a dagger for him. He did it himself. He didn't ask someone else to go and stab Eglon for him. He went and did it himself. He didn't ask someone else to go and announce the victory. He did it himself. Christ Jesus has accomplished salvation himself. And he sent his spirit himself. To make us who were dead alive with him. Isn't that exactly what Christ does for us? That he wins the victory and delivers the victory for us. So that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. What a privilege that in calling on the name of the Lord, we go from being those who are once far off to being brothers with Christ Jesus. That we're welcomed into the household of God. And so with glad hearts, let us turn our eyes to Christ and rejoice as He instructed the seventy-two. Let us rejoice that our names are written in heaven. And let us give him the praise that is his alone. Let us pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you that you speak to us by your Spirit, that you make your word alive. And that as you delivered your people from of old, you continue to deliver your people. We ask that you would give us great joy and peace with believing. That we would weather trials and difficulties well, that you would grow us up into steadfastness that we might be to the praise of your glory