Now let us turn to Amos for our continuing study in the book of Amos. And we'd like to read tonight from God's Word, Amos chapter 5, beginning at verse 16 and reading on through verse 20. Amos chapter 5, verse 16 through verse 20. Now Amos, we recall, is uh the prophet of the Lord speaking to the northern kingdom. the the nation known as Israel, roughly twenty-five, thirty years before its i destruction, And of course, Amos has been speaking God's word to these people, seeking them, seeking their repentance. They're turning away from the practice of sin and uh embracing him. And if you can imagine, uh uh being the people led by the king, like Ahab, uh you can imagine how much of uh Isaiah's uh Amos's words are kind of falling on deaf ears. But let's hear God's word. Beginning Amos 5, 16 through 20. Therefore, the Lord of hosts, the Lord says this, there shall be wailing in all streets, and they shall say in the highways, alas and alas, They shall call the farmer to mourning and skilful lamentors to wailing. In all vineyards there shall be wailing, for I will pass through you, says the Lord. Woe to you who desire the day of the Lord. For what good is the day of the Lord to you? It will be darkness and not light. It will be as though a man fled from a lion and a bear met him. Or as though he went into the house, leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him. Is not the day of the Lord darkness and not light? Is it not very dark with no brightness in it? Thus far it ends uh the reading of God's Word. And uh The title of the sermon is A Day Unlike All Others. A Day Unlike All Others. We are reading here words that Amos spoke to the Northern Kingdom, the people of the Northern Kingdom, who He has been addressing their numerous sins, and he has been exhorting them not to ignore. The words that he is speaking, but to repent of their sins and to turn to God and cease their evil practices. Among those evil practices, he lists at various times and various places. He lists over in chapter, earlier in chapter 5, They hate the one who rebukes in the gates. In other words, they don't like to hear the words that go against what they want to hear. In particular, the one who rebukes in the gates would be the place where the prophets would often give their words. So what he's saying, they hate the one they hate the words of the prophets, God's own prophets. And remember uh how you uh begin to see a little bit of that i even in Ahab the king's uh rejoinder regarding uh regarding um Jehoshaphat's statement, is there not a prophet here of the Lord? I mean, even Jehoshaphat recognized that Though there were 400 prophets telling King Ahab to go up and take Ramath Gilead, that something was wrong about what they were saying. And actually, he discerned that there were they were wrong, they were false prophets And he says, isn't there a prophet of the Lord? And you remember Ahab's response, yeah, there's there's still one, but I hate him. But I hate the word of the Lord. And, you know, again, Ahab predates Amos And so the problem was existing in Ahab's day, and this hating the rebuke of the prophet continues among the people. But it's not just that they don't like God's word. It's also that they treat others with less than godly love. They tread down the poor. Verse 11 of chapter 5. They take taxes from them. And though they have these fine houses that they've made of stone, It says, you will not live long enough to dwell in them. Neither will you be able to drink wine from your pleasant vineyards that you have planted. So there's uh and and you go on a little further in in verse 12, uh you have manifold transgressions, uh great sins, you afflict the just, you take bribes. And you divert the poor from receiving justice. There's massive sin, unwillingness to repent. Even though God keeps sending prophets, they're not listening. The people are not listening. They hate the word of God. And they're continuing to practice Unloving attitudes toward those who are not in positions of power, to those who are less than leaders, those who are less than the privileged class. And beyond all of that, they have bowed down and worshiped every God that there is. You recall, don't you, that it was Ahab who, Elijah, it was during Ahab's kingship that Elijah the prophet had the great contest with the 400 prophets of Baal. 400 prophets of Baal existing in Ahab's kingdom, and they were accepted. They were acceptable. They were fine. And so again, you see there's just a massive unbelief And there's unwillingness to repent. They don't want to hear the word of God. And it's into that environment that Amos speaks and he begins to talk about the day of the Lord. And the day of the Lord, he talks about it in uh, he kind of eases into that discussion. by saying, Woe it is to you that desire the day of the Lord. Now for uh for Amos, he's looking at the day of the Lord at this particular time in history as the day of the destruction of the northern kingdom when the Lord finally uh brings the Assyrians into the country and wipes the country out. Completely destroys the country. And again, that's probably 25 years From when Amos wrote these words and spoke these words. But there, he says, nevertheless, there are some of you who actually want this day to come, this day of the Lord. He says, for what purpose is it? to you. Why would you wish for such a thing? Why would you want the day of the Lord to come? You're not listening to me. You're not. You don't want to hear the word of God. You're continuing to practice sin. You're not repenting. For what reason do you want judgment to come upon your country? A country where the people are involved in idolatry, oppression of the poor, and slavery. A country where they have turned deaf ears to the messengers, to not just one messenger, but multiple messengers of God. Well, even though this is uh a day of the Lord that's being spoken of in um in Amos's day, um Surely the idea of the day of the Lord ultimately points to other days of the Lord, including the last day of the Lord. And uh the same questions that we have asked about or or Amos asks here about the people of Israel, why do you desire today the day of the Lord? And why do you What end does it have for you? Might be questions that he could pose to people in this day and age. Because you maybe have heard some people say Who uh you know are not believers. You've heard some people say, well, you know, I I I I can't wait for that day to come because then you know people will get what they got coming to them I don't know if you've ever heard that, but uh but I've I've certainly heard that. The days of the Lord are depicted Throughout the Bible, whether it's the day Amos is talking about or whether it's the day that other prophets are talking about when there's coming judgment, they're not pictured in or whether it's the last day, they're not pictured in glowing terms. It's a the days of the Lord are pictured in the most horrible of days, the most horrible of terms. For example, During the time of Joel the prophet, Joel in chapter 1 and verse 15 writes, Alas for the day. For the day of the Lord is at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come. It's pictured as a day of destruction. In Joel chapter 2, verse 1 and 2. Joel writes, Blow the trumpet in Zion and sound an alarm in my holy mount. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble. The day of the Lord is a day of trembling. And he goes on to say: for the day of the Lord has come. It is nigh at hand. It's a day of darkness and gloominess. A day of clouds and thick darkness, as the mornings has spread upon the mountains. Verse 11 of Joel chapter 2 goes on to describe the day of the Lord in Joel's, that Joel is speaking about. It's a day that uh trembling, a day of darkness and gloom, a day of judgment. Um in verse 11 he writes further. The Lord shall utter his voice before his army The army of the Lord will be unleashed. The camp is very great. The Lord is strong And executes his word. For the day of the Lord is great and very terrible. And then it adds this statement, who can abide it? Who can stand it? You know, if this is what the Bible is telling us about the days of the Lord, then why in the world would somebody want that day to come? Why would somebody desire the day of the Lord? And that word desire in the Hebrew is much stronger than desire. It actually has the connotation of lusting for the day. cannot wait for it to arrive. And in verses 30 and 31 of the same chapter, Joel chapter 2, it says I will show wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood, fire, pillars of smoke, the sun shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the great and terrible day of the Lord. comes. It's not like uh anyone who knows the word of God uh doesn't have uh um Precursors of understanding what the Word of God with the day of the Lord is all about. And we have further documentation. of the coming day of the Lord, as the New Testament speaks of it in a whole book of the Bible and several other assorted places in the New Testament. I'm talking about revelation, when the day of the Lord Jesus Christ returns, the day which is sometimes just called the day, sometimes called the last day But associated with it is this horrible uh uh destruction that uh God is going to bring upon the earth for the earth's repeat the people of the earth's repeated uh lack of repentance, lack of turning to him. Same kinds of issues bring this ultimate judgment as it brought to the Old Testament people of God in Amos. Revelation chapter 3, excuse me, chapter 11, verses 3 and 6. speak of the Lord's coming day. It says, I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy twelve hundred and thirty days, clothed in sackcloth. These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy. They have power over waters to turn them to blood. and to smite the earth with all plagues as often as they will. That is but a taste. That is just a foretaste of what's coming. Matthew chapter 11, verses 8 and 12 say, the Word of God writes, I say to you, that many shall come from the east and west. And shall sit down with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. Oh, that sounds really positive Many shall come, many shall come with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, the patriarchs. They'll sit in the kingdom of heaven. But In this case, they're not because it goes on to say, but the children of the kingdom will be cast out into utter darkness, where there will be weeping and now Now, when Jesus said that, he was addressing a Jewish audience. And he's challenging them for roughly the same kinds of sins that Amos is speaking about here. They have not turned to the Lord with all their heart, mind, soul. They have followed their own gods in Israel. They have made their traditions. Their understanding of God's word, they have followed false understandings. They have set up their own righteousness. And um and they don't recognize the day of the Lord's coming, which Jesus did come. And they reject him, added to all their other uh sins. They don't love their neighbor, as Jesus told the parable of the good Samaritan uh to demonstrate how they don't love their neighbor. Even those in official leadership position, the priests, walk by, the guy who's beaten on the road. They don't care. It was left to a Samaritan. An interesting twist of irony, a Samaritan, a Samaritan, a guy from this very region. Much later in history, this very region that Amos is talking to, a half-breed Jew. It's left to him to show mercy, to show love for his neighbor in the parable of the Good Samaritan. Nobody in Israel would do it, but he did. And as a result, the people, the children of the kingdom, the Jews who had the blessing of God, the Hebrews who had the oracles of God. The Hebrews who had God working in their history to care for them and deliver them, also to judge them and punish them when that was appropriate. But he had not deserted them, he had not abandoned them. And even the Christ comes to preach first to the lost children of Israel. But upon their rejection of him, The kingdom is given to many Gentiles in the East and the West, and they will be the ones who will come and they will sit down with the patriarchs The spiritual patriarchs, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, they will fellowship with them, while the children of Israel are left out on the outside, weeping and gnashing their teeth. Again, I'm just pointing all these things out because the day of the Lord is not a day to rejoice in. It is not a day to rejoice in unless, unless you are a committed child of God. knowing Jesus as your Lord and Savior. But the question I posed earlier is, why are these people in the northern kingdom at this particular time who don't who aren't committed to God, who won't listen to his word and continue their abusive practices, their sinful practices, why do they want this death Why do you desire it? Why do you lust after it? Don't you know it's a day of darkness and not light? To what end is it? What does it accomplish? For what purpose does it serve for you? What kind of purpose would desire this day? Well I think there's really only one type of person who would desire the day of the Lord with when you fully understand what this day involves. And that person fits this profile. It's a sinner who doesn't know he's a sinner. It's a sinner who doesn't know he is a sinner. It's a sinner who is so arrogant in his self-righteousness that he places everybody else below him. And believes that because he does similarly to the Pharisee in the temple where he goes to the temple and tithes every week and uh and he's not like others people, not like the lower life, and he fasts all the time. He follows a certain set of religious rituals, but whose heart is not committed to God. It's that kind of person who would desire this kind of thing, in order that those who have done me wrong will get what they deserve. But l but this can't be me. This can't be me, because I trust I trust that I am doing What's right in God's eyes, but in reality, their hearts are far from the Lord. They don't know the Lord. They trust in their self-righteousness Not in the righteousness of Christ. They've adopted wrong standards of what's right and wrong, standards which are not God's standards. And they believe that they can conform to those standards because they lower the demands of God's law. They don't believe, they don't understand that God's law speaks not just to the act, but also the mind and the heart. As Jesus put it, it's not what's on the outside that defiles the body, but it's what is on the inside. Remember that question that came to Jesus about why doesn't your disciples, why doesn't your master, uh your disciples wash their hands? That's not what's on the outside that defiles the body. It's what comes out of the heart. Where is your heart? And God knows the heart. We call it self-righteousness. But it certainly isn't God's righteousness that they have. It's a day when, again, when others who throughout their life did them wrong, it's a day when God pays them back. Now just to uh uh uh emphasize that the day is is a day when uh no one who is ungodly will escape from God's judgment The prophet tells this this little story of um Verse 19 about this day and about the severity of the day. He says, it's as if a man fled from a lion and a bear met him. We would we would call that uh another way we would call that is uh out out of the frying pan into the fire. It's like he fled from a lion and a bear met him, or he went into a house and just casually leaned against the wall and a serpent bit him Any attempt to flee from God on this day where God is bringing judgment Will be met by certain providential death There will be no place to run. No place to hide. The lion first met the man who was fleeing. The bear met him next. The serpent got him when he wasn't. He thought he had gotten into the safety of the house. I can't help but but uh but draw a parallel uh to Ahab in the story that we read. Remember how Micaiah said what was going to happen to Ahab. If you go, if you go to up to Rahmoth Gilead, you will die And uh uh and and he said if if if you come back, if you come back from Rahmoth Iliad in this battle, Ahab If you combat the life, then I certainly didn't say the word of God. And so what does Ahab do? And I I don't quite understand why Jehoshaphat agreed to this, but Ahab somehow got Jehoshaphat to put on the king's robes in the middle of the battle while Ahab disguised himself. So that everybody, quite naturally, would go after the prime target, the king. And and even though the arch the commanders of the chariot of the king of Syria were told Only fight with the king of Israel. Well, what do they do? They see this guy in all these kingly robes. They go right for Jehoshaphat. Well, Jehoshaphat cries out, and they they move away from Jehoshaphat. But where's Ahab? He's still out there disguised. He still thinks that, okay, I can avoid. I can take Raymond Gilead. I can get what I want. I can take this area And I'll be okay. And then in the amazing s statement, it's so amazing that you that the writers of the text have difficulty conveying it. It says a certain Man, a certain person doesn't name who it was. A certain person pulled his bow at random Pulled his bow and shot with no particular target in mind. The arrow flew and it hit Ahab right in a place where he was unprotected. And it makes the point. There won't be any place to flee from the judgment of God on this terrible day. Ahab couldn't do it, and modern-day Ahabs won't be able to run and hide from the fierce wrath of God on the day of God's return. And lo and behold, Revelation chapter 6, verses 15 through 17 also address this This tendency of people to try to find refuge in the day the in the midst of the day of the Lord. It says, the kings of the earth, the great men, the rich men, the chief captains, the mighty men. Every slave and every free man. Anybody who can, rich or poor, famous or not. Slaves are free, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains, and said, to the rocks in the mountains fall on us and held and hide us from the face of him that sits on the throne. This is Revelation 6. And then it says, and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath has come, and who shall be able to stand? This is not. For those who do not know the Lord, this is a terrible day. It's a terrible day, and it's not something that an unbeliever should lust for or desire. Because God is going to bring judgment. No one will escape. There will be no place to hide, no place to run. There won't even be a second chance to repent. You see, that's why someone like Amos And something like the Bible are so important because the Bible does tell us what it is that God wants for us not wants us to do in order to avoid this day. And it's so very simple. It's so very simple. Repent. Repent of your sins and believe in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you shall be saved. Shall not the day of the Lord, verse 20, be darkness and not light, even very dark, and no brightness in it? How can we as human beings imagine a day where it's completely dark? There's only been rare occasions when that kind of thing happens. And and even then, it's not completely dark. It's not you know you're still going to see some light shining somewhere. But this is the day where it's so dark that there's there's impossible to see your hand and fretting your face. God will do that, bring that calamity. But at the same time, uh for those who hear the word of the Lord, Even those who wonder why this day has not come, why it has not come sooner, why the day of the Lord has the sooner not come now. It's certainly there's certainly awful conditions out there. There's certainly a lot of sin. There's certainly a lot of uh uh neglect of God, a lot of uh mistreatment of others in the world in which we live. Why has it not come? But again, Peter gives us uh a clear answer as to why 2 Peter 3, verse 9 and 10. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. As some men count slackness, but the Lord is long-suffering to us. Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But immediately after Peter says that, he says, This the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. In the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise And the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are thereupon shall be burned up. It won't do at that particular moment to repent. Time to repent is now. Now why the Lord is still being gracious and to trust in the Lord with all of our heart. This is a day unlike all others, but the day we live in. because of God's grace is a day all like unlike all others. One was a day of darkness, judgment, and and fear and trembling. The other is a day of light and life in Christ. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you shall be saved. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord our God, thy words are not words that Are designed to receive the kind of reception that sinful men give it. They are designed, O Lord, to penetrate into the very essence of our being and expose our sin. And to bring, Lord, to draw us to you, to bring a true spirit of anguish and sorrow over sin and to repent of sin. For truly, O Lord, your coming day is a terrible day. And Father, we wish, we pray that many would hear and many would turn away from that day. But we also know, O Lord, that you are not leaving yourself and that day without a witness. You continue, Lord, to pursue Unrepentant sinners. You continue to pursue them, O Lord, relentlessly with your word, as there are still faithful prophets in the land who will speak. the truth of God's word, even though they are hated for it. But Lord, we would rather be hated for being your servant and speaking the truth Than to be loved by the world. Grant, O Lord, that the world, many would turn yet, would turn away from their sin and embrace Jesus as the Lord and Savior. But they would see, O Lord, that their sin has angered mightily a fierce God, that he will bring his judgment on his day and will be entirely vindicated. We pray for these things, O Lord, to come. To come not in any way to To satisfy our own sinful motives. But we pray for your day to come. So that your hour of vindication, your hour of honor and praise will flow up to you from those who are your people and that all people, every knee would bow, and every tongue confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Toward that day, Lord, we long to see. And we will see. Give us patience to wait upon you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.