Well, good morning, good friends in Jesus Christ. We regret that Pastor Chris is not feeling well today, and so Brother Alex and I are trying to fill in for him. And the message this morning will be exactly the same as the catechism question that we'll come to in Sunday school a little bit later, namely the second commandment. So I encourage you to stay for Sunday school. And in the meantime, in connection with that, we will be looking at the New Testament in John chapter 4. beginning at verse 19. So I invite you to stand for the reading of God's Word. This is coming from John chapter 4. This is the meeting of Jesus with the Samaritan woman at the well, and they have quite an interesting discussion. So we'll pick up at verse 19, John chapter 4, verse 19. This is the word of God. The woman said to him, Jesus, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. Our fathers worshiped on this mountain, but you say that in Jerusalem is the place where people ought to worship. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming. When neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship in spirit and truth. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah is coming, he who is called Christ. When he comes, he will tell us all things. Jesus said to her, I who speak to you am He. Now let's take our Trinity Psalter, number 66B. This is the Psalm 66B. It's a very familiar tune. Come, O ye people, bless our God. This is the hymn of preparation, number sixty-sixbury. Come on, ye people, bless our God, and tell his glorious praise abroad, who holds our souls in life Who never lets our feet be moved, And though our faith he oft has proof, Up holds us in the strife We come with offerings to his house, and here we pay the Sodom. We uttered in distress To him moral we dedicate, to him we wholly consecrate, the lives his mercies bless Here all ye who fear the Lord, will I with grateful heart record what God has done for me? I cry to him in deep Distress and thou his wondrous race I bless, for he has set me free Lord returns away the plea of those who love inequity Has answered my request. He has not turned away my prayer. His grace and love. He makes me share. His name be ever planned. Please remain standing for the reading of the Old Testament. uh word of God which comes out of Exodus chapter twenty This is the Ten Commandments. And you're all very familiar with this. This is read by Pastor Chris on a regular basis And in fact, we read it this morning from Deuteronomy chapter 5, which is the other giving of the law. Moses just before he dies, before the people of Israel cross into the promised land. We'll read it just the first several verses since we're only going to be looking at the second commandment. Again, this is the Word of God, Exodus chapter 20, beginning at verse 1. And God spoke all these words, saying, I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. You shall have no other gods before me. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above. Or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love. to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. Thus far the Word of God. Please be seated. Let's pray. Dear Father, we come to you now and we thank you for your word. It is sweeter to us than honey. And we ask that you would now give us your Holy Spirit, pour out your Spirit on us to hear you speak through the Scriptures, that you would open our ears to hear. And our hearts to receive, and our minds to understand, and our hands and legs to act on this word, to be not just hearers, but doers of your word And so we pray, our Father in heaven, that you would meet us this morning through your word, because we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. When I was working for the federal government, there was a most nerve-wracking experience when I had to testify before the U. S. Congress. So you can imagine I was thinking, I've got to get give testimony before these very powerful politicians, and I asked, what is the proper way to do this? And I got some very good advice, which was basically be well prepared, in other words, know the information well. Also be well rested. Get a good night's sleep the day before. Also be well hydrated. To prevent dry mouth syndrome, you can imagine, and also be on time. Well, actually, all of us on a regular basis testify. We give testimony every Lord's Day here in church to our faith in Jesus Christ. And we meet here before the most powerful person in the universe, Almighty God, Maker of heaven and earth. He is the only true and living God. And we should have no other gods, false gods, before him. That's the first commandment that we have here. And we should worship only Him. And then you ask, what is the proper way to worship God? And for that we go to the second commandment, where God tells us this is the way he wants us to worship him. Now, uh the Westminster Schroeder Catechism deals with this second commandment. One of them we'll have in about an hour's time. It's uh question and answer 49, 50, 51, and 52. And it deals with it uh with four questions. What is the second commandment? What is required in the second commandment? What is forbidden in the second commandment? And what are the reasons annexed to, attached to the second commandment? So we're just going to use those same questions to structure our study this morning. So the first is, what is the second commandment? Now, I think you know the Ten Commandments. This is the moral law of God. He revealed it to us for obedience, and it is summarily comprehended here in these Ten Commandments. The Ten Commandments have two tables. Commandments 1, 2, 3, and 4 are the first table, and that's our vertical relationship with God. And then the second table, commandments 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10, our horizontal relationship with other people. Very good. Now, in the first table of the law, which we've read part of here this morning, Commandment number one deals with who we should worship. God, obviously. Commandment number two deals with how we should worship. And there's a reason given, so there's also a why involved. Okay, so so far we have who, how, why. And then commandment number four on the Sabbath deals with when we should worship. So you've got quite a litany here. Who, how, why, when. Commandment number three about God's name, you could say in a sense is related to, again, how we worship Have you ever wondered why are there ten commandments? Why are there exactly ten commandments? Not twelve, not six? some other number. And in one of the commentaries that I consulted, it had a very interesting explanation. It said that in the days when, of course, the Israelites received the Ten Commandments, they were in the Sinai Desert. They did not have copies they could carry of the Bible, like we have. In fact, I think I probably have a dozen or more copies of the Bible at home. And we have this wonderful blessing these days. But in those days, they memorized everything. And perhaps it was an aid to memorization that for each finger of their hands they had a commandment. Well, interesting. Now it's also interesting that Our Roman Catholic friends, and Lutherans for that matter, too, combine commandments number one and number two into one. And then to preserve the number ten, because several times in Exodus and Leviticus, it refers to the Word of the Covenant, ten commandments. What they do is they take the last commandment on coveting and subdivide it. But this seems artificial, doesn't it? After all, do we need two commandments on the same sin of coveting? But we really need two commandments, separate commandments on who to worship and how to worship Something else as we read this second commandment that you probably notice, it's a long one. It's a rather long commandment, especially compared to some of the other ones, like thou shalt not kill. Four words. And this one happens to be ninety-one words long, at least I counted in the King James. It covers three verses, so it's a fairly long commandment. And let me just make sure that we understand what's going on here with some of these words. You shall not make for yourself a carved image. And if you're familiar with the King James, which is what I grew up on, a graven image. So this is an image of a creature. a human being, an animal, a fish, bird, tree, flower, whatever, made out of wood or stone or metal for the purpose of being worshipped. In other words, it's an idol It's an idol, right? And okay, we live in Washington DC. We have a lot of carved images all over the place in Washington DC. of our various heroes, soldiers and politicians and even scientists. There's a statue of Albert Einstein downtown. But those are just for historical reasons. They're not for religious reasons of worship. The Second Commandment does not forbid those. Now, the people of Israel in this day and age, when they received the Ten Commandments, and as you read through the Bible, they were always living in the midst of communities with pagan gods, lots of idols. They had there were images of Baal. There were the Egyptian gods. There were the Babylonian gods. Remember in Daniel chapter 3, Nebuchadnezzar built this huge golden idol, probably of himself. And then in Acts chapter 19, Paul has to deal with in Ephesus, Diana of the Ephesians. There was this big statue and a temple and all these kinds of things. In our day and age, we're supposed to be modern and enlightened people. Do we have graven images and idols? Well, uh I can tell you that in the very modern country of Japan, I have seen a fifty-foot Buddha inside a building in a certain city and a hundred foot Buddha outside in another city just a little ways north of Tokyo. What about in the US? Graven images in the US? Just walk into a Roman Catholic Church and you'll see what I mean. So the Second Commandment deals with carved images, graven images. statues, so forth, physical things, or any likeness of anything. So now we also deal with pictures, And so forth. But really the commandment goes beyond that because it also involves mental representations. Do you have an idea in your head that God is sort of a fluffy grandfather up in the sky? You know, that kind of thing. Be very careful. So in other words, the second commandment deals with any man-made inventions. that people want to introduce into worship going beyond what God has said. Okay, that's carved image. Now it says here likeness of anything that is in heaven above, in the earth beneath, or in the water under the earth. And when I was younger I used to think, well that sounds like a three-decker universe. You know, the water under the earth. So if I dig far enough down, it's going to be all water and so forth. That's not exactly what is meant here. This is a Hebrew way of saying skies, earth, and seas So birds, animals, fish, people, all things that are creaturely. And in fact, this water under the earth is just a, according to the commentary, a Hebrew idiom for saying Below the level of the ground, below ground level. Water in the sea, water in the lake is below ground level. So that's all this means. You shall not bow down to them or serve them. We read earlier in Leviticus the same Ten Commandments, the second commandment, Leviticus 26, 1, you shall not make idols for yourself or erect an image or pillar. You shall not set up a figured stone, in other words, a stone image, in your land to bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God. Now let's move on. What is next? What is required in the second commandment? What is required? You might think we have a little difficulty here because the commandment is stated in the negative. Thou shalt not do this. But if you correctly interpret this commandment in the context of the entirety of Scripture, then we can figure out what indeed is required positively by this second commandment. And the sort of catechism answer is, the second commandment requires the receiving, observing, and keeping, pure and entire. All such religious worship and ordinances as God has appointed in His Word. That's a wonderful answer. So what are those elements of worship that we can find in Scripture that God has commanded us to use? And in fact, you know, in our bulletin, in our order of worship, we have all of these elements I'll just list them for you. Reading and preaching of Scripture. Singing of Psalms, Hymns, and Spiritual Songs. Administration of the two sacraments, Baptism, Lord's Supper. Confession of sin, prayer, tithes and offerings, benediction. I hope I haven't forgotten one. But those are the things that God has commanded that we should do to worship him. This is the way he wants to be worshipped. And this is the proper way to worship him, but that means that other ways of worshiping God are improper. And forbidden. We'll talk about that in just a minute. And there are things that are not commanded, but nor are they forbidden. So it's kind of a gray area. What do we do with those? And uh some churches say, well, those things are fine. They're not forbidden. But the Reformed Presbyterian way of approaching this is We only use as elements of worship the things that God has commanded. And if it's not commanded, we avoid it. And there's even a name for that. It's called the regulative principle regulative principle. It regulates how we do worship. Now some people think, okay, uh we could do this. It's not forbidden. It's nice. It's kind of attractive. It's cute and so forth. And uh but again The reform style of worship is God did not give us a long list of everything forbidden. He gave us a list of what is commanded, right? And we should follow that and avoid everything else. Let's move on. What is forbidden? Okay. Here I confess I tread very lightly because the big issue is pictures of Jesus. So a few weeks ago I was at the supermarket checking out, and there in the rack was Time magazine, and on the cover was a picture, supposed picture of Jesus. And I looked at that and it hmm yeah well it's a supermarket, it's not church, but still it's a likeness of something. in the earth beneath. And it's somebody's imagination, right? Now I have to tell you something here I have a Bible. Among my collections of Bibles, I have one. That on the cover it has a picture of Jesus welcoming little children. Let the little children come unto me, do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. And I must confess I look at that now and I I I feel a little funny about it, but I don't think I'm going to throw it away. It's precious to me, and I'll tell you why. My parents gave that to me on my eighth birthday. And it's been well used ever since then. It's it's smaller size, children size, just fits the hands of a child. And When you open the front cover, there's the Lord's Prayer. And when you open the back cover, there's Psalm 23, and also the Beatitudes, and also the Ten Commandments. And these are all great Bible passages to memorize and to keep in your mind. But I confess, uh, as you open it, there's a picture of Noah and the Ark. There's a picture of Moses with the Ten Commandments. There's a picture of Jesus healing people. There's a picture of Jesus driving the money lenders out of the temple. That was as a guy, that was probably one of my favorite pictures. But I uh you know, we have to be careful. We have to be really careful here because Um there is no information in the Bible about Jesus' appearance. And I know some people Roman Catholics in particular would want to say, pictures and images are useful for instruction. We're not worshiping them, therefore instruction. But the fact is when you have a picture or an image, it's a slippery slope, and before you know it, it becomes the object of worship. Aaron had the people of Israel make a golden calf, and he said, this represents Jehovah, the true God. But before he knew it, they were worshiping the golden calf. Moses came down and he saw that and he smashed the tables of the law and he said, You have broken the law just like these broken pieces here on the ground. So there is there's no Bible information about Jesus, how he looked. Although in Isaiah 53, that famous chapter, He had no form or majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him. He was despised and rejected by men. A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. This is a prophetic picture, if you like, of the coming Savior Yes, there are a lot of paintings of Jesus. There's one, I'm sure you've seen this one. It's by William Holman Hunt. And it's Jesus standing by the door. It's the verse in Revelation 3. 20, behold, I stand at the door and knock. And this was a 19th-century painting. It's very famous. It's been all over the place. But the fact is that the man who drew that had certain theological leanings. And the portrayal is then influenced by his theological perspectives And most of those in that time were 19th century liberalism. Jesus was portrayed as gentle Jesus, meek and mild. Love, universal fatherhood of God, no mention of sin, judgment, and eternal punishment So when we get into pictures of Jesus, I would encourage us to be very, very careful. G. I. Williamson, in his commentary on this, says that pictures dishonor Jesus because they portray him totally as human, but he was also deity. And they dishonor scripture because scripture alone makes us wise unto salvation, not pictures like that. And they dishonor the Holy Spirit. Jesus said, when the Comforter is to come, he told his disciples, He shall glorify me. He shall receive of mine and show it to you. So the Holy Spirit is the one who basically instructs us in this way. So if we're talking about what is forbidden in the Second Commandment, The uh the the shorter catechism has a very short answer on that. And I think you know that if you want more Go to the larger catechism. And I must say there's a long list of things and it's probably not All inclusive of things to avoid. And just looking at the list, I picked out a few things. Superstitious devices. Charms, amulets, uh horseshoe nailed over a barn door, relics of saints, if you wear a gold cross, I'm not against this, but if you wear it for the sake of good luck Be very careful. Another the larger catechism also mentions it forbids adding to what God commanded or taking away from what God commanded. And uh let me just give some examples. In terms of additions, the Roman Catholic Church has added five Sacraments that they invented. And when they do baptism, they don't just use water, they also use oil and they use salt And they've thought of this and they've added that in. They insist that priests wear these special vestments, these clothing garments. They have altars in the church. Now, it's not only the Roman Catholic friends that have these kinds of things, but there is a very obscure Protestant church where they do snake handling. And this takes the last verses in the Gospel of Mark and totally misinterprets it. And then, I may be stepping on toes here, but Modern man-made speaking in tongues. We had a message or two last year from Brother Alex on this Speaking in a foreign language, a known foreign language, that you had never studied before and suddenly you're able to do it, that was a temporary supernatural gift of the Holy Spirit when the church was first founded in the New Testament. so that the gospel could be preached to every tongue and tribe and nation and people. But that gift has gone away, and the modern version is just a emotional babbling kind of thing. So sorry. What about I've talked about additions to, what about subtractions from? Here's an example where you baptize a child whose parents are not professing members of a church. They don't live a Christian life, but they just want the child baptized. Or doing baptism or doing the Lord's Supper without proclamation of the word. And uh, you know, I yeah. Something else the larger catechism brings up is sacrilege. Where you take sacred things like the sacraments and you make fun of it. Or passages of scripture, you you parody it. You don't take it seriously. So then again our friends come and say, well, okay, images and pictures, if not for instruction, what about just we have it for ornamentation, for beauty? And I must say, I I like the the pictures here that have verses from the Bible on your walls. The poster back here with this verse is very important So on the news recently I saw this report about the reopening of the Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. There was a huge fire five or years ago or so. The repairs were finished, they reopened it. And look, I have been there. Notre Dame Cathedral is a magnificent building And the architecture and the stained glass windows and the pictures and the organ and everything, huge emotional impact. But there's no gospel. There's no gospel being conveyed. What is the proper ornamentation of the church? Is it not the sound preaching of the Word, heartfelt prayer, and the pure administration of the sacraments? And that's why, you know, uh in the Reformed churches, Reformed President churches, we sometimes have a little bit of an inferiority complex because we think, well. Our buildings are so plain, our worship is so plain, we don't have these things that are attractive like in other churches, but we should realize that the beauty of Presbyterian Reform worship is its simplicity. . . We focus on what is important. We do what God commands, and that's the way He wants to be worshipped. We worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. Now, yes, we all as humans desire something that we can see. We'd really like to have a visible representation. And John Calvin had this interesting quote, and be careful here, it's a double negative. It appears to me extremely unworthy to receive any images other than those natural and expressive ones which the Lord has consecrated in his word, and I mean here, baptism and the supper of the Lord. Did you get that? We want a visible representation. The Lord has given it to us in the sacraments. There we see Jesus. We see his sacrifice. We see how he cleanses hearts from sin. We see his mercy. We see Jesus in the sacraments. Now finally, reasons annexed to the second commandment. So you've noticed that this is a kind of long commandment And you probably also notice that it includes a rationale within the commandment. Four I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generations of those who hate me, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments This rationale is, if you look at it, it's about half of the commandment itself. And Other commandments also have rationales. In fact, this is commandment number two, commandment number three, commandment number four, and commandment number five also all have rationales. reasons attached to them. God gives us reasons to stimulate us to do these commandments. And the Westminster Shorter Catechism says that the second commandment, the rationale, consists not of a single reason, but of three reasons. And they squeeze this out of a mere nine words. I, the Lord, your God, am a jealous God. And from that they pull out three reasons. Let's just briefly look at those three reasons. One is God's sovereignty over us. And that comes from the words I, the Lord. Lord all caps, meaning Jehovah, God, the covenant name, the I am that I am. He has absolute authority over us. He is sovereign. And then it's I the Lord your God. And the shorter catechism says, God's sovereignty over us and his propriety in us. Okay, I had to think about that a minute. Propriety. That's a word when we use it today means something like accepted standards of behavior, decorum, dress and so forth. He behaved with the utmost propriety. That's not what this means. Here. The Westminster Assembly was held about 400 years ago, and words have a way of changing their meaning, evolving in time. And today, if we were to, instead of using the word propriety in the catechism, we might use the word property. And that's what it that's the earlier fundamental meaning. He owns us. He made us. He sustains us. He bought us. He redeemed us. I belong to him. Paul begins his letter to the Romans, chapter 1, verse 1. Paul, a bond servant of Christ Jesus. And the word there is actually a slave of Christ Jesus. I belong to him. I am not my own. I belong to him. Now that may Some people a lot of people don't like that. They want to belong to themselves, right? But the Heidelberg catechism tells us that belonging to a faithful Savior, Jesus Christ, body and soul belonging to Him is our only comfort, in fact our supreme comfort, our great comfort. in life and in death. And then the third reason, uh annexed to the second commandments, sovereignty, propriety And the third reason is comes from this, I, the Lord your God, am a jealous God. And again, when I was younger, I I paused, jealous. Oh dear. I knew about human jealousy, not a very good thing. Jealousy, covet, envy, anger, resentful, that kind of thing. It's it's really not good. And, you know, human jealousy, James 3. 14 talks about bitter jealousy and selfish ambition. Not a good thing. But this is totally different. Divine jealousy, we should really substitute instead of the word jealous We should substitute the word zealous, because that's the original meaning where this came from. God has a zeal. That he be worshipped the way he commanded. He has a zeal that we love him. He wants our devotion given to nobody else, right? He is zealous for his glory. His own glory. Not to be given to anybody else. No pagan, false, fake gods. He is zealous for his holiness. He hates them. And he is zealous in his love. He loves us. And he wants us to worship the way that he has instructed. for our benefit. He really loves us. He gave himself for us, his own son. Now there's a a really awful Example in scripture of forbidden worship. And you probably know where I'm going with this. Nadab and Abahu. This is Leviticus chapter ten. The previous chapter, Leviticus chapter nine, Aaron and his four sons Have been consecrated and they've been instructed how to lead worship properly, how to do it in the proper way. And then chapter ten, these two of the four sons, Nadab and Abihu, decide they're going to do it their way, not God's way, not the proper way. And so we are just told rather cryptically that they bring strange fire or another translation is unauthorized fire. Did they take the coals from not the altar but somewhere else that was wrong? Uh if you read further in the chapter, God says, you know, when your sons, when the high priests come before me, they must not be intoxicated. Was that the problem as well? We just don't know exactly. But what happened was terrible. Fire came out from before the Lord and consumed them. So God takes it very seriously how we worship him. So there are these three reasons annexed to the second commandment, God's sovereignty, his propriety, and his zeal. It's jealousy. And then we're not finished yet. It goes on and talks about how the zeal of God is manifested in two different ways. First, negatively. By threatening. And here's the threat: visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children to the third and fourth generation of those who hate me. And now, visiting. Again, that's an older word. This is not the kind of visiting you might have done over Christmas when you visit relatives and family members and have a good time. Visiting here has the older meaning of inflicting punishment. For example, when I was a young lad and I misbehaved. My father visited upon my rear end suitable punishment because he was in his jealous love wanting me to grow up and be well-behaved. Thanks, Dad. Now Visiting the iniquity of the fathers on the children. Does this sound fair? Does this sound just? And you go to Ezekiel chapter 18, verse 20. Which says, the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father. But let's not just read this one verse, read the whole passage And it talks about children who are aware that their parents or grandparents or great-grandparents were wicked and did not walk in that way, but followed the Lord. And in which case the son shall not bear the iniquity of the father. The iniquity of the fathers on the children of the third and fourth generation, of those who hate me. Who is this those? Not the parents. It's the third and fourth generation. They continue to hate the Lord. And at this point, I say to our young people, you are so blessed to have Christian parents because you can learn from them the ways of God, model your lives after them, walk in the way of righteousness. But then, verse 6, but, very important word, but showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and keep my commandments. Steadfast love. This is this concept you find it all through Scripture. Steadfast love, sometimes translated mercy, sometimes translated loving-kindness, sometimes translated covenant faithfulness. It's a big concept and it is so precious to us because this is how God revealed himself when Moses asked to see his glory. God revealed about himself this way, the Lord, the Lord, a God merciful and gracious, slow to anger. And abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness. And that's what he's talking about, showing steadfast love to thousands You know, the the contrast hits us right in the face. Third and fourth generation compared to thousands, that's way over balance Way out of balance. And in fact, you may have a footnote in your Bible saying that thousands of those who love me could also be translated to the thousandth generation. So we're comparing three or four generations to a thousand generations. What does this tell us about the Lord? It is that he takes much greater pleasure in showing mercy. Than he does inventing his wrath. And ultimately, how does God show us steadfast love and mercy through Jesus Christ? Ephesians 2 verse 4. But God being rich in mercy There's a famous sermon by Martin Lloyd Jones. The title is But God. Just two little words. And it's on this passage because Paul is talking about our sinfulness. And then suddenly, but God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses. Made us alive together with Christ. By grace, you have been saved. Amen and amen. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for this passage that we've looked at. We pray, Lord, that you would help us by your Holy Spirit to take the second commandment to heart. And be very serious how we worship you in the proper way, in the way that you've ordained and instructed us. We thank you, Lord, for your great mercy that you raised us up with Christ, that you've seated us with him in the heavenly places. And that in the coming ages you will show the immeasurable riches of your grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus, because we confess, by grace we have been saved through faith in our Savior.