And let's now hear God's word. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double tongue, not proven to much wine, not greedy for money holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderous, temperate, not slanderers, slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children in their own houses well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus. Well, as we have seen in our study with uh the uh uh elders of the church And the qualifications for those elders, as we looked at 1 Timothy 3, the 1 through 7. Now the Apostle Paul switches to another group of individuals who are called deacons. And it's important that we understand several things about these individuals called deacons. uh not the least of which are the qualifications for this holding this office. But I'd also like to have you just take note of the fact That there are two different offices, ordained offices in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. There are elders and there are deacons. And they are not the same. They are not the same office. They are both ordained offices. By that, by ordained, I mean these are those who have their have hands laid on them and they're set apart. For this particular job that they're called to do, they are equipped by God Himself for these purposes. Now you recall that Timothy was given the charge by the Apostle Paul to come to Ephesus And to prevent false doctrine from getting a hold in the congregation there at Ephesus. And That responsibility uh could well involve Timothy in spending a lot of effort and a lot of time because apparently there were already problems in the church with people listening to fables and old wives' tales So, I mean he had a monumental task to protect the purity of the word that he has received from Paul and to fight against false teachers. Even the apostles in Jerusalem needed what became the first deacons of the church. And as we read in Acts chapter 6, the church was at a point where it was multiplying in great numbers. And the church obviously had Jewish converts and it had Greek converts in it. And there was a ministry going on, particularly to the widows. Of both of those uh types of people. And uh uh eventually there was a complaint that arose. It appeared that for some reason In the church at Jerusalem, where the apostles were ministering, somehow the Greek widows were being neglected. neglected in the daily ministrations of material things, food in particular. And the apostles uh got together and uh they uh determined that this was not a good thing, but there were resources within the church to deal with it. And they called for the establishment of the office of deacon. And this became a pattern for the New Testament churches. This was not just at Jerusalem, but now we can also see it work at work in Ephesus. We can see it from the writings to Titus. We can see it at work at Crete as well, on the island of Crete. So The the the apostles when they were making this determination of the need for deacons Put it this way, it is not desirable that we should leave the world, excuse me, that we should leave the word and serve tables. Acts chapter 6, verse 3. Now, that does not mean that the apostles were averse to serving at tables. It means that apparently they might have been doing that as well already. But they came to see the wisdom of having a division of their labor. that their focus should be fundamentally on the ministry of the word in this rapidly growing church. And it also, you you go further in Acts chapter 6, and it says they also will devote themselves to prayer and the ministry of the church. But the deacons Those who would be the first deacons of the church would have similar qualifications for those who were elders. But their focus would be on meeting the material needs of the people as well as the spiritual needs. Of the people. Along the way, the elders would come alongside of the pastor and help minister to primarily the spiritual needs of the flock. But the deacons, their focus is on mostly on the material needs, not exclusively, but mostly there. And again, this would be the pattern. Seems to be a wise division of labor for a new church trying to conduct a ministry that reaches the whole person. A ministry not simply one that is concerned about the heart condition of a person's soul, but also is willing to feed them bread when they're hungry And take care of them when they have needs, particularly as they get older. So this uh these this this uh this these two offices were established, differing responsibilities differing uh focuses of their ministry, but they became a pattern for the church, born out of need. Born out of the need to minister, a comprehensive ministry to God's people. And so we look at our first verse tonight, verse 8, about the qualifications for deacons And we come to this statement Likewise, deacons must be grave, not double tongued, not given to too much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre. Now the first thing we want to understand is this idea of deacon. What is a deacon? before we actually get to the qualific some of these qualifications. Well that word uh I I know you all uh have some familiar familiarity with the word deacon You know that it means servant. You know that it means one who waits upon others. Sometimes translated service sometimes translated minist even ministry They are fundamentally servants of God and servants of others. When the Lord Jesus is At the end of time in Matthew 25, separating the sheep from the goats The separation of those individuals is based upon how one group of individuals served Christ versus how the other group of individuals. served Christ. And you recall, Jesus said, I was hungry and you fed me, I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you took me in naked and you clothed me sick or in prison and you, one group, the sheep, you ministered to me. But you goats, you didn't. And they asked, well, when did we not minister to you? in prison? Or when do we not care about you? And of course Jesus responds by, Truly as you've done it to the least of these you've done unto my brethren, you've done unto me. And what was it that they failed to do? It was minister. It was it was minister uh really fundamentally to what we would call material needs hunger thirst clothing um Visiting in prison, um all these things. Uh uh uh the the the ministry of uh god's people for god's people again is a comprehensive ministry uh uh you can't just focus on one aspect of a human being's makeup. Human beings have more needs than just that Sometimes they are poor because of their spiritual problems. But that doesn't mean that, well, we say you've got a spiritual problem, here's the answer to your spiritual problem, go and do it and let them remain hungry. You know, we try to minister Along a broad path in a broad way to all the needs that a person might have. We also uh understand that serving the Lord in this use of this word uh uh deacon that that is a very uh God honors those who do that kind of service because it is fundamentally how God ministers to us in Christ. He serves us. God becomes, Jesus becomes the great deacon. of his church. And and he you know he he does this and he says for that classic passage in Matthew chapter 20 When two of his disciples are arguing about who is great along the road, he says It shall you know how the Gentiles rule? It shall not be so among you. But whoever will be great among you, let him be your Servant, minister, deacon. Same word. Let him be your deacon. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. In that case it's a different word slave, Greek word for slave, but certainly similar in meaning And then he adds, even as the Son of Man did not come to be ministered unto, the Son of Man did not come to Needing ministry from others and expecting ministry from others, but rather to minister or to be the chief deacon And to give his life as a ransom for many. Actively helping someone who is hungry, thirsty, Sick or in prison or naked. This is the broad scope of what the deacon's work encompasses. And as I read earlier tonight, as we started from the Psalm, I read from Psalm 41, 1 and 2 and following, where it says Someone who considers the poor. God blesses Someone who considers the poor, God blesses. And it goes on to talk about how he blesses. How do you consider the poor? How do you reach out to the poor? Is it not helping them when they're hungry or thirsty or uh in prison or sick, whatever. The Lord Jesus said in John chapter 12 In a series of uh in a section in which the concept of God being Christ being the servant of his people. This is also in the same area where Christ washes the feet of Peter. In that context, in John chapter 12, verse 26, he says, If a man serve me, let him follow me. And where I am, there shall also my servant be. If any man serves me, him my father honors. Him my father honors. John chapter twelve, verse twenty-six. Far from being an unimportant office It is at, again, it's at the very heart of who Jesus is. And it's also at the very heart of God's own heart toward us. To be one who is concerned for those who are poor. And certainly, we, before God, are poor and needy in every category imaginable. Now um the In another passage in Matthew chapter 23, verses 10 and 12, the writer uh recalls the words of Jesus. He says, neither be ye called masters, for one is your master, even Christ, but he that is great among you. Let him be your servant. Let him be your deacon. Now, if we were then to collectively gather all these thoughts together and and try to put a definition as to what a deacon is. I think it would look something like this. The deacon, the the the word deacon is directly connected to the work of Jesus Our Savior for His people. It points to Christ's identity as the one who serves God and serves the needs of The deacon is one who fulfills the Isaiah 53 role of the predicted suffering servant. Even as Christ came, not to be ministered unto, but to give his life a ransom for many. The word deacon in Greek is variously translated as servant, minister, even sometimes slave. And just like the bishop of 1 Timothy 3. 1, bishop slash overseer slash elder. Just like the bishop, the word servant, deacon, is not an administrative title. But it is an activity of the one who is called to do it. And essential to that activity. Is the idea that the deacon considers the poor or cares for the poor And especially their physical needs. Now it says also, as we look now to the qualifications The first of which presented here is that the King James Version says that he is grave. He is grave. And of course, grave had to mean something different in the King James English than what it means today. Because today when you get the thought in your mind of grave, you think of someone, it it's taking on the connotation of someone who's extremely serious And, you know, always always kind of going around with a poor, sour, long face on And I don't think that's at all what this word uh what what this word conveys. Uh perhaps it would be uh some of its other usages uh and other translations would work better. And this is the thing about Greek. One word can mean four or five different things in Greek. In English, one word means one word. It's not that way in Greek. And there's subtle nuances of meaning. This word generally as it's translated throughout the New Testament is gonna come out meaning Someone who is honorable, a person who is worthy of respect, a person who is honest And one who has a certain dignity about him. Now, if you uh want to see Some of those the usages that I've just mentioned where this same word is translated in one of those different ways. Philippians 4 verse 8 Remarks, finally, brethren, who whatever things are true, whatsoever things are honest There's the word, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, etc. etc. If there be any virtue, if there be any praise, think on these things. So Paul was exhorting the Philippians to think on things which are honest, honorable, worthy of respect. 1 Timothy 2. 2. Supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks be made for all men. for kings and for all who are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all goodness and honesty. Again, translated honesty. Titus 2. 2. Excuse me. Titus 2. 7. In all things showing thyself to be In all things showing thyself a pattern of good works, in doctrine showing uncorruptness, sincerity, and gravity And it's gravity is the word that's translated there. Now, it it may uh uh a a while back there was uh if you remember there was a uh political campaign that we had and one of the candidates was li labeled with because of his so-called inexpertise or m newness to the political wars If you remember, he was labeled falsely as one who had no gravitas. Perhaps. The good sense of gravitas is what this word envisions. A man who is a well-respected man. A man who is honorable, honest, and um a man who has a certain uh weightiness about himself, about his uh about his character, about his understanding of things. And so I think that maybe helps a little bit fill out what that qualification means. Then it goes on to say: a man who is not double-tongued. A man who is not double-tongued. Now, just like in uh the word uh uh grave That we just looked at, we were able to look at a number of other verses and get some other translations that help us better understand what that word means. Unfortunately with this word, it's not used anywhere else in the New Testament. This is the only place it's used. And I I I don't know why that's the case. There are words like that in Greek That only have one usage. But I I suspect that when we're thinking about double-tongued, we're we're bringing into the uh discussion the whole question that James has to talk about the tongue and how the tongue is difficult to tame Someone who is not double-tongued essentially would be someone who has his tongue under control, at least to the point where he's not lying. Where he's not saying one thing over here, and then he's saying another thing over here. But he always says the same thing regardless of who his audience is He speaks the truth. He speaks words that aren't confusing, words that are enlightening, words that edify and not tear things down. That's kind of the best I could possibly do with that. But I think the analogy of scripture and bringing James into this into this into the The subject helps us understand what not double-tongued would be. Not given to much wine. That's probably self-explanatory. That doesn't need great explanation. Not desiring um Not greedy for filthy lucre, excuse me That word, we've looked at that word before. That word does pop up a lot in the New Testament, and it pops up most frequently in connection with leadership qualifications. Not only does Paul use it, but Peter also uses it. Peter uses it in 1 Peter chapter 5. Paul uses it in Titus 1 when he talks about the qualities of a bishop, verse 7, not given to filthy lucre. And again, in Timothy 3. 3, not greedy a filthy lucre. And 1 Peter 5, 2, not greedy for filthy gain. And I asked myself, and maybe you ought to ask yourself the question, this seems to be something the apostles are seriously concerned about. that a man who has uh is up for a candidacy, whether it's for the office of elder or the office of deacon can't be someone who is greedy for money or the things that money can buy. And surely the greedy is helpful here to understand. And because a person who is greedy for money, uh, who knows? What he's going to do to get that. Who knows how he's going to manipulate uh his life in order to gain more money He has opportunity in ministry to exercise influence and power over people. And perhaps it's for those reasons that his motives for serving God must be pure. And what could be more pure than to not be using ministry as a way to gain personal wealth? Because if you're doing that, you are making an id you're you're a hypocrite, number one, and you're making an idol out of wealth Over against an idol out of serving God. That's the place where your your worship should be, is serving God and serving his people And I I I I there's a a a very offhanded almost comment, if you recall, regarding Judas in this respect The Judas, of course, we know sold the Lord, betrayed the Lord for 30 pieces of silver. But during the time of the apostolic ministry during the time of Christ's ministry here on earth, there was a there was a cryptic comment, and I was searching for it earlier and I couldn't find it And some of you may know right offhand where it is, but that it was when the um the jar of oil that the woman came and broke over the feet of Jesus. It was Judas who complained. And he complained. Couldn't this have been sold and given to the poor? Remember? And then there's the cryptic comment, almost to the effect that Judas didn't care about the poor, but he had control of the purse strings for the disciples. And apparently was not above occasionally dipping into it for himself. So perhaps there's an acknowledgement also That a person who is to be a deacon should not be greedy for money, not only because He's got his priorities wrong, not only because he's worshiping the wrong God, not only because he can extort The people he's ministering to to feed his own corrupt desires, but also because it could be that he's acting like Judas. And at some point will sell out the people of God feed his own corrupt desires So don't put that temptation before such a person. If you know that he, you know, he's got all these good qualities. He regularly goes out and helps the poor, and yet you know that he has greed for money. Red flag. It's a red flag. Don't don't ordain that person. He doesn't have his priorities right. It's not just that he does he doesn't fit the qualifications. It's his priorities are wrong. And that's why he doesn't fit the qualification So this is the uh this is the first uh section of uh what it has to say about the deacons. Uh the next uh verse goes on to holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience. And then and let the let These also first be proved and let them use the office of a deacon being found blameless. Those are the things we'll be looking at in the future as we come up on this discussion as well. May God add his blessing to this word. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that um You, in your wisdom, you, Lord, have ordained these offices for your church. And we we thank you, Father, that you also have provided for such for such men. You have given gifts and qualification. You have uh in uh changed men's hearts away from being uh sinners uh unto being uh people who love you and are consistent about that love A consistency which extends now not only to what they say, but also, Lord, how they live. And we pray, Father, that uh your church uh as we have been so blessed with our deacons Lord, you can continue to provide good deacons for this church, but also for the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that uh Lord, your people uh in the church will be ministered to whenever they have needs and whatever those needs are. All for the glory of God. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen