The Book of Acts, Acts of the Apostles We'll be reading there in chapter 2, beginning at verse 29. And this is what Luke would record as Peter's first sermon. As the Holy Spirit has come upon them, we are going to be at the end of his preaching. Let's begin. This is the Word of God. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about the Patriarch David. That he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Being therefore a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him that he would set one of his descendants on his throne, he foresaw And spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his flesh see corruption This Jesus God raised up, and of that we are all witnesses, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God. And having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. Let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ, this Jesus, whom you have crucified. Now, when they heard this, they were cut to the heart. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brothers, what shall we do? Peter said to them, Repent and be baptized, every one of you, in the name of Jesus Christ, for the forgiveness of your sins, and you will receive the gift of the Holy Spirit. For the promise is for you and for your children and for all who are far off, everyone whom the Lord our God calls to himself. And with many other words, he bore witness and continued to exhort them, saying, save yourselves from this crooked generation. So those who had received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 3,000 souls. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship, to the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done through the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common And they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes They received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favor with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Father in heaven, we ask now that as your word has been read, that you would add your blessing to it That your Spirit, Father, would open your word to us powerfully this day That we would see the beauty and the brightness of Christ in his church. Pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know how many of you have visited a lighthouse. We used to love to take our children to see them. They're quite amazing and even beautiful structures. So loved by many. But what's the draw? Why do people go to them? You might say, well, they stick out. You can see them for miles. And they just draw people to them. They're different in a good way. And then that light on top, it just tends to draw people in. Everything about that lighthouse, the structure. It's put in place, constructed for one single purpose. So the light can be seen. To get the light up high enough so it can be seen by ships at sea Light from one source that's being reflected and refracted, concentrated, concentrated Through many lenses or mirrors, to make the light much more intense, such that it will be that which warns and protects. And guides, a beacon for all. That's the church And today is as we open up this portion of Scripture, and I'm going to be focusing upon really that last portion that we read, verses 42 through 47. I want us to be considering the work of the church. We might compare the lighthouse to the church and and allow that to help us. This is found, this portion of scripture is found in this second work of Luke, the Acts of the Apostles. Christ has died. He's died upon the cross, but he's been raised Gone to heaven. And now he has sent his spirit. The Holy Spirit has come and lighted upon the apostles. Peter is preaching. He's preaching the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then this text follows. The description of the church. I want us to see this morning that one of the Lord's primary methods or plan for evangelism. Is simply the church being the church and shining forth as that devoted body of Christ for all to see And behold. We'll see that in three points. The foundation of the church or of evangelism, the structure of the church or of evangelism, and then the beacon of the church or of evangelism As we go through this, I want you to be thinking about meditating upon the beauty and the brightness of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, first, the foundation of the church or the foundation of evangelism. Well, as we begin this, let's just ask ourselves the question: what is evangelism. Since I think that that this portion of scripture really helps us to think about that and to focus upon that. What is it? You might be thinking, well, it's it's what those folks do overseas. The OPC has missionaries in foreign countries. That's what they do. They are evangelists. You might think that it's limited to those who are planting churches. In the United States. We call them evangelists in the OPC. You might think it's those street preachers right on the corners in busy streets who are proclaiming God's word. evangelists. But I want us to think more generally, actually more broadly than that Evangelism is the spreading of the gospel of the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ through preaching and Christian witnessing. He's telling others about sin, about the need for salvation, about the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ, with the prayer that those who live in darkness would be brought by the power of the Spirit into the light. It's that work which is done or should be done day in and day out by the church, the whole church. Of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a witness displaying the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. So what's the foundation or the beginning of evangelism? What spurs it on? From what does evangelism flow? See, it's the gospel. Of course it's the gospel. Yes, that's true, but that's really not what I mean. It's not what I'm driving at. What I want us to see right now is the substance of which evangelism Excuse me, I'm not speaking of the substance of which evangelism proclaims. I'm asking what is it that causes one to evangelize or a church To evangelize, what brings a people together, the people of God together to do evangelistic work, and it's really the same answer. It is the gospel that brings us together. As the body of Christ, as a collective group to evangelize. It's the gospel. Think for a moment upon the Samaritan woman. As she spoke to the Lord Jesus Christ, or as he spoke to her, at the well. Think about how Jesus interacted with her. First, he tells her of her sin. He opens that up to her. He causes her to recognize that how she was living that day was living in sin. That's what he does. And then he reveals to her who he is. He's the Savior. He's the one who can bring her out of her sin to God. What does she do? She leaves her water jar, she goes, she's moved to tell others about it. Remember, she first hears the gospel. She first hears that she's a sinner in need of salvation and that there is a Savior and it is Christ, Christ the Lord. Come see a man who told me all I ever did. Can this be the Christ? The gospel moved her to tell others. Think about what we have here in Acts chapter 2. Everything leading up to verses 42 through 47 is the gospel. It's Peter proclaiming the gospel. He's preaching Christ. Jesus Christ was delivered up according to God's plan. The Lord was crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. Jesus' soul was not abandoned to Hades. The death was not able to continue its grip upon him. God raised him up such that he sits at God's right hand even now. This Jesus, whom they crucified. God is made both Lord and Christ. You see, Peter was preaching the gospel. He told them of their sin. And he told them how they could be saved. And they cry out, what shall we do? The Spirit took the word and pierced their hearts. They were cut to the hearts. Peter calls them to repent and believe. He reminds them of the promise. The Spirit would be sent You see, all that leads up now to this description of the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Hearts were being changed. The Spirit took the word and applied it now to their fleshly, their tender hearts. Seems that Luke is trying to convey to us something, and I think it's important, that as a result of gospel preaching, And the Spirit's work, not only were many hearts changed from stone to flesh, not only were many taken from darkness into light, but they were gathered into and became the body of Christ. Saul follows gospel preaching. Saul follows the message of Christ. Luke presents them as following directly. The gospel is the basis, the gospel is the foundation upon which the people, the church is moved to come together to worship. To fellowship, to break bread, to sell their possessions, to give away those things that are needful to give away and to provide for others and to pray. They were moved. By the word of God preached, they were moved to awe. Everyone kept feeling a sense of awe. That's how we know the power of the gospel, isn't it? Isn't that what we feel as the gospel is preached and proclaimed? And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done to the apostles. You see, by and do these wonders and signs, God was working. He was conveying to the people who were hearing that this was his word and it was powerful. The fact that Luke mentions all which came upon every soul points clearly to the fact that of the ability to have the gospel to move people, to change people, to action. The person, the word compassion, the love, the righteousness, the justice of the Lord Jesus Christ moves men to love one another and to love their neighbors in this awe of the people. Points to that recognition, their acknowledgement of the power of the gospel to save. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. Let me ask this morning, do you know the gospel? Do you believe the gospel? See the power, the power of the gospel is set before us right here. And if you don't, if you're here this morning and you're not believing in the gospel, you don't understand the power of the gospel, cry out to Jesus Ask him to lay that in your heart. Change your heart, just as he changed the hearts of 3,000 souls that were at you to the church that day. Cry out to him. But if you're here this morning and you say, yes, I know the gospel. Praise God. But are you moved by its power? Are you moved to awe? Are you awestruck by the power of the righteousness Of God, which is revealed, and from faith to faith, you recognize what it's done in your heart, what the Spirit continues to do. You may say, well, they had signs and wonders back then. That's why they were in awe And you'd be right, but you'd also be wrong. We no longer have signs and wonders. I'm not here this morning to perform miracles before you Just to proclaim the word. But the awe of our hearts is not tied to signs and wonders. Our awe is based upon that which God has done in our hearts. Hopefully we'll hear a little bit about that this afternoon as well as we continue in our study of John. But our awe, our wonder, our fear. Should be knowing, should rise out of knowing what God has done within our hearts. It should arise out of the unfathomable love of God. Of the Lord Jesus Christ who went to the cross for us, who reached down and pulled us from a pit of destruction by allowing his only eternally begotten Son. To be killed upon the cross. All for you. When you hated God, when you were his enemy. We should be in awe of the resurrection, which demonstrates the power of the love of God, his exclusive ability to change the most wicked of hard hearts to those which love and serve Him. And we should be in awe of Christ's victory over death and sin. These, these are the wonders. That we should be in awe of the love, the mercy, and the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what should grip us and move us and drive us as the body of Christ. To be driven by the gospel, the good news. Yes, that's the foundation of evangelism. Well, what is the structure of evangelism? That's our second point. And I think in verses 42 through 47, what Luke is doing is he's giving us a comprehensive view of the church, of the Lord Jesus Christ, or its maybe its structure. The gospel is that foundation which moves people to come together as the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. But as they come together, now what is it? What does it look like? What is the structure of the church? And right now I'm really not talking about the officers, the elders, the deacons. That's not the idea. What makes the church the church? What does it look like? Let's look at that illustration of the lighthouse again. If you've been inside one, there are interesting structures. You can see all of it. It's not like going into a house where you've got walls partitioning things off. Usually just the b outer brick walls you're seeing seeing the inside of them. You're going up maybe a spiral staircase up to the light itself. Very simple structures, but you can see it all. It's all exposed. No walls to obstruct your view. Everything's open to your eyesight. All the various components are there for you to see. All creating a perch, a platform for the light that sits on top. Isn't that what Luke is doing here in this last portion of Acts chapter 2? Isn't he kind of opening up the roof? of the church and allowing us to kind of peer inside and just see it. See how it works, see how it's structured, a view from above. See how it's put together, how very simple it is to gaze upon it. Luke is telling us Telling us what it is for the church to be the church. What does it look like? It's summed up really in verse 42. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship. To the breaking of bread and the prayers. That's it. He's just opened up the church for us, hasn't he? He's given us in one verse, what is the church? What's its structure? What does it do? There it is. Let's dig a bit deeper into it, the teaching. Of the apostles. They devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching. It's interesting. I think what he means is they devoted themselves to worship. Because the teaching of the apostles was part and parcel of worship. This idea of being devoted, the King James has it as continued steadfastly. Continually devoting themselves. It's an idea of sustained persevering, a constant attention given to what the apostles teaching, or worship, very simple. Simply. Not sitting in a lecture room, not with a piece of chalk on the chalkboard. I don't know if we have those today. But continually being immersed in the truth of the words of the Lord Jesus Christ Continually being taught, being changed, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. That's what the apostles were doing That's what the people, the followers of Jesus, were devoting themselves to. Their hearts were being molded. The Spirit being the great potter, the one who shapes and molds hearts. It wasn't mere teaching, it was worship. Day by day, attending the temple together. Verse 46 If we were to jump to chapter 5, we'd see in verse 42 of that chapter, and every day in the temple, from house to house, they kept right on teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. Worship is that which sets the Church of Lord Jesus Christ apart. Emphasized here is the unity. In and of the worship of the Lord Jesus Christ, day by day, continuing. This is in the NASB, continuing with one mind in the temple. You see. Unity of the body, coming together for worship of the Lord Jesus Christ. A singular, unified mind Mind and heart. That's the picture of the body of Christ. Many souls come Coming together, joining together in the singleness of mind to worship the triune God through the blood of his son. That's what the gospel does. That's the picture of the church. breaking down walls, allowing worshipers to see not only Christ, but Him upon the throne in fellowship with God, then in worship with one another. Not forsaking our own assembling together, as is the habit of some, but encouraging one another. That's what was going on in Hebrews 10:25. It brings together the diversity of the people of God in complete devotion with their hearts to expressing that which is within. Thankfulness. For the salvation that we have in Christ, adoration for the Father who loved them when they were unlovable, exaltation for the Son, who broke his body and shed his innocent blood, and praise for the continuing, inexhaustible work of the Spirit, who is ever at his daily task of conforming each child of God To the image of Christ. That's what they were doing. They were in worship. They were devoting themselves to this. But not just worship, also fellowship. Did you see that? Devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship. Church does not end with worship. It certainly begins with worship, but as the as the roof is lifted off the the structure of the church and we can see as one ascends or descends the staircase within the lighthouse, as Luke opens up this picture for us, we see another component, another element of fellowship And hospitality. Did you see that? A continual coming together of the body of believers, a continuing devotion To being together for worship, but then in fellowship. Fellowship might be defined as companionship A society, a mutual association of persons, that's what how Webster defines it. You see why I'm alikening this to the like As we look in upon the church and we're seeing what's going on, the structure of it, how the people have come together for worship and fellowship. It's not forced. They were not seeing it as a duty They were able to communicate with others in such a way that they understood each other with language that they understood Many times today in the world, I don't understand what people are saying. They're not speaking the same language. They're not speaking of Christ. They're not speaking of the love of Christ. But as we gather, as we come together, the fellowship is It's so sweet because we're able to speak the same language to one another. Christ being our example See throughout Scripture, Christ's desire to be with His disciples, Christ's desire to be with the people, He was always with the people, 5,000 being fed, 4,000 being. Fed he was with the people. He left his true home to come and live amongst his brothers and sisters to be God with us. And did you notice they were selling their possessions and belongings and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. Why would they do this? Think of the parable of the hidden treasure of the pearl of great value each man did what he had to do in order to acquire, whether it was the pearl, whether it was that hidden treasure. He sold everything so that they could get it. That's how valuable it was to them. That's a picture of the church. It's a picture of the Lord Jesus Christ. How valuable is the church? How valuable are each one of us as we come together as the body of Christ. They were bearing burdens, sharing all things, lifting one another up, encouraging one another by explaining how the Holy Spirit was working in their hearts and how they wanted to give to their brothers and sisters in need. That's radical fellowship. That's radical love. It's the penultimate of Christian fellowship Penultimate, I think, means that one before the ultimate. The ultimate is being with Christ in glory. That's the ultimate fellowship. But before we get there, this, the church Christian Fellowship, there's nothing like it. In the Apostolic Church, the apostles, as they were alive and ministering to the saints, the body comes together in an extraordinary way Christ is not teaching here that we should all go home and sell everything and and and live in huts. No He's talking about radical fellowship, such a strong desire, a longing to be together and fellowship in his name and to love one another. The reality is, we cannot be the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ without this fellowship. The Lord Jesus tells us to the Apostle Paul, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others as more significant. significant than yourselves. This was not merely a quaint act or a nice thing to do. This was part of being the body of Christ, part of the fellowship. And finally, prayer. They devote themselves to worship, to fellowship, and to prayer. Not that prayer is the least or the last. All three of these are critical to being the body of Christ, to shining forth the brightness of Christ. They devoted themselves to prayer. Christ calls his father's house a house of Prayer. It's hard to really add to or emphasize what the church is to be beyond Christ's words. These all, with one mind, were continually devoting themselves to prayer. That's how Acts begins. Chapter one, verse fourteen. Worship, fellowship, and prayer This is Luke's description of then of the church being the church. It's his description of the structure of the church, of what it really looks like when you peer in on it. A people of worship, and who are being made into a more consistent and thus perfected worshipers A people of close, intimate fellowship, and a people, a community of prayer. As the church is founded upon the gospel. As God brings together the body by and through the gospel, now he shapes them, he molds them into this structure that we've read about here this morning. He gathers those who were previously far off and draws them near as the body of Christ is church. He assembles them in this unity, this singleness of mind, not merely an agreement upon the truths of the faith, the doctrines of theology. No, that would be a dead faith, a dead church. Agreement is critical. But this oneness of mind, this unity that works out in the body, that worships together, that fellowships together, that prays together, that's the church. A community that was so close, so intimate that all things were shared. Do you see the beauty of the church? Just here and in these verses Beauty of consistent God-glorifying worship. Where worshipers are joyful, longing to be together in communion, in God's communion. The beauty of radical fellowship, bearing joyfully the burdens of others, sharing meals in one another's houses. The beauty of intimate, corporate, devoted prayer. These brothers and sisters were moved by the Spirit. To become the beautiful body of the Lord Jesus Christ, truly reflecting the beauty, the love, the zeal, the Mission of their head, the Lord Jesus Christ. The beauty of the body is only beautiful because of its head, the Lord Jesus. I think this morning we need to be asking ourselves, are we beautiful? Are we beautiful to others as we represent Christ as we are a people of worship who have come together, who are perfected by and through worship, who are a community of worshipers. Are we a beautiful people? Because of Christ That's for us to meditate upon and pray about. And ask that the Spirit would work in us. That if we're beautiful today in Christ, we would become even more beautiful in the days to come. Yes? The beacon of evangelism now is our third point. We've seen the foundation, we've seen the structure, and now I want to touch upon the beacon. of evangelism or the beacon of the church. So as we've been talking about the lighthouse, we have to ask that question again, what's the purpose of the lighthouse? And certainly it's to be seen. If the light were not lit, it really has no purpose. If the light were blocked by trees, if it was too low, it would have no purpose. The deep foundation, the structure, the stone walls, the staircase would have no purpose if the light atop it could not be seen lit and shining. The church. Church is similar, but different. This is the idea that's related to the reader, to us, this morning by Luke. As the church is being the church, then all of these different elements, these works of worship, of prayer, of fellowship, they come together, they work together To shine forth. See, in the lighthouse there are many different mirrors. There's one source of the light, but many mirrors which reflect and reflect refract and I don't know all the scientific terms, but they they make the light brighter. That's what is happening. Worship, fellowship, prayer, bearing one another burdens, all of these elements, these structures of the church, they come together when they're working the way they should work, when we're walking according to the way we should be walking. and worthy of the calling that we have received, then we will be shining brightly. That's the idea What happens? What happens when the church is the church What happens when the church is worshiping, when it's fellowshipping, when it's praying? What happens? Luke tells us. Luke tells us what happened in that day. I think the idea is it will happen in our day as well. And day by day, verse 46, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God. And Having favor with all the people. Now, I don't think that what Luke is talking about is having favor with inside the church I don't think that's the people he's speaking of. I think the idea is as the church is being the church, as they're worshiping, fellowshipping, and praying together as the body of Christ Now what happens is this light is lit, this light of Christ. And others outside the church are seeing it. They're seeing what's going on. And they had favor with all the people. That's amazing. As the church is doing what the church should be doing, those outside the church are seeing it, they're looking upon it. And it meets with their favor. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who are being saved Do you see? Peter preaches the gospel in verse 41. Those who received his word were baptized, and there were added that day about 3,000 souls. It appears that those 3,000 souls, plus those who were already in the church, For being the church, selling their possessions, belongings, they were worshiping, they were praying, they were fellowshipping day by day, attending the temple together, breaking bread. And then what happens? They have favor with the people around, and guess what? More people are added. More people come in. It's astounding. It's truly amazing. That all of these common things, worship, fellowship, and prayer, summed up in praising God, actually works to bring more people into the church. Those outside were given eyes to see. This very bright light, which was the church, which was merely reflecting Jesus Christ. The church was being the church in worship and fellowship and prayer. The church was glowing. The body of Christ was shining. Church had become that light on a hill. You are the light of the world, the city set on a the hill which cannot be hidden. You think of that. As the church is the church, it is that light which cannot be hidden. And the Lord blesses. The gospel message has come full circle. The people were hearing the good news preached by Peter. They were having their hearts prick. They believe and they repent. They come into the church, part of the body of Christ, and they become that bright light. And now more come in the church. Seems to me that this is one of God's primary ways of evangelism. It's not technical, it's it's not cutting edge It's just a church. Being the church is called by the Lord. It's a glorious picture of the way church is to be done, of what we are to be be doing in the body of Christ. When we are the church, when we act like the church, when we strive to be the church, then evangelism happens. It's automatic. I'm not saying we can't do other things. But I wanted us to think about this passage this morning. That's the beauty of the church. It's the beauty of Christ. It's God's plan to gather and to grow His kingdom All. All in this passage, we're certainly growing in grace, growing closer to Christ, growing as a true body of Christ And as they were growing, they were becoming, as that body, the true light, the bright light of Christ. They were not an individual light, they were the body light. They were collective light. They were the church light. Just like those lenses and mirrors in the lighthouse, which reflect and refract that light which is Christ. What is the call to us this morning then? Is it to be like the Apostolic Church, Apostolic Church? You maybe think, well, they had inspired teachers. I'm not. You're right. Better. Christ is your head. He has given you complete revelation. He's given the Spirit to teach you. So that you can exalt this one who is head, the Lord Jesus Christ, so you can praise the triune God who is built and organized this particular congregation of the Lord Jesus Christ carefully crafting each element, each person brought together in this body of Christ, placing you here. to be a faithful worshiper, a faithful person in fellowship, a faithful person in prayer. And if we do that, the Lord is faithful. To continue to grow his church. It's God's work. He's merely calling us to be faithful. to his calling. That's why we read Isaiah 44. For I Will pour out water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I Will pour out my spirit on your offspring and my blessings on your descendants, and they will spring up among the grass like poplars by streams of waters. Do you see? It's God's work. He's the one who grows his church. This morning he's just asking us, calling us To be the church, to walk in a manner that's worthy of our calling. Yes, the Lord's plan or method of evangelism is simply the church being and shining forth as the devoted body of Christ for all to see and behold. In this country, we do have great treasures in lighthouses. We have the greatest treasure in the Lord Jesus Christ May the Spirit help us to be those who shine brightly as the body of Christ for our Savior. Let's join our hearts in prayer. Father in heaven As we come before you now having opened your word. I confess, Father, that you are the one who discerns our thoughts, even from afar. That you have searched our hearts, that you know us. You are acquainted with our paths and all of our ways. Now, Father, we ask, we plead. Continue to work in our hearts by your spirit. Making us Continuing to make us into that church, that body of Christ, that work Worships, that fellowships, that praise, that is devoted to all of these things In this call. If you have even given to us and reminded us of this day. Father, we confess that we cannot do this upon our own. We confess that we are weak, that we are frail, that we are sinners saved only by grace. We praise you for our salvation, and now we ask, Lord God, that you would continue your work of your Spirit To continue to sanctify us. Oh Father, we thank you for Christ this morning. Thank you that He is indeed your only eternally begotten Son. We thank you, Father, that He indeed did take on a human nature That he died for us. That he's been risen and ascended on high. And it's through Christ that we can be the church. It's through our head who leads us in all things. And has given us one another to be in this particular church. And so we ask now, Father, that we would be able to lay our heavy burdens upon Christ That Christ would give us rest, that He would take our sins and separate us from them. Did he grant us to take his yoke? That we would even today be learning from him, knowing that he is gentle and lowly in heart, and that in Christ we do find rest for our souls, for his yoke is easy and his burden is light. We praise you, Father, that there is no more condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus this day. God, we do now pray. Pray that you would be with this particular church. You think of those who have health issues. this morning, Father, we thank you and praise you for the healing that you've given to Ben Kelly. We ask, Lord God, that it would continue. His recovery from his fall would be complete according to your will. We thank you, Father, that it was not more serious. We ask for Kimoy as she prepares for surgery in a few weeks. We pray, Father, that you would work even now in the hearts of the surgeons and the medical professionals preparing them and that the surgery would perform all that you, Father, have ordained Thank you for Gary and Mary, and we ask Lord God that you would continue to enable Mary to recover We pray for autumn and relief from her migraines and for her mother's upcoming surgery. We ask, Lord God, for mercy upon her. Father, we also think about our families and friends who need the salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ. Each one of us knows of many, including children. We pray, Father, for Christ's work to penetrate their hearts. We so long for them to follow Christ And to be saved, we ask, Father, for your mercy upon them. We also pray, Lord, Lord. For unity within this particular church and within the broader church as well. As we have even heard of unity this morning, singleness, oneness of mind, we pray that you would increase it amongst us us. Father, we also pray for those in civil government. Think of our president and vice president. We think of congressmen and women. We ask, Lord God, that you would be with them this day, that they would bend the knee to Christ. That they would, Father, govern in submission to you. We pray for wisdom As they enact laws and policies for this country. And we pray that you'd bless your church, Father, through the government. We would have peace in order for the gospel to continue. to go out. Father, we thank you for the ability to worship you this day. We do not take it for granted Would you not understand it as a commonplace event, but things, but that which you've given to us as a great blessing? And Father, as we continue to pray to you now, we ask, Lord God, that you would work upon our hearts. And you we ask that you'd help us to pray, Lord, as Jesus has taught us to pray. Our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. Your will be done. On earth as it is in heaven Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we have forgiven. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen