Our Old Testament reading tonight comes from the prophet Daniel. We're going to begin chapter 2. We won't finish it tonight. But we will start it. Daniel chapter 2, I believe this is on page 875 of your Pew Bibles, and we'll read through verse 18 tonight. This is the first of several dreams that are set forth in this prophetical book. Daniel chapter 2, let's give attention to God's holy word. In the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams. His spirit was troubled, and his sleep left him. Then the king commanded that the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans be summoned to tell the king his dreams. So they came in and stood before the king And the king said to them, I had a dream, and my spirit is troubled to know the dream. Then the Chaldeans said to the king in Aramaic, O king, live forever. Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation. The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The word from me is firm. If you do not make known to me the dream and its interpretation, you shall be torn limb from limb. And your houses shall be laid in ruins. But if you show the dream and its interpretation, you shall receive from me gifts and rewards and great honor. Therefore, show me the dream and its interpretation. And he answered a second time and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will show its interpretation. The king answered and said, I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time, because you see that the word from me is firm. If you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one sentence for you. You have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me till the times change. Therefore, tell me the dream, and I shall know that you can show me its interpretation. The Chaldeans answered the king and said, Said, there is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand. For no great and powerful king has asked such a thing of any magician or enchanter or Chaldean The thing that the king asks is difficult, and no one can show it to the king except the gods whose dwelling is not with flesh. Because of this, the king was angry and very furious and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be destroyed. So the decree went out, and the wise men were about to be killed, and they sought Daniel and his companions to kill them. Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to Ariok, the captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon. He declared to Ariok, the king's captain, Why is the decree of the king so urgent? Then Ariak made the matter known to Daniel And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time that he might show the interpretation to the king. And Daniel went to his house, and made the matter known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah his companions. And told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions might not be destroyed with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. I stop our reading there this evening. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father in Heaven, we ask for Spirit's guidance tonight We ask that he would open up this word to us, your word to us, your pure word. That we would not only understand, Father. As far as you give understanding, but we would also be able to apply this, your word, to our hearts. Father, open our hearts tonight that we might see how we have sinned against you, and then, Father, rejoice in Christ as we see your mercy. Mercy. All your promises which are yes and amen in Him. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Mark in his gospel records an event With regard to a blind man, his name was Bartimaeus And Jesus was leaving Jericho, and Bartimaeus was sitting by the roadside. He was a beggar. You might know the account. And when he hears that Jesus was coming and passing by, he calls out, Jesus, Son of David, have mercy on me. I think what happens next is quite strange. Many around him rebuked him. Told him to be silent, not to cry out to Jesus for mercy any longer, but he cries out all the more, Son of David, have mercy on me. Bartimaeus was confident that Jesus could bring his sight back. He believed that Jesus had the ability, the power, he had faith. that Christ could restore his sight despite the naysayers around him, despite those who called him to be quiet And Jesus listened. And he asked Bartimaeus, what do you want me to do for you? And he said, Rabbi, let me recover my sight. And Jesus said, go your way, your faith has made you well. And immediately he recovered his sight, and the thing is that Bartimaeus followed him Tonight, in this prophecy of Daniel, we have a similar situation where some were believing And confident in what God could do while others around them denied it. And went in an opportunity. So far we haven't gone very far in this prophetical book of Daniel. We've seen that These exiles, Daniel and friends, Hananiah, Mishael, and Ezariah, have been removed from their homeland, these youth. They've been trained up to enter into the king's service. We've seen that they've learned much. They've learned the language of the Chaldeans. They've learned the literature. They've been tested by the king. They've been tested with regard to their diet. We've seen that that they were confident that if they kept themselves pure, if they did not defile themselves with the king's food, that they would be in good condition because this was God's will and word. And now they go before the king and and are accepted into his court. Now to provide that wisdom, that understanding that the king was looking for, and now we know that they're serving there. That brings us up to speed, so to speak, within to this second chapter. We get into the second year of King Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar. Tonight, as we look at a portion of this chapter two of this first dream that's recorded for us in this prophetic book of Daniel. Would like us to see that the faithful are patiently confident, knowing that the living God does dwell with his people. The faithful are patiently confident, knowing that the living God does dwell with his people. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, the urgency of the future, secondly, the hopelessness of unbelief, and then finally the patience of of confidence. Well, first, the urgency of the future. As we open up this portion of Daniel You understand that King Nebuchadnezzar has had a dream. In the second year of his reign, Nebuchadnezzar had dreams. It's quite interesting that the centerpiece of chapter 2 seems to be this dream of Nebuchadnezzar, but initially the author does not share the dream with the reader. We're kept in the dark, so to speak. along with everyone else. King Nebuchadnezzar knows the dream, but at this point he is the only one. And so he commands the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, the Chaldeans to be summoned to tell the king his dreams. We all have dreams. But this one described as quite different. The king's spirit is troubled. His sleep leaves him. The same sense is repeated in the third verse. My spirit is troubled to know the dream. The dream was so significant, so important in the king's mind and spirit that he was troubled by it, so troubled he could not sleep. So significant a dream that the king needed to know its meaning. So troubled was his spirit that he was unable to be quiet. To the point that he could not sleep. He so wants to know what the dream means Because he has the sense, likely, that it was different than other dreams. And so he presses to know what it means. He wants to know what will happen In the future. What else could cause this king to be so troubled? He was the king of the most powerful nation on earth. earth, the the kingdom that had just overrun Jerusalem, which was the powerhouse. Why would he be so troubled unless he felt that this had something to do with his kingdom? and the future. You should be able to understand from this text that the dream was supernatural Not that all dreams are supernatural. We think of our own dreams, our own experience regarding dreams, or our dreams don't foretell the future. We know, if we were to skip ahead, that this dream was foretelling the future. It's not the normal course of things. That's not our typical experience. But in this case, Nebuchadnezzar's dream was indeed telling him, even though he could not interpret himself that something was going to happen in the future, he was thinking along those lines, it appears We might think of Daniel's recitation of the dream, and then accurately interpret it. it as being these supernatural events in chapter 2. And certainly these things were, and we'll get to them, Lord willing. But the dream itself, we must understand as being supernatural, meaning this dream was outside of the normal course of things that we experienced, that Nebuchadnezzar was experiencing. If we consider supernatural events, we might think of Jesus the Christ, the God man, walking on water. And then we might consider Peter called to come to Jesus A mere man also walking on water for a time. Those two events don't match our typical experiences, our knowledge of water and the physical weight of men. I doubt that any of us has ever walked on water. And thus we refer to these events as supernatural actions, supernatural events in the history of These things which are against or above or not in line with what we would consider to be the nature of the way in which God has made things and we experience things. Supernatural. And so it appears that Nebuchadnezzar recognizes his dream as being just that. Supernatural. We'll consider the command of King Nebuchadnezzar under the second point. But right now I want us to consider the king's command and what it tells us about his thoughts of the dream. He doesn't inform the Chaldeans of his dream. But he requires them to tell him what it was. The king requires a supernatural response to his command, which points to the supernatural nature of the dream itself. Clearly, the king had determined that the dream was divine in nature and thus required a divine interpretation. What's the point? The point is that the supernatural event is troubling. Troubling for the king. We read it twice in the text. He was troubled. Supernatural things tend to trouble us. First, because we expect things to work and act in the way we've seen them working in the past. We've come to expect the normal. Why? Because we don't fix our minds upon on the things above enough to expect that there will be supernatural events that occur even in our lives. We don't consider that God acts in his creation according to his will, not our will. That the Lord brings all things to pass, first for his glory and then to accomplish his holy purposes, and thus God works sometimes supernaturally. And so the supernatural reminds us that there is something or someone above or beyond creation. It reminds us that the material creation is not everything that is. No, there is more, much more. Thus the supernatural challenges one here, King Nebuchadnezzar, to reconsider his worldview, which had excluded God, the God of Scripture, the God of creation. He had excluded the supernatural. So now he's troubled. So much so that he needs to know what it means. He recognizes this this is different. This is supernatural. This is above his ordinary experiences. And so he calls together the best and the brightest in the nation to interpret, in other words, to tell him what's going to happen in the future He had to know. He couldn't wait. He was too troubled. And so this command, this order is urgent. The king now turns his troubled spirit, his sleepless night, into a command, an order to produce that which would restore quietness to his soul. Look at verse 2. The king commanded the magicians, the enchanters, the sorcerers, the Chaldeans to be summoned to tell the king his dreams. It wasn't just one person. It wasn't just one group of persons. It was these different categories that might come together and be able to do that which no one else could do. Certainly the king Couldn't. He said to them, I had a dream, my spirit is troubled to know the dream. The king's order was urgent. Consider it. King of the most powerful nation on earth could not sleep. His army had just destroyed nations and And here is this king of that army who could not sleep. He was being told something by this supernatural dream, but didn't know what it was He had things to do, plans to make, nations to topple, people to rule. He needed to know now. We can see it in the text. There appears to be no time between the dream, the loss of sleep, his troubled spirit, and the calling of all of these different people: magicians, enchanters, sorcerers, Chaldeans. He summons them. There doesn't appear to be to be any lapse of time between them. At least that's the way the inspired writer has put it to us. So they came in and stood before the king. He calls them, they come seemingly immediately, they stand before him, and now we hear the urgency and the multiple repeated commands. Think of the picture. I had a dream, my spirit is troubled to know the dream Verse 5, the king answered and said to the Chaldeans, the word for me is firm. If you do not make known to me the dream, But, if you show the dream, verse 6 and its interpretation, he answered a second time. The king answered them after that, I know with certainty you're trying to gain time. If you do not make the dream known to me, therefore tell me the dream. The king was urgent. He repeats the command several times. The urgency is clear. We can hear it as we read the passage. No time would be permitted the Chaldeans even Even as they ask for the king to give them the dream. Verse 8. The king answered and said, I know with certainty that you are trying to gain time. Because you see the word from me is firm. And then upon the Chaldeans' inability, their profession, we can't do it. Verse 12 Because of this the king was angry and very furious, and commanded that all the wise men of Babylon be destroyed. Tell me now, or die This passage should cause every Christian to dwell on the patience of God. King Nebuchadnezzar issued a decree of death and sought to have his minions executed immediately. That's the way the passage reads, these things happening one after the other after the other, no time for anything to intervene. There's no patience. He gave no time for compliance. He gave no mercy. But the true king, the Lord of Lords and the King of Kings, is patient. Consider that passage we read this morning from Nehemiah. The constant sin of God's people The constant transgression of his law, the constant calling back of the people to himself, the placing of his prophets before them, reminding them of his word, and again the people straying away and neglecting him. And yet God having mercy time and again, being patient with his people, even as they create the golden calf. even as they blaspheme his name. God is patient. He's long-suffering. Think of Paul's preaching in Athens. As he goes throughout the city and sees all these statutes and images to idols, to foreign gods, to false gods. To the unknown God. He proclaims to those who would listen, the times of ignorance God overlooked. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. You see, there was a time that God overlooked. He was patient. He was long-suffering. Remember Peter's words we read tonight. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises. Some count slowness. But is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. Do you see the contrast with Nebuchadnezzar? He wanted all of them to perish. But God is patient, He's long suffering. The king had no forbearance, but God is rich with forbearance. As Paul writes to to the church in Rome, as he writes about the Jews, and he writes, or or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience? He's describing who God is and how he has been kind and patient and how he has foreborn with his people, the Jews. How can that be that God would be so patient with us? We look at the Jews, the Israelites, and and we recount of all their sins and all their blasphemies and say, well, that was them, and we we mustn't say that. We must say that that's really us. How can it be that God would be so patient with us, so long suffering? The answer is because of Christ. Because the Father knows that He would send His Son Because the Father knows that Jesus would satisfy his justice, because the Father knew that his son would do his will and fulfill his law completely, so the Father could wait. For he know that his his son has indeed redeemed. He knows that Jesus Christ has done it all and there's nothing left to satisfy him. Let me ask, are you praising God tonight? Amen. That you don't sit under a cruel and urgent and unknowing king who would bring about the death of his servants when they do not serve him according to his corrupt will? Are you giving praise to God tonight? That you don't serve that kind of a God. Are you thanking the Son for his perfect work that has enabled the Father to be patient with you? Are you praising God for His long suffering? Brings us to our second point. Hopelessness of unbelief. As the command goes out, as Nebuchadnezzar is so troubled and so sleepless so concerned about what might happen in the future, so desiring to know that which might be coming his way, and he calls these magicians and conjurers and enchanters and Chaldeans together. He gives them the command. We've been over it. He imposes upon them an impossible task. Make known to me the dream. Show me the dream. Show me the dream. In other words, interpret the dream, but before you do that, tell me what the dream was. He states it three times. His command was fixed, it was firm, he was not going to change his Mind. And he tags on to the end, if you don't do it, you'll die. See, the pressure applied by King Nebuchadnezzar to the Chaldeans was immense. And it wasn't just any kind of death. You shall be torn limb from limb, and your houses shall be laid in ruins. If they didn't perform the task, if they could not tell King Nebuchadnezzar his dream and then interpret it, there was only one result, they would die, a wretched death. The king was fixed upon this aspect of their employment, a non-negotiable term. Despite the Chaldeans' objections, voice of the king, not only would he not change his mind, but came so furious with their delay that he ordered the penalty imposed immediately. The death, the execution of all the wise men of Babylon It's a good time for us to consider that this threat of death is a theme which will reoccur throughout this book of Daniel. Daniel. Several times, as Daniel and his friends engage with the king, we'll see this threat of death. We see it here. We'll see it again with regard to the statute which Nebuchadnezzar Knezar sets up. We'll see it once again with regard to Darius and the command not to worship or pray to anyone but Darius himself. Indeed, death is a theme throughout all of Scripture. It began in the garden. And as we consider this threat of death and the response of the Chaldeans, it's good to remind ourselves. In Matthew chapter 10, as Jesus is sending his disciples out to proclaim the good news Knowing that they would come in contact with those who would oppose the good news, the gospel. And he tells them, Do not fear those who can kill the body but cannot kill the soul, rather fear him who can destroy both. in soul and body in hell. Do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot kill the soul. Jesus was saying that they had a heavenly father who would care for them Even the hairs of your head are numbered. Fear not, therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. See, the wise men of Babylon don't or didn't grasp that truth. They didn't cling to that truth. They stood in fear of the king. They heard the impossible command. They heard the the tearing limb from limb and they stand in fear of this human king. Not in fear of God. They were right. As they answer the king, they say, there is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand. They were right. The king had issued an impossible task. They were given an impossible task. No mere human Chaldean had the power or ability to meet the king's demand. On this, they were very correct. But they were also very ignorant They were correct. No mere man could tell the king's dream. But that was it. The rest of their response was faulty or just plain false. Everyone knew. But there was a supernatural requirement here in a response that demanded that was demanded by the king. All were in agreement. No mere man could satisfy the king's command. But that really wasn't the problem. The real problem for the Chaldeans lay in their wrong, their erroneous, or ignorant theology. They knew that the gods, plural, could show the king his dream. So we know that they had rejected the one living and true God of Scripture. We clearly see that these were polytheists, meaning believers in multiple gods, just like the Greeks that Paul encountered in Athens. Athens, many divine beings. This was their first rebellion or ignorant belief that they didn't believe upon the one living and true God of the Bible. But in addition, they were also ignorant of the dwelling place of this one living and true God. They were erroneous in their belief that the God of Scripture, which they did not confess, did not dwell with men. They didn't believe that the God of heaven was in a position to reveal himself to mere men Or that he would not make himself known to mere humans, that their gods were so transcendent, meaning above all things, that they would never enter into the affairs of humans on earth. Especially the dreams of Amir King. And so this is what they base their response on. Their rebellion against the one living and true God, their ignorance with regard to the dwelling place of the one living and true God. And so now they seek mercy. But they seek mercy from the wrong king. Three times they plead. O King, live forever. Tell your servants the dream, and we will show the interpretation Let the king tell the servants the dream, even as they plead inability, even as they confess they're unable to satisfy the king, and tell him that there is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand They're seeking mercy. They're pleading that the king would not impose the death sentence upon them. But not once did they go to the only one who could help them. Without faith, they had no access into the throne room of the true living God. And so what do the Chaldeans do? After they plead with the king to recognize that his crest was request was a an impossible one for mere men to accomplish. What do the Chaldeans do? It appears that they have left the narrative. The impression we have is that they sit in their homes and they wait for death They've concluded that the divine, the gods which they mentioned, would be of no help to them as none of them dwell with flesh. And so they wait. They wait for death. They have no significant hope. They have no hope whatsoever of satisfying the king. There's no possibility that they will be able to perform that which the king has required of them. And so, because of the king's decree of death, they seemingly merely wait for death to come knocking at the door. This is the picture of all those who are outside of Christ today. The true divine King, the creator of the universe, has required perfect obedience. Of all men. And in their flesh, none can accomplish this task. Since Adam fell from grace, it is an impossible work to keep God's law perfectly. No one born of Adam has the power or ability to keep God's law in perfection. Just like the Chaldeans had no possibility within their flesh to interpret the king's dream, no one outside side of Christ has the possibility of satisfying the true king's demand for righteousness and purity before him. So those who are outside of Christ wait for death. They have no other possibility. They have no other options. They have no hope of rescue, like the Chaldeans They are right in thinking there is not a man on earth who can meet the king's demand. But tonight we can praise God because there is one who can and who has. There's only one who can meet the true king's demand of perfect obedience, of righteousness. And he is not a man on earth, but he's a man from heaven. Amen. As Jesus preached, he said, for the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. See, he's not a man on earth. Jesus is the bread of life. He's the bread of God who's been sent from heaven, and he's the one who gives life to the world. We feed upon him. We'll do that in a moment. In Christ. Christ there is hope. Outside of Christ, there's absolutely no hope. That brings us to our third point, patience of confidence. Now we see a great contrast to the Chaldean. As Daniel appears in the narrative. Look at verse 14 Then Daniel replied with prudence and discretion to Ariok, the captain of the king's guard, who had gone out to kill the wise men of Babylon. He declared to Ariok the king's captain, why is the decree of the king so urgent? Consider the way in which Daniel approached Ariok The inspired writer wants us to know he he does so with prudence and discretion. Just remember just for a moment that Ariok is the captain of the king's guard. He's on his way to kill Daniel and his friends and all the other wise men in Babylon. That's what his purpose is. That's where he's going. He may have had his gear on today do that and Daniel approaches him not with a sword but with prudence and discretion where did he get that from He's a faithful servant of the Most High God. So even as Ariak may have had a spear in his hand, we don't read of Daniel fleeing But he's going. He's approaching the problem. Something is wrong. Something is up. He knows it. And so he goes to meet the problem face to face to find out what it is. And he goes in the confidence of his God. You see that in an even greater way as as Daniel now continues. As the Chaldeans or the Chaldeans shuffle off and out of the presence of the Chaldeans king with their tails between their legs. Now Daniel hears of the king's command, and he doesn't run away in fear, but now as he learns of the execution order, he runs into the king's presence. In their foolishness, the Chaldeans do not evidence any patience. They don't seek any counsel. They have no confidence that the king's demands might be met But Daniel, in his confidence, he requests time. He asks for patience. Look at verse 16. And Daniel went in and requested the king to appoint him a time. That he might show the interpretation to the king. Now we don't have a recorded response from King Nebuchadnezzar, but the context tells us that time. was granted. Remember what the king said to the Chaldeans. If you do not make the dream known to me, there is but one sentence for you. You have agreed to speak lying and corrupt words before me till the times change. The king would not give them time. Time the king would not give them a delay. The king demanded immediate performance. But for Daniel, time is growing Granted. Why? Daniel doesn't tell the king that his request was impossible Daniel merely asked for time to do that which the king demanded. Daniel's approached with prudence And so Daniel, in confidence Now with time granted by the king. And even while the sentence of death was hanging over his head, along with the heads of Hannah Michel and Ezariah. The account gives no indication of fear. Not fear of the king? Not fear of his decree. We know that they acknowledge the serious nature of the decree of death, but we read nothing of fear Instead of waiting upon the executioner, these four seek mercy. Look at verse 17. And Daniel went to his house and made the matter known. Now he's come out from the king. He's petitioned the king and he's obviously received time, and now he goes to his house and he makes the matter known to his friends. And he told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions might not be destroyed with the rest of the world. wise men. How is it that they didn't respond in fear? How is it they didn't respond by fleeing or just going home and hunkering down, waiting for the executioner, because they knew the truth? They knew that the living God had not abandoned them. They knew that the God of Scripture was near in contrast to the ignorant beliefs of the Chaldeans, these Israelite youth rightly believed that God was near. Psalms were written by this time. had them. Psalm 34 reads this way. Verse 18, the Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed. Many are the afflictions of the righteous, but the Lord delivers him out of them all. He keeps all his bones. Not one of them is broken. Affliction will slay the wicked And those who hate the righteous will be condemned. The Lord redeems the life of his servants. None of those who take refuge in him will be condemned. Do you see? Do you see the confidence of Daniel and Hananiah and Mishael and Azariah to seek mercy from God? How could they do that? Because they knew the truth. They knew that the Lord was near. He wasn't far off. He knew. They knew that he would hear. They knew that he would respond. They didn't know what the response would be But they knew that the Lord redeems the life of his servants. And so they were patient. as they knew their God. As they sought mercy from the one who can and does pour out mercy on his children. They never asked the human king for mercy, for it was not to be found in him, only in the God of creation. only in the one who sent his son to save them from the wrath to come, and thus he could certainly save them from this wicked king who feared the future. Where is your confidence tonight. The test of our confidence or our faith usually occurs in hard circumstances or affliction. This event in the lives of Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah was a great test and a great affliction. Would they fear the king? Or would they be bold and proclaim the truths of God in the face of threatened death? During affliction or testing. Where do you go? To whom do you turn? What is your first and lasting consideration? Daniel and the three turned immediately to God. As this narrative goes very quickly and things happen fast, we see they go immediately to God. He goes home, pray. Seek mercy. They petitioned the merciful one. Where do you go for mercy? Daniel and the three expected to find find it as they sought the face of God. Do you expect to find mercy as you turn to God in prayer? Do you have a confident expectation That in and through Jesus Christ God the Father will pour out mercy on you. If you're not sure tonight, ask the Spirit to build up your faith. To build up your confidence in Christ. For He is the one, He's the only One who can pour out Mercy on you. The faithful are patiently confident, knowing that the living God does dwell within Blind Bartimaeus was confident that Jesus could heal him, and so he cries out, not once. twice, even even as those around him were telling him to stop. His faith was so strong, so confident that this mercy would flow from this one. May we ask for that same confidence in Christ alone, that he would pour out mercy upon us. Father in heaven, we thank you for this passage tonight. We thank you for this text. We thank you for the great contrast that we've seen tonight between King Nebuchadnezzar and you. We thank you, Lord God, for your patient long-suffering with us. We thank you for constantly coming back and drawing us back to Christ when we fall. For picking us up, for Father, washing us clean time and again. Oh Father, we thank you and pray Praise you for your mercy. Help us to be those who are confident, so confident that our first inclination is to turn immediately to you in all circumstances, in all afflictions. Help us, Lord. Help us not to fear men, help us not to fear circumstances. Certainly, Lord, help us not to be fearful of tomorrow. But help us to fear you. And to turn to you. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.