If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Proverbs, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 3. And we are actually at the end of Proverbs chapter three. And I'll be reading beginning at verse 31. Let's give attention to God's holy word, Proverbs 3, beginning at verse 31. Do not envy a man of violence, and do not choose any of his ways. For the devious person is an abomination to the Lord. But the upright Are in his confidence. The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor. The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace. Thus far in the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, I thank you for this study in Proverbs. This passage is so full. And we thank you, Lord God, for your wisdom, your knowledge, your understanding. The value of which is unbounded We ask now tonight, Lord God, that as we finish this passage, that you would work within us. That you would cause us to see, Lord God, how you care for us. How it's by and through your relationship with us through the Lord Jesus Christ that we are able to attain to this wisdom, this knowledge, and understanding. Father, we pray that as we know you've given this great gift to us That we would not be those who hold on to it, but yet that we would be those who share it. Grant us this tonight, Father. Work in our hearts, all for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. There was a point in the Apostle Paul's ministry, as it's recorded in the book of Acts. Where he preaches a sermon on what's called Mars Kill. And he was preaching to men who were not Christians. He was preaching to those who were pagans, who were heathens. They did not know God. In fact, he was preaching to those who had an altar with the inscription to the unknown God. And so in wisdom, Paul uses this that they knew of and brings this before them and tells them that this is the one that I want to tell you about. The one that you don't know in wisdom. Paul preaches a sermon which is full of the knowledge of God He begins with the one who created all things. And indeed, he continues with the one who actually created you. It's clear if you read that passage in Acts chapter 17, you see how God was working through Paul. How Paul was using the wisdom that had been given to him to preach to men who were unbelievers, men who were pagan, men who worshipped idols. And at the end of Paul's preaching, as he goes out from their midst, some men joined him and believed. God gave Paul wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to use it And he used it as means to bring some to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. That passage provides somewhat of a model for us tonight as we go to Proverbs 3, to the end of Proverbs 3. A proverb that is all about God's wisdom, understanding, and knowledge. We've seen the great value of God's wisdom And even last week we've seen about practicing that wisdom that's been given to us tonight. Tonight, we want to see that the wisdom of God is given to the followers of Christ to be used for his kingdom. The wisdom of God is given to the followers of Christ to be used for his kingdom. Tonight, brothers and sisters, we may be asking that question: Are these promises true that are contained within the Proverbs? Can we count on them? Or were they for a time past? Were they for a people who have now succumbed to death? We read in verse 4. That we will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man if we take His teaching and bind them around our necks and write them on the table of our heart. Find favor and good success. In verse 6, we read: In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Promises contained even within this proverb. And how should we understand them? How does it apply to the church Today. How can we pray these promises? What are we to expect? We know that all the promises in Christ Jesus are yes, so that we can say Amen. But tonight, tonight, will these promises be kept? Obviously, the answer is yes. And I think what we're about to dig into tonight is going to show us how, how God keeps his promises. How God takes his wisdom, his valuable wisdom, and gives it to his children for us to use for his kingdom. We'll see this in three points tonight. First, reject envy. Secondly, receive wisdom, and then finally, reflect wisdom. Well, let's jump into it, this great, this precious gift of wisdom and see how we receive it, how we can use it. First, reject envy. See this first verse that we're studying tonight. Do not envy a man of violence, do not choose any of his ways. This might be a refresher of the Ten Commandments. You shall not covet your neighbor's house. We read that this morning. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, his male servant, his female servant, or his ox, or his donkey, or anything that is your neighbor's. That is a broad commandment. But here tonight we have something a bit more specific. Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his We're accustomed now to reading these do not verses in this proverb, aren't we? We saw it last Sunday. I could think of other verses here in the same manner that follow, verse 31. Verse 33, the Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked. We could read that as being, do not dwell in the house of the wicked. Verse 34, toward the scorners he is scornful. We could read that as do not be a scorner. The writer here is more specific than broadly saying, do not covet your neighbor's house. Do not envy a man of violence, do not choose any of his ways. Why would the inspired writer need to tell his readers this at this point in Proverbs chapter three? If you might turn in your Bibles this evening to Psalm 73. Just for a moment. Just for a moment. Psalm 73. Because I think it provides a bit of an answer to us as to why the proverb writer tonight would be telling us, do not envy a man of violence. In Psalm 73, written by Asaph, we read here just the first couple of verses: truly, God is good to Israel, to those who are pure in heart But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped, for I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Is that goes on? He talks about the way he watches the wicked and and how they seem to have no pangs until death. Their bodies are fat and sleek. They're not in trouble as others are. They're not stricken like the rest of mankind. Asaph is bemoaning what he sees in his life before him. And we see it as well. Those who disobey, those who have nothing to do with the things of God, those who mock Christians. Indeed, those who persecute the children of God seem to prosper in this life. We see it. We can't deny it. We know that it exists. We see other passages in Scripture, Job. Why do the wicked live, reach an old age, and grow mighty in power? He's asking the question. He's watching, he's seeing Their houses are safe from fear. No rod of God is upon them. Job the righteous one. In Psalm 37, we read something very similar. Be still before the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not yourself over the one who prospers in his way, over the man who carries out evil devices. God knows our heart. He knows we watch, He knows we see. Even in Prophet Jeremiah, righteous are you, O Lord, when I complain to you. Yet I would plead my case before you. Why does the way of the wicked prosper? Why do all who are treacherous thrive? Jeremiah, the man of God, the inspired one. The Spirit knows that the children of God need encouragement. Those following Christ need to know. They need to know the truth. You need to know the truth tonight. Isn't that what this whole proverb is all about? Conveying God's wisdom, understanding, and knowledge to all of us. And that's exactly what the Spirit is doing tonight. The life of following Christ is hard. We didn't preach that this morning, but we knew it this morning. But the gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. Before Jesus gets to that part in the Sermon on the Mount, he had already told his disciples that there will be persecution. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. So the children of God need this knowledge, this understanding, this wisdom regarding the wicked, so that you can press on tonight. So that you're not led to envy. You're not led to see, well, they're doing it and they're prospering as a result, and maybe I should too. Oh, that the Lord would lead us away from that. Think of the tenderness of God, of the Lord Jesus Christ as He provides this knowledge, this wisdom, this understanding for you tonight. The devious person is an abomination to the Lord. The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked towards scorners. He is scornful. Fools get disgrace. Could he have put it any stronger? The wicked, who are unrepentant, who love their sin and hate God, are headed to hell and damnation. And that's exactly what the Proverb writer is telling us tonight. Let me ask you, what is your reaction when you hear or see of the prosperity of the wicked? Is it envy? Brothers and sisters, we need to repent if it is. It should actually be compassion. Because as they stray from God, As they hate the Lord Jesus Christ and they see their wealth increase, this only draws them further and further away from the narrow gate. As we see the wicked, as we see their prosperity, we should be asking God to bring them to their knees, to have compassion on them, to pour out his mercy upon them, because we can see, at least from a human perspective, that they're headed to destruction. They're headed to the wide gate. Our reaction should be mercy and compassion and kindness as we see actually in this proverb tonight. That brings us to our second point, receive wisdom. That's really what this whole proverb is about, isn't it? It's a call to not only see the value of wisdom, but then to receive it My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your heart keep my commandments. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your heart. Trust in the Lord. The entire passage is about finding wisdom. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom and the one who gets understanding. Nothing you can desire can compare with her. Now In these few verses at the end, the Lord is telling us in what way That he will be gracious to give you that wisdom. What will he use in order to impart wisdom and knowledge and understanding to you, such that you can then take it and use it? Wisdom. Wisdom would be of no value unless you can take it, receive it, and then use it. God does never give you anything. Unless you're able to use it for his glory and for his kingdom. And we have to see tonight, that's exactly what's going on within these verses. That it is within our power to use the wisdom of God as He gives it to us, as He strengthens us with it. So, how does God empower his children? How does God give wisdom to his children? I want you to see four things this evening. First, his intimacy. Or as it's put here in the English Standard Version, is confidence Secondly, his blessing. Third, his grace. And fourth, through honoring his children. I want to spend a good bit of time upon the intimacy or the confidence of God. We see that in verse 32 Do not envy a man of violence and do not choose any of his ways, for the evil person is an abomination to the Lord, but the upright are in his confidence. The New American Standard translates it this way, but the devious are an abomination to the Lord, but he is intimate with the upright. Those two words, in his confidence or intimate, are are very similar and that's why we've got two different translations of the Hebrew word. It is through God's intimacy that He conveys to His children his wisdom, His knowledge, and His understanding. The Hebrew dictionary defines this word that is translated either as his confidence or his intimacy. As a confidential discussion. It's as if God is bringing you into His circle. Jesus Christ Himself is bringing you into His circle as though you're there with John and and with Peter and James, the inner circle of Christ, and he is communicating to you wisdom and knowledge and understanding. You're sitting at the feet of Christ. That's the intimacy that is spoken of here, this inner circle, this confidence, the secret counsel, as Amos puts it in chapter 3. Surely the Lord God does nothing unless he reveals his secret counsel to his servants, the prophets. That secret word from God Himself. That's how he conveys his wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to you is through his Intimacy with you. The secret of the Lord is for those who fear him. It defines a close friendship or acquaintance, as Webster's puts it, a familiar friend. Well, what is it for God to be intimate with people? First, we must recognize that this passage tells us that he is intimate with his children. Not with those who do violence. There's a contrast set for us in each of these verses. It is not the man of violence that the Lord is intimate with. It's only for his children. It's only for those who trust in Christ Jesus for their souls. It's only through Christ that God is intimate with anyone. It's through faith in Christ Jesus that this intimacy occurs. And we see a picture of that intimacy as the Father and Son interact, don't we? In all of the Gospels, as Jesus is praying to his fathers, and we see that intimate connection as he goes in the Garden of Gethsemane and pours out his heart to him, we see that intimate connection. That's the intimacy, that's the confidence. That's how he imparts his wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to us. And brothers and sisters, you have to understand that we have intimacy with the Father only because of Christ. Because our sins separate us from the Father, don't they? The Father can't have intimacy with us if we are engaged in our sin, if we're loving our sin, if we're immersed in our sin. No, it's only through Christ, because he has separated us from our sins. And so through Christ, now we can be intimate. You see that so clearly. Who can ascend the holy hill of God? Only he who has clean hands and a pure heart, not one who is immersed in the filth of his sin. So we see our intimacy must begin with being washed, with being cleansed in the blood of Christ. Now, as we grasp that, how close is this intimacy? Well, as we see in the Proverbs, throughout the Proverbs, but Even especially here in Proverbs three, that intimacy is is is pictured to us as a father and a son, isn't it? That relationship, that close relationship. The father who loves the son, who wants to see the son growing in knowledge and wisdom and understanding, who is urging his son to grasp and keep hold of that knowledge and understanding and wisdom, that closeness of a father and a son is so intimate, so intimate That Christ reveals to you details, intimate details about the Father About his nature, about who he is and what he has done. Think for just a moment about your closest personal relationships What are they made up of? What are they founded upon? Are they not founded upon disclosures or revelations about the person with whom you're intimate? Is not the person that you're close to disclose to you things that they don't tell others so that you might know them and become even closer to them? Is that not the touchstone of intimacy? Now think of this: the creator of the world has become so intimate with you that he's revealed things to you that he has not revealed to others. You say, what do you mean? Well, those who are not trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for their salvation do not understand the scriptures. So he has not revealed himself to them. But he has revealed himself to you if you're trusting in Christ tonight. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing. But to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. The Lord is so intimate with you that He's revealed things about Himself to you so that you'll be drawn closer to Him. Isn't that the case? With Jesus Christ. He's revealed so much about himself to you that you long to see him, you long to sit at his feet. So that you'd love him more. Eternal life Is this that you know the only true God and Jesus Christ whom you have sent? Yes. Your intimacy with the Father is through Christ. Jesus has revealed Himself to you. Your elder brother, your high priest, your sympathetic high priest, your intercessor, the one who gives you strength to do all things You know him. He's revealed himself to you. And he knows you. He knows when a hair falls off of your head. He knows the number of your hairs. He knows your thoughts even before they hit the tip of your tongue. This is the intimacy of the Lord Jesus Christ. And of his father. And this is how he communicates his wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to you. But it's also through his blessings, isn't it? Look at verse 33. The Lord's curse is on the house of the wicked, but he blesses the dwelling of the righteous. And consider the inspired writer's choice of the house or dwelling. It's the place where one lives, where you have your meals. Where you receive your sustenance, where you have community and fellowship and where you work, possibly. They worked out of their houses. One's very life is caught up in his or her dwelling place. And so Solomon, Solomon says that the Lord blesses the dwelling of the righteous. I think what he means by that is the Lord blesses the lives of the righteous, all of the children of God. He sustains, he builds up, he empowers those. Who trust in Christ? It's through the blessing of God that one is enabled to learn and grow where he or she dwells. I think this is the idea. That the Lord has secured your dwelling. He has secured that place where you live, where you grow. And so you don't need to be concerned about it. Do you need to work? Yes, of course. But you don't need to be concerned about your dwelling because it's secure. He has blessed it. And as a result of Your dwelling being blessed, your lies being blessed, now you can set your thoughts upon the things above. You don't need to be concerned about the things of the world. You see, that's what the wicked are concerned with. Of building up wealth and conquering others and fill in the blank. But as God blesses the dwelling of the righteous, the righteous can then set their minds upon Christ Jesus, upon receiving his knowledge, wisdom, and understanding in order to build up the kingdom, in order to pursue the kingdom. the kingdom work that they've been given. Think of the blessings that God promised to the Israelites in the promised land. Blessed shall be the offspring of your body, the produce of your ground, the offspring of your beasts, the increase of your herd. The Lord shall cause your enemies who rise up against you to be defeated before you So all the people of the earth will see that you are called by the name of the Lord. You see, he promised blessings to them as they entered into the promised land. So that they could love, serve, and know him and worship him. Look at verse 34. Intimacy, blessings, and now favor. Toward the scorners he is scornful, but to the humble he gives favor. The New American Standard translates it this way, yet he gives grace to the afflicted. The afflicted could also be translated as to the humble, to the lowly. Remember, those who are poor in spirit. That's who God gives favor to. That's who he gives grace to. I tend to think that God favors those we see who have worldly wealth, don't we? That's what the disciples thought As the rich young ruler was leaving the Lord Jesus Christ, and Jesus said it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples who heard it said, then who can be saved? They equated salvation with worldly wealth, and that's exactly the opposite of what we read in Scripture. Even in this proverb tonight. My son, do not reject the discipline of the Lord or loathe his reproof from whom the Lord loves, he reproves. even as the father corrects the son in whom he delights. The one who is humble, the one who will listen to a rebuke The one who will receive the discipline of his Father, his heavenly father, the one who receives correction and admonishment, receives it with praise. It's receiving the wisdom, understanding, the discernment, and knowledge of God associated with that rebuke. The humble receipt of corrective words It's the grace of God. You see, you can only receive that kind of rebuke, that kind of admonishment. If God's pouring out his grace upon you, they go together. We can't separate the humble heart from God's grace, can we? Think of the grace given to David, as he confessed his sin, as Nathan comes to him and and admonishes him, can calls him To be the man who took the sheep of the poor man, as David had taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite. God worked in David's heart as he hears Nathan's words and he confessed, I've sinned against the Lord. But God poured out his grace immediately. As David humbled his heart As David confessed his sin finally before the Lord, God poured out his grace. Nathan said to David, The Lord also has put away your sin, you shall not die. And he worked in David's heart to write Psalm 51. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. His His transgressions had been blotted out. He knew God by grace had given him this wisdom, this knowledge, this understanding that God was a merciful God and had pardoned him already. And David writes, Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, cleanse me from my sin. David learned of the Lord's abundant mercy and grace. Because his heart was humbled to confess his sin. Grace is a significant way then in which the Lord gives wisdom and enables one to use wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. Do you see how David used it then? To publish to the world the mercy of God. Then finally the end, the prize, so to speak, the honor of God. We read of many prizes, many rewards in Scripture, don't we? Paul speaks of the prize. Run in such a way that you may win. I press on to the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. He writes of the crown, the crown of righteousness, and here Solomon ends this Proverb with a similar motive for his readers, doesn't he? The wise will inherit honor, but fools get disgrace. How is this? The wise will inherit honor. Who is wise? Who can stand before God Almighty and say, I am wise? Is it not Christ? Is it not the Lord Jesus Christ? As we speak of wisdom, we're not actually speaking only of wisdom, we're speaking of obedience to God. We speak of understanding, using his knowledge, understanding and discernment in a way that is in accordance with God's will. Isn't that Christ? Isn't that true wisdom? Yes, it's Christ alone, who has been exalted. That's why we read what we read tonight. About the exaltation of Christ, the one who's humble, going from in a state of humiliation to in a state of exaltation. He has been exalted above the angels, above everything, seated at the right hand of God, the station of honor. But did you notice this verse? The wise will inherit honor. To inherit means that we get it from someone. Not that we conjure it up in ourselves. Not that God wrapped it up in a box and just gave it to us. We inherit honor. From whom? From Christ. Of course. Those who are wise are wise because of Christ. Those who are wise have inherited wisdom from Christ Jesus. That's where the promise of honor comes in, isn't it? That Christ has been honored. And if you are in Christ tonight, you will be honored. You will inherit his honor. That should cause you to praise God tonight. To lift up your voices, to say, oh, Father, I don't deserve this, but praise be to you. That through Christ Jesus, I will inherit his honor. He is the one who has earned it. He is the one who is wise. He is the one who has been all obedient. Praise be to God. Brings us to our third point, reflect wisdom. Now, this wisdom, honor, and this knowledge, this understanding would be of no good unless we actually used it. And so there's a call here for an active use of wisdom. Indeed, there's a ramp up toward action, isn't there? whole proverb about wisdom, about its beauty, about its goodness, about its value, and there's a ramp up to using wisdom. Again, we've spoken of it. Wisdom is really, at its simplest form, active obedience. And this whole proverb is a motivator to call us to be those who are active in our obedience to God. So this call here this evening in verses thirty-one to thirty-five, it's a call to action. It's called to use that which God has graciously given to each of you tonight. His knowledge, his wisdom, his understanding, through his intimacy, through his blessings, through his grace, through honoring you. Putting it into practice then. Trust in the Lord with all your heart. Do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make your paths straight. Do you see how this is unfolding? Now we get the command early and now he's telling us this is how I will work it out in you Trusting God, using his wisdom to do good, not to devise evil and harm, not to contend unrighteously, not to envy the wicked. But to walk in the way of Christ, to trust in the Lord, putting to use the significant bit of wisdom which will enable you to do good to others. Isn't that the idea? That the Lord Jesus Christ has blessed you with wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. You have it. It's a gift that's been given to you. And now the call is to use it. You may be actually asking your question, well, where is that verse here in verses 31 to 35? Where does it say use my wisdom? It's caught up in the contrast, isn't it? That great wealth that you've been given, wisdom We're already told in verse 9, honor the Lord from your wealth. Well, what is the wealth he's talking about? What is it? He told us that our vats will overflow with new wine. Barns will be filled with plenty. Is that it? Is it material wealth? Is that what he's talking about? Well, no. Because the greatest value is in wisdom and knowledge and understanding. That's the blessing. That's the abundance that you have tonight. Yes, your barns may be full. I hope they are. But the real blessing, the real value, the inestimable gift is wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. And now, as As the Lord Jesus Christ has given us this great contrast between the wicked and the righteous. Do not envy a man of violence. The devious person is an abomination. The Lord's curse in the house of the wicked. Towards scorners he is scornful. Fools get disgrace. We should with much compassion and grace And mercy be using our wisdom, knowledge, and understanding to woo these to Christ. For we know where they're headed. This should cause us to have much compassion to say, God, you've given me such a gift. Let me use it. Let me use it to shine forth to the man of violence. Let me use it to shine forth to the one who is wicked. Let me use it to speak to the scorners. The call is to use this great gift, your overflowing vats, your barns filled with plenty, to shine the light of Christ. That's our call. The wisdom of God is a gift given to the followers of Christ to build his kingdom. Paul at Mars Hill used that amazing wisdom, knowledge, and understanding that he was given to woo many to Christ Jesus. Let us seek the Lord that He would enable us to do the same. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we are such a blessed people. Lord, you've given us so much. You've given us Christ, and through Christ we have inherited his honor, and through Christ we've had grace bestowed upon us and poured out on us, and through Christ we've been blessed in our dwellings, and and through Christ we have intimacy with you. Oh Father, we thank you. We are a blessed people. Help us now to use those blessings Help us now to use that wisdom, that understanding, that knowledge that you have given to us to have compassion upon those who are perishing tonight. Help us, Lord God. Work in our hearts. We pray. Work in us by your Spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen.