Our scripture reading this morning for the sermon is from the book of Acts, chapter 8, verses 26 through 40. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for proof and correction, for training and righteousness, so that the man or woman of God may be adequate or complete Equipped for every good work. Since that is so, let us not simply hear or read along with Scripture, but prayerfully ask the Lord would cause this truth to be imprinted upon your heart that you might act and respond accordingly. The Book of Acts, chapter 8, verse 26 But an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Get up and go south to the road that descends from Jerusalem to Gaza. This is a desert road. So he got up and went, and there was an Ethiopian eunuch, a court official of Candace, Queen of the Ethiopians, who was in charge of all her treasure, and he had come to Jerusalem to worship And he was returning and sitting in his chariot and was reading the prophet Isaiah. Then the Spirit said to Philip, Go up and join this chariot. Philip ran up and heard him reading Isaiah the prophet and said, Do you understand what you are reading? And he said, Well, how could I unless someone guides me? And he invited Philip to come up and sit with him. Now the passage of scripture which he was reading was this He was led as a sheep to slaughter, and as a lamb before its shearer is silent, so he does not open his mouth In humiliation his judgment was taken away, who will relate his generation? For his life is removed from the earth The eunuch answered Philip and said, Please tell me, of whom does the prophet say this? Of himself or of someone else? And Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from this scripture, he preached Jesus to him As they went along the road, they came to some water, and the eunuch said, Look, water, what prevents me from being baptized? And Philip said, if you believe with all your heart, you may. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. And he ordered the chariot to stop, and they both went down into the water, Philip as well as the eunuch, and he baptized him. When they came up out of the water the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away, and the eunuch no longer saw him. But went on his way rejoicing. But Philip found himself at Azetus, and as he passed through he kept preaching the gospel to all the cities until he came to Caesarea This is the wonderful word of our Lord. Let us pray. Heavenly Father. You teach us wondrous things. You teach us wondrous things that are that happened in your word, things that you did in and through people long ago. There were amazing miracles. There were healings, the physical healings that were done. There were instantaneous movement of your people from one place to another to do your will in this time of wonders. But Father, the wonders you did then that you yet do now are as wonderful, which is the conviction of sin for sinners And the blessing of repentance, the changing of our hearts from disobedient stone to obedient flesh, those are the most wondrous changes that you yet do. You did then. Well Father, we read an account of that occurring. And we pray that you will remind us of that having happened to us And what that means for us, and what we should do as a result. We pray that you will guide us and teach us. We ask this in Jesus' name I love I love to sing the Lord's praise. I've always enjoyed singing. And there's some songs and there's some hymns that I can't get through. Had we sung and can it be, there would have been a particular verse I would not have been able to sing through And uh whenever we sing the first hymn, uh when the saints and the cry goes up, how long I think of the saints in glory, which is what it's referring to there. And I can't sing that part of the verse. But it's interesting, I went to church for 29 years and I'd never heard and can it be. I went to a place that was in many ways a very dry And it's interesting, of course, here we have this Ethiopian eunuch, and here it is, he's going I mean we don't know almost nothing about his background. He's a treasurer for for this queen of Ethiopia. He's living rather well and assisting somebody in government, that sort of thing. But he's somebody who knows enough to go um To go to Jerusalem to worship. And so you wonder about what was his background. He went to Jerusalem to worship, but we don't know what he knew. But one thing we know that he did not know. Well Jesus. He did not know the Messiah toward whom. All of this points. All of this points to Jesus. As we know in so many ways, obviously Jesus telling the disciples on the road to Emmaus, all of this was pointing to me. And they should have seen this, they should see this. So here we have this wonderful, and in the most basic understanding of that word, there's a wonder of what occurs. Here all of a sudden we have in verse in verse 26 we have Philip going down to Jerusalem to to speak to somebody on the Ethiopian who's from Ethiopia. And in this particular passage, We look at this and we're thinking, well, who is this Philip fellow? Who is Philip? And he his ministry began as a deacon. We see him listed as one of the people back in Acts 6 And it what was his job? Well, he was helping give some some food and some some meet some needs for some widows in the church. But here we have this example of God working through him. God's power coursing through him to help people We had previously had the Samaritans who were despised people who were helped, and here we have people from many nations away down Ethiopia, and one of their people being reached with the gospel. So here in this last half of Acts 8, Philip's ministry is quite busy. But instead of reaching people in Samaria as he had before, here we have through Philip. Reaching people, reaching this one particular person from Ethiopia, and who knows what how the gospel was spread when that Ethiopian eunuch, the treasurer, wound up going back to Ethiopia and speaking there. We don't know. But of course, each of us, like Philip, can bear this gift of God to another just as he did. He was the vehicle of God's message to So we can be like Philip in that sense. The first thing I want to look at in this passage that that I just read is How he was in touch with the Spirit. How he was in touch with the Spirit of God. I mean, when he was installed as a deacon, chapter 6, verse 3, refers to Let me see, going back to chapter 6. It speaks about how these people who were chosen as deacon are people who should be full of the Spirit and of wisdom. Well that means that he, along with his other fellow deacons, among them Stephen, exhibit the fruits of the Spirit. These were people who would have known and exhibited and shown to others so that it would have been obvious. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness Goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Those are the kinds of things that people would have seen them and said, Oh yes, they're like that. Yes, they act that way. Yes, you can see God working through them And being in touch with the Holy Spirit in that way, Philip was open to the Spirit's direction. What would you have me do, Lord? He obviously was asking for that because the God, you know, as we know elsewhere, we do not have because we do not ask So here he had, he must have been asking for it. Guide me, Lord. Show me, Lord. Lead me to someone I can share the gospel with. So that the sensitivity to divine guidance was a factor in him becoming an agent of God in this in this fashion. I mean we have to be we have to be wary of rigid ideas as to how the Holy Spirit uh works or leads. We can't assume that because God guided in a certain way in the past, that is the only way he will he will lead now. We must not confine the Spirit's guidance to a box of past experience We just ask ask the Lord, guide me, show me, lead people in my path. He will speak to me. He will give me counsel or advice that will be of benefit Keep me from those who would who would be unhelpful to me. That all that kind of thing. And he had enough spiritual understanding not to resist the guidance of the Holy Spirit I mean, verse 26, we have the Lord speaking to him through an angel. You know, an angel of the Lord spoke to Philip, saying, Go up and go south. The Spirit first directed Philip through persecution to leave the ministry in Jerusalem. Go to Samaria for a wider ministry. And Philip knew by experience that God directs by difficulties. Next, as I say, he's led by an angel. And so it's interesting. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 14 tells us something about angels What does Hebrews 1. 14 say? Angels are ministering spirits sent out to render service. For the sake of those who will inherit salvation. It's fascinating to think, and it's sobering to think, that when we think of demons today, demons are fallen angels That's who they are. They weren't made as bad bad angels. They were made as good angels, but they fell. And what they're supposed to be is ministering spirits Minister in what way? Well, doing whatever God would tell them to do, going wherever God would tell them to go. What are they supposed to do? Render service. To whom? The sake of those who will inherit salvation. God is using them to reach to reach various people. So all of us all the time are being touched by the ministry of angels, though we usually do not see them. I mean I think of the the particular circumstances that happened in my life when I was twenty-nine, where I happened to be meet someone unexpectedly, and they suggested I read a particular book. I was saved through reading the book Knowing God by J. R. Packer I'd never heard of J. R. Packer, I'd never heard of the book before that someone suggested I read it. I was saved through that book, which is basically half scripture quotes and the rest of it is uh is connection Uh and so I was saved through that. Well, that was the Lord's guidance, those superintending, orchestrating those circumstances. So here we see God guiding Philip in a new way. And Philip was open to the leading. We have him open to the leading. What would you have me do? Where would you have me go? As we read on, Philip has a continued openness to the Spirit. Verses 27 to 29. He goes, he goes up and went. He got up and went. Where did he go? He went where the Spirit told him to go. And he sees this Ethiopian eunuch, court official at Candes, in charge of the treasure, finds out what he's about. He'd come to Jerusalem to worship, and he's on his way back. He's heading back south down toward Ethiopia. He's returning and sitting in his chariot. And he sees him reading the reading the scrolls I mean no doubt he would have had a scroll, and it was a scroll of what? Isaiah. We don't know every single piece of the dialogue, but obviously he comes up and he hears it being read, and he realizes, oh, it's Isaiah. And it's interesting that here he goes here he goes and he happens to be in this particular place because Because the Spirit led him to go there. And Philip was so in touch with the Spirit that he was not only flexible as to how the Spirit would lead, but where it would lead him. And it's interesting. You think about yourself about this particular role of Philip has as one of the deacons. Philip is not one of the twelve apostles. He's not obviously one of the top three, Matthew, Mark, you know, I mean John um Peter, um James and John And put yourself in Philip's place. Here in the chapter, earlier in the chapter, Simon the magician has been put down. The entire town thinks your message is God's truth. And now all of a sudden God tells you to go down some dirty, dusty road. You know, what's going on? Why am I going down there? What's supposed to be what's you know, what's the big deal about going down there And this is, but that's of course is not how Philip responded. Philip went where the Lord sent him. I mean, there will be times where you'll be guided and led by the Lord to go places that you would not have expected to go. But you go. And so we Philip's example is a great example to emulate humble submission to the Spirit of God. essential for any of us if we're going to have a joyful living and if we're going to have effective service. How would you have me how would you have me live? How would you have me serve Who do you want me to talk to? With whom should I share the gospel? And so here Philip was so in touch with the Spirit that he became It became a blessing of God wherever he went. He was flexible and he was sensitive to the Spirit's direction. And these are wonderful qualities, and his obedience just says he arose and went. I mean here he is told to go there. It reminds you of Abram when he left the land of the Cal Ur of the Chaldes. And God tells him where to go and he just simply goes. up and goes. We don't hear any dialogue about why. What for. He just goes. So here Philip just gets up and goes. He just says, sure, wherever you would have me go. You know, and so it's fascinating looking at this particular text about the Ethiopian eunuch because it presents two perspectives on the eunuch's coming to Christ. Because from above we see the sovereign God working in someone's heart in such a way that after making a pilgrimage to Jerusalem, which This Ethiopian eunuch had done. He went there to worship God. He knew he knew somehow, from maybe from the scriptures having gone down to Ethiopia, which there are stories of obviously when the Queen of Sheba had gone there and seen Solomon, we wind up knowing that the people down in Ethiopia had known of the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. So there was a knowledge there was a knowledge of of God for some of those people down there. And so here he goes to Jerusalem. He knows that's where people should worship. And he remains spiritually hungry. So here he is, he's on the way down. It's not like he's taking a snooze. It's not like he's reading something else about news in Ethiopia. He's continuing to read scripture while heading back from worship. And so reading the scroll of Isaiah, he encounters who? Somebody who can connect the dots. I mean, we all, when we listen to Isaiah 53, it's obvious why I chose that as the opposite reading this morning, because of course it's referenced in the text here in the New Testament. When we read that, and we know, as Paul Harvey used to call the rest of the story, we know who he's talking about. We see Jesus throughout Isaiah 53 because it's obvious. He fits all the qualities and descriptions that's being described about. But this Ethiopian eunuch had read that before possibly He was reading it now. It's like, what are they talking about? Who are they talking about? What is this person? Who can explain it to me? And Philip was like, as a matter of fact, I can tell you. I know who they're talking about. And I can let you know. And you know, and he's and he's reaching out to you now through me. I mean that's we have a spirit-sent ambassador of Christ, Philip who leads this Ethiopian man, we don't have his name, but you know, he's with the Lord now, leads him to the Savior. So that's just what happens from above, what God is doing. And from ground level, we see human obedience. Would the eunuch have been saved at this moment if Philip had disobeyed? Well, not based on the circumstance of what we see here. Obviously, God could have saved him later. But God chooses human obedience to carry out his plan. Philip was willing to go as God had called him to go. He went and shared the gospel, and boom, that's how God used it. He used his human obedience to carry out his plan. And exactly whom he uses or how is incidental. One minister, a man named Lloyd Ogilvy once said, the Lord of all creation has ordained that he would do his work through us. Our seeking the Spirit's guidance and obeying what He wants us to do and say is the way that He works to bless the world. He works through us. He works through circumstances that he orchestrates. I mean God's sovereign work plus man's obedience brings the touch of God to needy human lives. Put another way, there are all kinds of what seem to be chance meetings. Happenstance. Coincidental. Well it's God's sovereign ordination of all events. These things that take place in a life, for us, if we're sensitive to the Lord's leading, we see, okay, what will you have happen in my life today? Today. Who will you have me meet? And I think of the odd circumstances to how it is I met my wife. All manner of things. God ordained, you know, ordination of events So divine appointments await us if we're going to be obedient to God's leading. If we ask, Lord, please guide us. Me. Lord, please show me. Lord, please use me. That's Philip's experience, and it can be ours. So he's in touch with the Spirit and in touch with the gospel. The next thing we see is in touch with the gospel. 30 through 38. And imagine how Philip's heart jumps when he sees, here it is, he happens to be on this road and all out of the blue, as it were. He sees this entourage coming along. You know, people may be carrying this. I don't know. I don't exactly know how he's sitting there in this Ethiopian group, but obviously he has attendance with him and things like that. He's not just a by himself. And it must have been some kind of impressive caravan. I mean he's the secretary of the treasury for this for this kingdom. Uh and it was an area between the Egyptian city of Aswan and the Sudanese city of Khartoum. So that's where it was. And the eunuch was a black man and would have been a Gentile. But yet here he is reading about the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And he had just completed a 1,000-mile religious pilgrimage to Jerusalem, and he had a searching heart. And while in Ethiopia, he, as I described earlier, came under the influence of Judaism, gone to Jerusalem. And most com commentators think that he may have been a Jewish convert, or else why would he have had an actual scroll? So in any event, he was a noble man on a noble search. And as he traveled along in the chariot, he's reading this Isaiah passage aloud, which was the normal practice at that time. that time. And suddenly there's there's Philip. I mean in a sense you can almost see him as God's hitchhiker. And and you know have spirit will travel and Philip, you know, what happens next Came naturally. Look at verses 29 to 35. The Spirit says to Philip, go up and join this chariot. And so and it's interesting, he's already in the verse before says the man had been sitting in his chariot and was reading the prophet Isaiah, because which we know of course when he he walks up, gets close enough, he can hear him reading Isaiah. He hears him reading it and says, Do you understand what you're reading? He hadn't met the man before. He doesn't know the man. He hasn't said, Hello, my name is Philip. But he just interjects, do you know what you're reading? But in a sense, if you're thinking about that, obviously the man cares about it or he wouldn't be reading it aloud. I mean it must be something that he thinks is has value. Why else would he be reading it aloud? Why else would he be reading it at all? And if this person's reading it, he must have interest in it. And Philip knows the passage. Have every reason to know. He obviously knows the passage. And I was thinking, it's like, I can help him know. It's unlikely he knows enough about Jesus. He could have heard about him What's odds are against it. Let me tell him what that points to. Because won't that be wonderful if he could too could have his sins forgiven and know the safety. Wouldn't that be wonderful? I mean imagine just oh Lord, you put me in this situation. Start talking to this man. How wonderful. And it says, and then, you know, and Philip opened his mouth, and beginning from the scripture, he preached Jesus to him. Because as Jesus said on the road to Emmaus, you know, beginning, you know, beginning with the prophets, I mean he describes how everything points to him. Well, this obviously points to him. You heard me read it earlier. Isaiah 53 is all about Jesus. And Philip took the man through all 12 verses of Isaiah 53, describing his lineage, the incarnation. the vicarious atonement, how we're like sheep that have gone astray each to our own way. His, you know, our iniquity is on him. It's like, is that what God has done? Our iniquity is on him, and the him is Jesus. And Philip explained, presumably, about the suffering and resurrected Messiah? We don't know what this eunuch had ever heard before. I mean No doubt some news had traveled about this man named Jesus. He'd had a three-year ministry. And no doubt some news had traveled amongst some about some people say they saw him again. as if he'd risen. Most people most people hearing that would go, You're crazy. That's nuts. People don't if you're dead, you're dead But nonetheless, people were aware, most people hadn't seen Jesus a risen, but they were aware that the story was out, that there are people who said they'd seen him. So we don't know what this man had heard, and yet, so he's telling him this man, Jesus, and then Oat tells him the rest the rest of the story. And is at the time, keep in mind, a doctrine of a suffering Messiah was not what they were expecting. We have Isaiah 53, but if you look at all the kinds of things described about a Messiah in the prophets, that's simply one piece of it. And there are many Jewish scholars at the time who thought that can't be about the Messiah, that doesn't make sense They didn't know how that would fit with it. They didn't know how that would fit. It was unthinkable in first-century Jewish religious circles. I mean no doubt they have probably some awareness that this seems to be describing someone like the Messiah, the Son of Man, and yet it doesn't make sense But no doubt he quoted other scriptures. Psalm 22, Psalm 34, Psalm 69, Psalm 118, Isaiah 42, other passages. And the two men looked at them together. We're not told all of it. Only the angels know how long they rode in the chariot. Well, God obviously does. But we know that the Ethiopian eunuch was convinced. And think of the original meaning of that word, convicted. He was convicted of what was of what was that it was true. And he was converted. He was changed. And so, I mean the principle here is clear. All of us are called to be in touch with the Spirit. You know, and I don't know that we should be expecting to hear this voice of the Spirit say, go and do such and such. I think that's the norm during the time during the Apostolic Age. With these signs and wonders, I don't think that we should be expecting to hear audible voices. And yet the Lord guides and leads us through other people, through the counsel of godly men and women. The Lord leads and guides us through his word. So we need to ask that the Lord would guide us, point us in the direction we should go, to the people we should hear, the person with whom we should speak. And sometimes we'll pray, help me avoid the ones I should not, that kind of thing. All those things. Pray in advance how you I want you to do. Please do this to me, Lord. Send the Spirit to me to guide me. And then live your life seeking to be obedient. And if you've been praying that sincerely, He will be guiding you. He will guide you. And if they're looking back at the passage, the eunuch eunuch is convinced and he wants to take the next step And as a proselyte, a convert, he knew that baptism was the expected external symbol for a Gentile's conversion. Repentance and And maybe Philip ended the explanation of the gospel with an appeal for baptism like Peter did at Pentecost. And so we have a we have a baptism occurring here as the attendants look on, no doubt with wonder. What are you doing? What's going on? And Luke concludes the passage of 39 and 40. You know, when he came to the come came up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord snatched Philip away. Reminds me of the movie It's a Wonderful Life and all of a sudden Clarence disappears when the police the guy's trying to you know wrestle him to the f the floor of the porch But here, I mean this is something that actually happened, and boom, the Lord, you know, he's chatting with him one minute, the next minute he's gone, and said, Wait a minute, we're in the middle of the desert, isn't it? There's no bush to hide in. He's just gone And and then all of a sudden Philip finds himself in some place called Azetus. I should have looked up to see how many miles away that was, but it's probably not nearby And he winds up continuing to preach, much rejoicing, went his way rejoicing. And you know, Philip disappears, but he wasn't missed because the because the man now had Christ This man from Ethiopia now had Christ. And Bishop Irenaeus, who was a later Christian, says that this man became the first missionary to the Ethiopians. That's just true. tradition, but it's probably true. You know these things don't get made up typically. And which makes sense. Here it is, he had things explained to him He already had a base beforehand, that's why he was reading Isaiah in the first place. He hears more of the story, so he's then able to go back home and says Brothers and sisters, let me tell you about the Messiah, and many of whom, of course, had already known something about the Hebrew scriptures. They had them. Let me tell you about this man known as Jesus So, I mean he would not have been able to keep this to himself. So, in touch with the spirit, in touch with the gospel, the last thing is in touch with people. And An anecdote is told that there was a man who once stood up in one of Dwight L. Moody's meetings, and Moody was a 19th-century evangelist, and he said, I have been for five years on the Mount of Transfiguration. And Moody asked him, How many souls have you won to Christ? The man said, Well, I do not know. Moody said, Have you won any? And I says, I do not know that I have. Well, Moody said, sit down then. When a man gets so high that he cannot reach down and save others, there's something wrong. Now granted it would be God doing the saving. But it does be little good to be in touch with the Spirit and the Word if you're not with people and sharing with them. You're with them in their need. You're with them in their grief and sorrow. You're with them in their joy. And you're with them In their doubt, you're coming alongside them, you're loving them, you're sharing the gospel with them. And if Philip had not loved people with Christ's love, here with this man he'd never met before, some man from Ethiopia. He would never have reached across the barriers between Jews and Samaritans, as we saw earlier in the chapter. You know, beforehand or the Samaritans were people you stayed away from. They're like the scum of the earth. And here it's like put their per their perspective of Christian brothers and sisters. And you know it's the same with a Gentile Ethiopian. Philip loved Jews, Samaritans, Gentiles, whites, blacks, it made no difference. We're all God's creatures. And he's in touch with people and he genuinely cared about them. Because God's path leads to people. I mean, we are the ones who were saved. The animals are not. We are the only ones made in the image of God. in the image and likeness of God. And the book of Acts gives us a glimpse of this beginning of Philip's ministry and an extended look At this period of his service for Christ. And it also provides us with a with a peak of his life near sunset, as it were. were Chapter twenty one of the Book of Acts, verses eight and nine. Uh Luke writes, On the next day we departed, and he would mean him he and Paul. On the next day we departed and came to Caesarea, and entering the house of Philip the Evangelist, thought to be the same man Who is one of the seven, so which will let you know for why they thought that. He's one of the one of the uh the deacons who were called. We stayed with him. Now this man had four virgin daughters who are prophetesses I mean 20 years, that would have been 20 years later. Twenty years have passed. And Paul and Philip's ministry had faded from prominence in the sense that that's the next time we hear about it. Was he quiet in the meanwhile? No, no doubt he'd been quite busy, or else why would he be called now an evangelist? That's what he's known as, not the deacon, but the evangelist. And he here we have him, somebody who is characterized as obedience and faithfulness. This particular man, this simple man, this man that we don't know very much about otherwise, and yet obviously a man whom greatly used, God greatly used. I mean, here he has four gifted daughters are testimonies to that. And as the shadows lengthened to years, Philip the Deacon remained in touch with the Spirit. Lord, what would you have me do? Please send your spirit to me to guide me. I mean I've you know when you pray pray Lord send your spirit to me because when I've often prayed thanksgiving to God, I pray, thank you, Father, for choosing me before the foundation Of the world. Father, thank you. Uh, and Lord Jesus, I thank you for what you did upon your life of perfect righteousness. That's reckoned to my account. And I thank you for taking my punishment upon the cross. And Holy Spirit, I thank you for converting me. But I also thank you for your continuing work, which is working in me daily, to convict me of sin, to enable me to obey, to guide me, and to steer me in the right direction. sort of thing. Because his is the daily continuing work. And I was so I was like, Lord, please continue to send the Holy Spirit to me. Take not your spirit from me, as David said. That's the Spirit. And the Spirit guides, and the Spirit directs. Occasionally the Spirit will hold me back and like, no, no, no, no, no, don't go that direction. So that we need to stay in touch, you know, with the Spirit. And here we see Paul and Paul and Luke found rest and restoration under under Philip's roof when they went to visit him at this time. And so we see Philip, the end of his life there, it reminds you of what Psalm 92 says. The righteous man will flourish like the palm tree, he will grow like a cedar in Lebanon. Planted in the house of the Lord, they will flourish in the courts of our God. They will still yield fruit in old age. They will be full of sap and very green. Here we see this wonderful godly life of this man known as Philip Reaching out to a man who he just met. But it's because he just met him and spoke to him that this man then came to know the living God And then wound up being the agent probably of sharing the gospel with hundreds and thousands and more down in Ethiopia. So, in closing, to bring a touch of the Master's hand to those around us, we must do three things. First, daily yield to the Spirit's guidance Actually, it's two things there. Pray for the Spirit's guidance, and then yield to it. I mean, Lord, and that's part of your prayer. Lord, make me open to your leading. Because there are times we'll want to sinfully resist. Make me open to your leading. Guide me in the direction I should go. Second, understand and proclaim the gospel. If we're going to be like Philip, then we can be like Philip. If we're going to be like Philip, we have to know what is the message we have to share. We're all sinners before a holy God. We all deserve God's wrath and anger. We all deserve his damnation for our sin. That is the fate of all. And yet God has provided a means of reconciliation with Him. His Son has come. His Son obeyed perfectly. I mean, you share the message of the gospel. Forgiveness of sins that comes through what Jesus did upon the cross, taking our punishment upon him. So understand and proclaim the gospel. It's the old, old story of God's rescue of repentant sinners. And last, love people with God's love. Love people with God's love. Realize as you look at somebody that you might you're on the on the cusp of speaking to. That what if they're like you were when someone first spoke to you and shared the gospel with you? Imagine they're you. And then remember what a what a gift it was when you received And you and you changed, and you'll all the more readily go to them as the Spirit is leading you