Well man, if you'd open up your copy of God's word now to Matthew's gospel. On page 962 of your pre-Bibles, you should find chapter five of that gospel. And we'll be reading once again the first twelve verses, which are known as the Beatitudes, or the beginning to the Sermon on the Mount. Let's give our attention once again to God's Word. Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain. And when he sat down, his disciples came to him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Thus far in God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we come once again to this passage. We've read it several times. Lord God, we ask that you would make it fresh and new to us this morning. Father, as we consider this single verse, that you might help us to understand that this is the centerpiece of salvation in a sense. Being pure in heart. And seeing you. Father, guide us by your Spirit this morning. That you would receive all the glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the Garden of Eden, you know the account That after Adam and Eve had taken from the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, after they had sinned against God, They could no longer remain in the garden. Indeed, they were immediately cast out of the garden. And they were no longer able then to see God in the way that they had seen him within the garden. They were no longer able to see or touch the tree of life because there was no longer purity within their hearts. Once they sinned against God, once they transgressed his very word, they were instantly changed. This was not a change of their minds. It was not merely gaining intellectual knowledge. No, now they knew experientially what it was to sin. To disobey God. Now they knew evil, for in a sense they had become evil. They knew experientially what it was to be good in the eyes of God, and now they knew what it was to be evil. In the sight of God. No longer pure, no longer knowing good only It seems to be the precursor to that which Jesus preaches about in this Sermon on the Mount as he begins to open up this description of the kingdom of God. As Nicodemus was told, unless one is born again, you can't even see the kingdom. And so now Jesus Christ, as he is proclaiming these beatitudes, continues in his description of what those will be like who ultimately are able to enter into the kingdom of God Poor in spirit, mourners, those who are comforted, those who hunger and seek after righteousness, those who are meek. And today, those who are pure in heart. As we go through this passage this morning, this single verse, I'd like us to see that a pure heart may be had only through faith and the Lord Jesus Christ. Very simple. Indeed, this passage is very simple for us this morning. It is the centerpiece, as I believe I said, of the gospel. A pure heart may be had only through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll break that up actually into four points this morning. The definition, the problem, the solution, and I've added one that you don't have on your list this morning, the result. The definition, the problem, the solution. And the result. As we go through this one verse this morning, I want you to listen for the gospel, for the good news of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, first, the definition. We get to the sixth beatitude, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God uh we see there are two ideas for us to consider in the first clause, blessed are the pure in heart. The first is the noun heart, the second is that which modifies that noun, that adjective Pure. I probably don't need to spend much time on the heart. I think we all understand the idea. Jesus is using this as a metaphor. From a physical perspective, the human heart is that central organ which each of us needs to live That organ which pumps our life blood throughout our entire body. I don't know much About medicine or the human body, but I've read online that each day the average heart beats 100,000 times Pumping about two thousand gallons of blood If the heart were to be removed, that oxygen carrying blood wouldn't be getting to where it needs to get throughout our entire bodies. One would die And so we have that same concept with regard to your spiritual being, as Jesus uses the heart as a metaphor. For the central organ of your spiritual existence. Jesus speaks of the seat Of a person's being, the heart, that which pumps the spiritual life blood throughout the soul Well, the center of our existence spiritually, the heart is a reference to that which drives all other aspects of your being. Indeed, it defines who you are, without which you would not be human, a moral creature. Made in the image of God. The heart then is the prime mover of all other parts and faculties of your body and soul. It's the centerpiece, it's the central fountain from which springs moral inclinations and decisions and actions and thus your life. That's what Jesus is speaking of as he uses that single word, that single noun, the heart. But he modifies it Pure. Blessed are the pure in heart. Notice first what Jesus does not say. He doesn't say, blessed are the pure of thought. Jesus does not say, blessed are the pure of speech. He does not say, blessed are the pure of deeds and works. Now I know all of these things are significant, very important for us to have pure thoughts, pure words, pure Actions, but Jesus speaks of being pure in heart Our problem is when we think about our qualifications, if we can put it that way, for being in glory, our qualifications for getting into heaven, they're often our thoughts are connected to our thoughts or our words or our actions. But Jesus doesn't speak about a list of accomplishments. He speaks of being pure in heart. And as we begin to think of what it means to have a pure heart, we should be thinking in terms of singular. Only one thing, not mixed. Webster's begins to define pure as free from mixture, like pure water. We go and buy bottled water all the time. Why is that? We don't want all the impurities. We want it filters out everything out of there. We just want water. Pure water. You might think of a purebred-bred dog. If you visit the dog pound where you can adopt the dog, you will not find purebred dogs. You'll find dogs of mixed breeding, dogs with different kinds of dog in their bloodline, Labrador mixed with pit or bull mixed with collie. They're not purebred dogs. They're dogs of mixed breeding. Dogs of mixed kinds, not singular. And so that helps us to think about a pure heart. We would understand a pure heart is is a heart whose is not mixed. One which is fixed on a particular spiritual moral path As Webster puts it, free from moral defilement, without spot. Incorrupt, unbased by moral turpitude, holy. Psalm 24 is of much help. As we consider this idea of what Jesus speaks of, a pure heart. Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord and who shall stand in his holy place He who has clean hands and a pure heart. You know those two descriptions, they go together. Clean hands The pure heart. The clean hands is actually describing the pure heart. Who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully. Just a short description of what it means to have a pure heart. As Paul writes to Timothy about the qualifications for elders. Therefore, an overseer must be above reproach. That's kind of the idea. Pure of heart, above reproach. A definition singular Without spot. Free from moral defilement. That's what Jesus speaks. But that brings us to our second point, the problem. You might be asking, well, what's the problem? You've defined it for us. And there are many ways in order for us to achieve a pure heart. Isn't that right? You say no, that's the problem That's the teaching of Satan. His desire is that all men, women, and children would pursue pure hearts, for he knows that this will be their downfall. Their deceit and ultimately their death. This has indeed become the teaching of the world We have to remember Jesus is preaching. Enter by the narrow gate For the gate is wide and the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. There are Y Gates. That's the problem. We can think of just three very briefly. First, the Pharisaical way To a pure heart. The Pharisees considered that they had obtained pure hearts. They were convinced of it. So much so that they continued to challenge Jesus, continued to tell him where he was wrong, continued to tell him and his disciples where they strayed from the correct moral path from which they didn't have pure hearts. This was based upon their creation of extra biblical laws, which they sought to keep outwardly. Pharisees were not just of Jesus' day. There are many who create Pharisaical laws. We had people coming to the food pantry yesterday which were speaking of Pharisaical laws. Do you allow us to wear makeup and earrings in your worship services? They've been taught by others. Pharisaical laws, ways of being pure in your heart that would be accepted. False ways. There were three problems with the Pharisaic way. First, they had cast off the law of God and thus were not seeking to keep it Secondly, the law they sought to keep was man-made. It was not divine. It was of no eternal significance. And third, what they did keep, the Pharisees kept outwardly. Remember the Pharisee that went up to pray along with the publican and the Pharisee said, I thank you that I am not like other men. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of all I get. Everything he was doing was outward Not that it was wrong, but it was this outward display, and he wanted God to know it. Nothing was happening within his heart. Nothing was happening within the hearts of the Pharisees. They were like whitewashed tombs, beautiful from the outside. But on the inside, full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness There's a second way. It's very wide. I won't spend much time on it. It is referred to as the holiness movement or the Christian perfection seems to come from, at least initially, the teaching of John and Charles Wesley in the Methodist Church. John Wesley wrote what is referred to as a plain account of Christian perfection, the idea maybe not taught by Wesley, but by those who came after Wesley. was this idea that a person can achieve perfect holiness or sinless perfection in this life That sanctification becomes complete at some point in time and you are no longer needed to be sanctified because you have received this second blessing, the second work of grace. That's false teaching. There's nothing in scripture about this. Should we pursue holiness? Of course. Can we attain a perfection? No. It's not possible. It leads to being self-deceived. And that leads us to the third wide gate. The most dangerous and the most common. Those who believe without knowledge that they are generally a good person. If you spent any time seeking to communicate the gospel to strangers and you ask them whether they will go to heaven or hell, the most common answer given is heaven and you ask them why and they will say, because I'm a Generally good person. I've not killed anyone This group is wide, it's extensive, and they put on blinders to their own sin as well as to the holiness of God. They have denied and suppressed the offensive nature of their sins, the abomination and abominations that they've committed against the living God, and they are self-declared righteous and just They define God in their own image, which is sinful and corrupt, and as they do, they've defined a way to glory being through their impure hearts, their unprofitable and unrighteous works. Brothers and sisters, a tree is known by its fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. fruit. Not everyone who says to Jesus Christ, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven None of those ways do we've just described accomplish a pure heart The problem is the world points us constantly in one of these directions. They all lead to death But that brings us to our third point, the solution, and there is one. You know there have only been three. Three humans. Who were pure in heart in the history of the human race. The first two were Adam and Eve. They were created pure in heart by God. But notice the use of the past tense. They were created. They lost their purity of heart as they sinned against God and thus they came to know evil. They didn't remain pure in heart. What about Hebrews chapter 11? It's referred to by many as the hall of faith. There we have name upon name of those who have come to faith, those who are actually saved, those who now today are enjoying Christ in glory. All of them had faith. But none of them were sinless. None of them were completely pure in heart. Noah drunk wine, Abraham. Lied about his wife Sarah twice. Sarah doubted God. Joseph was boastful and prideful until he was thrown into the pit. Even Moses struck the rock. None were sinless. Just as Paul wrote in his letter to the church at Rome For we have already charged that all, Jews and Greeks, are under sin, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Paul didn't carve out some exceptions. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God But there is one who was and is pure in heart. Our Lord Jesus Christ. And if we just take a moment to think of some of the descriptions of Christ throughout Scripture, Isaiah describes him as this way and they made his grave with the wicked and with a rich man in his death, although he had done no violence. And that word violence could be translated as done no wrong. Mark. Mark as Jesus approaches the demon. The demon says, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. As Peter preaches and is recorded by Dr. Luke in Acts chapter 3, he proclaims, but you denied the holy and righteous one. As Paul writes his second letter to the Corinthians, a very familiar verse in 2 Corinthians chapter 5, for our sake he made him to be sin who knew No sin. Whoever wrote Hebrews wrote that all Our high priest was tempted as we are, yet without sin. Peter, in his first letter, referring to the Lord Jesus Christ, states, he committed no Sin. The Apostle John, in his first epistle, writes that you know he, meaning Jesus, has appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. See, they're not writing about the past tense. Jesus is the only human. Sinless. He's the only one who shall ascend the hill of the Lord. He's the only one who can stand in his holy place because he's the only one with clean hands and a pure heart who does not lift up his soul to what is false and does not swear deceitfully, it's Christ So now we can learn from Christ what it is to have a pure heart. What does it look like? It looks like Christ, a heart which is completely aligned with his Father's will. A pure heart must be just that, completely aligned with the will of God. Very simply the pure heart is one which is wholly and completely aligned, and thus thinking the same thoughts as God. But there's nothing within such a heart that would lead one away from or counter to the will of God. It's not mixed, it's singular. How can we simply think upon this? I can use the Ten Commandments. Think about the second table first. Our relationship to our brothers and sisters, to everyone on this earth. Jesus summarizes the last six commandments by telling us that we're to love our neighbor as ourself. A pure heart has nothing else. No envy, no bitterness, no rivalry, nothing which seeks to elevate self above the interest of others. No, always seeking to place your neighbor's needs even their desires before your own. Loving a neighbor so much without deceit that you're consistently willing to lay down your life for others, give up your own wants, your own desires, your own needs for theirs. Think of the Apostle Paul. Not that he achieved purity. But the inspired Paul wrote this, for I wish I that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ. For the sake of my brothers. He's speaking of the Jews who had not yet come to know Christ. I wish that I myself were accursed and cut off from Christ for the sake of my brothers. He was willing to be cut off or written out of the book of life so that his brothers by blood, meaning the Jews, would be saved. He loved them so much. That he would give up his position as the elect of God if he could. Paul was merely seeking to imitate Jesus The best way that he could, knowing that that Paul's desire was even mixed with sin. Do you see the pure love of Jesus Christ? Paul records it in chapter 5 of Romans, for while we were still weak at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person, one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us. And that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Pure in heart. Jesus His heart wasn't mixed. He's willing to and did lay down his life, giving it all up. Pure love. We can't stop there, for that that only covers the second half of the law. We need to address the first table of the law as it pertains to a pure heart. The first table was summarized by Jesus this way, to love the Lord your God with your whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. A pure heart is one which is consumed. Yes, we might define a pure heart as one which seeks Absolutely. But it's there seems to be more in Jesus' description. We can certainly equate loving God with being obedient children, and that's correct. But there seems to be more as Jesus speaks of loving this one, God, who made us with our whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. Everything about us. is to be inclined to God and His will and nothing else. Nothing else. Consumed A heart that is enamored with him, such that any thought, any inkling that might be perceived as casting doubt upon the goodness, the kindness, the purity, the holiness, and righteousness Because a pure heart is shielded From these impure thoughts and ideas and false teachings. A pure heart has a shield or a coating or a garment wrapped around it such that it's protected and sealed from all impurities, so that only a pure love for God flows out like living waters. Isn't that what Jesus proclaimed? At the feast. On the last day of the feast, the great day, Jesus stood up and cried out, If anyone thirsts, let him come to me and drink. Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living waters. So as we drink of Christ, as we take Christ in, then what comes out is he abides within us by the Spirit, then these living waters flow out of pure hearts. Jesus was and is the only pure in heart. So what is the solution? The solution is for us to kill us Cast off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light and put on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision for the flesh. To be clothed with Christ, with his pure heart. That's the only solution. And that leads us to a question this morning. Have you put on Christ? Because that's the only way that you can be pure in heart. That brings us to our fourth point, which is not in your outline. The result. What is the result? What's the significance of this? It's the second clause. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Once again, a covenantal promise. It flows from the Abrahamic covenant. He was told as the Lord appeared to Abraham, just think of that, the Lord appeared to him. In some form or fashion, Abram was seeing God, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout your generations to be God to you and your offspring after you. For they shall see God to be God to you As we begin our meditation upon seeing God, we might consider how amazing it is, full of wonder that this This truth is set before us by Jesus Christ. We remember that God is spirit. He has no body, no face, no arms, no legs, no torso, no physical being for us to gaze upon, and yet Jesus tells us that those who are pure in heart, those who have put him on, shall see God. Now we know that if you if you're trusting in Christ this morning, you you are indeed seeing God through Christ. You've been brought into the throne room this morning. The veil has been torn in two. You've been brought into the Holy of Holies, and you are indeed spiritually seeing God. You're seeing God through the Word. That's indeed how He communicates Himself to us. He communicates Himself to us through the Spirit who's abiding with us within us and we're able in a spiritual sense to see God. But I think this passage also has the future in mind. I think it points points our minds, our meditations upon glory. That those who are indeed pure in heart will indeed, as they enter into glory, as they're clothed in Christ Jesus, as they come before the Savior. And sit at His feet in the eternal dwelling place of God. I will see God What Jesus mean This face-to-face communion, this fellowship, this most intimate union, seeing God Song of Songs, which we might talk a little bit about in our Sunday school class today, gives us so many examples. of husband and wife seeing each other, looking at each other, describing each other. It's It's a wonderful Bible passage, Bible book that tells us so much about what it is to have this intimate communion. Coming face to face, looking upon one another And that's what Jesus tells us that you will be able to do as you enter into glory. You will be able to see God Revelation gives us somewhat of a picture of being able to see God in glory. In chapter 21, we read, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And so we see this description of the bride coming into the presence of her Savior before God and God being intimate and personal and wiping away each and every tear running down your cheek And then we read of the city. Come now, I will show you the bride, the wife of the lamb. And he carried me away in the spirit and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down. The bride is the new city. And here's the description. The wall was built of jasper, the city was of pure gold, like clear glass, the foundations were adorned with every kind of jewel. Twelve gates were twelve pearls. The streets of the city were pure gold. That's a description of the bride of the new city. If we know a bit of the bride, we know much about the bridegroom. We know much about the husband. And I saw no temple in the city, for his temple is the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon. For the glory of God gives it light. See, this is just a glimpse, a mirror A still picture to speak of the magnificence of actually being in the presence of the living God, being able to gaze upon Him in His fullness. Verse four of Revelation twenty-two said they will see his face. You see, Jesus gave this to his disciples as they were just learning, just beginning to understand what the kingdom of God was all about, and as he was describing those who would enter, and now he tells them that they will see God This is certainly given to them and to us today for much encouragement, great encouragement, while we don't see our Savior today. You who believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ will indeed see him in the fullness of his glory. That's exactly what he asked the Father in the high priestly prayer. And we know we know that Jesus and the Father are one As Philip asks Jesus Christ, Show us the Father, and it's enough for us. And Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen the Father, whoever has seen me has seen the Father. You see, as you enter glory, you'll be able to gaze upon Christ in all of his glory. And as you're gazing upon Christ, as you're worshiping Christ, you're seeing the face of Christ, you're seeing the very face of God. This is for all those who are pure in heart. This is of great encouragement for all who trust in Christ this morning. That you know that there will be a day when you will be in glory, that you will see God through your Savior, even Jesus Christ. Yes, a pure heart may only be had through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Adam and Eve did lose that purity, but they regained it. In Christ and in Him alone. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, we praise you for even this single verse in your word that points us so powerfully, so directly So immediately to Christ. We thank you, Lord God, that He indeed is the one who is pure in heart. And we thank you, Father, for clothing us in His righteousness, in His purity. We thank you, Lord God, that He is the spotless lamb slain from the foundation of the world. To save a people for yourself. And we praise you, Father, that we are able to cling to Christ, that we've been clothed in His righteousness. And then, Father, we are able to see you today and to look forward to that day when we will see you in glory. We thank you, we praise you, we ask all these things in Jesus' precious name. Amen.