Now direct your attention back to our text for this morning from Galatians chapter two verse five to whom we did not yield submission even for an hour that the The truth of the gospel might continue with you. Now, in upcoming weeks leading up to the last Sunday in October We will no doubt uh remember the Protestant Reformation. And um, of course, that Uh formal beginning of the Reformation on October 31st, 1517 began over 500 years ago. As a matter of fact, this year will be the 503rd Anniversary of the Protestant Reformation, long time ago, in a galaxy far away And yet we owe our existence as a body of Christ to that event that happened those many years ago. It was that breaking of the bonds of necessity from the Roman Catholic organization and the structure and the persecution that was threatened and real. That necessitated the formation of a different branch of the body of Christ, which became known as the Reformed or the Protestants, the protesters of those days. And so we kind of very simplistically attribute much of that to Martin Luther and his Nailing and 95 Theses on the Church Joe in Wittenberg. in fifteen seventeen, but there were reformers long before him that were pointing out the need for the church to reform its errors at the church, turned mostly a deaf ear to those cries, persecuted those who pointed out its failures, necessitating finally in a break with that organization of which we are, of course, uh the the the result of that, many Many years later. That's why we are called Reformed, because we are part of the Protestant Reformation and more specifically want to branch of that who were typically called followers of John Calvin. So as opposed to being Lutheran reformers, we are Calvinistic reformers. And so It's a very interesting history, and you can get lost in all of the weeds of it, but the point of it all is what we want to talk about today and give a reason for the Protestant Reformation. Now, in the course of the 500 years and in the recent celebration, there were a lot of studies done in Germany and other places uh to try to get to what were really other underlying reasons for the Protestant Reformation, like social reasons and political reasons and cultural reasons, economic reasons and Yes, theological reasons. And so a lot of those were uncanny in what they found out that yes, there were a lot of streams that came together to create that moment in which the Protestant Reformation became possible Kind of like the fullness of time when Jesus came into this world. So this was the fullness of time when God would rebirth the church in many ways. When something cataclysmic would happen by the outpouring of Holy Spirit and create a movement. Yeah, a lot of things came together not the least of which was the man Martin Luther, who was such a unique character. Uh you read his biographies and uh you just get a sense of how how unique he was a real rock star, by the way, in Germany. I mean he was popular beyond any measure that we could even imagine. And we see our cultural icons and we think Oh wow, that's that guy's really popular. He's everybody knows his name and he makes a lot of money. Well, everybody knew Martin Luther's name, love him or hate him in Germany And he didn't make a lot of money, but he had a tremendous influence to bring people back to what was absolutely necessary Which is, of course, what we want to emphasize today based upon our text. And that is back to the gospel, back to the way to God. Of course, there were a lot of parallels between the situation in the church at the time of the Protestant Reformation and the first century in which the Apostle Paul labored. There were a lot of similarities, in my opinion, between the situation in, for instance, the churches in Galatia and the church at the time of the Protestant Reformation. Many, I'm just going to give you one. The gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ was obscured And in essence, changed because of errors that had become attached to it. Now, in Paul's day, and what the book of Galatians is addressing, is an error that crept into the teachings uh in and around the gospel, almost immediately after Paul would go into a town and preach the gospel, a church would be formed, a group would come in and say, well Paul had it mostly right But he just left out a few things, these groups we generally call Judaizers, who were those who professed Christianity yet wanted everybody to be Jewish. In the way that they lived out their faith. And one example of that was they demanded that all the males be circumcised. They were Gentiles. They had not undergone that rite. And so they, if you profess Christ, Paul would say, no need to be circumcised. He would leave town, the Judaism would come in, and they would say, now Paul's gone. We're going to tell you what the whole story is If you want full acceptance with God, you need Christ plus this in order to be fully accepted with God. Now, this teaching came from the Phariseaical movement that arose three or four hundred years prior to that, that became very popular among the Jewish people And so this was an issue that had to be dealt with formally at the Council of Jerusalem. But here the Apostle Paul indicates how he dealt with it in the context of Galatian churches. Now, fast forward 1,500 years from then to the church after the medieval period, in which, again, the gospel is obscured By all kinds of other things that have been brought in to effectively supplant it. Oh So the preaching of the gospel is not what's taking place in the churches. In the place of the preaching of the gospel, there are all kinds of rituals that you are commanded to observe in order to find acceptance with God. You didn't have faith in Christ, you had implicit faith in the church. So you were born into the church, you were baptized into the church. Your soul belonged to the church, and the church told you every step you must take in order to be accepted with God. There were seven sacraments, not two. There was a requirement of penance before you would go to Mass every Sunday, so you had to go to confession And do penance before you can even go to the Lord's table called the Mass. Everything was conducted in Latin, so everything was confusing to anybody who wasn't formally educated, because Normal people didn't know Latin. That was for the really superiorly educated people who were able to do that. So one had very little choice, I suppose, in a way, but to sit there and listen to what and follow the lead of the priest and to go through the paces of the church And so one never knew where they stood with God, because the gospel was never preached fully. There were bits and pieces of it here and there. There was forgiveness. There was repentance. There was confession. There was faith. There was Christ. All in different places. Never centralized in a very direct preach of the gospel as Paul had commanded the likes of Timothy to do. Preach the gospel. As Jesus himself did. He came preaching the gospel of the kingdom. So the times were very similar Where the gospel that should be the first and foremost concern of the church should be very, very simple, direct message is no longer simple. On one hand It's obscured and changed because somebody's saying Christ plus something equals acceptance with God. On the other hand, it's buried under a pile of Rituals and litanies, and you don't even know any longer what the gospel is. So for Paul In his book here in the Galatians, his point is to kind of get us back to the gospel and make us understand not only what the gospel is and where it comes from, but how it applies. For Christians from generation to generation who will always find themselves in a situation in which by some means the gospel seems to always take last place or be buried under a pile of other concerns. Or be altered by some sleight of hand. But Paul in Galatians writes the Galatian churches Because he wants them once again to know the gospel. You know, we read this passage, and I won't spend any time on it, but verses three is essentially Paul's chapter one is Paul's briefest description of the gospel. He says, Grace to you and peace from God the Father and our Lord Jesus Christ. What Did he do? He gave himself for our sins. What did that accomplish? To deliver us from this present evil age. Whose will was that? According to the will of God the Father, who receives the glory and praise for that To whom be glory and praise forever and ever. Paul is already beginning to saturate his epistle with the gospel, even in the opening section here. And to summarize it, the gospel, according to Paul and according to the scripture, is about the person of Jesus, the God man, the eternal Son of God who became man And what he has done, is doing, and shall do to save us completely from our sins, deliver us unto God both now and forever. What did he do? Well, it says he gave himself for our sins. After that, he rose from the dead, is at the right hand of God. He's interceding for us. He's mediating the covenant for us at the right hand of God to keep us in the salvation. He won for us And what's he going to do when he comes again? He will give us the fullness of his merciful redemption. And so this is the person and work of Christ. And we generally speak of it in the past. What has Christ done? He's saved us from our sins by his perfect obedience, his death on the cross, that we may be justified by faith. But the purpose of my saying this is merely to state the obvious that the gospel is about a person, Jesus. First and foremost, who he is and what he has done to save us. And it funnels all faith towards that person, away from ourselves to him Away from even any well-meaning institution called the church to him. We don't have implicit faith in the church. We have absolute, complete faith in this person, Jesus, who we've never seen. Never heard preach in person. But who by the Holy Spirit we are enabled to believe in him and not only believe in him but to elevate him in our lives as King King and Lord of Lords And to make him the goal of our lives, the reason for our lives, and the consummation of our existence here in this world. It's an amazing thing There's no explanation for there being one Christian except by the merciful work of God by a Spirit. Otherwise, it's just pure nonsense. But this nonsense becomes our reality, our all, a very purpose for existence, that person. who is very much alive in our flesh at the right hand of God, who's very much working for our behalf 24 hours a day, seven days a week, is coming in to give us An inheritance that we never once earned, but is given to us as a free gift, the likes of which the Bible says the mind cannot conceive of, nor the heart imagine. Yes, that person is the reason we get up in the morning, the reason we have hope in difficult times, the reason we are never Permitted to despair, even when the most difficult times come upon us, because He is real, He is living, He is interceding, He is mediating, He's coming again Praise be unto God our Father. That is the gospel. All centered around that person a person, not not not the body, not not the institution, not the organization. And it's impossible to do church without having some organization and some division of different groups. I know that. I've been around a long time. But it all is pointing to this person, this person whom we trust in And then Paul's getting them back to that very point that the gospel is about this person, Jesus. Secondly, Paul talks about where his gospel came from in verses 11 and 12 of chapter 1, and then just briefly to touch upon that. He says, Now I make known you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it from man nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Jesus Christ. I mean he got the gospel directly from Christ. He was taught by Christ from heaven. From the very right hand of God, Christ taught him the gospel. He said, now Paul. Here's the gospel. It's about me. Paul, here's the gospel. It's about my work to reconcile undeserving sinners to the Father forever and grant them eternal life And to so wrap them into the love of God the Father that nothing can ever separate them. You get that, Paul? Yeah. Tell me more. Tell me more. You can imagine, Paul, tell me more So he received it directly by revelation. He wasn't taught by Peter. He wasn't taught by any other disciples. He didn't heard it secondhand, firsthand, he heard it directly from Christ by revelation or apocalypse by revelation. And so here Paul is saying, now I got the gospel from Christ I went to Jerusalem and they didn't have a problem with my gospel with the other apostles. We all agreed that we were all preaching and teaching the same thing. that a person, a sinner, is accepted fully by God through faith in Jesus Christ and faith in Christ alone. Why? Because of who Christ is. He's the God man because of what he has done, is doing, and shall do. He is our Redeemer from beginning to end. So therefore, trusting in him is what the scriptures command in him and him alone. The other apostles didn't disagree with Paul whatsoever. They didn't have a problem with that. That's apparently what they were preaching, too. So as Paul was receiving revelation of the gospel directly, so Peter had received it from Christ, and the other apostles had as well. So all of them were on the same page. So where does that leave those who had crept into the church and were saying, well, you know, it's really nice what Christ did. He did almost everything. You know, almost. Reminds me of the Princess Bride, you know, mostly. Mostly, Dad. So you did almost everything. But in addition to faith in Christ, and that's important Well, all the men must be circumcised. They must undergo this Jewish rite in order to be accepted to God. Now, Paul could not tolerate that. And so we move to our third little passage here when he confront when he was confronted by these people in chapter 2 notice what he said After 14 years now preaching the gospel, he went up to Jerusalem with Barnabas and he took Titus with him. And they went by revelation, Christ had told him to go, and communicated to them that that gospel which I preached among the Gentiles, but privately to those who were of reputation, lest by any means I might run or run in vain. And not even Titus, who was a Gentile, being Greek, was commanded to be circumcised fourteen years later. And this occurred because of false brethren. You say, well, they were really well intended. Yeah, I'm sure they were, but they're still nevertheless false, brethren, secretly brought in Who came in by stealth, like a stealth, secretly, to spy out the liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, because we didn't demand that any male undergo that. That they might bring us into bondage, that they might actually try to compel us to come over to their side and distort the gospel, pervert the gospel. Well, change the gospel from this glorious message of salvation by grace through faith alone in Christ alone to the glory of God alone, according to testimony of Scripture alone, that they might distort that And we didn't yield submission for even an hour. We didn't even think about it. Why? Well, so that the truth of the gospel might continue with you. And there are these moments in history that God orchestrates Where you're confronted with a false gospel and a true gospel, and you don't even have to think about it I know what the gospel is, and I know what it isn't, and this is not it. And therefore, I reject that with my whole being. Didn't yield for an hour. Why? So that the truth of the gospel might continue with you, so that we might have a concern about future generations Think about that. It's not just us. Oh, we know the gospel. Yeah, I hope you do. Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. You know, for by grace you're saved through faith, it not of yourselves is a gift of God, not of worse lest anyone should boast. Got it? We're justified by faith in our Lord Jesus Christ. Wonderful. Do you get that? The way to accept of God is through Jesus and only through Jesus, and Jesus does it all because of who He is. And what he's done, is doing, and shall do, we get Jesus, we get God, and we get eternal life. Forever. Nothing can ever snatch us from the Father's hand, tear us from the bosom of his love. We get that. But for the future generations, we must take a stand against anything and everything, or any one Who in any way compromises this teaching called the gospel? And at the time of the Protestant Reformation, it was the gospel that was very much at stake. Well, not only what the gospel is, but whether it would be preached. And so the result of the Protestant Reformation was pulpits, not altars, where Christ is suspense by word, not in sacraments only. Where its faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of Christ, not watching the priest manipulate the elements and turn them from ordinary bread and wine into the actual body and blood of Christ. We're preaching and worship is not in Latin. Ego vexolo udotorum statum americai achtre pray da you know, whatever. Didn't understand any of that? I didn't. But I memorized that in the eighth grade when I took Latin, it's the Pledge of Allegiance. I still remember that But they speak the language of the people. In Germany, they speak German. You know, in uh Hispanic countries they speak Spanish. We speak so we can be heard. We want people to know who Jesus is. We want them to know what he's done for them. To bring them into God, what He's doing for them, to keep them in the salvation He's won for them, and we want them to begin to set their hopes and affection on the bonus of their redemption so they have a reason to get up every day No matter how difficult things may be. Because they're saved unto that hope which is certain. And how can you communicate that in a foreign language Has to be in the language of the people, and so everything was turned on his head at the time of the Reformation. Preaching came back the plain preaching of the gospel, the person and work for Christ, the call to repentance and faith in Jesus Christ, further instruction in all the full counsel of God, in a language that everybody could hear, so that everyone Would be able to exercise their call, what we call the priesthood of all believers. Every sinner saved by grace through faith in Christ is a priest. That approaches God through Christ and may take hold of the horns of the altar with boldness in our Lord Jesus Christ and go to the Father and ask what you will. Yes, it didn't make the church indispensable. It made the church what it really is. A body gathered by the Spirit of sinners who are saved by God's mercy in Christ, united to Christ One another and indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Not a building, not an altar, not an organization, even though it must have some semblance of organization But just flesh and blood human beings who are united to a Savior who has our flesh and blood at the right hand of God. the very dwelling place of the Holy Spirit, who gather for worship because Christ called them to worship each day on the Lord's day, who gather for Bible studies because that's a pattern we see the scripture in prayer meetings who are concerned, desperately concerned about all the lost people around them, who will do anything for the sake of love in order to bring the gospel to the people and make disciples Well, just a few things here finally in application. And I hope they made the point that the reason for the Reformation was above everything else so that the truth of the gospel Might be preserved for yet one more generation. And God raises up another generation who sees that as their call to preserve the gospel for one more generation and one more generation. I have to ask you first of all, though, whether that's really what you believe. Do you believe the gospel? Do you believe in this person, Jesus? Are you truly Trusting in him and him alone for your acceptance with God. And the other side of that is, and if so, then what manner of people must we be? If Jesus is real, if we have nothing to fear because we are walking with Christ, if we are his disciples, if we're about Christ's business each day of making disciples, living in obedience to him What are we to fear in life? We are delivered from all fear. Fear is, in a way, a construction that we use as an excuse in order not to be faithful to Christ. We are unleashed to be bold. Ambassadors, people who testify of the goodness of God in Jesus Christ, people who boldly live for Christ and make no excuse. For the moral standards by which they choose to live because they are followers of Jesus Christ. And we refuse to be Conform to the world, to be tarnished by the way the world lives in their blasphemous manner We separate ourselves necessarily personally and as a congregation, a body of Christ, and yes, we have to go into that world and live in that world. But we are scrupulous about not being part of that world. Why? Because we really do believe in Jesus Christ. And it shows by the manner in which we live. It should be known for all of us that that person does not say that, does not do that, because they are a bona fide follower of Jesus Christ. Well, what denomination are you? I don't know. But they are following Christ. They are living for Christ. They are bold. They're joyful. They're peaceful. They're happy about Christ's business. Even in a fallen world. Even as they carry about the burdens of ordinary life and have the tremendous responsibility to be Christ's witnesses and to make disciples of those around them So, if that's truly your confession, what manner of person ought we to be? Secondly, we need to major in the gospel as reformed churches. Our heritage is a gospel heritage You know, you can get lost in the weeds in this reformed faith stuff. I had a person come up to me in a church recently. I was up uh preaching in Vermont. And uh uh somebody comes up and says, I I'm a reformed Christian. I said, that's nice. Try not to be too reformed And what what I what I meant by that, and they kind of backed off because they were all excited, I said, just just be biblical Just just be a disciple. Be obedient to Jesus every day. I said, you know, my uh I have a an axe that I use for cutting wood in my house in Vermont. The mall actually, the great destructive device. And so I haven't yet to hit my foot with it, so that's good. And so I was really for 40 years I've used the same thing. Sharpen it, go out, cut the wood. I know there are easier ways to do it, but believe me, I need the exercise. And so therefore I'm out there Cutting wood. Kathy just sits there and says, My woodsman, the husband, yeah. For a couple weeks I'm a woodsman. Cut the wood. And one day it just snapped. But the handle just broke And I began to kind of almost like, oh, what am I going to do now? So I started searching around, looking on the internet, going to hard hardware stores, Home Depot, trying to find another handle Finally I I ordered a handle and I thought, you know, this is not going to be the same. The handle I ordered is better than the handle I broke. Better than the handle I broke. You don't cut wood with the handle, you cut it with the other end. The Reformed faith is a handle. For ministering the gospel in a superior way to the whole world. That's all it is. It's just a handle for taking the gospel To other people. It's not an excuse. We don't turn it other way. We don't hold the sharp edge and try to bring, oh, you need to be reformed. It is a way to bring the gospel to people With as a systematic a doctrinal foundation as possible and biblical doctrinal foundation as possible. So the goal is not to make people reformed, the goal is to use the reformed faith to make disciples. And to be sure that when we're teaching them the gospel, that they have the gospel clearly, that they realize their faith is focused in Christ. The goal is not to be reformed and more reformed and more reformed. Yeah, we're always reforming. But it is to use the Reformed faith as a handle for wielding the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, and doing so with passion, with effectiveness, with zeal, with true love and concern. No, Kathy and I were talking recently. We said, well, we've been to maybe half a dozen, dozen churches now that we're living in Virginia, looking for a church home. And I said, uh, and this may sting if anybody watches this, I said, I have yet to find one friendly church. And the worst offenders are the Presbyterian Reform. Friendliness is an expression of love. It's the first expression of love. Do you care for me? You acknowledge me. Then you'd be friendly. You want to know about me. I want to know about you. We're just human beings trapped on the same planet. I mean, come on It's the first expression of love. When I don't see friendliness, I assume, well, that's there's not going to be any true love there And I I maybe I I jumped the gun there, but I I said to her, well we'll go to another one. Finally I said to her one who said, Do you know of a friendly church around here? Not really Probably a hundred churches in in my little community of people. Really? Is that a Virginia thing? That we're not friendly? I don't get it No, it's just living out the dictates of Christ, loving your neighbor, showing an interest in strangers. Entertaining strangers, because you might be actually entertaining an angel, and they're not doing that in my case. I ain't no angel. But you know, that's that's the challenge of scripture. No, this all comes back to what was birthed at the time of the Reformation. This is what the gospel brings about in people's lives. Whether we believe it, whether we're willing to take this kind of stand that the Apostle Paul took, so that the truth of the gospel may continue for one more generation and that generation may make sure that continues. That's why we have defenders of the faith that founded great denominations like the OPC. But the purpose was always make the gospel clear. Preach it without compromise. Call sinners who may come by the work of the Holy Spirit to come to faith in Christ and teach them how to live then for Jesus. Let us pray. Our Father, we're thankful for the reformation, and we look forward to commemorating that in a couple of weeks. There are many reasons for it, but we're thankful that you gave us the one reason overall, and that is that the gospel might continue from generation to generation That way to you, through faith in Jesus Christ, may be made clear so that sinners are not dependent upon the manipulative uh uh powers of the church, but they are dependent entirely upon approaching you directly and pleading with you by the gospel that you might save us By faith alone in Christ. We're thankful, Lord, that the gospel has come into our lives and has made the way of salvation clear and compelling to us. And we trust that we have all uh and have trusted in Christ and continue to do so. We're thankful for Christ that He not only did something in the past To make us acceptable to you. But he's doing something in the present, mediating the covenant, that uh he's doing something now preparing for the future when he comes again. To grant us the fullness of our redemption. We're thankful to be members of his body. But we pray, Lord, that if indeed this is the gospel that has taken up our lives, that It will be the gospel that we are always willing to take a stand for. That we will never allow it to be compromised, but that we will endeavor by your grace to pass it down from generation to generation, so that all may hear the way of salvation clearly and by the blessing of your Holy Spirit come to know you.