If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to the letter to the church at Rome. As we continue our study there this evening, we'll be at the end of chapter eleven. And I'll be reading only the first, or excuse me, only the last four verses there. Romans eleven starting at verse thirty-three and going to the end of the chapter. Let's give attention to God's Word. O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and how inscrutable his ways For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be repaid? For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. My father, as we come now to a passage which is familiar. Yet it is so deep. It is so full. God, it is difficult for us to grasp. And so we ask, Father, work by your Spirit within us. Help me as I seek to open this passage tonight. Grant, Lord God, that the Spirit would work powerfully in us. And that even by this message tonight, even by the preaching of your word, Your name would be glorified. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How was it that Eve was deceived in the garden? It's a difficult question to answer given the truth that she was very good, that she had original righteousness. It's probably an easier question to answer if we were to ask what did Satan use to deceive Eve What question did Satan plant in Eve's heart, so to speak, and mind? If we were to open Genesis 3, we'd see the serpent saying to the woman, You will surely not die. For God knows that when you eat of it, meaning of the fruit that was forbidden, Your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. Translated What Satan was saying to Eve, God doesn't know best. God's wisdom is flawed. God's knowledge is lacking. Eve, you know better. You know what's good for you. Trust yourself, because you are wise and knowledgeable. Your judgment is right, and your ways are good. Serpent didn't say that. But that seems to be the essence of his words to Eve. Why do we become disgruntled with God? When events in our lives don't happen as we plan, when we become disappointed or discontent with our circumstances, a bad test result at school, a bad report from our doctor concerning our health. when in our wisdom another outcome would have been better. Just like Eve. We believe, truly believe, that we know better. We have a better plan. We have more knowledge. We have a better grasp of what is good, right, and just, and we're able to apply knowledge with greater wisdom. That must be the case. This must be how our thoughts work through our minds and our hearts. Why else would we become disgruntled? Why would we become disappointed? and discontented. Here at the end of Romans 11, we have a culmination. And a transition point in Paul's gospel. Remember, this is all, the whole letter is Paul's gospel. And here in these last four verses, we have a culmination. Really, you might just say that Paul is summing up his gospel truths right here in these four verses. But we also have a transition. A transition from doctrine to practice. Chapters 12 through 16 will be full of practice. What are you supposed to do now that you know all of these truths about who God is and what he's done in the Lord Jesus Christ? We're not there yet. But in these four verses, as Paul summarizes, in a sense, everything that he's written so far, he first takes a moment. To glory in God. And these brief four verses, Paul, in a sense, sums up all of the truth, the doctrine set forth in this epistle. And he provides a right perspective of man before a creator, God, and Savior, and then he gives glory to God. These four verses constitute a doxology. Tonight, tonight I'd like us to see Very clearly and very expressly, and right along the lines of the Westminster Shorter Catechism, man exists to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Man exists to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. And we'll see that tonight in three points: the identity of his riches, the depths of his riches, and finally the glory. of his riches. Well, let's get into this. The identity of his riches. Well throughout the letter Throughout the gospel that Paul has been setting forth, his presentation has been peppered with questions. Paul took the podcast approach. It was as though someone was with him, someone that he was speaking to and answering questions that were posed to him. What advantage has the Jew, or what value is circumcision? If our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath upon us? What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? Full of questions. He wrote as if he were in a classroom with students who were opposing his teaching. Paul presents these questions which were in essence attacking the gospel truths that he was presenting. And he was using them to bring out more fully the truths. that he has in his letter. We see clearly here these questions were in reality an attack, an attack upon God, upon God himself. The questions attacked the absolute truth of God found in His Word. They attacked the sovereignty of God, the wisdom of God, the knowledge of God, the righteousness of God, the justice of God, and the goodness. of God. These questions asserted that sin might actually be wanted by God, so that his grace might increase. So here at the end of Romans 11, Paul does not ask another question, but powerfully, culminatingly, summarizingly. If those are words, sets forth doctrinal truths about the riches of God, that which was attacked by Satan in the garden. That which was attacked in Jesus Christ as he ministered to sinners on the face of this earth. That which was attacked in Paul's day, as evidenced by the way he wrote his gospel, anticipated. Common attacks on the character and nature of God. And so Paul responds: look at verse 33. O the depth of the riches and wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways. We could spend all week speaking of the riches of God. We could speak of God's riches in his love, in his righteousness, in his gentleness, his patience, his long-suffering. Tonight, our time is limited, and we're going to limit ourselves to the considerations that Paul placed in this letter. Riches of God as identified by Paul in wisdom and knowledge and judgment and ways. Well first. The first aspects of God identified by Paul as his riches are his wisdom and his knowledge. The depths of the riches of wisdom and knowledge of God. Knowledge Webster's wrote this, God has a perfect knowledge of all his works. God's knowledge is that of the Creator, the Maker of all things from nothing. He knows all created things infinitely and intimately It's like the watchmaker. The one who makes the watch knows how it works. He knows where the gears go. It knows how they function. He knows if it breaks, how to fix it. No one knows more about anything in creation than the Creator. God's knowledge goes beyond mere how to put this together instruction manual. That's why we read a Psalm 139. Think of this. Even before a word is on your tongue, behold, O Lord, He knows it altogether. It's more than just the fact that he put you together. It's more than He knits you together in your mother's womb. He knows you. He's acquainted with all of your ways. He discerns your thoughts. Even before you speak them. That's knowledge. What about a wisdom? Proverbs 2, we might go to Proverbs just to learn about what wisdom is. And Proverbs 2 helps us with that, my son. If you receive my words and treasure up my commandments within you, making your ear attentive to wisdom. Solomon, a writer of at least this proverb, I believe. was equating God's words and his commandments with wisdom If you receive my words, treasure my commandments, making your ear attentive to wisdom. The Lord gives wisdom From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. We would have no wisdom if it were not for the Lord giving it to us. He is the exclusive source of wisdom. Isn't that what James writes in this first chapter? If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God who gives generously. James doesn't say go to the library. He doesn't say go to the university and ask the scholars. No. Go to God. Webster defines wisdom as the right use or exercise of knowledge. It's that faculty of discerning or judging what is most just, proper, and useful. Isn't that what God does? Isn't that who he is? Those who were battling with Paul Might have come to the conclusion that God's judgment with regard to Esau was a bit hasty. Rebekah was told, even though they were not born yet, meaning Jacob and Esau, That even before they had done anything good or bad, that the older will serve the younger. Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. And so Paul received those questions. Is there injustice on God's part? Are his judgments wrong? By no means. Those who would challenge God would say, Why was he so hated? What had he done? God should have waited, his timing was unjust, but we know that by and through the scriptures we are told that He judges the world with righteousness, and he is the one who defines righteousness. His judgment is just, his judgment is pure. He judges the peoples. With uprightness, Psalm 9. What about the ways of God? In Romans 9, once again, Paul brings out that example of Pharaoh. He said that Scripture tells us that Pharaoh was raised up for that very purpose that God would show his power. In him, that God's name would be proclaimed in all of the earth. And so he hardens whoever he wills, that would include Pharaoh. That was and is the way of God. He used and uses even those who were and are opposed to him and to his plan of salvation to work his almighty will. Make no mistake, Pharaoh was opposed to God and his plan of saving a people for himself. But God's way Turns the ways of the wicked and the evil upon their head, and his plan of righteousness is victorious Even as Jesus Christ went to the cross, the Lord used the one who was and continues to be vehemently opposed to salvation, Satan himself, to accomplish his purposes. Paul set apart for the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures concerning his son. Who was descended from David according to the flesh and declared to be the Son of God in power according to the spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead? God Working out his perfect ways, even, even as Satan thought that he had declared victory. Victory on the cross. Who would consider sending his only eternally begotten Son to His death, accursed death on a tree, in order to save a people which were not righteous? A people who are weak in the flesh and ungodly. A people who were his enemies. Brothers and sisters, we must understand this passage to tell us that God is creating his kingdom. God is creating a place that he might dwell with his people for eternity. And so from our creaturely perspective, He has given us eyes to see impart his wisdom and his knowledge and his judgments and his ways as coming together to rebirth a people for himself and to make that dwelling place fit for eternal and peace. pure worship. As we grumble and complain, as we think our thoughts are higher than his, this must be brought to mind. So we're tempted to be disappointed or discontent because of hard providences or difficult circumstances. The call tonight is to remember the depths of God's Wisdom, the riches of his knowledge and judgments in his perfect and pure ways. For through these things, these hard providences, these difficult circumstances, God is yet rebirthing a people for Himself. God is about the work of creating a new heaven and a new earth. And he is burning off the dross. He's refining his people And as he does, as he burns off the draw, so we can see and identify more and more of his riches and his knowledge and his wisdom and his judgments and his ways. Praise be to God. That brings us to our second point, the depth of his riches. Having identified the riches which Paul wants us to even consider tonight, now he speaks about The depths. He gives a blanket description of them in order to put to rest any stray or additional questions that doubters or unbelievers might pose. So the depth. Of the riches and wisdom of knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and how inscrutable his ways He uses those two adjectives to describe the depths of the riches of God and wisdom and knowledge and judgment and his ways. How deep are these riches? He used unsearchable and inscrutable to define the depth, that blanket description of his riches. Think of that unsearchable. Too deep. Is there some way in which a finite creature, and we are all that finite, can grasp the person and work of an infinite God. We're limited by time and space. We're limited by our finite minds. It makes it impossible to grasp, to plumb the depths of an infinite God or the infinite riches of God. And this is merely based upon the fact of who we are, as God has created us. We must confess that these riches of God are much too deep for us to grasp and take hold of to fully and completely understand and appreciate. Just think of some instances of God's riches. As we consider the depth of our depravity, our deadness in sin. And yet the riches of God's knowledge and wisdom in creating a plan to rescue his people from their sin. Romans 3, as it is written: None is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. But yet, out of that population, which includes all of us Paul then wrote in Romans 8, there is now, therefore, no condemnation for those who are in Christ. Because the depth of our depravity and the riches of God's wisdom and knowledge as He takes Those who are lost in sin, who are dead in sin, and he brings them to life in Christ Jesus such that there would be no condemnation. Think of the rich ways in which God is making a way for Gentile dogs to be saved Because his people were broken off, and yet using even that event to bring Israelites back into the kingdom. So I asked, did they stumble in order that they might fall? By no means. Rather, do their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles so as to make Israel jealous. Who would come up with such a plan, a glorious plan? To save those who were considered by the Jews as dogs, and yet use that salvation to bring more of his people into his kingdom. Think about the judgment of God upon his son. God chose his love for us that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. There is richness in God's judgment and his ways As he not merely reaches out to us as we are lost in our sins, as we are hating him, spitting upon him. Wagging our heads as Jesus Christ died on the cross, and yet Christ's love was being poured out upon us at that very moment. Even as we meditate upon the perfect atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for our sins. So that He might rescue us from this present evil age according to the will of God the Father, to whom be the glory forevermore. Amen. And as we fix our minds upon the enduring and eternal love of God for His sinful people, I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Those are just a few of the riches, of the depths of the riches of God's wisdom and knowledge, his judgment And as we think about those, we're just beginning to crack the surface of the depths of the riches of God. Not plumb them. There was an article in the BBC about a ship which had sunk about a hundred years ago on the coast of Antarctica. And it had sunk because the ice around it just pressed in and crushed it. Everybody knows where it is, but they haven't been able to get to it because of the ice, because of the currents. And so while they while they know where the ship is, while they know where the wreckage is, the ice keeps them from penetrating down to the treasures below. That's a bit of the picture we have, isn't it? We know where the riches of God are, but we're only able to crack the surface just a bit. Unsearchable, inscrutable, such as the depth of the riches of God's wisdom, knowledge, judgment, and ways. It can't be fully known. And Paul opens that up a bit in verses thirty-four and thirty-five. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor, or who has given a gift to him that he might be There are a few ideas within these two verses. First First that man wasn't involved in creation. Who has known the mind of the Lord? The recreation, the plan, the covenant to save. None of his creatures were present. None gave him counsel, none gave him direction. And so the logic would go, how can anyone thus question him? How can anyone criticize or suggest that he didn't do something right? That's the idea on the surface of that verse. Who has known the mind of the Lord? Who's been his counselor? No one knows the mind of God. Any criticism or suggestion of wrongdoing by God would be based upon the unknown, and here Job is extremely helpful. As God talked to Job, as he answers him out of the whirlwind, so who is this that darkens counsel by words without knowledge? Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? Tell me if you have understanding. For who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his counsel? Or who has given him a gift that he might be repaid? What is it that God owes to man? Is there some basis upon which man, the created being, might claim that he should have a say? Is there some reason that one might assert that God should listen to what man has to say about the way things are, about how things should be? Does man have a seat at the table with God? No. There is no basis upon which the creative being might have a seat at the table with God. God is not repaying. God does not know anyone. Man cannot demand And think of this. God has revealed all that He's chosen to reveal. We don't get more God has chosen to reveal himself to his children. Praise God that he has. In these last days he's spoken to us by his son, whom he appointed the heir of All things. He's the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. We must praise God for choosing to reveal himself in a way that might we can understand. And we must revere him for enabling the followers of Jesus Christ to understand his revelation. For by and through it, meaning his very word, the Bible, the scriptures. The Christian is able to begin grasping a portion of the depth of his riches. And through continual study, the Bible student is enabled to probe and ponder further depth of these riches of God. For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. But he put a limit on it. Certain riches have been revealed, and other riches have not been revealed. The secret things belong to the Lord our God. But the things that are revealed belong to us and our children for ever. Thus, while much may be known and understood concerning the riches of God, some are off limits. Not only are his riches too deep, too many, and too wonderful, there are just some aspects that he has chosen not to reveal to his children. And we may never know why. But even in this truth is part of the riches of the wisdom and judgment of God. That He would choose to reveal and determine to withhold is part of the That brings us to our third point, the glory of his riches. Brothers and sisters, while we may think that all of this is for us, it's all really for God. For from him and through him and to him are all things to him be glory forever. As we come to the end of this passage in the doctrinal portion of the letter to the Church at Rome, we have this great truth given to us by the inspired Apostle Paul. And this truth really cuts to the heart of the question that we've been asking this evening, just like Eve, constantly making the mistake that we think this creation is ours and was made for us. There's clearly a sense in which that is true. God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, subdue it, rule over the fish, over the sea, and over the birds. of the sky and every other living thing that moves on the earth. Behold, I've given you every living plant, yielding seed that is on the surface. of the earth, every tree that has fruit yielding seed, it shall be food for you. There's a sense, there's a sense in which it is for us. God made the earth as a place for men to dwell and for us to have dominion. But we've corrupted that truth, and we continue to corrupt it as we look upon all that God has made and Consider it to be ours and to do with it as we please and for our glory. And this idea This misunderstanding, this corruption of all all of that is addressed here in this last verse of Romans 11. All those questions that have been been thrown at God, all those attacks on his nature now come to this culmination in verse thirty-six. For from him and through him and to him are all things. First, first, the creation is of God. All things come from him. John Murray wrote, He is the source of all things, and that they have proceeded from Him. That's the idea. Very simple, very true. Secondly, all things are through him. Meaning, by the word of his power, he brought all things into existence. from nothing. And God said, let there be light, and there was light. All things were made through him. And without him was not anything made that was made. John 1 verse 3. God, by and through his almighty power, created everything and every being that is, was, and will be. Again, very true, very straightforward, and finally, all things are to him. If we're having trouble yet grasping the point that Paul is pressing home here, now he closes the door on any questions that might continue to be asked. All things. are to God, meaning his possession in a way. Every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle on a thousand hills, Psalm 50. We might also say all things are for God. Not in the sense that God needed anything, he needed creation. That's not the sense, or that somehow he benefits. From his creation. That's not the idea. But the idea is that anything that exists exists for God's glory. That's what Paul is saying And so all the arguments come to a crushing halt here as we grasp this last verse. For from him and through him and to him are all things. Why is this doxology here? We've already covered one aspect or one reason. This is a positive statement of all of the negative questions that have been asserted as Paul's putting his arguments together. against the gospel, against God. He sums up the positive here, certainly in these four verses, but might most especially in the last And Paul is about to start his practical theology. How should the Christian live now knowing these truths? And here with this doxology, uh the idea is how how should a follower of Christ live with the positive proof truths of Praise and glory for God. Everything that follows in chapters 12 through 16 now spring out of these four verses Which act to sum up Paul's gospel, the good news to this point. Now here's what I want us to grasp This doxology says, get your eyes off of yourself and put them on the living God through his son. The Lord Jesus Christ. For from him and through him and to him are all things to him be the glory forever. This verse is critical to your Christian life. Indeed, it's critical to your faith in Jesus Christ. You will never be able to glorify God through Jesus if your eyes are fixed, your heart beats, your very being is immersed in yourself. You will always be disgruntled, unhappy with God. You will remain unsatisfied with the way things happen and turn out in your life. For you will not confess that all things are from him and through him and to him. Do you see how that's a 180-degree shift? Let me go as far as to say this. If you refuse to grasp the power and truth of this single verse, then there's no reason to continue on. Throughout the remainder of this letter. Because there will be no basis upon which you will be able to present your body as a living sacrifice holy and acceptable to God, which is your spiritual worship. All of it, that verse, and everything else flows out of verse 36. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Brothers and sisters, this is so important for our Christian life. This is the solution to so many struggles in our lives So many struggles are bound up with ourselves and placing ourselves at the center. Placing the reason for all things within ourselves. Placing the reason for our existence within ourselves. And this verse tells us that that's just not the case. That's not the truth. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever Let's be in prayer that the Spirit would not only remind us of this truth, but He would be constantly convicting us of this truth. Yes, man exists to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. These four verses really grasp the meaning of that answer to our first catechism. Man exists to glorify God and to enjoy him forever. Amen. Our Father in Heaven, Lord, we confess That so many times, too many times, we have placed ourselves at the center of all things. We thank you for this passage tonight, Lord God. We thank you for the positive description of your riches, the depth of them. And Father, the fact that we exist to glorify you. Help us, Lord God, to not only do so, but also to enjoy you as we ponder, as we plumb. the depths of your riches. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.