Hear the word of the Lord. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels. to the general assembly and church of the firstborn who are registered in heaven, to God the judge of all, to the spirits of just men made perfect, to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling that speaks better things than that of Abel. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. But we continue to keep looking at this uh incredible uh uh declaration that uh God has made through his the writer of the this passage of uh w just where it is that uh b what it is that believers have come to. And there's one name after another that uh that populate these verses And we should uh not, however, forget that uh Hebrews 12 uh begins with the uh the uh idea that believers, every believer is involved in running a long-distance race and that that race is hard. It's called living the Christian life with a faithful testimony. It it it there there there will be valleys in our life's experiences, just as there will be peaks at times. But there will be pain and suffering, especially when believers identify with Jesus as their Lord and Savior. The pain and trials which we endure serve a purpose. They are used by God to perfect us. to perfect us for the day when we are in God's presence. For on that day, nothing unholy will be able to stand there. And what God is doing through these various different difficulties in this race, this long-distance race called light for Christ. that we're living. What God is doing through his Spirit is preparing us for that day. Is preparing us to be in God's presence forever. Every Christian, as Peter put it, must be holy as God is holy. And that's the goal of the preparation. That's the goal of the sufferings. That's the goal of the trials. That's the end of the marathon race. God will use all these difficult and experience as well as well as the the good ones too uh to make us holy before him Paul said to the Roman church He says this, Romans 8 verse 18. He says, For I reckon. I didn't realize that Paul was kind of speaking in American English. For I reckon that he would use that phrase. But he says it, for I reckon that the suffering of this present time Or the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that shall be revealed. And if you're a believer The glory that shall be revealed in you is also the glory that will be revealed around you. Because that glory will occupy where you live forever As our text has already shown us. It says, you have already come to Mount Zion. You've come to the city of the living God. And our text today says you've already come to the heavenly Jerusalem. What does the heavenly Jerusalem have to do with our understanding of who we are and where we're going to be? And that's what question, those are the questions I'd like to pose to you and to try to answer this morning. The word Jerusalem in Hebrew means the foundation of peace. The foundation of peace. He says, you have come, you've already come to a city Whose foundation is peace. When we think about Jerusalem, particularly in the Old Testament, it is the city in Israel You know, the most prominent city ever since the day of David, who made Jerusalem his capital. And then it takes on even greater significance when the temple of God is built there. Jerusalem cannot help but having importance, or cannot help but having its importance resonate with those who are hearing Paul's message. In other words, you hear Jerusalem and you think. You think the city of the king, you think the place of the temple where the sacrifices for sin were made. You cannot help but have that connotation But there's something new about this Jerusalem. Something different. You see, he precedes it with the adjective of the heavenly Jerusalem. He is not talking about Christians en masse flocking to the city geographically in Israel called Jerusalem. He's talking about a greater city, a more glorious city, a heavenly city, a place where he says, you have already come there. That's the tense of the verbs That are here in this passage. Jerusalem will be the place where Christians live joyfully and peacefully with one another in the foundation of peace, the city of the foundation of peace And it is an infinitely greater city than any city on earth that ever was or ever will be. Because in this Jerusalem, this new Jerusalem, this heavenly Jerusalem, there will be people from all other nations. People living on Mount Zion, or in the city of the living God, or in the heavenly Jerusalem Take your pick. They all are implying a glorious existence for every Christian who continues to be upheld in their life through that long, difficult marathon race called Living for Jesus. This is your destination. Haven't we Jerusalem is the goal. It's the goal. That you're running the race in essence to achieve. It's where you're going to end up forever. As a faithful Christian. Other nations will be living there too, because God is dealing with all peoples Not just the Jews in Jerusalem, not just in the Jerusalem of this earth, but he's dealing with all peoples. As we recall, God's covenant promise To Abraham is that all the nations of the world shall be blessed in your seed Any Hebrew or any other person from any nation who repents and believes in Jesus as Lord and Savior belongs in the heavenly Jerusalem That God has prepared for us. Jerusalem as a city, cannot help but automatically bring to the Jews' mind the thought of the temple of God. Because you see, the temple of God was the place where the Shekinah glory of God fell upon his people. The dwelling of God. They associated the glory of God with Jerusalem and the temple, much as today The people of our nation associate the District of Columbia with the Capitol building or the Smithsonian or the Monuments. Hence, the heavenly Jerusalem also inspires the thought of the temple of God dwelling with his people again. with the fullness of his Shekinah, which in Hebrew means dwelling glory. All of these names that we find in Hebrews chapter 12, beginning at verse 22. That hold out the promises of God's presence with us or fulfillment of his covenant promises to Abraham. I will dwell with you, and you will be my people. And I will be your God. It's hard to divorce the idea of Jerusalem from the Hebrews' thought. But a splendid and glorious Jerusalem is not exclusively a Jewish hope. At brief intervals in the Old Testament history, Jerusalem, its king, and the temple, the earthly Jerusalem, intrigued the Gentiles too And that's why we read 1 Kings chapter 10, for it's the most famous example of this phenomenon. Where the Queen of the South, or the Queen of Sheba, Comes to Jerusalem to visit King Solomon. Her visit, her visit, and her subsequent actions and her testimony are pointing forward to the promise of the of the heavenly Jerusalem. They're pointing forward to the new Mount Zion. Because there in the heavenly Jerusalem and the new Mount Zion, the ultimate Davidic king reigns. As Jesus declared in Matthew chapter, excuse me, yeah, Matthew chapter twelve, verses forty-one and forty-two. He said this. He said, The men of Nineveh will rise up in judgment against this generation and shall condemn it because they repented at the preaching of Jonah. The Queen of the South shall rise up in judgment against this generation, and she shall condemn it. For she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon. And behold, a greater than Solomon is here. You know what he's talking about? He's the greater than Solomon, who is here. Jerusalem, you see, in the New Testament, there are very few verses where Jerusalem is not a geographical reference to a city in Israel. But it's also in the few places where that is not the case, it is telling us of a promised, more glorious city emerge to emerge. While it is true that most of the times in the New Testament, Jerusalem is used, it's pointing to the geographical city. It is also true that a transition is taking place in the Gospels. A transition of one, from one seeing Jerusalem and Israel as the most important city in that land Which is now fading away to seeing Jerusalem representing a fabulous spiritual heavenly city. A city soon to come. And there are notable examples to this transition that is prophesied and predicted. Prophecies that warn of the end of the geographical city of Jerusalem and point to the beginning of the new Jerusalem. Jerusalem is more and more taking on the idea that it's the place where the messianic King of God, Jesus Christ. Christ, Son of God, Son of David, enters into the city with praise. And he did that, of course, on what we call Palm Sunday. The pilgrims, celebrating Passover, praised his name But Jesus immediately followed up that earthly praise with a visit to the temple. And things didn't go real well in the temple. Because at that particular moment, he looks in the temple and he sees the money changers. The temple that David and Solomon had built to worship Jehovah. He sees the money changers. He sees that they had changed his father's house from a house of prayer into a den of thieves. And he rebuked them. And the chief priests and all the leaders of Judaism campaigned in earnest to murder God's son. And they had the help of the Romans. But let's not forget the crowd on the day of the crucifixion cried out, were in reference to Jesus, crucify him. Jerusalem. Has rejected its own king. And Christ, as he's coming into Jerusalem, there's that pointed scene where he is depicted as weeping. Over the rejection of Jerusalem For he knew that in that day they would clamor for his death. Jerusalem, you see, is the place where Christ's death does occur. And when it occurs, Mark chapter 15, verse 38 says, the veil of the temple was rent in two from the top to the bottom. The very temple that David and Solomon had constructed, the veil to the Holy of Holies, was rent, torn in two, and that symbolized a new era. Of believers having unlimited access to God through Jesus Christ the high priest. Suppose for just a minute That there is only one day in the year when you could pray to Baha'i. There was only one day when you would have his ear, so to speak. And that only when the high priest went through his procedures. And that only when he made atonement. The one who dwells In the heavenly Jerusalem, as the king of David, is also, as we've seen in Hebrews, the great high priest of his people And through his blood, your sins are forgiven once and for all. And through his blood, he ever le lives to intercede for you. And through his blood, you have access to. them all the time. Don't downplay the importance of that. What I'm saying is is that That old way, when the temple was rent into, Jerusalem ceases to be Jerusalem the city, and the temple in Jerusalem ceased to be Cease to be the significant way to God. They have been replaced They have been replaced by the crucified and resurrected Jesus. And so I say, there are some significant times where Jerusalem begins to take on this cast of a new era. Reflective of the new redemption that Christ has brought to his people. So that even the temple itself is now superfluous It's unnecessary. More than superfluous. God no longer dwells there. In the language of the Old Testament, the earthly Jerusalem and the temple have now become Ichabod. Look it up if you don't know what it means. As I said before, Jerusalem. Geographical Jerusalem is the place where the crucified Lord Jesus was resurrected. And appeared to many. And he became the life-giving spirit who could Make those who were dead in transgression in sin now spiritually live forever. That Jerusalem and that Jerusalem's temple never could do that In seventy A. D. , Jerusalem and the Temple The abomination of desolation occurs, signifying that the last nail in the coffin was driven. Into the idea that the Jerusalem temple and the city of Jerusalem was still the only way to approach God, as the temple was reduced to rubble by the Roman general Titus In fulfillment of Jesus' prophecy. Mark chapter 13, too, not one stone shall be left standing. And again, Jerusalem's religious significance, along with the temple, evaporate. And Jerusalem, my friends, is the place where Pentecost occurs. The place where God pours out his Holy Spirit on the apostles and then on the church. Of Jesus Christ, which signifies that the gospel you see is for all nations, not just for one, not just one people, but many people Will now be called my people. And the very Jerusalem that rejected Jesus would take on the name Loami, which means not my people. The redeemed, you see, will now have a God with us through his Spirit, and they will have a new heart. God, the Holy Spirit, now literally comes to live in the hearts of all believers. to propel us to witness and to worship him, as well as to conform to the image of his only Son, Jesus Christ. And I remind you, brothers and sisters, 2 Corinthians 6, verse 16 remarks, what agreement has the temple with idols? For you are the temple of the living God. And God said, I will dwell in them, and I will walk in them, and they and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. All of these instances, all of these prophecies have come to fulfillment. And they all show us that the earthly temple, with its uh earthly Jerusalem with his temple is no longer God's chosen place. And the people were no of Jerusalem who refused to worship him And instead shouted out, Crucify Him are no longer his chosen people. God has chosen people now who are the true seed of Abraham, who come from every nation, tribe, and tongue. Confessing that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father, these are the ones who are now told, you live in the city of the heavenly Jerusalem. You have come to the heavenly Jerusalem. Christians, in the Spirit, you have come to the heavenly Jerusalem God's forever dwelling place with his people, a place of unimaginable glory and beauty, a place of immediate access to God, which every believer has. forever. So what should you make of all of this? Nice biblical theological treatment of Jerusalem and the ramifications that all there is. I suggest that this has implications for all of us. And those implications are, with Christ in your heart and the Holy Spirit's help, You must keep running the race, the glory. Because the race has a magnificent end. The end is not a booby prize, but it is the eternal home of God with us, the heavenly Jerusalem. The heavenly Jerusalem is yours, because your omnipotent God, who cannot lie, has promised it to you. And it will be your eternal home. And to some degree it already you've started taking up residence there. Secondly, don't stray off the path by bowing down to the false gods, for they have no home for you, but hell. Especially if you follow them and serve them. May it be said of you by God Himself, you never longed for the $7,000 a week for life of the Publisher's Clearinghouse giveaway. Or that you worship the thought of the security that that would bring. No, may God say of you that you are like Abraham. Who looked for a city whose foundation, which had foundations, whose builder and maker is God. May you be in that number that Revelation 3, verse 12 describes. Him who overcomes, I will make a pillar in my temple. A pillar in my temple. He shall go out no more. I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is New Jerusalem. Which comes down out of heaven. I can't make this stuff up. Do you not see the connections? Which comes down out of heaven? From my God I will write upon him my new name. And as you live in the new Jerusalem, you live there in peace. With God's people from around the world. Those who have repented and believed in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those whom God uses to edify one another. As 1 Corinthians 6 verse 17 says, Wherefore come out from among them and be separate, says the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing, I will receive you, and I will be a father unto you, and you shall be my sons and daughters. Says the Lord. Having these promises, dearly beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from all the filthiness of the flesh and spirit and perfect holiness in the fear of the Lord. And finally, as we read in our opening call to worship. You were like John, who said in Revelation 21, 2, I, John, saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem. coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride for her husband. In Christ, the courting, courting of God's beloved has already begun for you. Believer in Christ. The eternal marriage between Christ and you, his bride, the new Jerusalem, will be forever consummated God has said it, it will be done. It is being done. Amen