Well, happy new year folks. This is the first Sunday of the 2019 year Uh I hope that 2018, as you had some time, at least I hope you took some time to kind of reflect on it. Uh I'm not altogether sure what the li what uh 2018 was for uh for all of you. I think it's easy for us to uh uh to um uh go through difficult times and then evaluate the year as just being a really hard year and um uh I have no doubt that uh uh unfortunately those things happen uh in a life in a fallen world. But at the same time, uh it's so important for us to remember that the Lord is still working in all of our midst. Uh for that reason, yes, perhaps two thousand eighteen maybe going to argue, but it's still filled with the the testament of God's faithfulness in our lives. And I do hope it's something that you're able to reflect on and rejoicing that our God is faithful and with us always. As we start off 2019, I'd like to share with you a passage of scripture that's actually very meaningful for me. Uh when I was a a young Christian uh uh I actually came to uh to faith in Christ relatively late. I was uh uh a senior in high school just getting ready to start college. Um I went to a uh a conference uh for college students um and at that conference um the uh one of the uh leaders spoke on this passage here in Philippians chapter 3 verses 1 through 11. When I heard that passage and read this uh it it um it it left a lasting impact on my mind. Um in many ways uh you could read this and you don't even need my help. It just kind of tells you the word of God and the message very, very clearly. Um it's one of those passages that you think you really can't get any more Christian than this, what the what the Word of God says here. Uh since the those days, um which was almost um well I won't tell you how long ago it was a long time ago um the practice I have made now is that I meditate on this passage at the start of every new year The reason why I do that is because I'm somewhat still the old school of mine that sets up New Year's resolutions and goals for the upcoming year. year. So as I prepare my thoughts on what um what I would like to accomplish and what I would like to see happen in my life as well as in the life of my children. Uh and when I was a real pastor, I uh did the same thing for the the church that I ministered to. I wanted to make sure that I had a proper Christ-centered perspective on life. And so I would per I would meditate on this passage at the start of every New Year. I would do that in my own private devotions. I would do that with my family devotions. So I'd like to do that with all of you today So with that, uh let's uh turn our hearts in a word of prayer. Ask for the Lord to bless us uh as we meditate on his word this morning. Let's pray together. Our gracious God and Heavenly Father, we come before you once again. We thank you, Lord, for Jesus Christ, our Savior, our Redeemer, our King. We thank you, Lord, for the joy that we have in Christ. For in fact, joy can only be found in Christ. Though, Lord, we are told and tempted and given false messages for the world around us. From other religious worldviews. That tells us, Lord, that joy can be found in other means, other false gods and materialisms. Lord, we know the truth. That tells us that salvation and joy can only be found in Christ. As we uh reflect uh on this word, I pray that it will be uh a ministry to our hearts. that we will come to understand the word just a little bit more and understand just great how how great you are as our God. So be with us this morning as we meditate on your word, hear our prayers, for we pray this all in Jesus' name Uh I'd like to uh read the portion of scripture for today. This is uh Philippians chapter three. Starting at verse 1 to verse 11. Philippians chapter 3, starting at verse 1 to verse 11. Hear now this reading of God's word. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. For be to write the same things to you is not tedious, for but for you it is safe. Beware of dogs, beware beware of evil workers, beware of the mutilation. For we are the circumcision who worship God in the Spirit, rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh Though I also might have confidence in the flesh. If anyone else thinks he may have confidence in the flesh, I'm more so circumcised on the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, concerning the law of Pharisee, concerning zeal, persecuting the church, concerning the righteousness which is of the law of blameless. But what things were gained to me, these I have counted lost for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and count them as rubbish, that I may gain Christ, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ the righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. See, pretty clear? I don't know if you need my help at all, dear friends, uh, this morning to understand what the word If you uh in my uh personal uh email account through Hotmail, I actually use the uh verse ten there to know Christ, the power of his resurrection as sort of my signature version. just so that everyone knows what is it that drives me from day to day, at least what I hope drives me from day to day. I'd like to ask you a question this morning as we reflect on this word. Why are people so dissatisfied? Why are people so discontent? Now I'm going to give you the answer to this question. Unlike the way that I deal with students at the seminar, I'm going to give you the answer. Actually, I sort of give them the answer in lectures as I think about it. The answer to the question is this apart from Jesus Christ, you cannot be satisfied. You cannot be satisfied in any way if you look for it in anyone or any place else but Jesus. So I think about that uh simple simple idea. Folks, this is not groundbreaking. I think that's something to remember that the gospel, though profound in its message It's a very simple message. It's an easy one to understand. In fact, you could say the profoundness of the gospel oftentimes is in its simplicity. We don't have to complicate it. Salvation and joy is only found in Jesus. Our children can say this, praise God. And so we have s uh we oftentimes perhaps can convolute a simple message Billy Graham was once asked this question of college students, and he said that there is one word that can describe college students today. The word that he chose: emptiness. Emptiness. Now this was, you know, I I assume this was back in perhaps the uh mid to late 80s, perhaps early nineties. College has uh significantly changed. In fact, if anything, I think it's gotten harder. Uh and I dare say that this would also describe college students even today, even people, not just college students, but all of us People look for meaning and satisfaction in life. And they oftentimes look for it in all of the wrong places. There's nothing wrong with trying to find satisfaction There's nothing terrible about it. It's a good pursuit. The problem is they look for it in the wrong places. They look every place, everywhere imaginable, but they never find it. Many perhaps find it, try to seek for it within their academics. If I get straight A's, if I get a 4. 0 GPA. Perhaps they look for it in work. If I just get that promotion, if I get that job that I've been looking for. Perhaps even in money, if I just win the lottery, then all things will be right. Or perhaps fame and glory If I just become a reality TV star and then everything will be light right and I'll be satisfied in life. You know, people really are just so unoriginal I mean, these are things that people have been struggling with ever since the days of Moses and even before that. They have been trying to find satisfaction in all various different things. uh any life and and you think that we would learn after all of these millennia all of the things that have been written about this songs that have been movies that have been made now that we have access to the internet and unlimited information you think that we would know You'd think we'd be smarter than that, but we're not. So this leads me again to this very easy but simple conclusion. Apart from Jesus Christ, you cannot be satisfied in any way. This morning, as we begin this new year, this 2019 year, I'd like for us to contemplate on this truth and the hopes that it gives to us. And I hope that will encourage us to set proper goals for the upcoming year that is focused upon him who matters the most. So the main message that I have for you today is this. Paul wants the church to find joy. And he knows that this can only be found in Jesus Christ, specifically in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, and nothing else can come close. That's it, folks. Joy can only be found in Jesus Christ The hope and the application that I hope that you will draw from this message is that you will find joy, or that you will seek for joy, and you will seek for it in Christ. And set proper, Christ-centered, gospel-centered goals for the upcoming year. There are four points I'd like to articulate today. I mean, there's there is a lot that we can say about this passage, but there's only four that I'd like to focus on. First to focus on this command to rejoice in verse 1. Secondly, to see where you will not find this joy in verses 2 to 6. Thirdly, to discuss where you will find this joy, that is in Christ, in verses 7 and 8. And then finally to discuss what it is that you have in Christ that is just so joyous in verses 9 through 11 Those four simple points, folks, to uh discuss this command to rejoice, where you are not going to find it, where you will find it, and what exactly is it that you have in Jesus Christ First, this command to rejoice. Paul encourages his church in verse 1 to rejoice. Verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. He says that to write these faint things to you is no trouble again there in verse 1. In other words, this is not the first time that Paul has given this word of encouragement to seek out joy. He's not bothered or troubled in giving this command again, because in fact Paul is concerned for the joy of God's people. He wants us to be joyous. He wants us to be rejoiceful. Notice what he says in earlier passages In Philippians chapter 1, verse 25. Convinced of this, I know that I will remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith. Chapter 2 verse 17. Even if I am to be poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrificial offering of your faith, I am glad and rejoice with all of you. Chapter 2 verse 28. I am more eager to send Timothy, him that is Timothy, therefore that you may rejoice at seeing him again, and that I may be less anxious. And though uh it's a little further in chapter four, in verse four, he says, Rejoice in the Lord always. Again I will say it, rejoice. He's saying this over and over and over again, folks. In many ways, this is a very meaningful call for me to keep in mind to work for the joy of God's people, because in fact When I was ordained to the pastoral ministry, this is exactly the charge that was given to me out of 2 Corinthians chapter 1, to work for the joy of God's people. Now, as a matter of fact, it probably would have been somewhat difficult for the uh Christians in the Church of Philippi to gain this sense of joy. After all, they were persecuted because of their faith They were rejected by their fellow Jews for forsaking their old ways. They were being tempted by false teachers to be lured back into a legalistic form of righteousness in Judaism. Perhaps it's not something that we are too uh unfamiliar with ourselves. Uh I dare say that we suffer through some of this as we live through uh the wear and tear of life in a fallen world. Pressures of living a life of faithfulness and of obedience in a sinful, sinful world that wants to lead us astray. Perhaps some sense of isolation as we try to live a life of faithfulness to God. Feelings of loneliness. Perhaps some sense of despair, hopelessness, that the goals before us are unreachable. See, Paul here comes with a genuine love for God's people. Like a very good pastor, he is concerned for the people that they find joy. But notice that what thing that he does say here, that he doesn't say before, he qualifies the joy that they are to seek. Rejoice. but do so in the Lord. That little phrase, although implied in his earlier commit uh statements and implied in his call uh for the people to rejoice He now states explicitly to rejoice in the Lord. You might be tempted, he thinks, to to find joy in in in other aspects of life That living the Christian life may be rigorous and difficult and thus tempted perhaps to return back to the old ways of Judaism. But he says that don't do that Rejoice and make sure that you rejoice in the Lord, because it is only in the Lord that you will find this joy. So he goes on from there in verses 2 to 6 to describe then, after giving this command to rejoice, point 2, where joy is not going to be found. Paul goes on here by looking at two different types of people. The first people that he is looking at are the actual Jews themselves And Judaism to a certain extent. Judaism, that is a Paul's day. And then he actually does something interesting. He looks at himself, at least his past life, when he was a Jew. First, he says, he looks at the Jews and Judaism, and he says that uh joy is not going to be found in the old religion of the Jews. In fact, Paul is very adamant. He's almost angry for the way that he is describing this here. And so he speaks rather harshly when he talks about this. He says in verse 2, look out for the dogs Look out for the evildoers. Look out for those mutilators of the flesh. The Greek words here for dogs, evildoers, mutilators, is actually the word kunos for dogs. Uh kakos ergatas for gre uh for the evildoers, katatome for mutilators. You hear that hard K sound sort of repeat it in each of those words. And perhaps it's not accidental. Dennis Johnson, my old teacher uh uh in seminary, actually suggests that you have this rather harsh consonantal sound, this sort of this clanging c sound uh that is reiterated here and so that the dissonance that you hear uh as you hear these words is to reflect the dissonance that you are supposed to gain from these false teachers you see. He rinds reminds them of who these people really are. They are dogs Thus, they don't follow kosher diets, or by following kosher diets, what they are really doing is scavenging for scraps like dogs. He says that they are evildoers. Though they think that they are being obedient to the law, they in fact are doers of evil. And in fact, by trying to obey the law as a form of salvation is actually another form of evil. Because even if you were to able to uh obey the law at least at a shallow superficial level If you were able to just do that, the tendency and the temptation for us is to now set this thing up in a way that now God owes us. You see, we've done this, dear God. Now you owe me. You see, that Paul thinks is evil. He also says that they are mutilators. That is by requiring circumcision as a means of good standing before God. Not that circumcision is wrong in and of itself, but as a religious practice As a way to gain favor from God, circumcision is nothing more than a mutilation of the flesh. And in that sense, the this practice of Judaism as a means of salvation Is really nothing more than uh a common point with uh the false religions uh of their day. Think of even uh even Balaism back uh in the Old Testament uh in 1 Kings chapter 18. The way that the false prophets of Baal seem to think that they could draw the attention of their God if they are slashing their bodies and spewing blood, you see That is the type of God that Judaism has reduced our God to, you see. They have taken a precious good, a good practice, a blessed practice of circumcision, and have warped it into an abomination. And in fact, when it comes to circumcision, Paul already reminds us that we in Christ are the true circumcision. That is, not of uh of the flesh. But a circumcision of the heart, verse three. For we are the circumcision, he says, who worship in the Spirit of God and glory in Christ Jesus, and put no confidence in the flesh. That phrase Putting no confidence in the flesh is something that Paul repeats uh three or four times in this passage as being sort of the way that we try to please God, the way that we try to earn his merit, uh earn his gift of salvation. We d uh Judaism does that by trying to put confidence in the flesh. And what Paul is trying to say here is that we put no confidence uh in the flesh, we turn uh to Christ uh by faith. You see, by trusting in Christ and putting no confidence in the flesh, what we are doing what we are showing is that we have the true circumcision. That we have been circumcised in the heart. That this is a work of the Spirit of God. That the Spirit has come and now give us a heart of flesh. That's the way that the prophets put it no longer a heart of stone, that what we have is a heart of flesh, that we have a new heart. That's another way the prophets put it. That we have a spirit-filled heart. That's another way that the prophets say it. You see, now that you have this sort of spirit endowed, spirit-initiated new heart. New heart, a fleshly heart, circumcised heart, whatever however we want to describe that. Now that the Spirit has done this work in you, you can now do what you could not do before. Now you can worship. Now you can believe. Now you can repent. Now in fact you can genuinely obey, obey properly as a gratitude act towards God. Now, Paul says, You can have joy. Because of this work, because you are the true circumcision, because of what the Spirit has done has done in you, you now can do and now you can find what you could not find before, you see Now you can find joy. So why in the world would you want to go back, you see, to that old way of thinking, that old way of living? Very much in our day-to-day. The Lord has saved us. From a sinful world, from a world of sinful patterns and sinful values, folks. Why in the world? And and you don't find any joy there. And I'm sure you know people who look for it And you can't find it. Why in the world do you want to go back? You can only find this you see in Christ. Uh Paul doesn't just stay uh focused on the Jews and Judaism. He actually looks at himself then as an example of someone who who who who uh uh testifies to a person who sought out joy by the means of the flesh and never found it. Look at what he says In verses four to six. He uses himself as an example here of one who tried to find joy uh in this way. He was a Jewish leader Uh and but now he is a follower of Christ. And he shares his testimony, his story when he was a Jewish leader, that w that is when he was a Pharisee, to help us see that joy is not found there Joy is found only in the supremacy of knowing Jesus Christ. Uh he says that he used to be like one of those dogs, those evildoers, those uh mutilators uh of the flesh that he was in fact uh not just a Jew, but the Jew of Jews. He was the stellar uh you could say uh uh leader uh of Jews. If anyone thinks that they have confidence in the flesh, Paul says in verse uh four uh he has even more so to be reasons to be to have confidence in the flesh. And then he goes on to sort of describe the accomplishments that he has made uh while he was a Jewish leader. A uh a list of um uh of of accomplishments that actually looks could look very impressive on any C V and any job in the uh job uh interview or perhaps a pastoral search for a church or or a parent looking for a future son-in-law. I mean these are things that perhaps would be very impressive from a certain perspective. Notice what he says here. First That he is circumcised on the eighth day. Now that might sound a little odd to boast in your circumcision, but what he is trying to say Is that his circumcision was perfectly according to Levitical law on the eighth day? Uh he wasn't like one of these Gentile converts who are circumcised later in life. He follows the law the letter of the law uh uh perfectly. Uh he says he is of the people of Israel. Paul is an Israelite And he can trace his ancestry back down to the great forefathers of Israel, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, David. These are, you could say, his forefathers, and he says that he can boast in that He is of the tribe of Benjamin. This was one of the only two tribes to have survived the Babylonian exile. Benjamin also can boast of having the very first king of Israel in Saul. He also says that he is the Hebrew of Hebrews. He uses this Semitic superlative to say that he was really the best of the best, the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. Here he says he was the Hebrew of Hebrews. It is interesting why he used the word Hebrew here as opposed to Jew or why not say Jew of Jews or Israelite of Israelite It perhaps has something to do with the language, that he was one who was very familiar uh with the with the mother language of the Hebrew scriptures. And for that reason he that might be the reason why he says he is the Hebrew uh of Hebrews. As to the law, a Pharisee. Again, now we now sort of look at Pharisees in a derogatory way Uh and that's largely due to the way that we understand Phariseeism through the New Testament. But in the old but in Jesus' day, to be a Pharisee would have been a to hold a very high position of respect And that's what he is saying as to the law, a Pharisee, one who was uh strictly holding to the Old Testament law. As to zeal, a persecutor. Now again, it it sounds weird here that Paul perhaps is boasting in his uh acts of persecution, that is persecution against the church. But what he is trying to say is that he was not lukewarm when he was a Jew. He wasn't half-hearted. He was committed to the movement, and he showed his commitment by being consistent, logically consistent, with where the where he goes. Unlike others who were either You know, sometimes they're on, sometimes they're off, uh, who are uncommitted, who are soft in their uh in their following and their uh to in their allegiances. Paul was not like that as a Jew He says he was very much hot and very much uh committed to uh to the movement. And then finally asks to righteousness under the law of blameless. And though Paul perhaps understood the law perhaps more shallowly, more superficially, as a superficial following of the law goes, yes, he was in fact blameless. This was this was Paul folks uh beforehand. You could say that he reached the pinnacle of all Judaism. You really could not get any higher than this. He was the Prince of Pharisees. He was the Lord of all of all Jews. You couldn't get any more higher than where he was. And yet in all of this he still knew no joy. He knew no stability You see, if you follow the law and think that the law is going to be something that you need to hold to in order to please God, you're never going to find joy because you'll never be obedient enough Outside of Christ, the law condemns us. But only in Christ is the law our friend. In terms of this law, you will always wonder if you've ever done enough, if you've prayed enough If you've read enough Bible, if you've given enough money in tithing, what a miserable way to live when we try to live with the works of the law, by l by seeking confidence in the flesh. So Paul here stresses how you will not find joy in this ways. You won't find it in Judaism, and he himself is a testament to how you will never find joy in the old ways of life. But where do you find it? Point number three. Paul contrasts all of the religious accolades that he had in all of Judaism with what he has now in Jesus Christ in verses 7 and 8. He ponders the blessings of Christ himself. And he comes to this startling realization. All the things that he accomplished in the past as a Jewish leader is actually a waste of time and energy. They are all meaningless compared to what he has in Jesus'. Christ. What a what a sobering way of looking at uh your earthly economy. How much how much time did it take Paul to accomplish these things? How much effort Uh I don't know. How much money? I have no idea of the investments that would have taken uh taken. And yet he looks at all of that and he says that this is all meaningless. Uh look at what he says in verse 7 But whatever gain I had, that is everything that he just mentioned before, the circumcision on the eighth day, Hebrew, Hebrews, Pharisee, all of that business Whatever gain I had, I counted as loss for the sake of Christ. Verse 7. In fact, uh in verse 8, he says something even stronger. Indeed, I count everything as loss because of the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus, my Lord. For his sake I have suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish. in order that I may gain Christ. You see, Paul is looking at the things that he had in Judaism, and he says that compared to what I have in Jesus Christ, all of this is rubbish And then he looks at the things that everything that the world has to offer, even the things that he may not have. And he looks at all of that and he see and he compares that to what he has in Jesus Christ. And he says that it is still rubbish. And in fact, uh later in that in uh verse eight, he says here that if he counts them all uh as lost But then he says it even further, he says that he counts them all as rubbish. Now, uh I'm not sure how your Bibles translate that word rubbish But that's actually soft pedaling the word here. I mean I don't think I will say what the word really means just because uh you may not find it uh appropriate. But um folks, this is the this is um Um this this is uh oh uh uh you know what I hope I can say this and and and you will bear with me folks, but it's just another word for poop. is what it is there. That's that's how derogatory, that's how low uh this is to be looked at here. Compared to what Paul has, uh uh what he had as a Jew Compared to what he has in Jesus Christ, he says it is all loss. In fact, he says, if you take all of that and even add the things that the world has to offer that I don't have. And you can put all of that and package that together and you compare that to what I have, even still in Jesus Christ, it is not just loss, it is Rubbish. That's what Paul is saying here. Quite a startling, remarkable uh uh statement. Um all this is nothing. Compared to the supremacy of knowing Christ Jesus. That is what Paul is trying to say. Paul now finally knows joy because Paul finally knows Christ. Satisfaction in the blesser. Not in the blessings that God gives to us. This is a real challenging thought for us, especially right after the uh uh Christmas holidays. You know, you we as parents uh uh maybe we ourselves have constantly remind ourselves uh that Christmas is not about the presence. It's not about the gifts. It's about Christ. It is about Jesus. And we stress that over and over and over again. We try to do that with our children and hopefully it's uh it's getting through. But it is it is a genuine challenge. uh to be content with with the with the with the blessed or with Jesus himself. Not necessarily the things that he gives to us. I remember one of the Biggest mistakes I made as a young Sunday school teacher, actually I think it was a pastor at the time, so it's even more egregious. Um when I was teaching a a young Sunday school class that I can't remember what age this was. Um it must have been uh fourth or fifth no no no we must have been younger third or fourth graders and uh I was trying to illustrate what what heaven would be like and so what I did was uh took a a collage of different magazines and and just cut out different pictures of, you know, a roller coaster and an ice cream cone you know, a carnival, uh uh you know, all of these fun different places and and things like this and put it together in a uh in a little collage and and showed it to children and said, you know what, this is what heaven's gonna be like. It's gonna be a fun place you know, lots of excitement, lots of joy. And uh and uh one of the children I think asked uh where's Jesus in this? And and um Yeah, children. Um of course, you know how do you how do you represent Christ? I mean, you know, we don't Anyhow, uh it was just one of those errors that you make in a like of uh lack of foresight. You know, Disneyland is great, but it's only great because you're there with your parents. On your own, it's scary Heaven is only great because that's where Jesus is, you see. We read a passage like Matthew 6. 33. Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be given to you as well We read that and sometimes we think uh this is oftentimes perhaps the way that people might read this and and and understand it. This is a great deal. If I just for seek the kingdom of God, then I'll be given everything that I really want, you see. But that's not what Matthew is saying. He's saying seek first the kingdom of God. You'll get all these other things, but think uh look towards a higher value and a higher virtue and a higher goal. Seek first the kingdom of God. Think also of the dilemma in the book of Job. What is it that the tempter was accusing of Job? What is it that he was saying? He is saying that Job loves you because all of the things that you have given to him, his house, his money, his family, his riches You take all of that away, and Job is going to curse you. That's what the tempter was saying there. That is what the accuser was saying. In other words, what is he saying? Job does not love you for you Because you're not worthy to be loved in and of yourself. Job only loves you because of the things that he has given to you. Take all of that away, and he isn't going to love you anymore. See, and one of the uh things about the book of Job is ultimately that that was not true. It looked like it for a little while, but ultimately that was not true. Job loved God because he is God. In fact, let's make a deal this morning, folks. Let's do this. I will give to you anything that you want. And everything that you want. Let's just say it that I can do this. What is it that you really want? Is there a gift at Christmas that you didn't get that you really wanted? I will give it to you. Your mortgage paid off in full. In fact, the the home that you live in now, let's say you wanted a uh you've always thought about uh a different kind of home. You know what? I'll give it to you. That job you've always wanted? Yours. The lotto? Yours. A month's vacation to your ideal place? I will give it to you. Do you get the pattern? Whatever it is that you want, I will give to you. But Here's the deal, you have got to give to me, Jesus. Will you do it? Anything you want. And everything you want. And more so, I will give to you. But you have got to give to me, Jesus. Will you do it? You see, the uh scenario is exactly uh what the Israelites faced in the book of Exodus, chapter 32 to 34. God said to the Israelites, go on up to that land, that land that you want so desperately, that land that you've been dreaming of, go on up to that land. You wanted it so badly. That you were willing to worship an idol. That's how badly you wanted it. If that's how badly you wanted it, then go on up and get it. But my presence, he says, will not go with you. Will you take it? You see, it's so easy uh to get lost up uh in that in that thought. Um and we forget that the biblical definition of eternal life It's not really just one life or one day followed by another day, followed by another day, onto eternity. That's not the way the Bible defines it. The Bible doesn't define uh eternal life as sort of you know some uh some philosophical uh cosmic sum total of all known forces in the universe. The Bible defines eternal life in a very simple but Christ-centered way. John chapter 17, verse 3. This is eternal life that you may know that you may love, that you may rejoice in the one true God, and Jesus Christ, His only Son Salvation and joy and contentment in life can only be found in Christ. So we've talked about this great commandment. We've talked about the way that joy is not to be found. We have discussed how joy is found in Christ. But what is it? Finally, number four, what is it about Christ that gives us this joy? And that's what Paul Ridder reiterates now in verses nine through eleven. He says that there is a supremacy in knowing Jesus Because of what we have in Jesus. So there are three things that he mentions here that we have in Jesus Christ in verses nine through eleven. Number one, he says that we have his righteousness. Verse nine. uh and be found in him, not having a righteousness of my own that comes from the law, but that which comes through faith in Christ, the righteousness from God that depends on faith. Excuse me. A righteousness that I possessed by faith. Here, folks, is our doctrine, our reformed biblical doctrine of justification by faith alone. That your good standing before God, your being declared righteous, is not based on anything that you do, because you can't earn it. You can't merit it The righteousness that we have is given to you as a gift, and we receive it by faith. I possess it by faith. Therefore, in Christ we overcome the great threat of sin that is condemnation. For in Christ there is no condemnation for those who are in Jesus Christ. Secondly, he not only says that our salvation is secure, our justification is secure. um in Jesus Christ. Therefore there is no condemnation for us. He goes on and says that in Christ we can know him, specifically his resurrection, in verses 10 and then in verse eleven that I may know him and the power of his resurrection. He goes on to say a little bit further in verse eleven, that by any means possible, that I may attain to the resurrection from the dead. Paul here says that in Christ that we can know the power of resurrection, which if you think about it, is quite a remarkable statement. Because what after all, what is resurrection, folks? Resurrection is life returning to the dead. Glory, life of glory returning back to the dead, but still life returning back to the dead. Presuming what that in order for you to know the power of resurrection, we first must know the power of death In other words, the only way to know this resurrection is first to die uh in the Lord. So in Christ you see our death, our bodily death is just a blessing because now we can know resurrection life, you see. In fact, uh Paul says something very similar to this in Philippians chapter 1 in verse 21, that very famous phrase, as for me To live is Christ, but to die is gain. And remember the way that Paul uh comments on what he means by that phrase. To live is Christ. Meaning that uh while I live, I can do ministry, I can serve God's people, I can preach the gospel, and that is good. But to die is gain Because when he dies physically, that is, then he is going to be resurrected and to be with Christ. To be with Christ now for all eternity. And as much as he loves God's people To be with Jesus is by far better. You see, it's a very radical different way that he is causing us to reorient our understanding of life Outside of Christ, life is good and death is bad. But in Christ, life is good, but death is better. You can see that's the or the extraordinary thing that we see here in the way that we can now find joy. Even the most powerful tool that death and Satan has, our death. Is no longer a threat to us, and therefore no longer even a threat to our joy. In Christ, we overcome the penalty of death, the penalty of sin, that is death, and thus we can still find joy. The final thing that Paul says that we can find in Christ, we have his righteousness. Therefore, we find joy in our salvation, our justification. He says also that we know him in his resurrection. Therefore, even in our bodily death, that becomes a source of joy. Number three, he says that we can know Christ in his sufferings in verse 10. that I may know him, the power of his resurrection, and that I may share in his sufferings. Now that folks is is quite a Quite a remarkable statement here and something that I don't know if we would all be able to say. Paul seems to want to suffer. He wants to not just suffer for the sake of suffering. He's not a spiritual masochist. That's not what he's saying He says he wants to share in the sufferings of Christ. That's the suffering that he wants to know. He doesn't want to know pain He wants to know Jesus, and the only way that you are going to know Jesus is to know his suffering as well as his glory. See, that's a question that sort of that we have to pose with and perhaps reflect on as we start off 2019. How much do we really want to know Jesus? How much do we really want to know Christ? I I dare say that when we think about knowing Jesus, we we talk about you know having a covenantal relationship with him, we talk about uh you know being born again in Christ. We talk about uh our our justification in Christ, or being sanctified in Christ, being uh resurrected unto uh eternal glory with Christ, being adopted. As children in Christ, we want all the positive great things. But perhaps one thing that we have a harder time stomaching or coming to the realities of is wanting to see that we want to know the sufferings of Christ. And that's what Paul is saying here in Philippians chapter 3. You see, for Paul to know the good things of Jesus And to not know his sufferings is to not know Jesus. Because that is not what he knew, and that is not the life uh that uh he lived. Um And this is the reason why the Apostle Paul can say in Philippians chapter 1 and verse 29, For it has been granted to you that for the sake of Christ you should not only believe in him But also suffer for his sake. Now uh this word granted, or it ha it has been granted to you to not only believe but to also suffer, that we're granted uh the the the base uh word there in the original Greek is actually the word for grace, what we translate as grace. In other words, for Paul, what he sees here is that it is an act of the grace of God for you to believe That's true. That's all good. Reformed Calvinism 101. We all know that. At least we all should know that. The reason why we believe is because of the grace of God. But for Paul, it's not enough just our faith. He even sees that our suffering is a gracious gift of God. And if we can see that we fellowship with Christ in his sufferings, you see, not suffering as a result of sin. But suffer as a result of our obedience, suffering as a result of our faith, suffering as a result of our following in Christ. When we can suffer in that way, we know also the suffering the sufferings of Christ and by knowing Jesus. See that's the key. It's not knowing sufferings per se, it is knowing Jesus holistically. Knowing Jesus fully, knowing him in his glory, but also in his sufferings. To know Jesus in this way, you see, for Paul, is the source of joy. Which is the reason why he can say uh uh the apostle Peter says something very similar in f in uh first Peter chapter four, verses twelve to thirteen. Don't be surprised when you're going through trials and hardships as if something strange is happening to you, because nothing strange is happening to you. Well what Peter says here is to rejoice And the reason why is because you share in the sufferings of Christ. The same exact phrase that Paul says here in Philippians chapter 3 in verse 10. So in Christ We overcome the penalty of sin that is death. In Christ, we overcome the condemnation of sin that is condemnation for all eternal life In Christ, we overcome the power of sin that is suffering. Therefore, folks, knowing Jesus, that is knowing him, there is no greater thing There is no greater blessing. There is a true supremacy that comes from knowing Jesus Christ, a true satisfaction and joy that comes only by knowing Jesus Christ. Christ. And that's my prayer for you as we start off this two thousand nineteen year. Let's uh bow in a word of prayer together. Our gracious God and Heavenly Father, we thank you, dear Lord, for Jesus Christ, our Savior. We thank you, Lord, how in Christ we have all spiritual blessings, total spiritual blessings. You have withhold nothing, Lord, in your only Son, Jesus Christ. Christ. And we thank you, Lord, for that. Lord, we have uh perhaps we know many people who have uh striven uh to find some sense of uh peace of mind, joy in life. uh and have tried to do so Lord in so many other means, so many other ways. Perhaps even believers. This is such a easy temptation uh for us to fall into because the message that we hear around us is just so radically opposite than the gospel. Lord, we are encouraged uh and tempted to think that yes, what we really need is just a boatload of money. What we need, Lord, uh often we are told is just to have a great home and a great house. All these things would be wonderful in a sense to be used for the sake of your kingdom. But Lord, true contentment, true joy, true satisfaction. can only be found in Christ. And I pray that we will do that, that we will focus on Jesus for our own life's contentment, that we will focus on Christ for the structure of our own values. That this will be the message that we share with all those around us, to our friends, to our fellow family members, to our children, to our fellow church members. to encourage one another on, to press on towards Christ, to focus our eyes on Jesus, who is the author and perfecter of our faith. And in so doing so, Lord, help us to rejoice in the freedom Of the salvation that you have given to us, for now there is no condemnation in Christ. Thank you, Lord, that in Christ that we can rejoice that even in something as potent and as powerful as our death. can be a source of joy. And how in Christ Lord that uh even our sufferings can be another source of joy of being drawn into knowing Jesus even I pray, Lord, for this congregation. I pray, Lord, for your children represented that are here, and I ask, Father, that you will bless them as they start the 2019 year. that it will be a year filled, though perhaps with some level of hardship and heartache, uh a year a year that will be filled with Christ-centered, Christ-saturated joy. Hear our prayers, dear Lord, for we pray all these things in Jesus' name.