If you have a Bible, I hope you brought one with you. There are Bibles in the pew too, I guess. Would you turn to the prophecy of Zechariah? Yes, that is a book in the Bible. Somewhere toward the end of that Old Testament part. I have a confession to make first. I'm a week early with this introduction. Uh it's not till next week that pastors are supposed to talk about October the 31st. You know what October the 31st is, don't you? Don't say it. Reformation Day. Exactly. I'm preparing uh for a Reformation Week outreach down at uh the Good Shepherd Mission Church in on the eastern shore of Virginia uh next week. And so I thought I would get our uh celebration started a little bit early. The Protestant Reformation centers, I suppose, on the life of Martin Luther, and there's really nothing in his early biography uh which if you stay for Sunday school you'll hear a little bit more about. Uh but uh he did not crave uh attention Uh he was a popular teacher uh in a well-known university in Germany in Wittenberg, and he had no intention at all of attracting uh uh uh to himself the ire of the emperor or the pope or anyone else, had he not heard words like these coming from the lips of the short, chubby Roman Catholic priest John Tetzel, who hawked his product to an unsuspecting group of citizens in Wittenberg. Listen to what John Tetzel said. Indulgences, said Tetzel, are the most precious and the most noble of God's gifts. This cross, pointing to a red cross that he carried with him, this cross has as much efficacy as the very work, as the very cross of Christ. Come, and I will give you letters, all properly sealed, by which even the sins that you intend to commit may be pardoned. I would not change my privileges for those of Saint Peter in heaven, for I have saved more souls by my indulgences than the apostle by his sermons. There is no sin so great that an indulgence cannot remit. And even if any one which is doubtless impossible, had offered violence to the Blessed Virgin Mary Mother of God, let him pay, only let him pay well, and all will be forgiven. Reflect then that for every mortal sin you must, after confession and contrition, Do penance for seven years, either in this life or in purgatory. Now, how many mortal sins are committed in a day? How many in a week? How many in a month? How many in a year? How many in a whole lifetime? Alas, these sins are almost infinite. And they entail an infinite penalty in the fires of purgatory. Tetzel concludes, at the very instant the money rattles in the bottom of my chest. The soul escapes from purgatory and flies liberated to heaven. O stupid and brutish people, who do not understand the grace so richly offered. Now heaven is everywhere Opened. Do you refuse to enter? When then will you enter? Now you can ransom many souls, stiff-necked and thoughtless men With twelve groats you can deliver your father from purgatory. And you are ungrateful enough not to save him? I shall be justified in the day of judgment. But you you will be punished so much more severely for having neglected so great salvation. I declare to you Though you should have but a single coat, you ought to strip it off and sell it in order to buy this grace. The Lord our God no longer reigns. He has resigned all power to the Pope. Now, the Reformation that began there in Germany was about was about more than the indulgences that were sold by John Tetzel. But certainly this product of the imaginations of men was the target of Luther's concerned because Luther had come to the point where he had this soul-wrenching problem on his mind and on his heart. How can a sinful man be made right with God? As a pastor, Luther had warned against the notion that the Roman Church Held on to that what he called what they called the storehouse of grace, uh, the merits of Mary, the merits of the saints, and even the merits of Jesus, and that the Pope And the Roman Catholic Church was the one that distributed that. But uh in order to get some of what was distributed, guess what you had to do? Pay, yeah, exactly. Money for both indulgences and the relics. Luther concluded that He must openly then argue against these ideas as a pastor, as a theologian, as a scholar And so it was then on October 31st, 1517, that Luther timidly nailed his theses to the door. Now, with that context in mind of history, now we turn a little bit to the text this morning, and that's here in Zechariah the third chapter. And I hope to show you how the connection is made. So let's read this section. And uh I hope you'll be able to just get the picture of what's happening here, and I'll try to explain it uh in a few minutes. So this is God's word from Zechariah chapter 3. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord. And Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem. Rebu the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments And the angel said to those who were standing before him, Remove the filthy garments from him. And to him he said, Behold, I have taken away your iniquity from you, and I will clothe you with pure vestments. And I said, let them put a clean gar a tea a clean turban on his head. So they put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments And the angel of the Lord was standing by. And the angel of the Lord solemnly assured Joshua, thus says the Lord of hosts. If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge, then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, you and your friends who sit before you, for they are men who are a sign. Behold, I will bring my servant the branch. For behold, on the stone that I have set before Joshua, on a single stone with seven eyes, I will engrave its inscription, declares the Lord of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of this land in a single day. In that day, declares the Lord of hosts, every one of you will invite his neighbor to come under his vine and under his fig tree. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your word. We thank you that uh it teaches us and uh instructs us and uh motivates us to love you, uh to rejoice in the salvation that we have in Christ. And to be ready and willing to proclaim this gr glorious message to others, in our families, in our neighbors, and our acquaintances. Bless us as we consider this passage, then in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Now you'll remember uh in Luke chapter twenty-four when Jesus is talking with the uh the couple of disciples on the road to Emmaus that uh Luke says that beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself In other words, what was in the Old Testament was about Jesus. And perhaps there's no uh very few clearer passages than this that show us uh the person and the work of the Lord Jesus with respect to our salvation. So let's look at it for a few moments. I just want to give just a brief exposition and then uh try to tell you what it means and then see how it applies to us. Zechariah prophesied about 500 years before the coming of Christ He and Haggai were among the thousands of uh Jewish people who returned to the city of Jerusalem and to the promised land. from Babylon after their seventy years of captivity. His prophecy begins with a reminder to the people of the important thing for the people to remember, and that is, you're not returning to Jerusalem. He says in the first chapter, Therefore say to them, Thus declares the Lord of hosts, return to me. says the Lord of hosts, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. They were returning to the Lord And that was the important thing. And so the prophet begins his prophecy with a series of visions that he evidently experienced. uh obviously at the hands of the Spirit, and I'm not going to go into them thoroughly, but just to remind you. The first one is of a man sitting on a red horse. The horse is standing among the myrtle trees. Okay, that's no big deal. But the interesting thing about this is that the man seated on the horse Is just watching. Not doing anything. He's just watching. Kind of spooky in a lot of ways. And then the second vision is uh the vision of some horns and some craftsmen, uh kind of obscure, uh both of which seemed seem to give sort of a threat again to the community of believers. Not exactly clear what that is all about, at least I'm not clear about it But then the third vision comes along there in the second chapter, and what you find there is a man with a measuring line. He's got a measuring tape or a level or a Plumb Bob or something, and he's just going all around the town of Jerusalem, just measuring things Again, yeah, a little bit weird uh to see this, and as the prophet explains it uh to them. Now, the question then as Zechariah explains all these visions is yeah okay God is among us that's true he has restored us to the land yes that's true God has certainly promised to bless us, to restore us, and to prosper us, but any conscientious Jewish person would simply ask the question, how is that possible? How can how can that possibly be? Look at what we have done as a people. We have rebelled, we have disobeyed, we have dishonored God, we have served, I mean really served Pagan idols, the pagan idols of the ungodly world around us. How is it possible? That God could come to us and restore us. Well, now comes the fourth vision from the prophet here in chapter 3. And that's what and it speaks to that very question. This time the setting of the vision is sort of a courtroom. Get the picture of a courtroom because you have uh a defendant You have a prosecuting attorney attorney. The defendant is Joshua the high priest. The prosecutor is Satan, the judge is the angel of the Lord. And so here's this court scene. Without dealing with all the details, we can get the big picture Because here's Joshua, the high priest of the people of Israel. His primary official function as the high priest was to be the person in Israel who represented the people of Israel to God, even as he was representative of God to the people. He was representing all the people. before the Lord. Ordinarily Joshua would have been dressed in the best possible robes and uh attire that there was in the whole community. I mean this was the finest clothing, it was holy clothing, which represented the holiness of God to the people. But Satan, in this occasion Stands very near on this occasion, on this situation, and accuses him and says, Look at this guy. Look at him. He's filthy. Look at the clothes that he's wearing. He looks terrible. He's not fit at all to stand before the Lord. This is disgusting. Now, did you notice in the passage as I read it the defense that Joshua puts forward? He has a defense attorney. And the defense attorney says, Well uh uh uh judge, your honor, you you you have to realize that uh the that Joshua uh they're mitigating circumstances here He didn't understand all the rules, you see. He didn't understand what he was. His clothes just look like they're dirty. They're not really dirty. They just look like they're dirty Did you hear that? There wasn't any of that, was there? There wasn't any of that. Why was that? Joshua says nothing. How could he be? He's standing there with these filthy clothes on. He's soiled. He's polluted. In other words, he's sinful. He's unworthy. He stands condemned. No explanation, no excuses. The high priest stands alone before the throne of God. With no one to defend him and no one to help. Until what? God speaks. Until God speaks. And the Lord's the Lord says to Satan, Satan, stand down. Stand down. I rebuke you. And I do so not because I don't see the dirt. Not because he is not guilty. But I rebuke you, O accuser, because just like a stick that's taken out of a fire and reserved by my choice, I have picked him up From harm. And then we have described for us the process by which God makes this most dirty and unworthy high priest. clean again. And it's a threefold process. Did you notice? First the garments are removed Then they dress him in new garments, and then they put a clean turban on his head, after which the Lord himself approaches Joshua and calls him back into his service. To rule the house, to have the assurance of his blessing. Now again, let me take you back in church history to Luther and this Reformation. In this passage, there are references to several very outstanding theological doctrines. First, the deity of the angel. Who is the angel? Well, pretty obviously, at spee who is speed The one who is speaking to Satan is a representation of the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. The fact that Joshua is plucked as a brand out of the fire by the Lord who has chosen Jerusalem. What's that? It's a clear reference to the sovereign election of God in the salvation of sinners Now I'm not going to expand on either one of those doctrines, but they are profound and they are biblical. The whole thing is a marvelous picture of the grace of God. But the truth that the reformers, and particularly Martin Luther, grasped and hung on to is the clear picture that is presented here of salvation of sinners by justification. By the justifying act of God. You'll remember that one of the very clear and abiding senses of the doctrine of the Reformation was justification by faith alone. And that was the crux of the Protestant Reformation. Well, okay, that's a big word Justification. What is that? Well, in picture form, it's presented to us right here in Zechariah. We as Presbyterians, however, have codified that. We have a confession of faith. We have a catechism. I'm sure you all know it, right? What is justification? Question 33 of the catechism? Anybody? Uh-oh, Pastor Cashin, you're going to get called on the carpet. Yeah, the Westminster Shorter Catechism. What does it say in the introduction? The shorter catechism, I have it written down here. is to be a directory for catechizing such as are of weaker capacity. That's why I use it. Okay? What is justification? Number 33, look it up this afternoon. Meditate on it again. Justification is the act of God's free grace. wherein he pardons all our sins, and accepts us as righteous in his sight, only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. Now I don't believe in preaching on the catechism, but that's the essence of it. This idea of imputed That's the key in this passage and in the doctrine of justification. The key word for Luther was impute. Imputation. Now it's not a word that we use every day, but I'm going to tell you it's a word that you it's a concept that you use very, very frequently. This week I went to Lowe's doing a project in my house. I went to Lowe's and I took some things off the shelf, put them in my cart. Went to the counter and I scanned them through that cute little machine that with the gun, you know, that beep beep beep beep. Uh and uh the total came up. Okay? So then what do you do? Well you reach in your wallet And you pull out your handy little card, right? And this makes it free. You just It's free because I slipped the I didn't I didn't even have to slip it into anything. I just touched it like that. And automatically what happened? What happened was that the cost of those things that I bought at Lowe's was imputed to my credit card account, right? The cost was uh given to me as account. Now next week, if I can figure out where to get the money. I will go on my computer and I'll just type in a few few little keystrokes and I'll say, what I want you to do is I want you to impute money that I have in my bank account to my credit card account, and then that merchandise will have been paid for, right? It's all no money changed hands. It was all by Imputation. And that's exactly what's happening here. In our salvation, God acts by means of imputation And it's illustrated in several ways here in this text. Joshua shows up before God. filthy in garments, representing his sin and his inability to come before God alone. What does the scripture say? All have sinned And fall short of the glory of God. In Adam all died. Death is a result of Adam's guilt. And it passed on to all men. In the vision, no excuses, no defense, all the parties, including Joshua, Everyone knows he's guilty. Everyone knows he's clothed in those dirty garments. What happens? What happens is by the decree of God, God simply just says it Take those garments off of him. And so the angels take the dirty garments off of Joshua. Remove the filthy garments. And what does God say about that? I have removed your iniquity from you. What's that all about? How can God do that? Well, another one of the prophets, Isaiah, explains it very carefully. We have all gone astray. Each one of us has turned to his own way. But the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. What do we say? What do we sing? How deep the Father's love for us. Behold the man upon the cross, my sins upon his shoulder. It was my sin that held him there until it was accomplished. In other words, what happens first in our justification is my sin Is taken and imputed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Does that seem fair? Of course not, but that's the way God's salvation, my sin, is imputed to the account of the Lord Jesus. As he died on the cross, and there on that cross, Jesus died in my place, so that I could be forgiven. I have taken away your iniquity, says the vision of Zechariah. But the safe but the mistake that's often made by people Is that we think that that's enough just to have forgiveness. It's enough To have your sins forgiven. But wait a minute. You got a problem here, even in the vision. Now it's not explicitly said, but just use your imagination for a minute, because the angels Took the dirty clothes off of Joshua, and there's Joshua standing Uh okay, you get the picture? In the altogether, right? Whoa, this isn't good. The high priest is well, we won't go into further details, but so what does the what does the Lord say? He says Take the garments off. They've been removed. But put new garments on him. Put new garments on him. See, there's another imputation. My sins are imputed to the Account of Christ. But Christ's righteousness is now imputed to me. I have his righteousness. You can find the same picture in several places in the scripture. Isaiah speaks of the condition of the people. We have all become like one who is unclean. And all our righteous deeds are like polluted garments. Job says, I put on righteousness and it clothed me. My justice was like a robe. And a turban. In the New Testament, Jesus speaks of the same thing. In one of his parables about the kingdom of heaven, Jesus tells us about the king who prepared a wedding banquet. But when the king came to look at the guests, he saw there a man who had no wedding garments on. And he said to him, Friend, how'd you get in here without wedding garments? He was speechless. Then the king said to his attendant, Bind him hand and foot and cast him into the outer darkness. In that place where there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. In other words, if you don't have the clothes of righteousness, you don't get in The whole idea of Scripture is brought to summarization in the end of Revelation. It speaks of the final wedding day. Let us rejoice and exalt and give him the glory. For the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Get this it was granted to her to clothe herself. With fine linen, bright and pure. And you see, that's what Martin Luther called the joyful exchange. The joyful exchange. Jesus gets my sin. I get his righteousness. Isn't that a wonderful thought? Isn't that a wonderful thought? And you see, this is the gospel message. This is the gospel message. This is the good news that Christians have to tell to the world. Now it's a message that's not received well by many. People resist a message that puts them in the condition of Joshua. Don't tell me I'm dirty. I'm not dirty I'm not guilty before God. I do the best I can. No. We're the can-do people, aren't we? We're Americans, after all. People are resistant to a message that simply will not allow them to contribute, even. Not even to contribute to their own salvation. Many of you will accept some form of a modified Christianity They know that they need God's help, at least every once in a while, but to rely totally Totally on the work of another, of Jesus Christ, who lived 2,000 years ago. That's tough. And you know what? A lot of professing Christians Who do believe in Christ are practically resistant to the doctrine of justification I believe in Jesus, but you know what, brother, I gotta measure up. I gotta be sure that I do everything I can because God will only be pleased with me if I'm perfect. Is that the doctrine of justification? No, it's not. Saved by grace, yes, but constantly troubled in the heart, in the mind. We think that we are only preserved by our own efforts. Now, don't think, don't make the opposite mistake. It's not that this is a do-nothing faith. Because even in the image drawn by Zechariah here in chapter 3, you see the addition to the robes of righteousness is what? The turban on his head. The turban was inscribed with the words, holy to the Lord. Holy to the Lord is what Joshua wore on his head. Indicating that for all those who had received these new clothing, these new clothes of God, they will follow in holiness, without which no man will see the Lord. There is no biblical, there is no reformed Christian thought that excludes faithful obedience You can even see it here in the text in verses seven and eight. The Lord said, If you will walk in my ways and keep my charge Then you shall rule my house and have charge of my courts, and I will give you the right of access among those who are standing here. Christian theology is always practical. It always has implications upon our lives. It's the foundation of any spiritual assurance that we have in our faith. It's the ground of our confidence and our boldness. Justification by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, is the very crux of what we believe. And the doctrine that we preach. But following that, as a result of that, in expression of thanks for that, we live unto God as his disciples. And so this truth is really practical. This evening we're gonna spend some time thinking about the things that we worry about. But we worry about all kinds of things, don't we? Always got something marriage, money, kids, it's decrepit government. The church, the community, the world. There's always things to worry about. But you know what? Even though some of those things are worthy of our attention. There are two things. There are two things. If this image of Zechariah in Zechariah chapter 3 is true, That represent threats to the children of God. There are two things about which the believer need never Worry again. Two things about which there's no longer a sense of burden or fear. Two things that you might tend to fear today. The gift of the grace of God in the work of the Lord Jesus in the gospel, the saving work of The Lord removes once and for all the anxiety of these two important facts. One The grace of God and the work of Jesus in my place has purchased for me a place in the family of God. I am his child. When you say our Father, you can say my Father who is in heaven. Why? Because you have placed your trust, your trust and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The second is, because I am in the family of God by His grace, I know that God rules over every single aspect of my life. For his for my good and for his glory. Now that's tough because we go through some stuff in our families and in our church and in our nation. But I know that God rules, because He's my Father, and He cares for me. Now you see with these major truths embedded in my heart and my mind by the grace of God. I can face the disappointments of life, the heartaches, the loss, the pain, the defeat, even the Daily failure, you know, just try to keep God's law one day. Forget that. Even the failure, I can face that In history, Luther discovered the truth of Romans 1, for I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. And then he could go on. Paul could go on in Romans. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. But are justified by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Chapter 5. Having been justified, we have peace with God. Chapter 6, surely the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. That act of the imputation of Christ's righteousness to us brings eternal life Chapter 8. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And then in chapter 12, he uses the therefore. Remember, the therefore, you have to find out what it's there for. But therefore, dear brothers and sisters. You can, you should, you will present your whole bodies, the whole of your life's ambition and purpose. Is a living and holy sacrifice, a life that is now acceptable to God through the Lord Jesus. Is it any wonder that through the ages Believers have sung in the church what we just sang a few minutes ago. Jesus, thy blood and righteousness, my beauty are, my glorious dress. Midst flaming worlds in these arrayed, with joy shall I lift up my head. Bold shall I stand in thy great day, for who ought to my charge shall lay Fully absolved through these I am from sin and fear, from guilt and shame. Oh, let the dead now hear thy voice. Now let thy banished ones rejoice. Prodigal son, right? Let thy banished ones rejoice. Let the celebrate Their beauty, this, their glorious dress, Jesus, thy blood and righteousness. May this be our song, your song today. Let's pray Our Father in heaven, thank you for your word. In picture form, we find it there in Zechariah. We pray that you would enable us to cherish this wonderful truth of Salvation from our own sin by your work of justification. Let us hear your voice and rejoice, and may we be bold and secure in our day. To stand for you and live for you for Jesus' sake. Amen