Ask now that you turn to John chapter 10, where we verses 11 through 18. That will be my sermon text this evening. John chapter 10, verses 11 through 18. Well now let us hear the word of God. John chapter eleven. Excuse me, John ten, verse eleven. I'm the good shepherd. The good shepherd gives his life for the sheep. But the hireling, he who is not the shepherd One who does not own the sheep sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees, and the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them The hireling flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep and am known by my own. As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them also I must bring. and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. Therefore my father loves me because I lay down my life, that I may take it again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself I have power to lay it down and I have power to take it again. This command I received from my Father. Amen. My Lord, I have a blessing to his holy word. Amen. May please be seated. Let's go to the Lord one more time for his blessings on the priest word. Father in heaven, we thank you that your word is powerful, living and active. We pray, Lord, that your word does not return back forward, and we pray that that would be the case tonight. That your word would be uh doing this work and Lord by the power of your Holy Spirit Lord that you would just bless us as we hear the word priest Pray Lord that you remove all the distractions and all those things that might get in the way of hearing what you have to tell us. And so Lord, I pray that you will help me to clearly present your word and that your people might be able to receive it and hear it. And only be hearers of the word, but doers of it as well. So bless this time in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Well I'm definitely glad to be here. Me and my wife Deedra. Yeah. It's been a rough twenty four hours, but God is good. And so we are so we're happy to be here tonight. Well, tonight I wanted to uh give you just somewhat of a model for ministry using John chapter 10, verses 11 through 18. And when Jesus taught, he often used examples, common examples and illustrations that we can follow, that we can relate to. Matthew 13 is the parable of the kingdoms, where the kingdom of God is like the seed and the soar. The kingdom of God is like a uh a mustard seed or or like the pearl of great price and and many other examples he g he gives us. He does that because as a common way of teaching. If you take classes or if you uh are taking any type of uh education or training, oftentimes examples are part of it because examples Help us to easily understand. Well today Jesus here gives us the example between the shepherd and the sheep, the shepherd and the sheep. The first century Christians would better understood this than we would today. Today we don't see too many people today who are shepherds. I'm sure they are out there, I'm sure they still exist, but that's not something we uh are doing today. in our technologically advanced world that's not the case. But the fact of the matter is that we can learn a lot from being uh this relationship between the shepherds and the sheep. Uh this is uh of one of the seven great IMs that uh Jesus spoke. Uh the IMs is from uh Exodus chapter three where he talks about I am um the you know before Moses came, I am he talks of himself I am the bread of life, I am the light of the world and so on. There's seven of them and here's one of them. I am the good shepherd. Now he started with I am the door and the first seven verses but here He talks about that he is the good shepherd. It's an interesting thing about sheep, if you think about it. Uh if you look at other animals, animals are able to take care of themselves and fend for themselves. Uh they can feed themselves, they know where to go to get food or or if they're not um If they're not predators even to know where to ground to grades and all these things and where to get water. Sheep have no idea how to do that. Sheep are helpless. Sheep are are are dumb in that sense. They have no sense of direction. Sheep need constant protection. They need someone constantly there to protect them and and to watch over them and to care for them. And so Jesus says today that he is the good shepherd. Uh just uh David in Psalm twenty-three, perhaps the most famous of all of David's Psalms, says the Lord is my shepherd, David the great king of Israel says that uh he is a helpless sheep. He is one that needs protection. He is the one that needs reliance upon the Lord and upon God and so on. And so I have four points today as we talk about this relationship between the shepherd and the sheep. And And this is what uh one of my vision of ministry. There's plenty of them, others, but here are four that I pulled out from these uh seven verses here in John chapter ten. The first one is this is that The good shepherd protects the sheep. The good shepherd protects the sheep. Notice Jesus says that he is the good shepherd. Good in the sense that he is a faithful shepherd. A loyal shepherd. He never needs a break. He is divine. He is the eternal shepherd. He is God Himself. And so He calls Himself the Good Shepherd. It means noble, excellent. Righteous. That is who Jesus says. He is the good shepherd. And he's and why is he a good shepherd? Because he lays down his life for the sheep. He gives his life, it says in John that uh no man uh has more love than this than he lays down his life for his friends. Greater love has no man than this. They lays down his life for his friends. Well Jesus gives the most precious thing his life You know, it's uh Veterans Day coming up here on Tuesday and and being a military chaplain. It's a special day But um where people always are thanking you for your service. But also Memorial Day as well. Memorial Day is more than just the beginning of summer or a time for to begin barbecues and things like that. Memorial Day really is to pay tribute to those who those soldiers who died in battle, those who gave their life in battle. And we often say that uh We thank those the families that that these people gave of their lives so that we might have the freedoms that we enjoy in this world. However, those people that died in battle, they didn't want to die. Uh they did not come and say, I'm gonna give my life for my country. Uh they were thinking about their buddy th that was next to them and they tried to avoid the bullets and the guns. They tried to avoid the um ambushes and the grenades and so on. But unfortunately they died for them. because of uh they were shot or killed and so on. Well Jesus is not like that. Jesus willingly gave up his life. He says, I lay down my life for the sheep That he gives his life for the sheep. He says that he is the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. So Jesus is one that willingly gave his life for the sheep. And really it's a dramatic twist from the Old Testament where oftentimes the people had to lambs were a sacrifice for the sins of the people Well here Jesus is being sacrificed for sinful people. And so we see here that uh he gives his life for the sheep, but then he tells us there in verse uh th twelve, but a harlan He who is not the shepherd, one that does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming and leaves the sheep and flees. Well who is this harling? He's a hired hand. He's one that earns a wage. He's one that does not care for the sheep Uh he got this job to pay his bills and to uh provide and so on, but he's got no love, no affinity, no affection for the sheep at all. Instead what does he do? When the wolf comes, he leaves. He says, They don't pay me enough money to take care of these sheep. And so he flees and he leaves and he runs away. So he does not protect the sheep. He does not care for the sheep. He is a hired hand. Like all of us, um, if we didn't have rich parents we all had to uh work especially as we became teenagers and in in high school and and college and most of us had to do something probably in the food industry I remember working at McDonald's, one of my first jobs, and and uh it's when I started working there I immediately figured out that I was not gonna like this job. It's not something I was gonna want to do. It's cooking hamburgers all day, uh, for eight hours a day and so on. Uh the greatest benefit was to get my paycheck and You get a nice meal if you work eight hours. You get the Big Mac and fries and coke and that was a that was a big deal back then. Um But the work itself I didn't like. And the thing at McDonald's is that the leadership, the bosses were always seeking to encourage you to to really invest in this job, to make it your own and to have have ownership and let's be the best uh McDonald's in the region and let's you know there's such promotion potential and there's such great things that you can get if you just apply yourself But it was not something that I cared to do and I just did my job and that's it. I just did what I was supposed to do so that I could get my paycheck and that was it. Well I think that's Something what Jesus is talking about here with the hard hands. Who are these hard hands? These are preachers and pastors and reverends and so on. They're ones that Go into the ministry. For what purpose? For their own personal reasons. For personal gain. For personal ambition. to have a a name, to be respected, maybe to m even move up into the political office and so on. And they're there personally but they don't care about the sheep. They don't care about the flock that they preach to. And it shows itself in their preaching. It shows themselves in their teaching shows themselves in that they see the wolf coming, they see the flood coming, they see false teaching and false doctrine and false gospels and all of these things they see and yet they do nothing to warn the sheep, to protect the sheep. I think that's one of the the things that um uh one of my visions is is if I'm called to this church is to warn you guys. To warn you that of the wolf, to warn you as sheep, to warn you that That sin will destroy you, to warn you of false teaching, of false doctrines, to warn you of these things that we see here in the scriptures. To warn you through the preaching of the word, to warn you privately and publicly and so on. That is what God calls his sheep to do. To warn, to protect, to defend when you come here on the Lord's Day You get a message. And part of it is what? Warning what's taking place in the world. Warning all of the things that could take place. Warning the results of false teaching or false doctrine. And warning also the results of a sinful life. That is what God calls his preachers to do, to warn. These preachers are here for personal reasons, for personal ambitions. But godly pastors, God calls them to care for the sheep, and one way to do that is to warn the sheep and to protect the sheep. Well, that's the first point. The second thing I think God has called me to do is to see that you have a relationship with the shepherd. That the good shepherd and the sheep has a relationship with each other. Notice what he says there. In verse 14, I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known by my own sheep. As the father knows me, even so I know the father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. That there is a relationship between the shepherds and the sheep That it is an intimate relationship. It's not just that you know about Jesus, but that you know Jesus. And he compares it to that the same way that he knows his father As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father. So as we know Jesus, even so we know The Savior. He says, I know my sheep and am known by my own. That's my job is to introduce you to Jesus. That you might know him. Not that you might know some facts about him. Not that you might know some things about him, but that you might know him intimately, that you might know him in a relationship type of way. Jesus said later on, he says that my sheep hear my voice in verse 27, and I know them and they follow me. My sheep hear my voice and they follow me. I was watching on social media a couple months ago where this uh cattle rancher had cattle And it wasn't the rancher, but this this I guess his friend or someone decided to try and experiment. And he called the cattle and they all came running. to this person. I think the cattle were disappointed because it was not the rancher. A s sheep would never have done that. Why? Because God has made it so that the sheep only know the voice of the shepherd. They have such keen hearing. That they only know and understand the voice of the shepherd. They only know how the shepherd, they know the affection, the tone, and so on. It could be very close and yet the sheep will not know. Why? Because God made it so And Jesus says that we hear the voice of the shepherd, and we follow him. My sheep hear my voice and they follow me. Well, how do we hear the voice of Jesus? How is it that we hear? Our Pentecostal friends will tell us that The Lord told me to tell you this, and the Lord spoke to my spirit, and the Lord said this to me, and the Lord said that to me, and the Lord told me to do this, and so on. I don't think that's what Jesus is talking about. We know his voice through the word. Through the word of God. That's how we know his voice. And when you come here on Sundays, what you hear? You hear the voice of God, whether it's Pastor Chris or Pastor Charles, you hear the voice of God. Is that too much to say that a preacher, when a preacher is preaching, Christ is preaching? That sounds almost heretical But it's the truth. When a preacher is preaching, Christ is preaching, especially when they preach through the Word of God. We are Christ is preaching. This is God's word. Isn't it interesting when the preaching of the word's going on there's a whole host of people there and it's like God is preaching only to you All these other people there, it's like God's having a conversation with you. Here is a divine activity when God is speaking, the Holy Spirit is speaking. And he preaches through us. He preaches to our heart and so on. And so when we come here on Sunday, this is a divine activity, and we're here from heaven. We hear so many things during the week, but Sunday is special because that's the day that God has made for his preachers to come and to deliver the word to his people. Here's a voice from heaven. Here's a voice to encourage you, to warn you. Here's a voice to help you as you continue on in this pilgrimage of this world. He is the one that preaches to us. And so we hear his voice When we come here on Sundays, you hear it when you read the Word, you hear it when you maybe listen to videos or watch videos or listen to tapes and so on. You hear the voice of God, and God is speaking to you through this Bible the authoritative word of God. And so this is how we can know Jesus. He speaks to us. We know him. He knows us. What an amazing thing to think about He says, I know my sheep and am known by my own that you can know Jesus. I heard of a account once where uh this lady she died, her her husband died And um they were married for many years. And she says, I'm so lonely, I miss him because I just every day I would talk to him, tell him about my daddy, tell him how things were going and so on and now the house is empty, it seems so lonely. And the pastor gave her an idea. He says the same way you talk to your husband Talk to Jesus like that. Just try it. Just for a while. She came back about a month later and said, Pastor, it works. It works. It works. Jesus, we he wants us, even though we can't see him. He's more real than we are. And he wants us to have a relationship with him that we can come to him with our fears. with our with our worries, with our concerns, and bring it to him. He said, I know my sheep and am known by my own. Jesus knows you. He knows you. Maybe you have some people you admire in in the world. Maybe you have some politicians or entertainers or or sports figures or whoever it is. You admire these people And maybe you got to shake their hand or they signed the autograph and did something to you and you were like was exciting to do it but they really don't know you and you really don't know them. Because if you got to know them, maybe you wouldn't like them as much. But we can know Jesus and he knows us. He knows us. Sometimes we think that person really knew me. They wouldn't like me. So I have to hide, I have to put up a a mask and so on. But Jesus sees through it all. He knows us. And he still loves us. He still wants to have a relationship with us. He sees our weaknesses. He sees our failings. He sees our sins. He sees these things and yet he still knows us and he wants to have relationship with us This close relationship between Christ and his people. In John 3, excuse me, John 17, what does he say that they might know me? That they might know me and you as well. Jesus wants us to know him, wants us to commune with him, wants us to have relationship with him. So that's the second thing. There's I might introduce a relationship with the sheep. The third one is this, is that the good shepherd brings other sheep into the fold. Other sheep. Here he's talking about surely the Gentiles. He says there in verse sixteen, Another sheep I have, which are not just foe, them also I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd. In other words, as a church, that's our job. The other sheep. Well, who are the other sheep? We don't know them, do we? Well, they're the elect of God. Yes, they are, but we still don't know who they are. And what does Christ commission us to do to go all over the world proclaiming this gospel? Because God has his sheep all throughout the world. And it's not for us to figure out who God sheep Is who are the elected not, that's none of our business. Instead, he tells us to go, spread the word, and the Lord will use that to bring his sheep into the fold. We have a whole world out there that needs to hear the gospel. You know, as a military chaplain, one of the things I do quite frequently is counseling. And to hear some of the stories will break your heart to see how these people were raised and how they were brought up in the problems and challenges and so on that they uh face on a daily basis and and the wreck that sin has made in their lives. And yet, God tells us to go out, tell the good news. We got the news. Now we go tell other people about the good news. As one of my chapin friends says that that really witnessing is what is one beggar tell another beggar where he can go find bread. One beggar telling another beggar where we can go find bread. And that's what God calls us to do To go to our family, to our friends, to witness all over. Why? To bring them into the fold, to follow Jesus' example. Jesus ate with publicans and sinners. He he dealt with those who were prostitutes. He dealt with those who were demon-possessed. And what did he do? He saved them. He says that why he came to call what? Those who were weak, those who were sick. The whole, the healthy, don't need a savior, but those who are sick do. And that's what as a church we must do. We must go find the other sheep. And bring them here. Why? So that we can have a full house or any other church can have a full house? No, so that they might hear the good news. They might hear the news of the gospel, that they might come into the fold. Because all he said there's one fold and one shepherd. It doesn't matter our race, doesn't matter, our skin color, doesn't matter our creed where we're from is one shepherd, one flock. We're all together. We're all in this together. And there's only one color, and that's the red, the blood of the Lord Jesus. That's it. One Lord, one Savior, one shepherd. And we're all together. That's why we call each other brother and sister all over the world. Because One flock and one shepherd. And so that's what Jesus has called us to do is to bring other sheep into his fold. Not to be content with what we have here, but to go into the world. Because God works in the hearts of people. There might be someone right now who's saying, Honey, we haven't been to church for a long time. Maybe we need to start going to church. Or we made a wreck of our lives. Maybe we need to turn our lives to Jesus Christ. And who knows what God will do? Who knows how he will bring them into this place. So that they might hear the good news and become part of Jesus' flock. And then my last uh point, my last mission. Is this to just let you know that Jesus is an all-powerful shepherd. An all-powerful shepherd. Notice what he says there. In verse uh uh seventeen, therefore my father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down to myself. I have power to lay it down, I have power to take it again. This command I received from my father. Jesus is talking about death here. You think of it. That has been man's greatest uh enemy is death. How to overcome death. We we are trying to figure out medically how to live longer, how to survive longer, but no one has been able to stop this enemy of death. Job calls it the king of terrors. No one's been able to die really and come back and tell us what happened. No one's been able to do it. But Jesus says here that he lays out his life willingly. He died willingly. All that happened, that passion week, all that happened on the cross, all that happened, Jesus was in control the whole time Nothing happened accidentally. Nothing happened incidentally. Instead, he laid it down and then after he died, after three days, he rose from the grave. He took it up again. He has power over death and over darkness and over sin. That's the God that we serve. Jesus has all power and authority in heaven and earth. He is the supreme being. He raises up kings, puts down kings. He's uh is one that's exalted. He will build his church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. He is the sovereign God. He is the God that rules the nations. He laughs as the nations seek to come against him. They seek to destroy him. They seek to destroy his people. He says that he sits in heaven and he laughs. Instead, he is the all-powerful one. He does what he will in heaven and earth. He does what he pleases, and no one can stop him. No one can uh deter him He is the one that has all authority. He says in in uh John chapter 5, he's got authority over judgment and authority in heaven. In other words, he has authority to save us. But he also has authority to cast us into hell as well. All that we do is for this Savior. What we do Sundays and worship has eternal consequences. Because we all have to stand before Jesus on that last great day. The King of Kings and Lord of Lords. We preachers have to stand before him and give an account for how we preached and what we did. And you people have to stand before him to give an account for how you heard and did you hear and did you believe and did you receive the word of God. All of us have to stand before him on that great day. In other words, what we do here has eternal consequences. Calling a pastor is is serious business. It's serious business. You think of all the false prophets that are in this world. Jesus says there in Matthew 24, there'll be many false prophets that go into the world. Why are there false prophets? Well the devil is so crafty, he realizes that if he can't get you the world, he'll go right to the church. And he raises up preachers and teachers as well. And he has them delivered the word just as God delivers the word. In other words, we have to be careful what we listen to and who we listen to. We must be careful who we listen to. Why? Because our eternal souls could be at stake. That's how important it is. That's how important it is that we hear the word of God. This all-powerful God. All that we do. Is for or against Jesus. So what about you? Are you for Jesus? Is he your Savior? There's no neutrality. If we're for Jesus, then we will follow him. Then we're his sheep. And he is our shepherd. And we will follow him where he tells us to go. But if not, then we will be cast out. We reject him, he will reject us. This is serious business. Jesus Christ is the King, the Lord of Lord, and the Savior. This is his church. He says, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail. I will build it. This is his church. And he uses ordinary people. People like you, people like me. People with normal gifts, average gifts. He uses them what? To build his church because he's the one doing the building. He sends us out. He calls us. He does these things so that we might go all over sharing and presenting this great news. Jesus is the good shepherd, and we are his sheep. May God give us the grace to realize that. May we grow in our love for Him. May we grow closer to Him. May we realize that He speaks to us all the time. He speaks words of comfort and care for us. No one loves us like he loves us. Let us remember that, because he died for us. And he lives and reigns for us in heaven. Amen. Let's pray, Lord, we thank you for These this reminder, Lord, that your son is the good shepherd and we are the sheep. Lord, I pray that you would Just impress that upon us, the relationship that we have with Christ. Give us the grace to love him more and Give us the grace to realize that, Lord, despite all the things that are going in this world, that Jesus is always there, our very present help in times of trouble. Bless us and keep us in Jesus' name. Amen.