If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll be reading there in chapter eleven. I believe you can find that on the Pew Bibles at page 969. We'll be reading the first 19 verses of chapter 11 Let's our give our attention now to the holy and fallible word of God. When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples, he went on from there to teach and preach in their cities. Now, when John heard in prison about the deeds of the Christ, he sent word by his disciples and said to him, Are you the one who is to come? Or shall we look for another? And Jesus answered them. Go and tell John what you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear. And the dead are raised up, and the poor have good news preached to them. And blessed is the one who is not offended by me. As they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A man dressed in soft clothing? Behold, those who wear soft clothing are in king's houses. What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes, I tell you, and more than a prophet This is he of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. Truly I say to you, Among those born of women there is arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Yet, the one who is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he. From the days of John the Baptist until now, the kingdom of heaven has suffered violence. And violent, and the violent take it by force. For all the prophets in the law prophesied until John. And if you are willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come. He who has ears to hear, let him hear. But to what shall I compare this generation? It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates. We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say he has a demon. The Son of Man came eating and drinking. And they say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we ask now that by your spirit you would guide us this morning As we seek to open this passage, as we seek to understand more of who you are and what Jesus has done, Father, we pray, work in us. Pour out your grace and mercy upon us. Work powerfully by your Spirit. Guide us into all truth, Lord God. For your word is truth. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen In the first Psalm, the psalm writer there writes about the blessed man. The one who doesn't walk in the way of the counsel of wicked or stand in the path of sinners. No, this one, this one delights In the law of the Lord. He meditates on it day and night. And as a result, he becomes like that tree firmly planted by streams of water. Yields it to fruit in its season. His leaf doesn't wither. And whatever he does, he prospers. All that tied back to meditating upon the Word of God, receiving the Word of God, delighting in the Word of God. This morning we have a passage where that principle, that truth is really set forth for us so very powerfully as Jesus continues his ministry We have been going through this gospel of Matthew, and most recently we've seen that Jesus has called his disciples. And then he has sent them out into the harvest. He's told them, as he gathered them together, that the harvest is plentiful. But the laborers are few. He's asked them to pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers, and now he He being that very Lord sent out his twelve. He called them to proclaim as they went, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Heal the sick, raise the dead, cleanse lepers. cast out demons and that they would proclaim peace. If the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it. And now the disciples are gone. And that's where we find ourselves in Matthew's account of Jesus' continuing ministry. This morning I want us to see that despite men's rejection of the Word, Jesus Christ, the wisdom of God, has been and will be vindicated. Despite men's rejection of the Word, Jesus Christ, the wisdom of God, has been and will be vindicated. We'll see that this morning in three points. First, Jesus is the one. Secondly, John is Elijah, and but finally, wisdom is justified. I've decided to actually create two sermons in this passage. This is the first part. Lord willing, we'll finish this next week. But I want to start this morning with that first head. Jesus is the one. Look at the first verse here in chapter 11. When Jesus had finished instructing his twelve disciples. He went on from there to teach and preach in the cities. The instruction of the disciples is now finished. That word instruction could also be translated as his command. It's done. The disciples were on their way. They would be healing. They would be proclaiming the nearness of the kingdom. They would be doing all that Christ had called them to do. And so we might have thought as Jesus had sent his disciples out, he was done. His preaching and teaching would be over, but no, no, Jesus came To preach that good news needed to be proclaimed while he was walking the face of the earth. It needed to be proclaimed by the king himself. And so then this is the situation as the disciples of John appear on the scene. Jesus is in the midst of going throughout their cities, proclaiming the good news, teaching and preaching about his Father and about sin and salvation from the coming wrath. And this is when the disciples of John come. Notice in verse 2 that John is in prison. Now, when John heard in prison about the deeds of Christ. We haven't gotten there yet, but in chapter 14, Mark Matthew records that Herod had put John in prison because of his proclamation of truth. But don't overlook this. When John heard in prison Even in prison, 2,000 years ago, and John heard about the works of Jesus That news had penetrated the prison walls. There was no internet, there was no television, there were no radios, no newspapers. Just the magnificent, compassionate, loving, supernatural, divine works of Christ So unique, so powerful, that people were talking and talking and recounting of what this God man was doing. There's a sense that this statement, John Heard, forms the foundation of the entire passage He heard of the works of Christ. Why did he send his disciples? It's a curious thing. Luke records that he sends two of his disciples. And he gives them this task. Ask a question. Go to Jesus, see Jesus, and ask this, are you the one who is to come or shall we look for another? The New American Standards translates it this way. Are you the expected one? The expected one. The New King James refers to this as the coming one. What was John referring to? Well, if we take a brief overview of Scripture, we can see where Scripture has promised, God has promised, that one would be coming. We see it in the garden. As Adam and Eve have sinned against God, and God is now speaking with the serpent, Satan. And he tells him that the seed of the woman will bruise you on the head. One is coming. To bruise Satan, to crush him. In Deuteronomy, Moses records the word of God: the Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you. You shall listen to him. Whoever will not listen to my words, he that he shall speak in my name, I myself have required of him. A prophet was coming. Moses recording the very words of God confirms that. In the Davidic covenant In 2 Samuel we read that God will build a house for his name. David wouldn't build it, but God would build his own house, and I will establish the throne of his, meaning David's son, I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. A forever king, a forever throne promised. One is coming. Daniel Daniel refers to an anointed one who will be coming in a certain time, the Messiah, the prince. And then, as we open up John's gospel, it said we've found the Messiah, which means the Christ. They were looking for this one who had been foretold in Scripture. Even the woman at the well knew that the Messiah is coming, he the one who is called the Christ. John's question, his Baptist could be rephrased. Jesus, are you the seed of the woman? Are you the expected prophet? Are you the eternal king? Are you the anointed one? Are you the Messiah? Are you the Prince? The savior of the people of God. Are you God's son? This question then is somewhat confusing. Why would John the Baptist, the prophet, ask this? This is the same man who on the next day, as John's gospel records it, as he sees Jesus coming toward him, proclaims, Behold the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. John testifies. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend to remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Ghost. Spirit. And I've seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. These are John the Baptist's words The one who takes away the sin of the world, the one who baptizes with the Holy Spirit, this is the Son of God. John even uses the title, Christ for Jesus. I'm not the Christ, but I have been sent before Him This is the one whom Jesus identifies. As the one who proclaims, Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way before you. Jesus identifies John in that way, the one whom God selected to proclaim and prepare the way Why then would John send his disciples with this question? Well, we need to read scripture in concert with one another. We don't need to read, and we should not ever read, conflict into scripture. So we must first understand and recognize and confess that John the Baptist knew that Jesus was the expected one. That seems to be what the scriptures are telling us. But John the Baptist knew that Jesus was the Messiah, the Savior, the anointed one. How else could he baptize with the Holy Spirit? And the Holy Spirit has revealed this to John. And the Apostle John records this very fact. So what was the purpose of the question? If John truly knew, at least that's the way I would understand this text. And again, as we consider the context, we see that Jesus has sent his disciples off to heal, to cast out demons, to proclaim the nearness of the kingdom of God. Now Jesus is going out and preaching and teaching and now is giving an opportunity to teach These disciples of John. John the Baptist has in fact set the table for Jesus. He's asked his disciples to present this question to the Lamb of God, and now Jesus has an opportunity to proclaim to this group of men his true identity. So it seems that it's possible that John the Baptist was seeking to educate, to inform, and to convict his followers, his disciples, of the true identity of this one. He has come that they might follow Jesus. John the Baptist was in prison. And he would not be released alive. He didn't know that. But he did know that his followers needed a new teacher, that they needed the true master. And so he sends them to hear directly from Jesus' mouth who he will. was that they might begin to follow him as the savior of the world. Sometimes others need to lead us to Christ. Sometimes God uses means He uses others to bring his children to him. Not that John the Baptist was saving his disciples. He wasn't. But just think about what John did with a single question. A question that really only one could answer. What a great idea to lead people to Christ by posing a question to them which only Christ can answer. Are you the one? This passion should be of much encouragement to us as we seek to To evangelize, as we seek to lead people to Christ from a human perspective, as we seek to be used as means of God. To draw others to Jesus savingly, asking a question that can only be answered by Christ himself through his word. And then sometimes true believers just need to be reminded of who Jesus is and what he's doing. Do you see the disciples of John now being sent to this one To be reminded, to be encouraged, to sit at his feet, to hear To hear what Jesus had done. Think of those disciples. Their teacher, their rabbi was in prison. What was going to happen to him? What was going to become of them? What about their ministry in the future? They needed to hear. They needed to be reassured. They needed to see Jesus, not John. Indeed, John said as much. I am not the Christ, but I have been sent before him. He must increase But I must decrease. Yes, Jesus is the one. That brings us to our second point. John is Elijah. Well now John's question is sitting there on the table for Jesus to answer. And how is it that Jesus answers that question put to him by John's disciples? Go and tell John. What you hear and see. The blind receive their sight, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, the poor have the good news preached to them, and blessed is the one who is not offended by me. Interestingly, Jesus does not merely say yes Jesus does not identify himself directly as the Messiah, the Christ, the Son of God. But he uses the very word of God to answer the question. Jesus paraphrases Isaiah, doesn't he? And two passages. We read a portion of that this morning, Isaiah 35. Then the eyes of the blind shall be open, the ears of the deaf unstopped, the lame man leap like a deer. Each one of those instances Jesus uses in terms of pointing the disciples to what he has done, but also pointing them back to the Word of God. In Isaiah 61, we read, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. You see how Jesus is taking John's disciples back? Well, we referred to them as the Old Testament. At that point in time, they weren't referred to that way. way. He's taking them back to the prophet Isaiah. He's saying, remember what Isaiah said. Remember what was going to happen. Remember what he prophesied. And now I want you to come to today and see what I'm doing. Do you see how the word of God is being fulfilled in my works These disciples of John would have known and believed Isaiah. And now they would have seen and heard That Isaiah's prophecy was being fulfilled in their very sight in Jesus Christ. And so Jesus says, tell John about the works. Now remember, John had already heard about the works. He'd heard, but don't stop there. Describe to John in detail the miraculous wonders that are being performed by my very hand, but don't stop there. Remind John that these works were foretold by the prophet Isaiah. And then connect the two together, the conclusion would be clear and convincing. Yes, Jesus is the one. But the proof didn't end with that. As John's disciples leave, look at verse 7, and as they went away, Jesus began to speak to the crowds concerning John. What did you go out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken by the wind? What then did you go out to see? A prophet? Yes. I tell you, and more than a prophet. What's Jesus doing? He's continuing to tell even now the crowds who he was and is Now by the words of John, by the messenger that's been sent by God Himself to proclaim the coming of this one. And so he reminds the crowds. He reminds them that many of them that were hearing his voice that day had likely gone out to be baptized by John. What did you go out to see? They went out to him. And he reminds them that they went out to see a prophet, but not just any prophet, the greatest prophet. For truly I say to you, among those born of women, there has arisen no one greater than John the Baptist. Why is that? Isaiah wrote a lot of things. He's one of the big prophets. How is it that John is greater than all? Seemingly because he had the privilege, he had the task of introducing Jesus as the Christ. Only John. And so this makes John the greatest. For he not only prepared the people, John pointed the people, sinners, to Jesus as the Lamb, as the Savior. And then Jesus said that For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John. And if you're willing to accept it, he is Elijah who is to come Malachi, and the last two verses of his prophecy, the last two verses that we have of what we consider to be the Old Testament now. Writes this, behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. He will turn the hearts of the fathers to their children and the hearts of the children to their fathers. The return of Elijah Would be the marking point, the confirming event that the Christ, the Messiah, had arrived. The expected one had come. In other words, the return of Elijah was the precursor or the preparatory event that would signal, would be the sign for the arrival of the promised one. The expected one, the Savior of the world. So Jesus states that John the Baptist was Elijah. Announcing his coming. Coming. Confirming the identity of the coming one, the expected one. You might be thinking this morning, this just doesn't sound right. How can John the Baptist, an individual, a unique person, be one and the same time himself, and yet also Elijah? Was Jesus out of his mind? Did Jesus know what he was talking about? And if he did, how is it that John could be Elijah? This sounds too fantastic. Unexpected, out of the ordinary, not what we would be accustomed to thinking. That one person could also be another. To answer that question of those questions, we must begin with the truth that Jesus was certainly not out of his mind. That Jesus spoke the very words of God, that this is the one who knew God and who knows God. Who had been with God from eternity past. He was in the beginning with God. And just as the Father knows me, I know The Father. And so Jesus speaks absolute truth But in addition to this absolute truth, we must also recognize that Jesus was not saying that John had two persons within himself That's not his testimony. Jesus was not saying that John was the reincarnation of the prophet Elijah who'd been taken up to glory many, many years before John was born. No, Jesus was saying that John the Baptist now had been sent by God, and as his messenger was proclaiming the words, just as Elijah did, John in a sense had stepped into the shoes of Elijah And was now continuing that prophecy to the ultimate prophetic utterance that this one, this Jesus, was and is the Christ. Christ the Messiah. You may be questioning this morning whether Jesus truly is the expected one You may not even know what this means, the expected one. Scripture speaks of the one who is to come. We've seen that already this morning. A savior from sin was promised by God Maybe you think of yourself this morning as an agnostic, meaning that you don't know or no one can know. Well in this passage Jesus is saying so very clearly, you can know. Certainty is possible. If you just read and hear exactly what Jesus speaks of in this passage, he's saying to look at my works Consider what has been prophesied about me from centuries past, and how these prophetical words of God have now come to be fulfilled in me. Look at my works. They testifies to who I am. The seed of the woman, the eternal king of the forever kingdom, the anointed one, the messiah, the savior of sinners. Jesus is urging you even this morning, even now. Don't let the sun set on your unfounded belief that you cannot know, for Jesus proclaims so very clearly this morning, you can know. He's even calling out this morning. Come to me. Drink Drink of me, feed upon me, have your sins washed clean in my blood He's the only one. His voice is so clear this morning. Hear him. Reject your sins. Come to clear Christ. That brings us to our third point. Wisdom is justified. Come to the last verse in this passage. And it seems out of place or lacks context that we might understand what Jesus is saying. Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. Has this text, have these verses been at all about wisdom? We don't even see the word But remember the scene. Jesus has sent his disciples out to preach. And Jesus Is preaching and teaching. The coming one, the expected one, the Messiah, the Savior of the world, the King has come and was radiating his Father. He was preaching the nearness of the kingdom. He was proclaiming the good news. And the unasked question is who was listening? Who was truly hearing? Who was understanding what they were seeing? And so Jesus uses an illustration. But to what shall I compare this generation? Verse 16. It is like children sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates We played the flute for you and you did not dance. We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. Jesus is saying that this generation was not receiving his word well. This generation was not receiving Jesus well. Remember, Jesus had been sent to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. He sent his disciples out to them and he was sent to them. And now he gives us this picture. He uses an illustration to drive home his teaching. This generation was like children calling to playmates. We played the flute. We proclaimed the good news. Men can be saved from their sin if they only believe upon me, the Christ. But the people did not receive the good news. You did not dance. Do you see the illustration? The music going out, the call to come, and yet the rejection The generation did not respond positively like one would expect the children's playmates responding to the flute. The response was not dancing, but rejection. For John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they say he is a demon. The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. And then Jesus contrasted, we sang a dirge. Even as John the Baptist called for repentance, many refused, and you did not mourn. Jesus was teaching that the good news that he was being rejected, that the very word of God, as it was being proclaimed, was being cast off, this entire passage. Going back to Matthew chapter 10, as instructions are given to the disciples as they go out to preach and teach us all about the good news being proclaimed. Here, even in the very presence of the good news himself, Jesus, and this picture of the flute being played And the dirge being signed with no positive external or internal response from this generation was the point. Jesus was not being received as the expected one. Jesus was not received as the Messiah, the Savior of the world, the one promised by God to come even from the garden. This last verse then is actually completely within the context of this message, this passage. As we consider, as we remember, that Christ is our wisdom. We see that in 1 Chronicles We preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews and folly to Gentiles, but to those who are called both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God, and the wisdom of God. And as Jesus is the Word, we also understand the Holy Scriptures. The very Word of God is wisdom itself. And so as we remember the context of this passage where the disciples are going out to proclaim the good news, the nearness of the kingdom, even Jesus is preaching and teaching the word. The wisdom of God was going out. The wisdom was actually very present in Christ Himself. And so we see the connection. As the word Jesus Himself is being rejected, cast off, it is wisdom being trampled underfoot by those who are in that generation. And yet Jesus proclaims that wisdom is justified by her deeds All that Jesus was doing was confirming that what was being preached and taught, all the wisdom being proclaimed, was confirmed that it was being the Word of God. The truth was being uttered and given You must grasp this morning that the absolute truth that Jesus was and is and always shall be is not dependent upon whether the people would believe him or receive him or not That's the sharp point. Wisdom will be justified. Wisdom will be vindicated. The word of God stands as truth now and forever And it also takes us to the cross. On that day when Jesus spoke these words, wisdom is justified, that truth was not externally evident yet, but it would be on the cross at Calvary. Wisdom would be justified or vindicated as the disciples and the women watched the crucifixion of their Savior. Christom was vindicated on the cross Wisdom would be justified as the risen Christ walked and talked and ate among the people after his death and resurrection. after he defeated sin and death, rising from the tomb, wisdom was vindicated. Wisdom was justified And wisdom is vindicated today, as Christ sits, glorified in the heavens, at the very right hand of God, the King seated upon his throne, ruling over all things, especially your hearts today. And wisdom will be justified on the day that he returns. Jesus, yes, was the expected one, and Jesus is the expected one who will return in his glory, riding on the clouds with his angels. Jesus the Christ. the word, our wisdom, will be completely and fully justified and vindicated on the day of his return. On that great day, on the day of judgment, when he comes on the clouds with his angels. Are you expecting him to return Are you expecting that he will hear your testimony when he returns? To hear all the words you have spoken, to hear what you have done for him. Are you ready to stand before the judge? We will all come. Every single one of us to give an account to this one as he is vindicated, as he is justified, what will your testimony be? Have you listened to him? Isn't that what this passage is all about? Listening to Christ? Have you danced as the flute was played, as the good news was proclaimed? Did you receive it and leap in your heart for joy? As the dirge was sung, as your sins were brought to your heart and mind by the Holy Spirit, did you bow and fall to the ground in sorrow and mourning and grieving as you have offended a holy God? And then did you receive the words of Christ? Did you trust in him? That he was indeed the expected one who would do all things and wash you clean in his blood. If you did, if you are, then the day of his return, the day of this expected one to come again, there's nothing to fear in that day. It will be a day of rejoicing, because on that day Christ will confess you before his Father as you have confessed him before men. Yes, Jesus the Christ, our wisdom, the expected one, will be vindicated, and that's what makes that day a day of great joy and rejoicing. Brothers and sisters, despite the rejection of men of the Word, Jesus Christ, the wisdom of God, has been and will be vindicated. The psalmist as he records the first psalm. He reminds us to delight in the law of the Lord, to meditate upon it day and night. Seemingly a precursor to this passage in Matthew's gospel, that we would hear Christ, that we would listen to Christ. That we would recognize Christ as the one to come and the one who will be coming, and we would rejoice in his word and receive it with much joy. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, oh, what a joy it is to hear Christ. To hear his words, father to receive his teachings, to know that indeed he is the one promised from ages past, according to your word, according to your prophecy uttered through Isaiah, Father, we recognize, we acknowledge, we praise you that Christ is the one. And Father, we know He's coming again. And we look forward to that day. We pray that it would come quickly. But now, Father, we pray, help us to be like the psalmist. And to meditate day and night upon your precious word. Change us, Lord God. Increase our faith. Cast off our doubts. As we receive all of Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen.