Amen. Pew, turn in your copy of God's word now to Romans once again. We'll return to chapter 8 as we continue our study there. I think you'll find that on page 1123 of your Pew Bibles. This morning we'll begin our reading at verse 31. Preaching of the word this morning will be on verses 33 and 34. Let's give attention once again to the holy, inspired, the infallible Word of God. Romans chapter 8 What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Our Father and our God, we ask for help from the Spirit now that you'd illumine our hearts. That you take your word, you planted deeply within us, and Holy Spirit, you would give us much understanding this morning. Grant to us, Lord God, how we would apply this, how the Spirit would apply this passage to our hearts even now. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, how do you deal with the guilt of sin? As Paul wrote to the church at Rome, he recognized, and he knew that they knew, that their consciences were bearing witness against them. either accusing them or excusing them. So how do you deal with the guilt of sin? We read a passage earlier this morning from Job. And in that passage we saw that Satan was roaming the earth looking for Those that he would accuse, that those that he would bring charges against And we know that Job, as confessed by the Lord, was a blameless and upright man. And yet that's who Satan determined to bring a charge against. Not just once, but twice. Job argued that if the Lord would stretch out his hand And touch the bone and flesh of Job that he would then curse God. And so if you're familiar with Job, we go through many, many chapters where we see Job suffering under this accusation of Satan. It brings us back to that question. How do you deal with guilt? How do you deal with accusations? How do you deal with charges? Paul has been writing about the law. He's been struggling with his own guilt. You saw that in chapter 7. As he confessed that he did not do what he wanted to do, but the very thing that he hated do, that's what he was doing. He even called himself a wretched man. recognizing that there was a war going on within himself. But then as we come to chapter eight of the letter to the church at Rome, we see that there is Therefore, now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And yet we know That even those who are in Christ still sin. So how do you deal with that guilt? This morning I want us to see that the just judge pardons all his children as his innocent son died, was raised, and intercedes for them. The just judge pardons all his children, as his innocent son died, was raised, and intercedes for them. This morning we'll see that in three very short heads. The charger, the justifier, and the intercessor. As we go through this passage this morning, just be asking yourself, is my conscience burdened? were unburdened with the guilt of sin. Well, first the charger. Paul adds more rhetorical questions now to his argumentation, where he is building the case. that what he told the readers in the first sentence of this chapter, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, he adds more rhetorical questions. The fourth and fifth are before us this morning. And he begins with this: Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? This language of bringing a charge of justifying, of condemning, calls to mind the image of a courtroom. I think that's Paul's purpose Here he wants us, he wants the readers in Rome, he wants us even today to bring up this picture of a courtroom. Once again, God, through his mouthpiece, the inspired apostle, seeks to speak to us in a way that we can understand. Knowing that the living God has condescended. And Paul is recognizing that we really can't know. What's going on in the spiritual realm, in the unseen spiritual realm today? We can't really see it We can't know what's happened in the past in the spiritual realm. We don't know what will happen in the future in the spiritual realm. How can we know anything about the unseen spiritual realm, how can we know anything about the Creator God in this particular passage or about the just God? And so Paul, the inspired apostle, tells us that this is what the spiritual realm is like. That it's kind of like this. It's kind of like what you're accustomed to in a courtroom in this world. He's saying it's it's sort of like that. In the courtroom in the physical world, here today, we know that there's one who accuses another of a crime. There's one who is being accused of committing the crime. And then there's the judge. Who makes the determination as to whether or not the accuser has made out his case against the accused? Everything lies with the judge Guilt or innocence lies with the judge. And clearly, Paul wants his readers, Paul wants the church at Rome, Paul wants us even this morning to think in these terms. He's telling the church at Rome that things are happening in the spiritual realm in a spiritual courtroom, so to speak, like this. And so Paul asked the question: Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Remember, Paul's already set forth that first sentence. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. So the reader knows the end of the line. The question is, how does Paul get there? And so that's what he's explaining even this morning. How he came to that conclusion, how the Spirit reveals to him this truth, and now how the Spirit has informed Paul how that can be. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? And so if you've been carefully reading, you'd have to say, well, no one. No one will bring a valid charge against the elect, the children of God. Valid meaning having legal strength or force. That's what we mean by valid, as Webster defines it. It doesn't mean that invalid charges are not brought. And so there is a lead accuser, there is a lead spiritual prosecutor bringing forth invalid charges. And so who is that? Who's the lead accuser? Who's the lead prosecutor? The prime charger, the spiritual prosecutor? We might say that those are the atheists in the world. Those are the God haters of this world, the Christ disdainers Those who hate you because they hate Christ. But that's not what Scripture tells us. In reality, the the lead accuser, the spiritual prosecutor, is the devil, Satan. We see that in Zechariah chapter 3. Then he showed me Joshua, the high priest, standing before the angel of the Lord, and Satan standing at his right hand to accuse him. The Apostle John, as he writes in Revelation chapter 12, refers to Satan, the devil, the deceiver of the whole world. The one who is the accuser of our brothers, who's been thrown down, who accuses them day and night before our God. If Job were among us today and we were to ask him that question, who was your greatest adversary or accuser, Job would say unequivocally, Satan. The one who roams the earth looking for someone to devour. Was it not Satan who sought to devour Job with accusations? Was not not his purpose as he poured out afflictions on Job Stretch out your hand and touch his bone and flesh and he will curse you to your face. So how does Satan accuse? Well you might be saying, well, he accuses before God. He stands before the living God. That's what we read in Job. Two times Satan comes before God to accuse Job Don't think that it was just for Job. It's not what the Apostle John tells us. The accuser of our brothers has been thrown down who accuses them day and night before our God. But we can't see that. We don't hear those accusations, do we? But what do you hear? Think of your own conscience this morning. Is it not Satan who works, planting seeds, seeds of doubt? Regarding the forgiveness that you have received in Christ? Is it not Satan who seeks to convince you that the burden of your sin is too great? Too great for anyone, even Jesus Christ, to remove. Is that not the work of Satan? Is it not his work to deny the truth of God's word? Isn't that what he's told Eve? For God knows you will not surely die. Is not Satan seeking to convince you? That God's word is not fully and completely true when it comes to your forgiveness. When it comes to your sins being removed as far as the East is from the West. Is not Satan seeking to work his will such that you will be so burdened that you begin to doubt that the blood of Christ is able to cleanse you from your heinous sin. Does that describe your struggle this morning? Are you doubting the power of the blood of Christ to cleanse you? Are you feeling the pain of grieving the Spirit with your transgressions? Are you questioning whether anyone, even Jesus, can fully absolve you of your crimes against God? Brothers and sisters, doubt and wonder no longer. Hear again the words of Christ. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but has passed from death to life. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Satan has no power to condemn. He's not the judge. That does bring us to our second point. The justifier. Well, if Satan doesn't have the power to condemn, then who does? Who is to condemn? To condemn means, again, according to Webster's, to judge to be wrong or guilty, to disapprove, to sentence to punishment. I like this the best, the idea of utter rejection. So this question, who is to condemn, serves two purposes. First, who is the judge, or who has the right to condemn And secondly, who could possibly condemn when Jesus Christ has died? We'll see that second in a bit under our third head, but first let's consider Who has the right to condemn? The creator of the universe is uniquely and exclusively possessed with the right. To condemn. It's because he's the owner. He's the possessor. He's the sustainer. He's the sovereign king, the Lord, the only divine being over everything. He's the one who is uniquely able to call his creatures to obedience to his divinely imposed laws and statutes and ordinances. No one else He's the one who has been singularly offended by your transgressions, by your unrighteous thoughts and words, and actions. That have spewed forth from your heart. He's the only one who has been grieved by the sins of his image-bearing creatures that he alone created. This one living the true God is the only one who has the right to condemn because he's the offended one. And clearly, Scripture tells us that he is the just judge of the world. As God is about to go and destroy Sodom and Gomorrah, he has that conversation with Abraham, or Abraham is pleading with him not to destroy Sodom, for if he would find just as many righteous persons. there. So there's this back and forth that happens. But as it does go back and forth, Abraham confesses, shall not the judge of all the earth do what is just So we see God is the just judge. He's the sovereign judge. Who else could be the effective judge of the world? Who else could be judge of all? Who else's judgment could actually stand? Only the judgment of one who has authority. Only the one who was able to actually execute the sentence that would be pronounced. Our God is in the heavens, he does all that he pleases, Psalm 115 Whatever the Lord pleases, He does in heaven and on earth. Psalm 135. Only a divine being who, being all-powerful, all-knowing, all-controlling, could actually judge in such a way that his judgments, his condemnations would be carried out according to his will. Because he's a sovereign judge. And he's the just judge, isn't he? The rock, his work, is perfect. All his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness and without iniquity, just and upright is he, Deuteronomy 32. And then Job asks even the question, does God pervert justice? Or does the Almighty pervert what is right? He was asking rhetorical questions, wasn't he? Uh knowing that we would know the answer to that question. No. No, he doesn't. He's the only one who knows what is truly just. He's the one who has proclaimed the law. He's the one who knows the law. He's the one who has written the law, and thus he knows the intent of the law. And whether it's been kept or not. And he's the only one who knows goodness. Remember what the rich young ruler he calls Jesus Christ good teacher, and then Jesus asks that question, well, who's good? There's only one. God himself. He's the only one who knows goodness. He's the only just God judge. He's the only one who can judge in purity, in perfect righteousness, in this world every single human judges corrupt in Adam There's no such thing as a perfectly just judge among men. But God. God only can judge perfectly according to his perfect righteousness. He is the just judge. judge. But not only that, he's the able judge, isn't he? He must be Because he knows all things. He's omniscient, isn't he? God knows not merely what comes from the mouth, he knows not merely what is done by the hands But what actually dwells in the heart, the heart of the people that he will judge. Who else knows the depth of your heart? Who else knows the intentions of the mind? No one. But God alone. God judges the secrets of men. Romans chapter 2. He is the able judge. He is the sovereign judge. He's the just judge. So the question stands. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? The judge is the only one who can admit or allow a charge to be broad. The judge is the gatekeeper of charges. And if allowed to go forward, he hears the case. He determines whether the charge is valid, whether it will stand, and whether it's been proven by the accuser, and whether he will declare guilt or innocence after he hears. All of this must be considered as the question is asked, who will bring any charge against God's elect? Did you notice the answer? It is God who justifies. That's Paul's answer. What does that mean? What does it mean? How does that follow? Who will bring any charge? It's God who justifies. What's what is justification? Well, if you've been paying attention to our shorter catechism study, you would know that it's an act of God's free grace wherein He pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous in His sight. only for the righteousness of Christ which is imputed to us and received by faith alone. It's a long definition But the root of it is that God pardons. The Lord clearly has the power to pardon. As he is the one who has been offended. He has all power, all authority, all dominion as the judge, and he can do as he pleases within and in accordance with his attributes. Well that or another question arises then. Why would the just judge pardon? And why would the God who must satisfy his justice, as the just judge, why would he justify? Why would he pardon? Why would he forgive the guilty? Why would the Lord of all exonerate or absolve anyone? Why would God accept those, even those He has chosen, who are sinners? In other words, on what basis, or for what reason, would the just judge, the Lord our God, not condemn guilty sinners? It brings us back to that question, who is to condemn? And that brings us to Christ, doesn't it? Remember this passage starts by Paul asking that question, what then shall we say to these things? How is it that God can justify? How is it that He would not condemn? Now Paul proclaims this. Christ Jesus is the one who died. We have to think about what lies behind that, don't we? It brings us back to that word now in the first sentence of chapter eight. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Paul is saying there were valid charges. The elect, the chosen, were found guilty. There was no question. There was condemnation. And then there was punishment. Jesus Christ is the one who died. You see, that's why Paul makes that statement. Because he recognizes, because he knows, that there was condemnation. There was a finding of guilt in all of God's elect, in all of his chosen. And he took that guilt finding, that punishment that was owed to you this morning, and he poured it out on his son. Christ Jesus is the one who died. That's how Paul can write what he has written. That's how the Spirit can move Paul to write what he has written. Who is to condemn? A rhetorical question, meaning No one. Because Christ Jesus is the one who died for you. Don't let that pass by this morning without letting it sink in deeply. Christ Jesus is the one who died. But there's more, isn't there? For justification is is certainly based upon Christ's death. Your pardon is certainly based upon his death, but there is more. Christ Jesus is the one who died more than that. Did you get that? More than that, more than his death, who was raised, who was raised Paul has already actually touched upon this point in the fifth chapter of this letter. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son much more. Now that we're reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? You see, the Son was raised from the dead. to be the first fruits from the dead. He was raised as a victory over sin and death. He was raised to life to create a pathway for you. That's the second part of salvation if we can break it down into parts. Yes, the wrath of God needed to be satisfied with innocent blood. That's the Jesus Christ died part. And the resurrection. His being raised. is the part that grants you life. It's the life-giving aspect of the Son's work of salvation. Both of them come together for your justification And that's why Paul can even ask the question, who is to condemn? And he's in essence saying there's no condemnation for you because Christ died, and more than that because he was raised. And so Paul writes these truths. And as he does, he's not stating that God will not judge. For he knows that God will judge. Paul knows that God will judge justly and righteously, and he also knows that the punishment for the sins That have been committed against the one who is holy, holy, holy by those who are indeed following Jesus Christ have been fully and completely paid for But there's a warning in this passage as well. For this rhetorical question, who is to condemn, is not stating that there will be no condemnations at all. No, there will be condemnation. There will be condemnation ultimately for all those who refuse to believe, to trust in the shed blood, the death, and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. For as Paul began this particular chapter in this letter to the church at Rome, he states that there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. There will be condemnation for those who are not in Christ Jesus. The just judge will declare all who remain in their sins upon their death or upon the return of Jesus Christ guilty. Deserving of death. And so if that describes you today, if you have not trusted yet in Jesus Christ, Hear this passage as a warning. There will be condemnation for all those who refuse to trust in Jesus There will be a just judgment for you as you've sinned against the one who is holy. You've offended him so grievously. That He's prepared a place of eternal torment called hell, where fire will never be quenched and the worm will never die, a place of suffering beyond our ability to describe or even imagine. So here's the warning. Turn from your ways. Turn from your wicked ways this day. Turn from your sins against the living God. Place your trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and in Him only, for He is the one who died. More than that, He is the one who was raised. Put your trust in the only one whose death was a substitute for the truly guilty who believe upon Him. Trust in the One who was raised from the dead. And submit to him as King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Brings us to our third point, the intercessor. Now we're still in that courtroom setting. The charger or accuser is Satan, constantly bringing accusations of guilt against the children of God, seeking to tear them away from eternal life with the living God in his kingdom. seeking to convince God that these are not worthy. They are filthy. They're wretched, undeserving sinners who do not love God, do not serve you well. The problem for Satan is that there's another in the courtroom. There's the one who's been raised, as we've seen, the one who sits at the very right hand of God, sitting in a position of power, a position of authority, a position of favor. That's what a larger catechism tells us that Christ is exalted in his seating at the right hand of God, in that as God-man he's advanced to the highest favor with God the Father. That's where he sits, even now. Jesus Christ, the obedient one, the risen one, the one who has triumphed over sin and death, the one who has paid the price for the elect. The one who has sought the will of his father without exception, without falter, without failure, the one who is at the right hand because he accomplished all things that he was sent to do The one who's been given all authority on heaven and on earth. And thus Satan's Satan has no chance to file a valid charge. His charges have no validity against the one with all authority. And you may be thinking right now, well, why is that? Why do Satan's charges become invalid as he's arguing against the Jesus Christ, the intercessor? What is it about the presence of the Son of God, Jesus Christ, in the courtroom that leads to no condemnation or declaration of justice? Justness or righteousness for the elect. You may be thinking Jesus said on the cross, it's finished. And that's true. He accomplished salvation. But that doesn't mean that he's inactive. That doesn't mean he sits at God's right hand just remaining silent. He's not idle. Indeed, this passage tells us who indeed is interceding for us, for those that he died for. Larger catechism states that as he's making intersection, he is appearing in our nature continually. And he's answering all accusations against them, meaning against those who trust in Jesus, procuring for them quiet of conscience. He's the intercessor. Remember those constant accusations of Satan, the constant prosecution, wanting to destroy, completely destroy the kingdom of God by making it void of any of his children. And so the work of the Lord Jesus Christ is to destroy the works of the devil, isn't it? And he does so not merely with equal force, but with greater persuasion. Jesus Christ constantly pleads his blood before the Father. Every single accusation advanced by Satan, while true, you have sinned against the living God. And you don't deserve to live in the kingdom of God. And yet Jesus Christ matches and supersedes every single accusation and charge of Satan. Every single accusation is met and defeated as Jesus Christ brings forth his blood. Not your goodness. Now he brings forth his blood every time. In a sense, Jesus is reminding the Father, who doesn't need to be reminded, of his purity. Jesus recounts how he lived a perfect life in his humanity even to his wretched death on the cursed tree at the cross of Calvary. And he's asking his father to remember his prayer. I desire that they also, whom you have given to me, may be with me where I am to see my glory. Did you know that? Did you know that Jesus is interceding for you right now if you're trusting in him? And he's meeting every accusation of Satan against you. In the spiritual realm, in glory. In the heavens above the mo heavens at this very moment. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ, as Jesus sits at God's right hand, radiating For all to see his holiness, his innocence, his purity, his righteousness, the nail holes in his hands, the spear mark in his side, all come pleading for you All speaking, powerfully declaring that the punishment has been suffered completely and fully on your behalf. The law's been kept, all of it, for you. At this very moment, he's interceding for you and will continue to do so until you die. Or Jesus Christ returns if you remain in your faith. So much so that no one can bring a charge, not a valid charge, even Satan, against you. There's at least one more aspect to this intercession that I don't want you to miss this morning. Don't think that this intercession is only effective on the day of judgment. No, Jesus Christ is continually interceding as Satan is continually accusing. So we get back to that question about your burden. What do you do with your guilt? The larger catechism tells us that in Jesus' intercession, he is also procuring for you quiet. Of conscience. That the Lord Jesus Christ, as he argues, as he intercedes As he pleads his blood and his righteousness before the Father, as he knocks down the accusations and charges of Satan. He is at the same time working by his spirit to quiet your conscience. As he intercedes, as he's praying for you, as he's pleading for you, at the very same time the Spirit is working To convict you that your sins have indeed been separated from you as far as the East is from the West. Not because of anything you've done, but because of everything Jesus has done. He continues to interrupt intercede so that your conscience, even today, even before he returns, even before you die, will be quiet. That the burden, that you will know, that you will be assured, that the burden of your guilt has been lifted, it's been removed in Jesus Christ. Yes, the just judge pardons all his children. As his innocent son died, was raised. And intercedes for them. Job was plagued by Satan's accusations and charges. And yet, at the end of it all, God poured out his comfort upon Job. As his accusations, as Satan's accusations, never came to fulfillment. Has Jesus Christ upheld Job through each and every affliction that Satan sent his way? He's doing the very same for you, even now, as you trust in him. Amen. Our Father and our God, thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much for these truths. We thank you for this reminder, this powerful reminder that Jesus Christ has indeed died. And yet even much more, that he was raised from the dead, and that he intercedes for us even now such that no one, not even Satan Can condemn. No one, not even Satan, can bring a valid charge against anyone who's in Christ Jesus this day. We thank you. We praise you for these truths. We thank you for working in our hearts this morning. May you be glorified. May Christ be exalted. Thank you, Holy Spirit.