Let us uh turn now to the uh text for this evening as we continue to work through the book of First Timothy and the qualifications for office. We have been looking most recently at the qualifications for the office of deacon in the Church of the Lord, and we come to a further discussion of that matter this evening, directing our attention to the qualifications for deacon as they're found. 1 Timothy 3 verses 8 through 13. And tonight our uh our focus will be on verse 11. Likewise, deacons must be reverent, not double-tongued Not given to much wine, nor greedy for money, holding the mystery of the faith with a pure conscience. But let these also first be tested. Then let them serve as deacons, being found blameless. Likewise, their wives must be reverent, not slanderers, temperate, faithful in all things. Let deacons be the husbands of one wife, having their children and their own ruling Yes, ruling their children and their own house as well. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a good standing and great boldness in the faith. Which is in Christ Jesus. May God bless the reading of His Word to your hearts this evening. Well, we have been going through the qualifications for deacons just like we did for elders previously, and of course you will see that many of the qualifications are similar. Uh the last uh time uh we were together, we talked about verse 10, where the Apostle Paul said that deacons first need to be proved or tested. And only after that period of testing should they be allowed to function in the office of deacon in the church And I uh I want you to remember that that word testing um has uh um a wide range of meanings, but really it fundamentally talks about the question of refining. In other words, when a deacon is being tested, the faith that he says he has is going through a process. of being m more refined, more more intense, more pure. Uh uh the the the the the weaknesses are being uh uh skimmed off and what's being left is uh uh s more of mis a more spiritually mature individual. That's what's meant By this word refining here, we would say that the refining is part of the process of spiritual maturing, that the Holy Spirit uh leads in a person's life. Uh uh we would call it the the process of sanctification. And in a deacon's case, that process is even more heightened. Um then uh and and his and his faith uh should be uh more uh more clearly seen, more clearly an evidence, uh more clearly a testimony to Christ. But when we come to our verse tonight, uh we find something very uh interesting, at least I think it's interesting It starts off, verse 11 starts off with the word likewise, and then follows up with the phrase, likewise their wives. And the there there can't refer to anything else than the deacons who've just been spoken about as having their faith refined. But what does the likewise refer to? Once again, uh the closest Reference to likewise is the whole idea of the fact that in verse 10 that deacons must be tested. must be refined. And I think the likewise then says that the candidate for the office of deacon, not only must he be tested, but also his wife, his wife. should be tested as well, that her faith should evidence a ref uh uh a refinement Well, you might ask then, you know, what specifically are you looking for? What kind of refinement in what areas? Does the wife whose husband is a candidate for deacon? What areas should we be looking at? And that's where I believe the latter part of verse 11 comes into play, examining her reverence. looking at the question of slanderer, making sure that that's not an issue for her. Temperance and faithfulness. All of these areas can be refined in the Christian's walk. And all of these things are character traits. That need to be developed, that need to be tested, that need to be refined. The Holy Spirit is doing that work in everybody's life, but in the life of deacons' wives this is to be done. And what are we to see about the deacon's wife? What qualities are we to see? Well first of all she is to be, as it says, reverent. Or that word might be translated in some of your translations as a person who is honorable. A person who is worthy of respect. Up in uh verse uh eight, uh when it talks about the husband The deacon, the man, it says that the deacons must be grave. We translated that. It's the same Greek word I think reverent, honorable, respectable is the sense in which this word is to be applied also to the wife. Now, secondly, what else is to be tested, what else is to be refined, you have this phrase, not slanderer, not a slanderer. Now, that's a very interesting word, because we all know that that word slander comes from the, is one of the tools that the that the devil uses. And actually, if you were to look at this in the Greek, you would see that the word that's being used is Diabolos. Not, I mean literally, it would be not a devil. That's the word that's used here. But We know that the devil uses gossip. He uses malicious slander. He seeks to um uh to uh to manipulate truth uh in order to achieve or accomplish his devious ends Just as he came before Eve, and he manipulated the truth about God before her. He slandered God. He said to Eve, He said Did God really say, you shall not eat other tree? And after he got her to embrace or debite on that, he said, well, God didn't really mean that. God didn't really say that. God didn't really prohibit you from doing that. God has an agenda. And his agenda is he doesn't want you to know the things he knows He doesn't want you to know good and evil. He doesn't want you to know truth. And if you take of this apple or this fruit, which God has said don't do, if you do it, you'll be just like God. See, that's slandering God. That's slandering what God's word has said. That's manipulation. And it comes it comes into play in the life of the church because People relate to one another, and one of the ways we relate to one another is through our voice. And our voice, or our tongues, as we've learned from James, can be a problem. And slander can be used, trying to manipulate others, saying wrong things about others for a particular purpose. or an agenda that we have is something that can happen in the life of the church. It's something we all need to guard against. But here it specifically singles out the woman, the wife of a deacon, and says she must not be a slanderer. The devil uses this methodology. He uses slander. He uses temptation. He uses deceit. It's just one of the weapons. that he uses to um to cause the name of Christ to be um uh dishonored, disrespected, or to bring people uh over to his side, to catch them in some sort of action, some sort of sin that will cause them to be captivated by his will. The devil not only tries to do this in our lives, in the lives of all of God's people, but he will specially target the lives of the leaders of the church. and their families, their wives in particular. He will use the deacon's wife if he can To try to destroy the wonderful work of mercy that deacons do. The work of mercy that reminds us of God's mercy unto us. And once that gossip or slander occurs it becomes very difficult to take that back. And it and it it manages to hurt people And manages to have people have less confidence in their leaders, less trust, may even make them angry, may make them very disappointed. And then that disappointment will transfer over to Jesus himself. They will begin to think badly about Jesus because Jesus' people fail to do what is right in his sight. So this is uh this is an important matter. This is a a way in which Satan gains entrance into the body of Ken gain entrance into the body of Christ if the deacon's faith and the deacon's wife's faith isn't being refined Isn't being strengthened, purified, so that she isn't manifesting these kinds of tendencies. The wife of a deacon who is being refined would demonstrate the fact that her tongue is not being used for deceptive purposes. Rather, it's being used for the edification and the praise of God's people. That's how you can tell that the wife has Undergone this refining process, her tongue is restrained. Restrained from doing the wrong thing from slander, from gossip, from working in tandem with the devil. And again, I read the James passage Because James isn't making any distinction between men and women. All of our tongues have problems. All of our tongues can be used uh to to to not to to to to praise god and to and to curse men. Uh and and and uh james says this should not be the case We shouldn't do that, but we're susceptible to it. The tongue is a small member of the body, but it sets a forest on fire with falsehood. Now, another of the qualities that is to be refined in the life of the deacon's wife is the question of temperance. She is to be temperate. And again, we see these qualities reflected in the in the elders as well as the deacons. First Timothy chapter two verse three verse two is among the qualities for an uh an elder or a bishop, he must be blameless, the husband of one, wife vigilant. temperate of good behavior given to hospitality and a teach. Temperate, a temperate person, I believe It's it's sometimes translated sober and and clearly uh uh That has reference in our culture and probably the host events of uh of of having um uh not being intoxicated with wine or other kinds of alcohol. I mean that's one It's one direction that temperance takes. But temperance also takes the direction of being kind of level-headed Kind of not given to flights of fancy. Or in the context of of of Timothy Remember again what Timothy was to do, what charge Paul gave to Timothy. It was To make sure that he promotes sound doctrine and to prevent God's people from being given over to fables. See, I would argue that a person who is not temperate or intemperate is a person who is susceptible To being led astray by fables and myths, as opposed to one who is focused on sound doctrine. And certainly you could uh judge the um the that particular quality in a deacon's life. Uh i i i i if i it she exhibited a pattern of being one who's always on the side of sound doctrine as opposed to one who's always on the side of promoting fables. And and see see you can you can you can judge that there's this refining process. And uh uh by the by how she uh how she understands things. And um She would be one who would be with Timothy in the promoting of sound doctrine, not fighting against Timothy. see as he was trying to carry out his responsibility. And above all, the text says that she's to be faithful in all things She has a life that can be easily discerned as being a life that is faithful before God. And faithful unto Christ. You could find her always speaking of the goodness and the mercy of God. Unto her and promoting the things of God. Faithfulness must be at the center of her life And all of her actions. And this isn't, I mean, this isn't untrue of any of us. This is what should characterize all of us. But a deacon's wife is one that has to have that those qualities in refinement. In a certain way, she is is someone you whose faith you can look up to as someone who is mature in her understanding and in her practice of the Christian faith It puzzles me, really puzzles me, as to why Paul gives the list of qualifications for elders and then deacons. And then he talks about deacons' wives. But did you notice he didn't say anything about elders' wives? Uh I I you know, um Why are deacons' wives, you could say, why are they why are they singled out? I mean, uh there's several ways you can answer that. Uh Paul is Much of which applies to the deacons would apply also to the elders, and Paul was just throwing it in here uh uh uh that it does have application to deacons but it also deacons' wives but it also has application to elders' wives. I can't help but believe that that's not the case. But I would like to suggest, and this is just speculation, uh I think it's though gr fairly well grounded, most likely The deacons' wives are being addressed here because They will have, through their husbands, access to confidential information that information which if it was a person's intent to injure another person in the body of Christ, they could use that information. For example, in slanderous sweat. That's the only thing I can come up with and I invite anyone else to try to come up with answer to the question of why just the beacon swights and not the elder slides and electrons. Elder swites too sometimes have access to contributions But you know, people get really think people tend to really feel embarrassed about coming to defence and expressing the fact that the period. Then to come back that in that information Shared with the beacon in confidence somehow gets spread all over the place. Imagine how hurtful that You can imagine how injurious that would be to that person, but also to the the spiritual life of the church and also to the name of Christ. So uh I I I suspect that that the the work that the deacons do has something to do with why their wives are addressed. And uh I certainly would value your feedback on that. Because it has puzzled me. And uh I don't have the Well um I uh we will continue to be going through uh these um these uh these qualifications, the remainder uh of qualifications in the upcoming uh weeks uh and we're almost finished those qualifications. And um I would pray, ask you to uh give thanks to the Lord and praise to the Lord that we do have faithful elders indeed. May God bless his word. Amen. Let us pray. Lord, um we would uh we come to you now at this time and and would ask you, Heavenly Father That with this particular set of qualifications, as with all of the qualifications that you mentioned for church office, That your entire church would embrace these qualifications for choosing leaders in the church. For truly, O Lord, it does appear that you have invested a good bit of time and thought About what leaders ought to be in your church. And you haven't just set it here in these qualifications, but you've also dealt with the disciples in their questions about greatness and leadership in your kingdom. And you remind them, O Lord, that true greatness and true leadership. Is not about ruling in a harsh and domineering kind of way as the Gentile read Romans ru Roman rulers did unto the people of Israel. But the leaders of the church are to first and foremost the servants of God. servants of God to his people. And Father, we pray that Your churches would be filled with examples of churches that have chosen their leaders based upon these principles And that the people of God are subsequently being blessed and spiritually nurtured and cared for, as well as having their physical needs Met as well. Father, we pray that we here at Trinity would always be diligent Lord, as we think about other leaders now and in the future, to follow your guidelines, your principles, your the stated things that we ought to be looking for in the lives of the the leaders and their and their wives. We pray these things. Now in Jesus' name. Amen.