Please be seated. Listen as I read from God's Word. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Hear the word of God. For we know that if our earthly home, this tent, is destroyed, we have a building from God. A house not made with hands, eternal in the heavens. For in this we groan earnestly, desiring to be clothed with our habitation, which is from heaven. If indeed having been clothed, we shall not be found naked. For we who are in this tent groan, being burdened Not because we want to be unclothed, but further clothed, that mortality may be swallowed up by life. Now, he who has prepared us for this very thing is God, who has also given us the Spirit as a guarantee. So we are always confident, knowing that while we are at home in the body, we are absent from the Lord. For while we walk by faith, not by sight. We are confident, yes, well pleased, rather, to be absent from the body and to be present with the Lord. Therefore, we make it our aim, whether present or absent, to be well pleasing to him For we trust all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that each one may receive the things done in the body, according to what he has done, whether good or bad. Knowing, therefore, this terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But we are well known to God, and I do trust that we are well known in your consciences For we do not commend ourselves again to you, but give you opportunity to boast on our behalf. That you may have an answer for those who boast in appearance and not in heart. For if we are beside ourselves, it is for God For if we are of sound mind, it is for you. The love of Christ constrains us. Because we judge thus that if one died for all, then all died, and he died for all, that those who live should live no longer for themselves. But for him who died for them and rose again. Therefore, from now on, we regard no one according to the flesh, even though we have known Christ according to the flesh. Yet now we know him thus no longer. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things have become new. Now all things are of God, who has reconciled us to himself through Jesus Christ And has given us the ministry of reconciliation. That is, God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself not imputing their trespasses to them, and has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Now then, we as ambassadors for Christ, as though God were pleading through us, we implore you on Christ's behalf, be reconciled to God. For he made him who knew no sin to be sin for us, that we might become the righteousness of God in him. May God add his blessing to the reading of the word. The Apostle Paul is the author of this book, and he wrote it to a group of people. Who were in the church, who were like any other group of people in the church. They just happened to live in Corinth, in the present-day country of Greece They were just like any other Christian church in that there were problems in the church Even though they professed Christ as Lord and Savior, nevertheless, the working of that out in their daily life was creating serious issues. So serious, in fact, that the Apostle Paul had to send the first letter of Corinthians to the church To tell them that their actions, their sinful actions, were not becoming of people who named Jesus as their Lord and Savior. It's a it's a very strong letter, as most of you know. But this is the second letter. And the second letter Is much much more um pastoral in tone Not that pointing out sin isn't pastoral, but this is more encouraging, more uplifting, more edifying. And the interesting thing about the the the process, the thing that Paul uses to ground much of his discussion Is the significance of the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Now, today is the day that we celebrate The fact that Christ rose from the dead. And most of the time you're going to hear sermons that talk about The people who went to the tomb saw the open grave were astounded at what happened, ran back, told the disciples, the disciples didn't believe You know, the focus is on the event. And I don't want to I don't want to at all diminish the event and the aftermath. But we're 30 years beyond that time. And the question that Paul wants to deal with, and I think he does so very successfully, particularly here in chapter 5. The question that he wants to address is to connect the event of the resurrection with the day-to-day living of God's people. What is it about the resurrection of Jesus Christ occurring millennia ago? What is it that has Significance for you today as you live your life in this world He wants the people at Corinth, people who affirm that they believe in Jesus Christ. To understand that with the resurrection comes a new life. Comes a new life. And that new life involves many things. I I just reading over this just reading it again, I I was struck with the fact I think I could preach about fifty sermons out of this one chapter without much difficulty. So now I have to try to do that in one. But I'm going to do it in a broad sweep, in a broad outline of the chapter. And I want you to focus with me on three things, three things that the Apostle Paul, I think, highlights As telling the people he's writing to what the resurrection of Christ involved, how it's involved in their life as they're living right now. Um now the first thing that we're talk the first thing that it involves is the realization That every believer in Christ has an eternal home. Verse 1 For we know that if our earthly house of this temple were dissolved, we have a building of God, a house not made with hands Eternal in the heavens. When he says earthly home of this tabernacle I think that's a metaphor. It's rather flowery language, but he's clearly talking about the believer's physical body If it is dissolved, as hard as we may think of bodies dissolving, nevertheless, the image is one of evaporating into thin air And there are occasions when people are here today and gone tomorrow and obliterated by some sort of natural catastrophe. Tornadoes, floods, fires, where people suddenly die and the end of life occurs. But for the believer But for a believer, the total destruction of the physical body is not the end of life. In the very breath where he says, if this tabernacle were dissolved, we have a building of God. We have a building of God. And look at this building. It's not made with hands, but it's eternal in heaven. That's where our building is. Eternal in heaven. You see sometimes these tragic stories A couple of years ago, when Moore, Oklahoma, right outside of Oklahoma City, got hit with an F5 tornado. You might remember the scenes. You might remember the interviews. And some of the interviews were such that houses were completely blown off the foundation. Just gone, just destroyed, imploded. And people would say, I've lost everything. I've lost everything. There were some who also, well, they'd say we were they've lost everything, and immediately our response is, we are sad and we want to help, and that's a good response. But in reality, the scripture here suggests that believers in Christ have lost nothing. Have lost nothing even if they die and if all they have goes up in smoke. They have lost nothing. Their treasures are not gone, because their treasures should not be of this world If everything of our treasure is gone, for believers, God is still with you, you have an eternal heavenly home. Job experienced exactly what I'm saying: the devastating loss of his home and his family. What did that man say? The Lord gives, and the Lord taketh. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Job understood. In Christ, God has an eternal heavenly home prepared for you. Did Jesus not say, in my father's house, there are many mansions? And if I go, I go to prepare a place for you. This idea that we have an eternal heavenly home has dramatic implications for you. As you live every day. Because what it reminds you of is not only the transitory, ephemeral nature of this life But it reminds you, don't get sucked up into it Don't put your treasure where thieves break in and moths destroy and rust corrupts as Jesus would say. Christians must never get it too attached to this world. I'm not saying it's wrong to have riches. Not saying it's wrong to be poor. I'm just saying the world is not gonna be any guarantee of providing a spiritual home or an eternal home for I don't know when that day is coming. I know it's coming. The scripture witnesses to it. But you, as you live, you cannot get any spiritual benefit from anything in this world except Jesus. You cannot get anything eternal from this world except if you You know Jesus. Take comfort That you have a new home, bought and paid for by the blood of Jesus Christ. Even in the tragedy of loss I remember lady in Moore, Oklahoma, who said being interviewed, her house is gone She said, a lot like Job, God provides. God is sovereign. He'll take care of me. There are times, as verse two and verse four mention, that we groan. We groan desiring to be clothed with our habitation, which is from heaven. Verse four, we that are in this tabernacle groan, being burdened Not for that which we would be not that we would be unclothed, that we would be clothed upon, that mortality might be swallowed up of life. Okay, God has said that we have an eternal home. God has said we have an eternal home with Him in glory. How can you be certain? How can you be certain of that? Well, like everything else, the text answers that question I'll direct your attention to verse 5. Now he who has prepared for us this very thing is God. Who has given us the spirit as a what? Guarantee. As a guarantee. The Holy Spirit is the guarantee of our salvation, the application of our salvation, and it's the guarantee that we We'll live with Christ. We will live now and we will live forever. Now, when we say guarantee today in this world, we're somewhat jaded. by the word guarantee. I remember the first time uh one of the first times I bought a car And got new tires. And oh man, we got a tire. We got tires on there. I think they were Michelins. Oh, shouldn't have said that. But it wouldn't matter. We got tires and they had a sixty thousand mile guarantee. And I said, oh, wow. Sixty thousand miles. Guess how look how much I can drive on these tires. And they'll last sixty thousand miles And then, you know, get halfway through the process and they're they're getting a little worn, but they're okay. But I drive over a nail. And I take it to the to the to the repair shop. Whip out my 60,000 mile guarantee. Are you guys going to take care of this? And you know what they said? They said well what they said was, well you didn't read the fine print. Yeah, we'll fix it. But we prorate the cost of the tire. And many times with other guarantees, you just don't get what you pay for. We bought We bought when we got here we bought new windows for our house. Twenty-three windows in our house It was not cheap. It was nice. Covered, you know, kept us a little warmer in the winter and a little cooler in the summer. Did its job And then wherever they bought the locks from, the locks, as you're locking them and opening them, started breaking. Just from turning it, you know. I guess the sun kind of melted them. It kind of, these metal locks, it kind of pointed out their inferiority. So call up the company. Come out and fix the locks. They went out of business. You can't find them. I did finally get the locks fixed, so you don't have to worry about my locks in case you were. But the point is, human guarantees They're not worth the paper they're written on. I could go on and on about that, because it's kind of a pet peeve. But you can bank on the guarantees that God gives. He's not going to prorate your time in heaven if you mess up Because you see, the Holy Spirit is the guarantee of our eternal home. And who is this Holy Spirit? Where is he? I don't see him. Well, you dummy, he's not physically present. He's spiritually He lives in the hearts and the lives of God's people. Again, remember Ezekiel 36. I will give you a new heart and a new spirit. I will take away your heart of stone, and I will give you a heart of flesh. And the Spirit will help you. Verse 26 The Spirit will help you to keep my laws and live accordingly to my will for my glory. I will sprinkle clean water upon you and you will be clean. And on and on it goes John chapter 14, 16, Jesus fulfills this promise of the coming of the Holy Spirit He says to his disciples, on the verge of his leaving, he says, I will provide the Father, and he will give you another comforter. Which is the Spirit, that he may abide with you forever. In the verse 26 and 27 of John 14, he says, the Comforter who is the Holy Spirit. Whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things. He shall bring to you your remembrance whatever I have said to you. And so on. Ephesians 1, 13 and 14, in whom ye also trusted. After ye have heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, to whom ye have believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit. Of promise, which is the earnest. The earnest money. Y'all know what earnest money is. You buy a house, you put down earnest money It's the guarantee you're going to follow through and buy the house. God has given to you the Holy Spirit now, the minute you come to know Christ, to help you to live for Christ. It is the guarantee that what God has promised is true, that your heavenly home is in heaven. And in the end, you will not be ashamed. You will not die and find this was all just a big joke. Ha ha. It's not. God is behind it all. When you say, Well, I don't see the Spirit, where is he? The skeptics will say Brothers and sisters, I had the privilege of being a minister of the gospel, and I see the Spirit in you. I see the Spirit in you, in this congregation, and in other Christians. Well how is that spirit, how do you see him? I don't physically see him, but I see him at work. I see him at work re-producing what are called the fruits of the spirit Galatians five. Love, joy, peace, goodness, kindness, mercy, patience. I see him producing that in your interactions with each other. I see you in the most remarkable of ways In this congregation, where we've got old and new, uh old and young Rich and poor, mostly poor. Somewhere in between. Black and white. This is real. The world out there has nothing like this. Why? Because you have the Spirit in you. And He's teaching you, money doesn't matter Age doesn't matter. Color doesn't matter. What matters is Jesus And that's something. Ain't that great. We have this new spirit. The last thing I want to point out from this text Is Paul's statement to the effect that having the Spirit and having, because the resurrection, the Spirit of Christ is the Spirit of the Resurrected Christ? And because that Spirit is within us, helping us to put off the old thoughts, the evil thoughts, and bring on the new in Christ. This demands that we live a new life. That we live a new life. Part of that new life is focused in verse 9. Wherefore we labor, that whether present or absent, we may be accepted of Him. Whatever we do, we do for God's pleasure, for God's approval, for his acceptance. This does not come naturally It does not come naturally that the Church of Jesus Christ learns to love one another across all barriers. And a lot of times it doesn't come easily. It comes with some pain and suffering. But it doesn't always come, it isn't easy either to learn to live for Christ, to believe that We are to rid ourselves of the old thoughts and to put on the new thoughts. If you want to know what those are, go to Colossians 3. Talks about putting off the old man and putting on the new man. Christ's resurrection and the coming of the Holy Spirit changes our outlook on life. It changes our orientation. It changes our heart. You remember back on the second week of February this year? Maybe the whole month of February. Three weeks in a row, or three out of four weeks we didn't have church. Because it was snowing and it was cold. And it was gray, and it was bleak, and the wind was blowing, and the cold was getting worse. And you say to yourself, oh God, when is spring coming? It's here. It's here now. There's green grass. Well, the beginnings of green grass. They're flowers In all its radiance, the lilies of the field, even Solomon in all his glory, was not clothed like these. Just look at it today. Not a flake in the sky 60-some degrees. Trees and plants thought for dead are coming back to life. The resurrection of Christ to eternal life is once again reflected for us in creation. We see the pattern of almost death to Lou Life. Every year we see it When spring comes, after winter. What does that actually mean? It's nice, it looks out, look outside, looks better. What does that mean about me? I said it, the resurrection of Christ gives us a new direction to live. And we see that we want to do that which is accepted by God. But also verses 14 and 15 point out something else. The love of Christ constrains us Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we are all dead, and that he that died for all, that they should live they which live should not henceforth live to themselves. You see that? Not live to themselves, but unto him who died for them and rose again. Or you might substitute that 2 Corinthians passage with 1 Corinthians passage, 6 verse 19 and 20. Know you not that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who is within you, which you have of God and are not your own? You were bought with a price. What price? The blood of Christ. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's To live for Christ means get rid of living for yourself. Who is first in your priorities? It means love Christ's. Love for his death and resurrection. Love for that compels you to change. That change can be witnessed further by the desire to reach out to other Christians with the message of life. And the victory of Christ over sin and death. It is a radical change that Paul is asking for. We are nothing less in verse 17 than new creatures. Totally new creations. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things have become new. The old is passed away. No longer do I live to indulge sin. That the use of the Greek there, the word that's used, means archaic or ancient. The old way is ancient. Our past is passed away We are new creatures. I love the Greek. We are kine kathesis. New creatures. Tell your friends, I'm a kine cotessis. Let them figure out what that means. I'm a new creature. God is creating me new, with a new heart, a new purpose. And it's the resurrection, you see, that unleashes the spirit that allows that work to be done on an ongoing basis. I said you're a new creature. You're not a perfect creature But you're new. And you don't live like the old preacher does Christians, take comfort in your new home in Christ, even in tragedy or loss. We are now ambassadors for the kingdom of Christ. And we're ambassadors that have a message. A ambassador goes to carry the message of someone who is an official leader. And our message is Sins are forgiven. The wrath of God has been removed from those who believe in Christ. Christ has suffered death for them. Christ has conquered death's power by no longer remaining in the grave. He did die, and when he died, he took our wages of sin with him, and he buried them. And he rose again with power over death. And as a result, all who believe in him are united to him We have a new eternal heavenly home. We have the Holy Spirit as God's promise that all he says to us regarding Christ is true. We have No lon we are no longer enamored by sin, which is I like to say is me first. Me before anybody else. We instead desire to be Christ's servants. And tell others what Christ has done. We want to honor his name We love Christ. We live for Christ. Let us behave like the new creatures we are in Christ. Now we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead, be reconciled to God. Be reconciled to God. For God hath made Jesus to be sin for you. He who knew no sin, so that we might be called the righteousness of God in him. This is what the resurrection is all about. It is absolutely central to your faith. God help us to live For Jesus' glory. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, as we thank you for reminding us again of the Current reality of the power of your resurrection. We ask, O Heavenly Father, that your good people here Will keep these matters in their minds and their hearts. And then in all that they do, they would be drawn closer to you, with love for you, with adoration for you. May their lives reflect the power of your spirit at work in them, conforming them more and more to the image of Jesus Christ. We pray it in his name. Amen.