Leviticus twenty six, one through thirteen. Now this section of God's Word Occurs at a time earlier than Jeremiah, much earlier, a time when God had led Israel out of Egypt. They wandered in the wilderness for many years, and they're just about ready to cross over into the Promised Land, and to live in the land flowing with milk and honey Now, as they are about to go into that land, Leviticus chapter 26 chronicles. what it is that God expects of his people. And there are a a list of things that he uh wants them to do in order that it will go well. in the land. And I'm going to read that list. It's not there there are other lists that are more elaborate than this But if you you should also realize that not only does God say, This is what I want you to do, and if you do that, the blessings will flow to you. Also, this section talks about if you don't do this, then there will be judgment And you can't expect blessings in the promised land. I'm not gonna read the judgments, but you can do that on your own, but I do want to draw your attention to the blessings and to what God promises to do for his people as they come into the promised land. And though this is a message that is directed to Israel in the Old Testament, it is no less applicable to you today. Because just as they were the people of God in the Old Testament, you're the people of God in Christ in the New Testament. You're part of that promise that God is made. I will be preaching from verse 12 of this passage, and it's a familiar one. Let us hear the word of God. You shall not make idols for yourself, neither a carved image nor a sacred pillar shall you rear up for yourself. Nor shall you set up an engraved stone in your land to bow down to it, for I am the Lord your God. You shall keep my Sabbaths and reverence my sanctuary. I am the Lord. If you walk in the statutes and keep my commandments and perform them, then I will give you rain in its season. The land shall yield its produce, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit. You're refreshing shall last till the time of vintage, and the vintage shall last until the time of sowing. You shall eat your bread to the full and dwell in your land safely. I will give peace in the land, and you shall lie down, and none will make you afraid. I will rid the land of evil beasts, and the sword will not go through your land. You will chase your enemies, and they shall fall by the sword before you. Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight. Your enemies shall fall by the sword before you. For I will look on you favorably and make you fruitful, multiply you, and confirm my covenant with you You shall eat the old harvest and clear out the old because of the new. I will set my tabernacle among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. I will walk among you and be your God, and you will be my people. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of the land of Egypt That you should not be their slaves. I have broken the bands of your yoke and made you walk upright. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. I want to my the sermon titled this morning is The Promise of Divine Presence the promise of divine presence. And again, my text is verse 12, where God says to his people, I will walk among you and be your God. And you will be my people. On the one hand, I'm very pleased to be here and to see you all again. Uh As you all know, uh you have a special place in my heart and twenty-five years ministry here. Uh And being away now for two has not changed that special place in my heart But I come also with concerns. I come with concerns for you I come to you this morning with concerns over recent events. in this congregation and the um the pain and the hurt which I know has attended those recent events So I decided I would see if I could preach a new sermon. Not pull one out of the barrel. and uh refine it a little bit and make it apply. Uh this is a brand new sermon and you'll have to judge whether I still got it or not So let's look at this passage today together. And let's start off by acknowledging the fact That people, even today, in this world in which we live, have always sought after God, even if they had a variety of different reasons. But ultimately, their search for him is due to the fact that the creature, us wants to know how we can have fellowship with our Creator. The creature wants to know how we can know God, our creator, how we can live with him, how we can relate to him How he is not simply God in the abstract up there, but he is God in the presence with us. And so man has looked everywhere for God. Some think they can find him as the capital F force. Others think meditation will lead them to God. Others By rigidly denying their desires Still others by practicing yoga. And others have sought to find God in building ornate and beautiful cathedrals. Even atheists who say there is no God say that because they've given up trying to find him. But you, as true believers in Christ, know where God is And you know how easy it is for anyone to find him Today, this sermon will go out over sermon audio. And hopefully People will discover that God is hiding from nobody. He is easily found when you look in the right place. We want to tell the world where God is and hopes that they also will find him and enjoy the blessings that God has shared with us in Christ. Who have faith in him. So, two points today. Where Can all people find God? Point number one. And point number two, what has God given to those who seek Him and find Him? First question, where can everyone find God? Where can you find God? Well the scriptures tell us that God, first of all, is revealed in the creation. The heavens declare the glory of God. Psalm 19, verse 1. There is not one place where the language of heaven is not heard. All around the earth, the heavens declare the glory of God. Secondly, Romans chapter 1, verse 19 and following says Because what may be known of God is manifest in them, for God has shown it to them. For since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power. And Godhead. In other words, Romans is saying the same thing as Psalm 19, verse 1 The heavens declare the glory of God. God's invisible attributes are clearly seen by everybody. That's an interesting statement. How do you see something that's invisible? Well the creation keeps telling you God is. God exists. There's no denying that fact from what we see in creation. Now, Romans goes on to say that even though men see this They are without excuse. Because although they knew God, they didn't glorify God. Nor were they thankful. But they became futile in their thoughts. Their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing to be wise, they became fools. And change the glory of God into an um uh in a into an image made like corruptible men. Birds and four-footed animals and creeping things. In other words, what Paul is saying is though people are searching for God and seeking for God, what they see from the creation In Romans chapter 1, that doesn't lead them to worship God. Unfortunately, it leads them to worship false gods gods that they erect with their hands, gods that they erect with their minds. He talks about four-footed beast gods and winged gods All kinds of gods. They because of our sin, we will not acknowledge what we see out there of God's glory. We will know that there is God, but we will erect a false God. And we will bow down and worship that false God. So, Romans 1 explains why, even though people seek after God, many seek after God. Their search is not fruitful. Our sin does not lead us to God. On the contrary, it leads us to worship false gods. Now, it's not just that creation Is a place where you can see that there is a God. God gave to man something else. This time it wasn't his image being proclaimed upon the creation that he has made. This time it is something called his word. This the Bible, the Holy Scriptures. In this word, God has given A view of himself. If you seek him in his word, you will find him. You will find not only him, but you will find his will for your life, and you will find the story of how he saves us sinners from our sin and our idolatry and and our denial even that there is a God, the God. Where can you find God? Creation? The Word The Word of God. It's written that you might know Him. And knowing Him, that you might have fellowship with Him. So, what has God given to those who seek him and find him? This is part two. And now we look at Leviticus chapter 26 and verse 12. As I said previously, God gave these words to the Old Testament people of God, the nation of Israel, the Hebrews, before they came into the promised land. Verse twenty six excuse me, verse twelve of Leviticus twenty-six is the Ultimate the pinnacle, the zenith of God's promises to those people It's a promise of blessing. The words, I will be your God. And you will be my people, are nothing less than the promise of the God of creation. To be present with you, to be present with his people Notice in those few words in verse twelve, God says, I will walk among you. Well, frankly, what does it mean to walk among somebody? Doesn't it mean that you'll be with them? At least, at the very least, doesn't it mean that? Doesn't it also mean that if I walk with you, then I know you. Or I want to know you. I want to be w I want to be with you. Does it not mean that? I mean, that's when you stop and you try to get your mind around that. The eternal, glorious God who created you Wants to be your friend, I will walk among you And you will be my people, and I will be your God. These are compelling words. They're wonderful words. They are, dare I say it, encouraging words But you don't have any idea how encouraging those words are. Because God takes these words And develops around these words an entire salvation plan for his people. For those who are his people, for those who seek him and find him. God will walk among you Now, don't get me wrong. I don't expect God to come down here right now And walk among this congregation in a physical sense. However The Lord Jesus is God. And He did that. He walked among man. He walked with man And before and just to give away the current situation The Lord Jesus, of course, has ascended into heaven. And so you might ask, well, where is God now? When he ascended into heaven, he sent another comforter. And Jesus said to his disciples, It's actually better for you that I go into heaven. Because I will send you another comforter. And then he defined or described or named that comforter. He called him the Holy Spirit. And if you're a a believer in these things Then the Holy Spirit doesn't just walk with you, isn't just among you But the Bible teaches he is in you. In you In each and every one of you. And in this congregation of believers I will be your God and you will be my people, is God's fundamental baseline promise Of the fulfillment of his covenant with his people. A covenant that stretches from the beginning of time to the end of time The promise of God's presence, you see, was also found Not only with the Jews of Moses' day when Leviticus 26 was referring to that time period. But it extended back to Abraham's experience with God. Abraham was invited to to have a special relationship with God. There's another way to say it. Genesis 17, verse 7 God speaks to Abraham and says, I will establish my covenant with you. In other words, I'll be in a relationship with you. I will establish my covenant with you, and between you and me And your descendants after you, and here he says, for an everlasting covenant To be God to you and to your descendants after you. You see the connections there I will be your God, you will be my people. To Abraham, God said, I'm going to make an everlasting covenant, not a covenant that lasts for a month, but forever. I'll make an everlasting covenant to you and to your descendants after you. I will be your God, Abraham, and even your descendants will be my people. You and your descendants will be my people. God with his people is seen throughout the Bible. The promises to Abraham, the promises to Moses For God to be a God and for us to be his people are all fulfilled in Jesus. All fulfilled in Jesus. You remember, don't you, the first comm commandment? You shall have no other gods before me? Do you remember the preamble? The Lord your God who goes before you, he will fight for you. That's not the preamble, excuse me. I got it wrong. The preamble is found in Exodus 20, verse 1. God spoke all these words. I am the Lord your God, who brought you out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. I am the Lord your God. I brought you out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. I took you away from slavery. And I brought you to be my God. I am your God. I brought you to worship me. I am with you. And you remember all the stories of Exodus. How God was with his people. You remember when the Egyptians are pursuing the Israelites, how God comes at the Red Sea experience as a pillar of fire. And protects his people while destroying the Egyptians. Or keeping the Egyptians away from destroying his people. You remember how when the people grumbled and said, We don't got we don't got no food to eat. It'd be better if we go back to Egypt. Remember what God did? Manna from heaven. When they got tired of manna and complained, what did God do? I'll take care of my people. I will give them quail. When they complained again, we don't have anything to drink, what does God do? Strikes, as Moses striked the rock, from which water flowed God cares for his people. And that's the significant thing to think about when you start thinking about God with you. God cares for his people. Not only, you see, does God deliver his people out of Egypt. But for the rest of the time of the Old Testament and on into the New Testament, God condescends to be a shepherd to his people. And what does the shepherd do? Leads, guides, cares for, gathers. Provides for the sheep. Anything the sheep needs. The shepherd is there. The faithful shepherd is there. Remember Jeremiah 23 Some of the shepherds God had established for Israel weren't doing their job. They didn't care about the people. But God said, even in Jeremiah 23, He said, I myself Will gather my people. And I will provide good shepherds to take care of the people. Verse 4 of Jeremiah 23. Beloved, there is no better fulfillment. Of God saying, I will provide good shepherds to take care of the people. There's no better fulfillment than Jesus. Because Jesus said in John chapter ten, I am the good shepherd. I laid down my life for the sheep. Everybody knows Psalm twenty-three. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Who is your good shepherd? The Lord Jesus Christ. Who's going to lead you to green pastures? That give you the things you need to sustain life? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. Who is going to feed you when you're hungry? Who is going to be your friend? Who's going to be there when you die? He will take you through the valley of the shadow of death because, my friends, he has already gone through it himself. and defeated it. He knows the way through death to glory. The Lord is with his people. I will be your God, you will be my people. I've told you a million times. What does the name Emmanuel mean? What does it mean? Yeah, God with us. And who was named Emmanuel in the Bible? Jesus. You shall call his name Emmanuel. Matthew chapter one God with, or it means God with us. Very briefly, there are two motifs in the new throughout the scriptures that span all of the scriptures. Of helping to describe that the reality that God is with us. One is the shepherd motif. The other is the temple motif. The temple motif. And I didn't notice this right away, but if you go back to Leviticus chapter 12, uh 26 again, and you look at verse 12, look at the verse that precedes it, verse 11. I will set my tabernacle among you, and my soul shall not abhor you. I will set my tabernacle among you. What is the tabernacle? Well, Moses was instructed to construct a temporary tabernacle, a tent of meeting. It was a tent. And in the tent of meeting there was the items that God had told him to put there But those items signified God with his presence. Because Israel was a wandering people, the tabernacle had instructions for how to make it portable. And wherever Israel went, God went also with his people. Until finally Israel settles in the promised land. And under David and Solomon, what do they do? They build a temple. And in that temple was something called the Ark of the Covenant. And I think you know what was in there. The Ark of the Covenant, in the Ark of the Covenant, was the book of the law, the the uh rod of Aaron that butted And manna. And manna. All of which symbolized God's presence. God's holiness. Remember when Solomon dedicated the temple? What happened? The glory of God came down on that temple and dwelt there. God From heaven, God of glory is with his people. And of course This image of the temple gets its ultimate fulfillment in the scriptures. When the Lord Jesus Christ comes John chapter one. John chapter one says in verse fourteen The word became flesh and dwelt among you. Some of the translations say tabernacle That's what it means. Live with you. I will be your God. I will live with you. And you will be my people. And then in 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 19, the Apostle Paul brings all of this discussion about the temple, God with us to fulfillment. And he says. You he's talking to the Christians at Corinth, who, by the way, didn't have a good record this time about worshiping God and serving him. They had some problems. But he said, nevertheless, you are the temple of the Holy Spirit who lives in you. Remember, I said God lives in you, Holy Spirit lives in you. Fulfillment of the prophecy of Ezekiel 36, that God would dwell in the hearts of his people. I posed the question earlier as we began by asking you to consider how God can be seen or how God can be known. He can be known from creation. He can be known through the reality of understanding that he is revealed savingly in his word. But you as the Christian who believe in Jesus Christ also know God because he is in you. He dwells in you And because of that, you know where to find God. He's not far away. He's in your heart. And all you need to do is to come before Him and believe and pray and trust Him God is in you, and he is your good shepherd He told his people in the book of Isaiah, I read it earlier, fear not, for I am with you. Do not be dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you. Yes, I will help you. I will uphold you with my righteous, omnipotent hand. So, my friends, my good brothers and sisters, what does all this mean to you today at Trinity? You can take comfort in the fact that God is very easy for you to find. He's in his word and he's in Christ. God is with you and in you. That's comforting. That's encouraging. There is nothing on this earth more valuable than that knowledge. But I also know that recent events here at Trinity have been hard for you. It's been hard for you as you wonder why your pastor left. I must tell you that I am saddened by those events and really bewildered. As I suspect you are. We cannot help but wonder why God has permitted this difficult thing to happen to you. Whom he lives with. But in Leviticus 26, God has made a promise to you. Not just to Israel, but to you in Christ. And God has not forgotten you. God has not abandoned you. in Christ. He never will, nor can he. The eternal covenant promise of God can never be taken away from the faithful of God. In Christ. God is with you. God is in you. The blood of Jesus was shed to make that happen. Seek His Word, seek His will in His Word. God's promise of divine presence Has stood the test of time and stretched across the pages of history. God's divine presence is designed to be a comfort to you, even as your faith is being tested Rejoice, your good shepherd is with you. He will help you more than me or anybody else can. That's it.