Open your copy of God's Word now back to Romans chapter 8. Continue our study there this morning. Leave her on page 1122 of your Pew Bibles. Going through a short study of this particular chapter, I think this is our first, fifth Part, fifth sermon on Romans 8. Today we'll be focusing on verses 31 and 32. But for context, we'll start our reading at verse 12 this morning. Let's give attention to the Word of God. Romans chapter eight, beginning at verse twelve. So then, brothers, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh, for if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will live. For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs, heirs of God, and fellow heirs with Christ. Provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility not willingly, but because of him who subjected it in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. And not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, grown inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. Likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. We do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words And he who searches hearts knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. To those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers Those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son But gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Stop our reading there. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we thank you for your word. We ask even now that you'd add your blessing to the reading of it. And we pray, Holy Spirit, that you would now illumine us. That you would open your word to us. That you would guide us in all understanding. Convict us, each one of us, of these truths. And that you'd remind us, Father. Of all your promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. Guide us this morning in this precious truth. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. As you think about what happened in the garden, or actually what happened after Adam and Eve sinned against God in the garden. You remember at the end of chapter 3 of Genesis, they were both driven out of paradise. No longer able to walk with God in the garden, removed from his very presence, removed from that intimate fellowship and communion that they had enjoyed with God before their sin. And the Lord ensured that they would not be able to re-enter the garden as he placed the flaming sword and the cherubim at the only entrance to the garden, at the only entrance back to the tree of life. It gives us a picture of the utter inability certainly of Adam and Eve to enter back into communion with God on their own by their own power, knowing that God purposefully kept them out As we think upon that, as we consider that, as we meditate upon that this morning, it must lead us to ask that question, how can I get back into Paradise. How can I get back into that which Adam and Eve lost, that fellowship, that communion with the triune God? If Adam and Eve lost that communion and I was in them as they did so, then I'm just like them. And I don't have the power to enter back in to that union, that communion with the living God. So how? How can I enter back into a life of communion with my Maker? Now you might be thinking that answer to that question is rather straightforward and simple. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. And of course, we'd all say that's a very good Sunday school answer. And it's an excellent place to begin. But as we come to this text in Romans chapter 8, Paul is asking a rhetorical question. That should cause us deep a bit dig a bit deeper as we answer that question. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up For us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? What is Paul talking about? What all things? What else does someone need? Let me ask their question in a slightly different way. What do you need to enter glory? That's truly a question we should be asking ourselves and answering for ourselves and certainly others. If with Adam you've been locked out, From the tree of life and separated from God. What in addition to Jesus do you need to enter glory? Isn't that what the text is saying? He gives us all things. Well, Paul initially started this having disclosed that ongoing war with sin, with the old man who is within. And as he gets to chapter 8, as he sets that in the backdrop, the ongoing sin, he declares there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And so he's contrasting the spiritual ramifications of being in the flesh versus being in the spirit. And he's reassuring the church at Rome that they're in the Spirit if they're trusting in Jesus, they're indwelt by the Spirit of God, that the Spirit has given life to their mortal bodies. He's proclaiming good news. That's most of what we have in chapter eight. But in the midst of this good news, Paul is also announcing conditions. The mind must be set on the Spirit. I mean you must have faith. And there must be death to the deeds of the body. You must put to death the deeds of the body. In other words, you must turn from your sins. You must repent. You must have a hatred for your sins. And so within this portion of Paul's gospel to the church in Rome, he's setting forth some of the things needed for one to enter into true fellowship with God. And these references to readers being told that the mind must be set on the Spirit along with repentance, along with death to the deeds of the body. So if that's the case, then how can one attain these things, these all things? That may be too big a question for us to answer this morning. But I think we can take a significant step as we consider Romans chapter 8, verse 32. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us all things? This morning I'd like us to see that the Father gives his Son, along with all things necessary, for the salvation and perfection of his children. The Father gives his son along with all things necessary for the salvation and perfection of his children We'll see that in two simple points this morning. First, the Father gave up his son. Secondly, the Father gives all things. As we're going through this short passage this morning. I'd like you to be asking yourself, what what is it that I lack? What is it that I need to enter into glory? Well first the father gave up his son. Paul begins to summarize the powerful truths that he's already been setting forth. here as you enter into this passage this morning, as he enters into a series of rhetorical questions. Indeed, beginning at verse 31, Paul uses seven heart-probing rhetorical questions that stretches through verse 35. The first of which is this, what shall we say to these things? Well, these things he's speaking of, the doctrine that he set forth already in the first thirty verses here of chapter eight. What shall we say to these things? Paul's design is clear. He's wanting the reader, he's wanting you this morning to engage and participate. He's asking the question, what do you think I've set these truths before you now. What do you think? You've heard these precious promises, these precious truths. How would you summarize them? Where do they lead you? Do you see that God is for you if you're in Christ? The church at Rome needed some assurance of these truths. They needed convincing. Maybe you need convincing this morning. Paul was asking those in Rome to reread. What he'd already written. Wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me see. What then shall we say to these things? What things are you talking about, Paul? Let me go back. Let me reread what you've already set forth before us. If you're asking me to engage, if you're asking me what I think about these things, let me go back. Isn't that what he's asking this morning? To reread what has already been written. Paul knew that that would help. The Spirit knows that would help you if you go back and reread and meditate once again upon these doctrines, these truths. Isn't that how we are convicted? By reading the Word of God as the Spirit takes it up. Well, hear now how the apostle points to the depths of God's love and grace for his children. You see, while the people in Rome, while the church in Rome knew that Jesus, the Son of God, was crucified, died, and buried, and yet They must have been astounded at this truth and the power of it that's set forth in this first clause. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all Martin Lloyd Jones focuses on the need for the church to grasp, to truly grasp the fact that it was God's hand. That caused the wretched suffering of his son. This clause, he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us. Must be opened up. We must grasp it this morning. We must understand it this morning. And I'm taking it together. Some might take these separately, but I'm taking that whole clause together. And I'd like you to see that there are at least two perspectives to consider this. First, I want us to consider this truth from the perspective of the father who gave up his son. And secondly, from the perspective of those for whom the Son was delivered up. So let's begin to consider the Father's perspective. Paul bakes into this clause the unstated truth that the Father loved and loves the Son. With an eternal and unbounded love. That the Son was most precious to the Father. We see that. We don't even have to go further than the baptism of Jesus Christ as God the Father speaks. This is my beloved Son with whom I am well pleased. Son was precious to the Father. And here we read that God the Father has not spared, but delivered over his precious beloved Son. How do we mere mortals begin to understand the depth of this giving up, this delivering? We might begin to taste and appreciate what the father gave up as we consider the account of Abraham taking his son Isaac as a burnt offering. Isn't that exactly what God was trying to teach Abraham as he called him to offer up Isaac? This was his only son by Sarah. This was the son of the promise. Isaac was the only one. This was the Son through whom God was going to fulfill his promises of many descendants, indeed of nations and kings, the promise of land, the promise of an eternal dwelling place. The promise of God being God to Abraham's descendants all flowed through Isaac. In a sense, the history of redemption hinged upon the survival of Isaac. The very name of God as the faithful one stood in the balance, so to speak, on whether or not Isaac would live. And this was the son whom Abraham had waited for, whom he longed for, who was given to him beyond his age of childbearing, so to speak, with his dear wife Sarah. Indeed, Isaac was the one Abraham loved, his only son promised by God, whom he loved and served. Yet the God of creation called upon Abraham to give this one, his only son, to give him up, to give him over, to deliver Isaac up to the consuming flames of suffering. Now make sure you understand this. Not only was Abraham called to give him up, he was called to be the one to give him up. He was called to be the one to slay his son. He was called to be the one to take the last breath out of Isaac. He was called to be the one who would not spare him. But Abraham's suffering truly doesn't compare with that which the Father actually did give. Think of that. What was it that the father gave up As he gave his son over to wicked, malicious, rebellious, God-hating, son-hating sinners. The Father delivered his Son over to those who would have their way with him in mockery, in disdain, in injustice. We sang about it this morning as we sang Psalm 22. The God gave his son over to Satan. In a sense, placing him in Satan's hands, that he might do all. to his son with the power that he had to destroy him. The Father gave the Son over in such a way that from a human perspective that somehow he uncovered or peeled back His purity and his righteousness, so that the filth of your sins could be laid upon him. God the Father spared not his son, and that he was made to be sin, who knew no sin. Commentators are unanimous. The father spared not, meaning That all of God's wrath was poured out on Jesus, on his only son. That's why we read Deuteronomy 28 this morning. The Lord will strike you with wasting disease, with fever, inflammation, fiery heat, with drought, with blight, and mildew. The Lord will strike you with madness. And blindness and confusion of mind, and you shall grope at noonday as the blind grope in darkness. That was what was laid upon Jesus. The Father laid this upon his son. He spared not his son. He delivered him over to his eternal and unquenchable wrath. The just and righteous and deserve punishment for your sins The Father gave his beloved Son over to the wretched curse of being hung on a tree for all the world to see. The Father gave his son over to silence, such that the Father would not hear the voice of his son or see the face of his son as he would cry out to him. On the cross, in the terror and the agony of his suffering, my God, my God, why have you forsaken me? From a human perspective, God the Father gave everything. He spared not his son. He gave up his union, his communion, his fellowship, his loving embrace. with his eternally begotten Son. That which Abraham was asked to do and yet was spared from doing for God the Father would do it for Abraham. Abraham's suffering was only for a short period of time, three days. And as you think of God as timeless, How long did his suffering last as he delivered up his son? Have you considered that? How long does this excruciating pain and separation and agony last for God the Father as he watched his beloved son suffer under his wrath? Oh, how God did suffer, if we can put that in human terms, as he delivered up his son. Well, what about another perspective? What was received? As we consider the second perspective of this divine suffering. So we've considered this truth from the perspective of what God the Father lost, what God the Father suffered, of what he gave up as he gave up his son for you. We've seen the cost. Now let us meditate upon what was received by the children of God as he gave up his son. If you're trusting in the broken body and the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, what did you receive as he was given over to you? Every believer here may be thinking initially, I've received salvation, and that would again be an accurate and good place to begin. But as we have considered the cost to the Godhead, this thinking, this response needs more fullness As the Son was givered up and delivered over to suffer in the place of you, the child of God, each child has been pulled out and spared that which the Son was not spared. From suffering equivalent to the eternal fires of hell that will never be quenched. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ this morning, you've been spared from the excruciating torment that exists and will continue to exist in the place reserved for the unrepentant. Yes. Yes, you've been saved from wretched, filthy, rebellious, damning sins. The faithful have been relieved of the coming eternal wrath. And the just punishment of the living God for sins committed against him. But, brethren, there's more. If you're trusting in Christ this morning, you've received not only salvation from the punishment for your sins, but your sins have been separated from you as far as the East is from the West. Your sins have been peeled back and away and washed clean from your entire being such that the Father no longer sees your filth. Indeed, God the Father only sees the righteousness of Christ. Not only have your sins been washed clean just as Jesus washed the filthy feet of his disciples, you've been covered with his pure righteousness. As God the Father gives his Son to you, you are receiving credit for his perfect law-keeping, thus the favor that he alone merited on the cursed cross of Calvary. The loving kindness, the loveliness of Jesus, the Son, in the eyes of his Father is now yours. As you receive this gift of the delivered up Son. The favor, the favor of God rests Upon you because of Jesus. What kind of price tag can you put On that, on Christ. What did it cost the Father to give him up? How valuable is his pure and perfect blood which has saved you from experiencing even a drop of the wrath of God for your sins? How costly is the Son's righteousness, which kept perfectly every single command, every single law, every single precept that got announced How valuable is His holiness, which allows you to ascend the holy hill of God in a blameless estate with pure hands and a purified heart. How much is it worth for you to be able to enter into the presence of the very God Himself for eternity and enjoy the blessing of being in his presence to worship him? What could you bring to pay for such admission? What could you give? Do you see? Are you grasping, are you believing, are you knowing that the deliverance of his son by his father was and is a priceless gift that's been given? To understand the teaching of this entire verse, you must first understand the unsurpassable value of the gift of the Son. of God. You must understand that what God the Father gave up in delivering up his Son for us all Only then can you understand the value of this precious gift of Jesus Christ. If you can grasp this, then then you will understand that there's absolutely no earthly value that can be set for this one whom the Father has been given All the riches of the kingdoms, of all the nations of the worlds, indeed of this universe, can never compare with the precious precious value of God's gift of delivering up his son for his children. Brings us to our second point, the Father gives all. Well that laid the foundation, didn't it? Then Paul considers this. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? As Paul puts the question, he's really not anticipating, but expects his readers to answer yes, emphatically, yes, God will give us graciously and freely all things with Jesus. This is an argument from the greater to the lesser. The greater being contained in the truth that God the Father spared not and delivered up his son for the children. We've meditated upon that. Given Paul's argument, it was appropriate for us to spend a good bit of time on the greater, but now it seems that we need to spend some time on this matter of all things. So let us now consider how God works day to day in the lives of you, his children, to ensure that each one will be acquitted on the day of judgment. This truth is captured here in the middle of the answer to the Heidelberg Catechism, question one, all things must work together for my salvation. It seems to be exactly what Paul is saying here in the second half of this verse. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Paul is assuring those in Rome. And God is using all things. All things We might begin with the consideration that there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, and at the same time Paul explains that there will be suffering for Christians in this life. There needs to be other things brought So thus in part Paul seems to be answering the question, answering those unspoken doubts of the church. Will I make it? Will I persevere? Will this suffering take me away from Jesus? Will I continue to repent? Will the attacks of Satan actually hit the mark in my heart? Will I survive until Jesus returns or he takes me home? Will I be able to suffer with Jesus Christ and maintain my faith? Will I begin to backslide? And never come out of it. So Paul's answering those doubts. He's answering those unspoken questions. He's assuring the church. He's first assuring the church, alluding to the power of God. Peter writes, agreeing with Paul, that he has caused us to be born again through a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time See, it's God's power who's working through this provision of all things along with Jesus Christ that will ensure that the children are spared that which he did not spare his own son. Westminster Confession sums this up as well. As God has appointed the elect unto glory, so has he, by the eternal and most free purposes of his will. foreordained all the means thereunto. God has purposed and planned And by his providential hand is using means to ensure your salvation. Seems to me that that's what Paul is getting at when he refers to all things. So what is needed? What's needed to enter glory? What are these all things? John Flavil, a Puritan preacher, puts it this way. How shall he not call them effectually, justify them freely, sanctify them thoroughly, and glorify them eternally? How shall he not clothe them, feed them, protect them, deliver them? The Bible is saying, this is all things This is what God includes. This is in the all things. Well to answer this fully would take probably the rest of this week. Well let's just consider two. Two of the all things. First, faith. It might come to mind first. That faith in Christ is needed in order for one to enter into communion with God. Faith in Christ is needed in order for one to enter into glory. It's exactly what Paul and Silas tell the Philippian jailer. Believe in the Lord Jesus. Jesus accomplished salvation. He did everything, every deed, every act required by his father to earn life for every child And thus for a sinner to take hold of that, you must believe, you must have faith in Christ Jesus. How will he not graciously give us all things? Is not faith included in all things? Yes, absolutely. It's a gift of God. For by grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God, that which is perfected by Jesus. Maybe you're wondering this morning, is my faith strong enough? Do I have enough faith? Are my doubts chipping away at my weak faith such that I will not be saved? Oh, beloved in the Lord. Quiet your heart and remember that Jesus said, I say to you, if you have faith like a grain of mustard seed, you will say to this mountain, move from here to there, and it will move. Nothing will be impossible for you. And then we need to pray for more, don't we? Each of us. Plead with the Lord. The one who spared not his own son, the one who gives, who freely gives all things For your salvation, pray for more faith. Pray for stronger faith. Pray for your doubts to be crushed under his precious word and promises. For he did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all, how will he not also graciously give us all things? Might lead us also to repentance, the other side of that same coin with faith. Dr. Luke tells us that without repentance, men will perish. I tell you, but unless you repent, you will all likewise perish. Repentance, a turning away from sin, turning to God, with a pursuit of new Obedience, a pursuit toward new obedience is needed to enter glory. Again, you might be thinking like Paul. I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. I've done it again. I've sinned again in the same way against God I've spoken harshly to my wife. I've thought more of my own interests than of my neighbors. I've refused to obey my parents. Are you undone in your redoing that evil which you keep doing? How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? See, Paul implies that repentance will actually follow and be pursued by all that have been given the gift of faith. You see, me may struggle with our repentance. It may take time. We may take constant and continual prayer, and it will never be perfect, this side of glory. But repentance will happen as the Spirit continues to abide. And as you remember How will he not also with him graciously give me all things We've seen these things now, these two truths. The reality, the fact that God the Father has delivered up, he's not spared his own son. Such that Paul could write, there therefore is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. This is what the Father has done He sent his only eternally begotten Son to accomplish salvation for each and every one of his sons and daughters. And secondly, we've heard that the Son has been delivered up or been given up for us all It's this second part that presents the final question. Are you included this morning in the us all? Has Jesus been delivered up for you? Has He been given over for you? Have you experienced the cleansing of his blood? Has your conscience, burdened with the weight of sin, been relieved and placed in rest in Jesus Christ? You may understand and acknowledge the reality of the deliverance of the Son by the Father, but has it been applied to you? Has this cleansing, this righteousness been gifted to you this morning? Are you included in the us all? For Paul does not mean that Jesus Christ has been delivered up for every single person who has ever been or ever will be. He cannot mean that, and he does not mean that, for he's already stated that there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Are you in Christ Jesus this morning? The answer to that question lies in whether or not you have faith and are repenting. Described within the all things given by God along with His Son. If you're questioning this morning whether your faith is sincere, whether you've actually been given the gift, listen again to the words of Paul. God, the Father, has given up and delivered over his Son. He so loved the world that he gave up his son. Hear the love of God and pray that the Spirit would convict you. To come and believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ, that he would grant you new birth, that you may indeed believe upon the Son. And if your answer to that question this morning is, yes, I am in Christ Jesus, then praise the Father. That he spared not his son. And has given you all things for your salvation. Yes, the Father gives his Son and all things necessary for the salvation and perfection of his children. The love of God is so powerfully and pointedly set forth by the Apostle Paul here in this verse, this single verse of Romans chapter 8. Adam and Eve could not enter back into the garden on their own. But the living and loving God could not be denied his glory. And thus gives up and delivers over his beloved son, along with all things, ensuring your salvation this morning. Praise be for his eternal and unchangeable love. Amen. Father and our God, oh how blessed are we You blessed us with your son. You've blessed us with all things. Father, we ask that you give us assurance this morning. Assurance of faith, assurance of repentance, assurance of the power of the blood of Jesus, assurance of your love that is so deep we can't even grasp it But we thank you for it. And we ask, Lord God, that you continue to work your love in our hearts. That our praise would be even stronger and more vocal. That others, even now, others would be able to hear of it. Help us, Lord. Increase our faith. Make our repentance better. And give us even more praise for Jesus. We ask all