Well our message this morning is from the book of Acts, continuing from where I was last week, and I will read verses 23 through 31. Continuing on the the account of the the apostles having been arrested by the local authorities. Again, this is from the book of Acts written, we think, by uh uh the the doctor Luke, who accompanied the Apostle Paul. And inasmuch as all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching Reproof or correction for training in righteousness, to the end that the man or woman of God might be complete or adequate equipped for every good work. Since that's so, let us not simply hear, let us not simply read, but prayerfully ask the Lord to cause this word to be in us. Causing us to respond and act and follow him faithfully. God's Word, the book of Acts, chapter 4, verse 23. When they had been released, they went to their own companions and reported all that the chief priests and the elders had said to them. When they heard this, they lifted their voices to God with one accord and said, O Lord, it is you who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. Who by the Holy Spirit, through the mouth of your father David, your servant, said, Why do the nation Gentiles rage and the peoples devise you futile things? The kings of the earth took their stand, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his Christ. For truly in this city were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the peoples of Israel. to do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. And now, Lord, take note of their threats And grant that your bondservants may speak your word with all confidence, while you extend your hand to heal And signs and wonders take place through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they had prayed, the place where they had gathered together was shaken And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak the word of God with boldness. This is God's wonderful story. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we read these accounts. These wonderful, wondrous things that you did for and to and through your people. These particular people, these apostles, these men that walked with you, Lord Jesus. Cause us to learn from them. Cause us to learn lessons of how they lived and acted and reacted and sought to follow you. We should give these stories and accounts to us for us to learn. There's a reason for this. You do not have your word here. And it would not be read and preached without, and it would not return void. It will accomplish the purpose for which you send it. And so, Father, we pray that you might cause us to learn from your word That we too might be bold in our prayer, that it might make us bold in our lives. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I had a particular delight yesterday. I heard of somebody who happened to belong to a sort of a kind of fraternal uh historic organization that I belonged to who had died. And I heard his funeral would be yesterday in Richmond and at Hollywood Cemetery. I think it's sort of a odd that there's a Hollywood in Richmond. But um Hollywood Cemetery. And uh I got to the cemetery in time and had a whining all over the place. I'd only been there once before in my life, but my goodness. The big cemetery, got all lots of you know it's been there for a hundred and seventy-five years or something, a lot of hills and stuff. Finally found where where it wasn't. I got there in time, and sure enough there was somebody there with a bag of pipe. played some bagpipe music before and after the uh the minister spoke. But when the minister spoke, you know, he's he's getting ready to speak. And I thought I I grew up Episcopal and there there are some believers amongst the Episcopal church church but most of those who most of them now call themselves Anglican if they if they're believers. Um and I thought it was probably just an old fashioned stuffy background. I didn't know anything about the man. Ninety five years old. Um but I heard them and I before the minister spoke, uh he led us in prayer, an opening prayer. And I prayed over top of him to the Lord. Lord, glorify yourself here. May your word, if it's read, may it, may it bless the people here May you may Christ be proclaimed here. I mean I wasn't I didn't have confidence that this would happen. I hoped the Lord might do that. But when the man spoke, and the man spoke of This particular man's life and background. It was more it was as much as I would ever have hoped for. It was wonderful. This man This man would sometimes preach at the church. Um he would he was he loved the Lord Lord Lord God Almighty and told him, When you preach at my s my funeral, I want to make sure you preach Christ, not me I want people to know how what the gospel is, etc. etc. I was like, what you know, what else can you hope for? It was wonderful. I have no no idea what impact it could ha had on anyone else there, but I was I was thrilled and thankful. And the Lord does bless and answer prayers. Now, one thing I've learned to teach my daughters, my wife and I have two daughters, and they're obviously grown 25 and 28. That's pretty much grown. And um the one thing I'd hear I must have heard from someone else, and I didn't make it up, that is true. I think it's true. You know, is that God answers all prayers. We have to get it out of our head that He only answers prayers if He did it what you asked for, the way you asked for it. He answers all prayers. He might have said yes, no, or you'll have to wait, it'll come a few months from now, whatever it is. But he doesn't answer all prayers. We have to get it out of our heads that he is our he is our servant, like our we ring a bell and God shows up and we tell him what do we want, and then he goes out and makes sure it happens the way we asked. That's not what we do with prayer. We ask for things that go along with his will, and we hope he might do it that way, and yet we know his will is perfect, and it might well be different. We have to, you know, like like Job, put our hands over our mouth and and be at peace with what he gives us. But he does want us to pray. He gives us this example of these apostles who had just been released from prison, being held, they were held in custody. And Here we have Peter and John are released by the Sanhedrin, that's sort of the top Jewish council who had had them arrested. And the rest of the Christians in Jerusalem pray to God. And this happened 2,000 years ago. Is it relevant for us? Well, of course it's relevant. God gave us his word, as I said before I read the scripture. Which I do before every time I read scripture that I'm preaching from, I quoted the Apostle Paul, 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scriptures inspired by God are profitable for us. All of it. With lessons for us. Telling us how we do things like that today. Telling us what God is like. Telling us what we're like. The heart is deceived above all else. Who can understand Telling us that we're going to sin. I mean, we tell the Lord tells us many things in his word. But here he's telling us about their prayer. And he wants us to learn from them to be like that as well. Because we have many needs. Trinity Reformed Church has many needs. We think a particular need, a new pastor. There are many other needs, individual needs for people here. We'll be praying these after the, you know, praying for these things after the sermon. So he wants us to, the Lord wants us to hear, lift up our prayers to him. And this prayer is relevant for us today for five reasons. This won't go on for an hour and a half, I promise you. Um because the sermons are normally, I was giving you four reasons there, um every the thumb has its job today But um sermons are normally three points, good Trinitarian, but there are five things here which I will touch on. First, it's relevant because of the answer that came Relevant because of the answers that came. Second, it's relevant because of who is praying. Third, it's relevant because of the occasion when it was prayed. You need to pay attention. Fourth, it's relevant because of who it was prayed to. Who you're praying to. And fifth, it's relevant because of what was asked. What were they asking for? For. Because you can pray for something that God's never going to bless. So the first thing to look at is the answer that came. It's relevant because of the answer that came. Look at verse 31. And when they had prayed, in other words, they'd done it, they prayed, they're finished, quiet. Where they'd gathered was shaken. I don't live in California, I've only been there once. I wasn't there when there was an earthquake. But I mean I'm sure that was rather unnerving. I mean may many of you may have felt some rumbling when we had that earthquake about ten years ago, whatever it was. I was driving and didn't feel it. I felt sort of chipped out of it. But I mean it was that must be very something it was strange. And there it wasn't but it wasn't just that. That's just a physical sign that that God is sort of doing an exclamation point on the on the earth. They're filled with the Holy Spirit. God gives a particular blessing to them at that moment, and they speak the word with boldness, strength. And this is sort of a parallel with Pentecost, which had happened earlier. And here they had just prayed here they had just prayed, and there in Acts chapter 1, verse 14. They had been praying. And here it says they're all filled with the Holy Spirit. Acts 2. 4, filled with the Holy Spirit. And it's the same verb, same verb fulfilled. And here God shakes the buildings to demonstrate his power. In Acts 2, we have the sound of a mighty wind. Here they speak the word of God with boldness. There they begin to speak in other tongues to proclaim the works of God. The great things that God has done. So Pentecost, which has happened just a little while earlier, is the first great outpouring of the Spirit on God's church. God's people. And here is another one, another example. And in both, God gives physical demonstrations of his power. In both, he gives the fullness of the Holy Spirit. And in both, he releases open and courageous speaking. I don't know about you, but I can often feel nervous and scared and think. I'm going to sound fumbling and bumbling talking about the Lord with so-and-so. What do I know? I don't have verses memorized real well. I'm gonna found sound foolish. And he'll s he or she'll prize me something back that'll make me feel this big I can have courage. The Lord Jesus Himself had spoken to his disciples and said the time would come when you'll be you'll you'll speak of me to another and the Spirit will give you words Well, we need to ask for it, and that's what we just did. So the the the blessing of Pentecost would happen in different ways and different times throughout action, throughout the rest of church history. That kind of reaction, God's blessing. And that's what we need. See, this is what we desperately need. I remember last week when I was here, Elder Calderon was speaking of was speaking of a time of prayer. I mean the Lord wants to hear from his people everywhere. But here we think of particular needs, particular needs for this body, this church. This is a time, a particular time when you need to be concerted together in this prayer, earnestly asking for his guidance and wisdom and blessing on this church. to bring a new man whom he would lead here to to be your to be your elder, to be your shepherd, to be your pastor. And we need that here, we need that ever you look around the world, uh, we can look we can look to Bolivia, we can look to this country How quickly are we turning away from the things of God? I mean, that's more than a cliche. It happened decades ago. It's simply getting worse now. As Jeremiah said, I think it was woe to those who call good evil and evil good. Here you have different there are different countries, Canada, you can be arrested for s for sp uh preaching the Word of God if it's on a particular topic from the Word of God. They call it hateful. And there are challenges here in the churches where you have error that can be in front of us, and we need to face that. You need to be able to speak to that person. With with with loving courage and boldness. And it's interesting. Look at the people that this fell on, the blessing this fell on. They were not faithless people Peter and John, they had been obedient. And in verse 8, it says Peter had been filled with the Holy Spirit when he spoke in the courtroom. Now he and the other saints are filled again with it in an even more special way. And this is something for each of us here at this church must pray today and every day. Lord, give me opportunity. I look at his multi-step process. Lord, give me opportunity to share your word with another. Second, Lord, cause me to notice when it's happening Because I'll just walk on by and I'll miss the opportunity. And then third, every bit is important. You know, push the envelope, jump out of my comfort zone, whatever those modern phrases are. Do something. Act. Start saying something. If I'm praying for opportunity, then I need to speak when I have the opportunity I mean it's not like God is just going to somehow take over me and I won't have I won't have any control of my body and I'll all of a sudden be speaking. No we we respond obediently and faithfully because he gives us the courage to do what he calls us to do. So that's the answer that came, and it's a wonderful answer. Who's praying? Who's praying? Verse 23. When they had been released, that's Peter and John, they went to their companions, told them all what the chief priests and the elders had said to them. And it doesn't say he went to the other apostles. I'm sure some of the other apostles were there. They went to their own companions. They went to their own companions. own people. In other words, literally the Greeks just says their own. My translation tossing companions just to make it sort of more understandable who who they went to. But they went to their own people. And the word is used like this one other time in Acts chapter 24 when it says Felix commanded that none of Paul's friends, his own, go to your own, should be prevented from attending to his need. meaning his people. And it's the same word in it we see in John chapter 111. He came to his own. His own. people. Those who were his own did not receive him. When I say his own people, they are the Jews. And in general the Jews did not receive him. It simply means family, friends, close associates, neighbors. They went back to those people, the believers in Christ. So this prayer is relevant to us because it's prayed not with somebody with some special rights and privileges. Like, oh the minister prayed on Sunday morning, I'm covered. No, that's we d we want that during w the body's worship. But I'm praying at night before I go to bed. I'll ask a blessing at a meal. I will during the day have a need come to my mind and I'll pause to pray. I might be driving, I keep my eyes open, obviously, for that prayer. I mean you you pray I mean you remember to pray without ceasing. That's hard to be thinking of doing, but let's move in that dire let's be in that direction about about it So it's for all of us. And it's not simply something for the apostles, it's not simply something for ministers. Prayer is relevant because of who prayed it? People like you and me. These people lifted up these prayers. That's who is praying? When was it prayed? Well the prayer is relevant because the occasion when it was prayed. And what had just happened, there have been threats of these religious leaders. You think in Bolivia it's there's threats, it's not so much of the religious leaders, although uh there may be some religious leaders who may be threatening some of the people protesting the injustice of the government. But here you have the threats of the civil authority as well. And yet the people are still praying. In a sense, it's obvious why they need to pray. And Peter and John have just been released from custody. They've been told: stop talking about Jesus. And verse 23 says they told the other believers about what they'd said. And Peter and John probably told them about the threats that were mentioned in verses 18 and 21. Where they threaten them twice. In verse 18, they said, Don't speak or teach it all in the name of Jesus. So what do they now pray? Lord, take note of their threats. Lord, remember what they said. Remember what they said So the occasion for this prayer is very dangerous threats against the preaching of God's word in the name of Jesus. And there are obstacles in the way of the spread of Jesus' name. And that's why the church is so urgent in its prayer. I mean, any of these people who are these believers, and any of us who were his should know that I am a sinner All men and women in the world are sinners. But I am a sinner. I mean, I will start with myself. The one I think about most in my life is me. Self-preservation and all that And if I'm his, I realize I deserve hell. I I sh I know my sin. Like David said, it is ever before me. I know I should go to hell. And for no good reason looking at me, God decided to save me. I mean, if I was looking at me, knowing what I do, what I've done, he's not on my list. Why should I save him? He's nowhere near me. See the sin he keeps doing? That's what Satan's saying. And yet, if I'm his, I know that he's forgiven my sins. I mean, if I'm his, I know that. I know that I'm his And I know that that that he's changed me, and I now know the the one true God, there is one, and I now know him. He loves me in spite of myself. He's given me a love to share with others, and he wants me to tell other people about him and the way of salvation that comes through his son Jesus. What should me what should be my reaction? What should be the reaction of a person for whom that's all true Telling others. Pray at least and praying for others. And praying that God will give me the courage, because I'm scared to pieces, to talk to other people about something they might I don't think they But I I need to do that. See, that's that's the that's what they were facing then. They cannot stop speaking as they told the San Idrin. And that's why they're urgent in their prayer. And they need the spirit. Lord, send us your spirit that we would then have the strength and the courage. We would go do what we know what we must. Well, we face obstacles and dangers in this too, and they did. I mean, we face obstacles. Persecution of Christians is a way of life in many countries of the world. I mean there are ways in which, like a lot of the countries that that uh Pastor Cal I mean Elder Calderon has spoken of in South America, it's a combination of civil injustice and it's a case of the persecution of God's true people. You have the the nation of Canada where if you were to preach a sermon that touched on what God says about aspects of sexuality, And somebody didn't like it or heard it, or if it was on sermon audio or something, you would be arrested. The minister would be arrested in Canada. Canada England. Hate speech. Hate speech. But what do we do? I mean, our you know y it's interesting the word martyr is on maybe I mentioned it last week, but the word martyr is a Greek word that means witness. A person who witnessed So You know, for for here there are people who feel threatened by the message that there's one way to God and one set of commandments that's valid for all men and women. Even short of persecution, we the obstacles to making Christ known are great. I mean I can go in and out of my house and never talk to neighbors very easily. I cannot try to strike up friendships or conversations or anything with people at the bank or the grocery store. It's very easy not to. I want to get in and out and get back home. That kind of thing. And you have you have a culture that spits on the idea of God. How arrogant of me to think there's only one. How arrogant of me to think that the one that I think is true is the one that's true. The culture does it all the time. So if the early Christians with their first hand experience of the risen Christ, they'd walk with Jesus. If they need a fresh outpouring of the Holy Spirit to carry on in their situation, do you suppose we do? We need it even more. I mean the people they're talking to, at least at this point in the book, had heard about andor seen Jesus in the previous few years. We don't have that. But they've seen the world around us has here and there seen faithful Christians. That's who we need to be. Well that's when it was prayed. To whom was it prayed? Well this is this reminds me of a movie that I remember seeing years ago. Uh I I I think of it with some affection, partly because it's about my old hometown, Baltimore. I was born there. And there was a book about an immigrant family coming over I mean a movie about an immigrant family coming over in nineteen fourteen. Movie's called Avalon. And I remember it carries it through to the fifties when the the the patriarch is in a nursing home or something. But at one point there's one of these family scenes with everybody's gathered for Thanksgiving. You have the extra card table for the kids, stuff like that. And you have some of these aunts who are in their sixties. or something which is old as Methuselah for the kids. And a whole bunch of people, probably 15, 20 people there at Thanksgiving. And there are a couple of the voices of these older people going and saying it's like What they call it Thanksgiving and they why do they call it Thanksgiving? It's like who are we thanking? These are, you know, supposedly faithful Jewish family in some sense But it could have been any Protestant family, or it could have been a Catholic family. You would have people who you're thanking. Who you're thanking? This empty question that just dissipated like into the air. The thing about Thanksgiving is is is who I'm is as much who I'm thanking as it is what I'm thankful for. I mean I can name what I'm thankful for, but who am I saying thank you to Not to the air. Not to myself. Same thing here is is is who was prayed to? Well, you said, well, the duh. Who do you pray to when you pray? Well Well, is is this a a real God that you think actually believe exists? There are people who say prayer, you know, um You know, uh I can't think I can't think of some road prayers. My parents had some prayers that said the exact same thing every single cr dinner meal There's some wrote prayers and stuff. You know, is this a God that you believe in? You think hears your prayer? That you know knows you and you know and you you know them? Have it done anything for you? It's really real Because if you don't think all that's true, you might as well be acting out of school play. There's nothing happening. If you don't think if if this isn't the re the re and the thing is, there is only one God And so if you're not praying to him, well Satan might hear you. And God knows that you said those things. He's just not Paying you any mind, if it were. But the thing is, where are they praying when they pray to God? They declare who God is. See, they take five verses to do what, to say to God. Lord, we want this, this, this, this. They don't do that. They tell five verses to tell God who He is. See, when you say somebody says, praise God, what does it mean to praise God? You're saying how wonderful he is. You're saying great things about him. How great and mighty and strong and wonderful he is. What he has done for you and your family in the past. Things like that. How gr who he is. See, they spend five verses saying, telling God who he is, as if he doesn't know, and then two verses to ask what they want from him, if he would No God doesn't need to be told who he is. He knows who he is. Unlike us, we need we have self-esteem issues. But you know, God is right. But Christians, we need to know who he is. And we're reminding ourselves as we pray. As we faithfully pray and praise Him, we are reminding ourselves who it is we're praying to, the one true God. And in our prayers, we know and confess that he is the kind of God who can and will answer their prayers. We're doing in verses 24 to 28. What we're doing here is hallowing God's name. When we say hallowed be thy name, as old-fashioned language, you think of hallow, like Halloween? Well, Halloween means all Hallows Eve. Eve meaning like Christmas Eve the day before. So Halloween, October 31st, is the day before something. Well, November 1st was called All Hallows Day. What's that mean? It means All Saints Day. in in various many churches they would have a day where they looked back and celebrated God's people from the past, things like that. But when we say hallowed be your name, not saying we don't want to be a saint. That's holy. The word for saint is the same word for this is the same word we get the word for holy ones. The holy ones. So we're saying, hallowed be your name is like, may your name be set apart, the one true God. There is none like you. You are almighty. You are all knowing. You know, you what you do, you do perfectly. You do wonderfully We're saying you are, you know, we are setting you apart because you deserve that. You we should act that way toward you. Holy be your name. It is holy, but we need to act that way too. That's why we that's why you know we don't we don't say we don't take God's name in vain. Because vain means taking it treating it lightly. That's all it means. To take it in vain means treating it lightly So we're hallowing his name before we say, your kingdom come. Hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come. Your name be holy. And they identify God in two ways. First, they say He's the creator of all things. Verse 24. It is you who made the heaven and the earth and the earth and the sea and all that is in them. See, they appeal to him as the creator of all things. See, if if God created everything, then he did. Then these elders and priests are his property. The Sanhedrin, Pontius Pilate, the Roman authorities, all of them, the leaders in Bolivia The illegal president down the line. The government here when it's attacking people. God can do with them as he will. And second, they say that God is the one who is ruler of all, even the deeds of evil men. He's working these things out for his purposes. He puts to nothing the rage of the Gentiles that I read when I read Psalm 2. Why do the Gentiles rage? The Lord in heaven laughs. He mocks them. These people just kicking the kicking against God. And they say this by voting quoting Psalm 2 in verses 25 and 26. And then shows that the psalm was fulfilled in the way that God was in control when evil men killed Jesus. Verses twenty-seven and twenty-eight. In this city were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus whom you anointed, Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles, people of Israel. So you had it all set up that way. Verse 28. To act wickedly all by themselves. It doesn't say that, does it? To do whatever your hand and your purpose predestined to occur. It was his plan. It was going to work out that way. Because God wanted it to work out that way. God turned their rage into a vain thing. In other words, it didn't work. It didn't make any difference for accomplishing his plan. He then accomplished his saving purpose By Christ going to the cross and being punished for the sins of his people. Remember when the earth shook with right when these guys prayed? Remember when Jesus died and he said, it is finished? He's physically dead. What happened then? There was an earthquake then. Some dead came out of out of some tombs, like Lazarus. In the temple, there was nobody grabbing hold of the curtain to the Holy of Holies, but it was torn from top to bottom by God. All those things happened then as well. God accomplished his saving purpose. So just like the Psalm says, why the Gentiles raged, the peoples devised feudal things, their rage comes to nothing. Jesus is risen, and the stone which the builders had rejected, which he was. Has become the head of the corner. And all their rage and all their imagination turn back on themselves. Now remember, all this is a prayer All this is a prayer. When we pray to God, pray to Him the things that you know that you grew up knowing were true, and you know as a believer are true. Lord, I thank you that you came to earth while we were yet sinners. And you sent your son, the Lord Jesus, to be punished for my sins. I didn't deserve that That. And through the Lord Jesus, you glorified yourself by healing people. I mean, talk to him about what he did. Praise him for what he did. And then what that means for you now. Thank you that even though I'm a sinner, I'm still a sinner, you yet have me as yours. You've forgiven my sins, and you send your spirit to me each day to enable me to follow and obey, and you have mercy on me even as I sin. Oh Father, change my heart that I might Not sin. Then I might sin less. That I might follow you more. Do that, Lord, please. But I mean here you're thinking these guys are praying back it's almost like they're praying back theology to God or doctrine Well for them, doctrine of creation, the doctrine of inspired scripture, the doctrine of God's sovereignty over men, even over the voluntary acts of sinful people. You know, these things are essential. And the Spirit of God is the Spirit of truth, so we we pray these things back to Him. See, if we want his fullness, we need to fill our minds with the truth that he has revealed about God in Scripture. Then we'll pray more like the early Christians. We want blessing from God. Pray as He gives us the model for it. I can't guarantee you what he will do because the circumstance is up to the Lord. His response is up to him. But how we pray, he has given us a model The last thing is what was asked. What was asked? Verse twenty-nine. I mean here, not until they get to verse 29 do they actually say anything like, Lord, will you please do this? It's a good reminder for us. Let's not just jump in there, oh Lord, please heal Act Noldry. Now we'll get to that. Mildred probably needs healing. But let's pretend some. That's why when you think of that little Acts Prayer acrostic. Adoration, confession, thanksgiving, supplication. Supplication is a fancy word of saying it's sort of your wish list. That's where you ask God, will you do this or this? That's only that's the last letter out of four. So let's spend some time adoring him in our prayer, confessing our sins, even, you know. Each time really, you don't have to go through the whole laundry list. He knows them all, but prayer, you know, yourself as a sinner know you're a sinner. Give him thanks for things, and then turn to him and say, Lord, if you would, if it is your will I pray you would do, you know, that you would bring such and such to this, bring healing to this, whatever. Verse 29, take note of their threats. And grant, and you know what what how you how you want to respond there, God, is up to you, because it always it's going to be anyway. But take note of their threats. And then he says, grant that your bondservants, us, may speak your word with all confidence. See that, you know, the first request, like, you know, Lord, see what's at stake in their threats. And it does not to speak of your son's name. That's what's at stake here. You know, please rouse yourself because nothing is of greater interest to you than the honor of your son. Take note, look on their threats And, you know, this is a kind of argument argument in the court of heaven. Here's why you should help us. These threats are against your son's reputation. Glorify yourself. Show yourself to be the God of Jesus Christ Now here is what we need so we don't cave into their threats. And then twenty-nine to thirty, extend your hand to heal, and that signs and wonders may take place through the name of your holy servant Jesus. They ask for three things. God give them boldness, stretch out his hand to heal people, and cause signs and wonders to happen, all in the name of Jesus. They want to be empowered in such a way that the name of Jesus will be vindicated. What people have said about Jesus will be found to be true He is the promised Messiah. He is the spotless Lamb of God. He is the one who was sent by God, promised in the Old Testament. To be the Messiah, to be the Savior of His people. And listen to what he said. Follow me. Follow me. He has living water, living bread We need to seek the power of the Spirit, as the apostles and disciples did. We need to be seeking the power. We need to be praying for it like they were. And remember, Jesus says, don't lose heart. Tell us not to fear, and tell us not to lose heart. Because he knows what we're like. He's warning us, he's encouraging us not to do what he knows that if he didn't encourage us, we'd just slide into. Lose heart. Be discouraged. That would be our normal response. No, don't. Remember me. Remember who I am. What I have done for you. And what I want you to do. Ask me. As as it as it says elsewhere in the New Testament, you know, we do not have because we do not ask. Ask. Pray for these things. He may give it to you that day, he may give it to you the next day. But you're praying for godly things. He will bless you somehow in that direction We need to pray not only in general ways for the outpouring of God's Spirit, but in specific ways as they do, for bold proclamation. Give me nerve. Give me the nerve, give me give me the chutzpah to to to say what I know I need to say, which I'm scared of. I'm scared to to to talk with so-and-so. Well, so somebody else could say, I'm scared too, but I still need to say it Pray for the strength to say. And then as you begin to say, I mean, you know, I've heard people say that after they witness to someone, it's like, I don't know where the words came from Well, if they think about it, of course they do, but from the Lord. But we need boldness. We want his hand to be stretched out to heal. We want his son's name to be honored. See, this is a relevant prayer the Lord has given to us. And it's not, he doesn't give us this prayer simply because he wants us to be able to pray for some kind of wham-bam fancy moment here with the ground shaking. But because he wants to bless us with the kinds of results that he blessed his people then for. Leaning upon him, praising him for who he is, glorifying him in their obedience in that way Then asking for things that He has told us He wants us to have. So that He then might use us like He used Peter and John to reach others with the gospel of Jesus Christ. This is a prayer for people who long for the salvation of sinners. Is that you You individually and as a church? Do you want God's glory to be magnified? Do you want his name to be exalted? You know, b we the old song, Be exalted, O Lord, above the heavens, you know. Well that's wonderful to say. Do we really want that to be true? Do we want his name to be hallowed? Things that we need to do in our lives to be used as agents of His grace, His tools, His hands, His feet. See, if that's what we want, then that's the way to pray. And as you have need, which is every day, pray as the people of this passage. Pray it. And God will bless you in that. How He will answer in all of its ways, I can't answer you, it's different for each time. But if you pray faithfully along these lines, this is the kind of prayer that pleases him. And he will be pleased to bless you. He wants us to have such confidence as we pray to him. May you do so