Let us turn now to our passage for the ministry of the Word today from Hebrews chapter 12. Verse 12 through 17, and the focus will be on verses 16 and 17. Let us now hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, strengthen the hands which hung down and the feeble knees. Make straight paths for your feet So that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Pursue peace with all people, and holiness, without which no one will see the Lord Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble. And by this many became defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance. Though he sought it diligently with tears. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And please be seated. But we have been studying through the book of Hebrews, and Hebrews chapter 12 is a word of God in general that is given to the people of God to encourage them. to persevere through all the trials and difficulties that come their way in life. Last time, when we last looked at this We heard that even though God's people may be in a situation where they have to endure persecution, God nevertheless says We are to love our enemies and to pursue peace with all people and to prevent any root of bitterness springing up in one's life or in the life of the body. Pursue peace with enemies. Those who are persecuting you Those who are persecuting you for no reason except you believe in Jesus as your Lord and Savior. And that was probably exactly what was happening to the writer to the uh people of the Hebrews, uh that the that Hebrews is written to at the very time the author wrote these words to them. It would be very easy, you see, for them to become bitter over their situation, bitter over the loss of a loved one, simply because they love Jesus Christ. Bitter over the loss of one's wherewithal. being taken away from you simply because uh you you give testimony that you love Jesus as your Lord and Savior Very easy to lapse into these things. And today, today Piggybacked on to that information is the story of the man named Esau. And those of you who know your Bible know this character, this person, and you know a lot about the story. You know that Esau's father was Isaac. And you know that Isaac's father was. Abraham. And you know that God had made a series of amazing promises to Abraham and to his descendants. Of which Esau is Abraham's grandson That helps maybe appreciate what the text is talking about here And appreciate why what happened to Esau and and his demise, uh actually why it occurred, why it was why it seems on the surface so severe But as we go through this, I want you to keep in mind the fact that Esau is Abraham's grandson. And I want you to keep in mind the fact that God made amazing promises to Abraham and to his seed. A lot of things to think about here. And important things for us, too. Because if you are a believer in Christ, you are Abraham's seed. Now, as we are acquainted with Esau, here in verse 16, the Bible doesn't mince any words about Esau. It says there, lest there be any fornicator or a profane person like Esau. Who sold for one morsel of food or meat sold his birthright Back up in verse 15, we read: Looking diligently, lest any man fall fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springs up of to trouble you, and therefore many be defiled. Esau fits that statement. He's a prime example of that statement, and that's why verse 16 follows verse 15 and explains what God means about the root of bitterness and the failure of the grace of God in Esau's life. He's the prime example of this issue occurring. Again, he is the son of Isaac, the grandson of Abraham. And he is depicted as one who is bitter because he and that bitterness led to the selling of his birthright. Or the giving away of his birthright. Well that leads us to question, what is Esau's birthright in the first place? And I think most of us have a general idea, but I think we need to fine-tune our understanding about what that birthright actually was. As the firstborn, he is the one who is expected to carry on in the tradition of his father. He is the one who would be given, or the blessing of his father would be transferred to him His act of despising his first birthright birthright is seen in Genesis chapter 25, verse 31 and following, in the incident with his twin brother Jacob Jacob the supplanter, the second born, the second to come out of the womb of Isaac's wife. In verse 31 through 34 of Genesis chapter 25, we read, Jacob said to Esau, Sell me this day your birthright. Esau said, Behold, I'm at the point of death. Probably a gross exaggeration. He was hungry, but I think at the point of death is probably a little bit of an over-emphasis. And then he went on to say, verse 32, what profit is this birthright to me? And Jacob said, Swear to me this day. And Esau swore to him, and he sold to him, and he sold his birthright unto Jacob. So the birthright transfers. And then Jacob gave Esau what he wanted. These were the goods. This is what Esau traded for the birthright. Gave to Jacob Jacob gave Esau bread and porridge of lentils. Sometimes talking about meat, a morsel of food. And Esau did drink and eat. He rose up and went his way. And then the whole conclusion of the matter is this. Esau despised his birthright It was not until later in history that the Mosaic law in Deuteronomy 21, verse 17, precisely defined more of the birthright. And there it talks about the firstborn son receiving a double portion of the land. That's kind of what You know, later what the birthright meant. But for Esau's time, the birthright cannot be anything other than the blessing that was Abraham's, that God gave to bre to Abraham. He's not going to be worried about a double portion of share of the property. Of course, he's probably going to inherit some things. But Esau despises, you see, his place in the line of the covenant promise of redemption. He despises his place in the God's covenant promise of redemption that God made with Abraham, his grandfather. Esau is only one generation removed from Abraham and already in Abraham's descendants There is hatred for Abraham's, God's covenant with Abraham. Do you get the point? Do you see the problem? You see how serious that was? Maybe you don't fully understand what that problem was. Well go back and look at Genesis 12, Genesis 15, Genesis 17. Among that Summarizing all those incidences where God talked about his promise to Abraham, his covenant promise I'll be your God. You will be my people. Look up in the stars at night and count the stars if you can. So shall your descendants be. Numerous descendants. And then when Abraham thought, well, maybe this will happen by some child that I will have, he uh He allowed this to try to come to pass by Hagar and her son Ishmael, and God said no I'm going to raise up for you a son. And Abraham laughed. And Sarah laughed. How can this happen? We're old We're too old. We're beyond childbearing age. But Isaac, God did it. And Isaac was the child. In Isaac shall your children be reckoned. And then it transfers because of what Esau did to Jacob. Would have been could have been Esau on one level, but it became Jacob And this was the promise that God would give Abraham a seed who would bless the world. And that seed, according to the scripture, Galatians chapter 3, Matthew chapter 1, that seed is Jesus. So when Isaac, or excuse me, when Esau despises his birthright, what is the conclusion? He despises Jesus. Ah, he didn't say that. What he said is, I'm hungry. Feed my belly. Take care of my needs now. Now! I want it now. I want it all now. I don't want to have to wait Jacob was ready to wait. You see? He was ready to wait upon God's promises, just as Abraham waited upon God's promises. Even though he had to be instructed one time that you can't raise up God's promises by your own efforts. I will provide. I will provide your salvation. I will give you a son. He'll be called the son of David. He'll be called the son of Abraham. He'll be called the Son of God. He will be called Jesus the Christ. That's what Esau despised. And he despised it because his agenda is more important than God's. And in that sense, he connects to every unbeliever. And he connects to every human being upon the face of the earth. Who's more important in your life? Yourself or Almighty God Are you going to bow to God and worship Him? Or are you going to bow, as in Esau's case, to the God of your belly? Or the some other God, whatever he's named. Your God of your desires, the God of your flesh The God of your hope. You know, if we just I was reading this morning that these guys out in um Four states out in the Midwest, or not in the Midwest, the Far West. Idaho, Eastern Washington, Montana, and Wyoming. They're survivalists. They're survivalist people. Not necessarily that that's wrong, in a sense. But they're trying to make sure by their own efforts they're going to survive whatever Holocaust there is. They believe that a Holocaust is coming or some sort of day of reckoning is coming. And so by their own efforts, they're trying to become self-sufficient Sounds good. However, where does God fit into all that? See, friends, if there is a day of reckoning Who's going to take care of you? If that day somehow suddenly suddenly comes in your life, who are you going to turn to? It needs to be the same person you're turning to now. God and His Son Jesus Christ. Because you see, only they can address the issue of where you're going to spend eternity It don't matter if you survive here on earth if you wind up going to hell But with faith in Christ, as God provides him to his people. Don't matter whether you live or you die. For death is gained. As Paul put it in Romans 14. You'll be with the Lord in whatever the situation is, here on earth or there in glory, in heaven. The fact that Esau despised his birthright, I laid that on you, and I didn't really give enough background for that. When you look at the words that are used, you know, it definitely says despised in Genesis chapter 25, but here in our text In Hebrews, it uses a series of interesting words to describe Esau. He is called a pornos. From which we get pornography or fornicator, one who practices sexual immorality. He is called, I won't pronounce the Greek in here, but he's called a profane person, which also is translated a worldly or godless person. A worldly person. He's occupied, you see, with the things of the world. They're more important. They're more important than the things of God. And the birthright is said to be one that he sold. He can can what you know that's a that Think about the transaction that he did. One bowl of sleuth defeat is belly for a temporal amount of time. As opposed to eternity in heaven with God. Think about it. What a dumb move. But it was influenced not by stupidity. It was influenced because he was a godless person. He was a worldly man. He was interested in the things of the world. And friends, you know, we have to be candid and admit sometimes that we're interested too in the things of the world. And also that the church as a whole is worldly. Many times. And you always have you always have to look at yourself and to ask yourself, what am I trusting in? Where's my faith? What am I doing? What's most important to me? Contrast Esau's action with regard to the birthright with that of Moses. An interesting contrast comes up if we go back one chapter into Hebrews chapter 11. We've already talked about Esau's attitude, but let's look at Moses. Verse 25, speaking of Moses, he chose to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin. season. And then verse twenty six. Esteeming the reproach of Jesus Greater riches than the treasures of Egypt. For he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. Moses rejected the treasures of Egypt for the joy of esteeming Jesus. A Jesus he hadn't even seen. A Jesus, though, he believed was out there because of the promise to Abraham of the seed who would save the world, save his people from that. Esau rejected his birthright for a bowl of stew. Because it was all he wanted. It's all he wanted at the time. He wanted his immediate desire fulfilled. And Esau was rightly called a fornicator or a profane man. I don't know about his sexual amorality, but I do know about His immorality, his spiritual immorality in the face of God. He loved another God before he loved God God himself. God, you see, the God of the Bible was just a convenience to him. He loved the God of his belly, most of all. And then we read, well, there seems to be a time, quote unquote, where Esau comes to his senses And it says about him in verse 17, it says that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place for repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. He was rejected. That word not translated, it's translated, rejected, but it's also it also means useless. Useless It's it's the form of the verb is in a passive voice. So obviously Esau didn't reject himself, but somebody did Somebody rejected him. Somebody actively rejected Esau. He found no place for repentance. Place can also be translated possibility or chance. Some of you may have it translated that way. He had no chance for repentance, humanly speaking. He displayed the heart of a spiritual adulterer. Choosing the small amount of food, which was an earthly reward and a present temporal reward, over the covenant promises to Abraham. Fulfilled in Christ, a heavenly reward. And an eternal reward. He sought it, it says. He sought repentance with tears They sought it with tears. My friends, you didn't get it. Neither diligent searching that's motivated from our side, nor the weeping of The weeping of our sin, even if it comes from our side, is to be taken as an automatic sign of repentance. In other words, if someone comes to you and says, and is really, really is sorry and says, uh please forgive me, and they're weeping And and and you and I mean I know this is tough, but that isn't necessarily an automatic guarantee that they're truly repentant. Because the heart is desperately wicked. We can't even know our own heart. We can't even know our own motivations for why we do what we do. True repentance. We can't know our heart, but there is one who does. And his name is God. He can see what's going on in our own heart when we can't see ourselves. He can see through Whatever devices we have up there to try to hide our heart from God. True repentance, yes. It incorporates the aspect of sorrow. It incorporates the aspect of wanting to change away from sorrow. And starting to live for God. But only God knows when that happens. And it doesn't happen because we seek it. It happens because repentance, just like faith, is a gift from God. True repentance is a gift of God. True faith is a gift of God. And that's because true salvation is a gift of God, not of works Lest anyone should boast. Not of our tears, not of our desire to seek it as much as we would like. Well, you you might say, well Gee, if we're seeking it and we're sorrowful, that must mean that we really want it. We want salvation on our own terms. God has to destroy that. Because the salvation we want is not the salvation of Jesus Christ. We don't want to admit that we're sinners. We'll do everything we can to run away from that. There is, according to Romans, there is none righteous. No, not one. There is none that do good. In all matters regarding our salvation, you see, God is sovereign. I shouldn't have to say this, but that means not you God works out all things in our lives according to His most excellent will. He has the preeminence in all things. We can't choose God. We can't originate repentance. We can't originate faith. True saving faith. Yes, God has eternally determined or decreed for you to believe in Jesus Christ. For you to be saved. To have your sins forgiven. To have true repentance To experience the order of your salvation, the order of salvation in your life, so that one day you'll reach your heavenly home. And with regard to Esau and to eternal salvation or eternal election in God The Scriptures decree, Romans 7, verse 11, that you were all waiting for this to come. For the children not being born yet, neither having done good or evil that the purpose of God according to election might stand not of works, but of him that calls. It was said unto her that would be Esau's mother The elder shall serve the younger, as it is written. Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. God is preeminent. You don't like that? Most don't But most people when they hear that, ah, that's awful. God is unfair. He can only be unfair if he owes you something. I've said it before. Only thing he owes you is death Because that's what he said. The day you eat of it, you shall die. That's the wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus, our Lord. God has given us. If you're a child of God, if you're elect, you're elect before the foundation of the world, according to God's preeminent decree. That means God does not just speak back there in the beginning of time that you shall be one of his children, but he will work his will out throughout history to guarantee that that occurs. To guarantee that you come to the saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, to guarantee that his Spirit will dwell within your heart and will give you the right attitude as opposed to Esau's attitude. To be frankful, if God is I shouldn't say this, God's word is correct We are sinful. We are all sinful. We break God's law. Maybe not as bad as Joe down the street. Or Mary, whatever she does. I'm sorry, Joe. I got carried away. Maybe not as bad as others. And that may be true. Doesn't matter to God. You fail once, you don't get to retake the exam God has determined who are his people and who are not. The simple fact is, Esau is not Jacob is. You don't like it? Jacob, a rascal. Jacob tricks his brother, not once but twice. But God loved him. And what Jacob did to Esau was at the end of Jacob's story. He became a great servant of God. But Esau and his descendants went in another direction. And they became great haters of the people of God in the Old Testament called Israel. So May it have pleased God to grant you faith and repentance in Christ before the foundation of the world. For then you know that whatever happens to you in this life Jesus is your good shepherd, and he will take you home to be with him forever in glory. Amen. Let us um let us pray. Father, how can how can we try to understand all this Um we simply, Lord, have to hear what your word says, and only you can give us that hearing. So we pray, Lord, that you would help us to hear Lord, that we would recognize, O Lord, that if it were not for your saving grace in Christ, decreeing us to be your people before the foundation of the world, we would be in the same category as Esau. May we be thankful. May we rejoice that God has not left us to our own devices to try to save ourself and fool ourselves A lifetime of trying to earn our salvation. But instead, you've broken through that That stubborn resistance. And you've caused us to see who is really in control. Not us but you. To God be the glory, amen