If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the New Testament, we'll continue our study there in Matthew's Gospel in chapter 21. I believe that's on page nine hundred and eighty-two of your pew Bibles. This morning we'll begin reading at verse 17 and go through 22. Jesus has just cleansed the temple and then he's left, spent the night elsewhere. And now is returning. Let's give attention to the very word of God. And leaving them, he went out of the city to Bethany and lodged there. In the morning, as he was returning to the city, he became hungry. And seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves And he said to it, May no fruit ever come from you again. And the fig tree withered at once. When the disciples saw it, they marveled, saying, How did the fig tree wither at once? And Jesus answered them. Truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, Be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will happen. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith. As far as the reading of God's word. Amen. Please Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we come now to what might be a difficult passage. For us to grasp, we ask Holy Spirit, lead and guide us, open our eyes, open our hearts, that we might receive all that you have for us this day. Teach us, Lord. Admonish us. Rebuke us. And then, Father, we ask, comfort us in Christ. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Are you praying? Are you praying for the elect? Are you praying for conversions? Are you praying for all false worship and idolatry to be destroyed? Are you praying for the restoration of true spirit-led worship and communion with the living God? Earlier this morning we read from Exodus. If you remember the account, Moses had gone up on the mountain to meet with God and was gone for a significant period of time and the people were scratching their heads wondering what had happened to Moses and decided to fashion an idol, which they did. They created a golden calf and began to worship it as opposed to the living God. They decided to enter into false worship, unrighteous, false Idolatry. And if you know the rest of the story is God sends Moses back down to the people, he crushes the golden calf and requires the people as he puts the ashes into water to actually drink it The golden calf, the idol, had to be destroyed. False worship had to be crushed. In order for the people to truly worship, to be restored to true worship In a sense, that's what we have before us this morning in this passage in Matthew's gospel. Jesus has been leading his disciples in their knowledge of the kingdom of heaven. And now he's bringing to them tangible examples of what the kingdom of heaven is all about. He's entered the city, he's entered the city of Jerusalem. The whole city city has been stirred up asking who is this? This one who has now come. He has cleansed, symbolically cleansed the temple by overturning the tables. And restoring, again, symbolically the the place, the house of God to that house of prayer as it becomes that place of healing for the blind and lame. And then hearing the children cry out, Hosanna to the Son of David, there's healing and praise now that's been symbolically restored to this place. And then Jesus interacted with the chief priests for what seems to be the first time in Matthew's gospel. As they Criticize the praise that Jesus was receiving. And you ask them, have you never read out of the mouths of infants and nursing babies you will have prepared praise? It brings us to our passage this morning as Jesus left the chief priests and the scribes. And spends the night out of the city. And now he's on his way back. This passage this morning before us is fairly straightforward, at least on its face. Jesus is heading back into the city, that place which he had just left. He's returning and he becomes hungry. He's not yet done with his work. And so he needs nutrition. There's more to do. And he sees a fig tree by the wayside by the road and goes to it and finds nothing on it but leaves. And as a result, he curses the fig tree. May no fruit ever come from you again, and the tree, as you know, withers at once. Now remember, he's teaching his disciples all the way, isn't he? They're marveling. They're asking the question, how did this happen? And Jesus tells them that they'll do the same. Even greater things will they do if you have faith and do not doubt. Even calling the mountain to be cast into the sea. We might sum up the teaching here In this passage, this way, the people of God will be satisfied as they seek righteousness through fervent and believing prayer. The people of God will be satisfied as they seek righteousness through fervent and believing prayer. We'll see that in three doctrines this morning. Well, we see three doctrines in this passage. First, the people of God will seek after righteousness. Secondly, the Lord will cut off all unrighteousness. And thirdly, the prayers of believers will be heard and answered. As we go through this passage, This morning I'd like you to be asking yourselves once again, am I praying? Am I praying for the elect? Am I praying for conversions? Am I praying For restored worship. Well, first, the people of God will seek after righteousness This is a straightforward passage, at least on his face, but it's a strange passage. The withered fig tree is a strange event in all of the Gospels. It's strange if it's not put into the context in which we find it. Jesus has just visited the temple, the house of God. That must be the context that we bring into our passage this morning, that we understand that that's the backdraw. to our passage this morning of the withered fig tree. It's strange if that's not the backdrop, the defilement of the holy worship of the living God by his chosen people. And so I think that we must bring that context forward and overlay it over this passage if we're to understand what this means for us today. So, doing that, we see that Jesus was hungry. Now, certainly we can take from this that Jesus was fully human He's a God man, fully divine, fully human, and so as a man he becomes hungry. Our physical bodies need nutrition to continue living, and we see Jesus as human nature Being fully human in that regard needed nutrition. He had more work to do. But that doesn't seem to be the focal point of this passage. given the context. No, there's a spiritual aspect to this passage, a spiritual teaching here. And as Matthew's gospel has been focused upon the temple of God, now the house of God, it would seem that this hunger of Jesus Christ points to the hunger for thirst, and hunger and thirst for righteousness by the people of God. Remember what Jesus taught his disciples in the Sermon on the Mount. First, seek the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Jesus' physical hunger in the context of the temple of God, which had been taken over and converted by the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees to an ungodly use. Points to the hunger of the people for righteousness. The temple had been so converted that it was no longer providing that spiritual nutrition that the people needed. It was no longer feeding the people. They were literally in a spiritual desert in the city of God. And Jesus is on his way back to that city, back to the temple, and he becomes hungry as he gets closer. It seems to be the picture of the need of the people, the true people of God, to feast upon real spiritual fruit. And so we see Jesus being hungry, a picture of the people hungering after righteousness. And in his hunger, he now comes upon and looks upon and beholds a alone fig tree. That's the way the New American Standard translates this. passage, seeing a lone fig tree by the road, he came to it. The idea here is that there were not many fig trees. There was one. That may have been unusual. A single fig tree by the roadside on the way to Jerusalem. What does that point to? It seems to be pointing to Jerusalem. It seems to be pointing to the temple. It seems to be pointing to the nation of Israel. That single fig tree. The chosen nation, the single nation that God had assembled, that he'd brought together, that he'd called out of Egypt, the people had been delivered and given the ability to to worship him through the cultic rites performed within the tabernacle. The people have been given his law, the the people, that nation of the living God They're the ones that he cared for, the ones that he had given the promised land to, flowing with milk and honey. There was only one, just one nation. One nation called out of Egypt, one nation that had as its father Abraham. One nation of twelve tribes Set apart one nation who had the temple. There were not two, there were not three There is a single nation, a single people of God, a single assembly, so to speak, no other nation, only one, a lone nation. And so the lone fig tree. Somewhat unusual. It seems to represent the singularity, the singleness of the people of God, the privileged people. And so there's only one tree for Jesus to approach, for food, only one temple, only one Jerusalem Think of that for a moment. Just the privilege of being set apart, of being consecrated, of being a holy people to God. And so the fig tree seems to be a symbol or a sign or a representation, even of the temple of God, that centerpiece, that place where God Himself dwelt with his people And the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees, the elders who had converted the use of the temple into worldly gain, thereby cutting off any and all spiritual gain that the people might have received. And so we see the fig tree appears to be that sign, the representation of the city, the Jerusalem, the estate of worship, the appearance of the people. Jesus' hunger. Looking for something to satisfy his hunger. That may be representative of the hunger, of the desire, the need of the people of God, the true people of God, to be fed spiritually. Are you hungering and thirsting after righteousness? Remember that's one of the beatitudes As the Sermon on the Mount is preached by Jesus Christ, he has those what we call the beatitudes, and one of them is blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. The idea here is that you're in need of righteousness. Like Jesus becoming hungry and seeking nourishment from the fig tree. And Jesus telling his disciples that he fed upon the will of his father, upon doing the will of his father. That was his food. We can see righteousness in that, can't we? So just as you satisfy your bodily hunger and thirst, just as you seek and find food and drink for your satisfaction, are you seeking? Hungering, thirsting after righteousness See, Jesus was seemingly describing the hearts of those who are or will enter the kingdom of God as he preaches, Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. For they shall be satisfied. See, the only place of true and full satisfaction for righteousness is in the kingdom with Jesus in heaven. But the truth is, if you're not seeking righteousness now, If you're not hungering and thirsting after righteousness now in this life, you will not want it in the next. That's the idea. And so the call this morning seems to be to examine yourself. Are you hungering and thirsting after righteousness? Only those that do will be satisfied. That brings us to our second point. Our second doctrine, that the Lord will cut off all unrighteousness. Notice that the fig tree was full of leaves. Look at verse 19, and seeing a fig tree by the wayside, he went to it and found nothing on it but only leaves. The fig tree was green, it was inviting, it was beautiful. From a distance, from far off, the external appearance of the fig tree was that it's this should be full of fruit. Lush, full, inviting, an external experience from a distance. It looked good From everything that the fig tree projects to those walking along the road, it would seem that this tree, this only tree, would contain within its branches delicious fruit to satisfy hungers of the pastors by But it didn't. As Jesus approaches in hunger, the tree did not satisfy. It was empty. It was empty of any fruit whatsoever. It was completely void of anything that would satisfy his nutritious need. If we're to personify the tree for a moment, it was as if the tree was projecting this false impression of being fruit-filled. As if it were saying, Come to me, and I'll give you what you need. That then leads to Jesus' pronouncement of the curse. May no fruit ever come from you again. He curses the fig tree, the creation of his own hand, all the while seemingly pointing to Jerusalem. the temple of God, which had been defiled by the priests and those who had willingly followed their lead. The temple at the center, the centerpiece of Jerusalem, the city of God, as it had been taken over and converted by the religious leaders of the day, the priests, the Pharisees, was giving a false impression. It was beautiful. Herod had rebuilt it. The disciples asked Jesus to look at the temple and how beautiful it was. It are all the accoutrements of a place of purity and service, the dwelling place of the God of creation, that was the impression that it was giving. That was what the chief priests and the scribes and the Pharisees wanted the people to see, but the temple had been converted and corrupted into their own purposes and intents. It was a false impression. The temple was projecting that place of worship which it no longer was. And no longer could be, as long as those wolves in sheep's clothing were ruling it. And so Jesus curses the fig tree. The tree which gave that false impression of abundant fruit withers and dies, no longer would it produce any leaves. No longer would it give any false impression to those who passed by, no longer would it produce any fruit, for fruit from that kind of tree would be worthless, even worse, worse than worthless. It would be poisonous. It would be deadly to those who consumed it. Just like the golden calf. The idol made by the people at the foot of Mount Sinai. It had to be destroyed. That false impression, the false worship of the idol, had to be destroyed if the people were to press on to the promised land, to the place where God would. Enable them to enter into true true worship. Just like the temple, then, that was existing in Jerusalem. If the false worship, the idolatry, the defilement were allowed to continue leading a people astray, it would only produce death. Eternal death. For there was no hope within the defiled temple of Jesus' day It had been converted and now it was only producing death. No nutrition. No true spiritual fruit was coming from it And so it had to be destroyed. Just like the fig tree, the defiled, the false impressionistic temple, the hypocritical temple, the temple of death, had to be destroyed. And so Jesus curses the fig tree as this picture, this symbol, this representation of the coming destruction of the temple which had been defiled and was now of no use to God. A picture then of the judgment of God against that which is false or unrighteous worship. God will destroy All false worship. He will destroy all idols. And that's the picture that we have even this morning. The judgment of God against worship that is not true communion and fellowship between himself and his people. Worship that is not founded upon humble prayer, but founded in prideful arrogance and the disdain of the living God. He will destroy. That brings us finally to our third point, which I'd like to spend some time on this morning. That the prayers of believers will be heard and answered. This seems now to be the thrust, the focal point of the text As the fig tree withers, Jesus answers his disciples and tells them, truly I say to you, if you have faith and do not doubt, You will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain, be taken up and thrown into the sea, it will happen. There's a sense the strangeness of this passage continues as Jesus speaks about his disciples moving the mountain into the sea through believing prayer. This passage, this verse, and others like it are often misunderstood and gravely misused. This would be the theme verse of those who preach a prosperity gospel. God wants you to have everything you desire, and all you need to do is pray for it. That is a complete and utter corruption. Not a mere misunderstanding, but a purposeful corruption of this passage. And the very word of God. So, in a sense, this verse begins with a warning: do not understand this to mean that God wants you to have your every desire in this world, and all you need to do is pray for it. So we begin with a negative, or with the warning, or with the great caution, to be good Bereans, and to pray for the work of the Spirit in your heart as you seek to truly understand this passage about prayer. Prayer. So, why would the disciples want to do this? Throw this mountain into the sea? And who would ever hear such a prayer anyway? And how is this to be connected to Jesus' hunger? and the fig tree. Well, Jesus is clearly referring to prayer at this point. If you have faith, do not doubt, you will not only do what has been done to the fig tree, but even if you say to this mountain. And whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith. That's the key. Withering the fig tree, moving the mountain, it's all done in prayer. And so Jesus promises that this will come to pass. He begins by answering them, truly, truly, I say to you. This will happen. This will come to pass if you pray without doubting. Meditate upon that for a moment. The disciples were in awe that Jesus had just pronounced a curse on this fig tree, this beautiful, unfruitful fig tree, this hypocritical, impressionistic fig tree, and it withers on the spot They were amazed at Jesus' power over creation. But now comes the even more amazing statement by Jesus Christ. You can do this too. If you pray for it in faith. That's the amazing part of this passage We might think the amazing part of the passage is the withering of the fig tree, but Jesus says, no, no, no, that's not it. The amazing part is that if you pray for it in faith, without doubting, it will come to pass. The God of creation, the one who made all things out of nothing by the word of his power in the space of six days, and all very good, will hear you That's the amazing thing, isn't it? That's the foundational passage here of this the foundational teaching of this passage. Think of the millions of people on the face of this earth and how many of them are praying in faith to the living God all at the same time. Consider each one is a sinner just like you. And Jesus states unequivocally that this God will hear you. Not only hear you, but answer your prayer in the affirmative. How is it that God would even hear you, sinner? It's only through Jesus Christ. It's only through the Lord who sits interceding for you at this very moment. It's only through Christ. But Jesus says that he will. He will hear. And not only will he hear, but he will answer you affirmatively Do you believe that? Are you having doubts right now? Are you thinking, well, I've prayed for this in the past and it didn't happen? Consider this. If you're having those doubts, if you're thinking those thoughts right now, you're calling Jesus Christ a liar. You're calling him a false teller of the promises of God. I think I can safely say that we could all repent of our doubts in this matter. For Jesus has said it is so. And thus it must be. God will answer your prayer offered in faith. Affirmatively. This is the amazing and unappreciated power of prayer Brothers and sisters, we take prayer so lightly. We think so little of prayer. We spend such little time in it and we doubt that God hears us. We doubt even more that He will ever answer us in the affirmative. Oh, how we need to turn. How we need to cast off these wretched doubts. How we need to believe the words of Jesus Christ. And oh, how we need to pray. There's a qualification in this passage, isn't there? That the prayer must be offered in faith or in belief. without doubting. James puts it this way, let him ask in faith with no doubting, for the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. So what does that mean? To pray in faith without doubting. In this passage, in this context, it appears to mean that as we are seeking and praying For God's will to be done, don't miss that. For God's will to be done That we're doing so with trust, completely trusting that it will be done. And brothers and sisters, it's not just for this context. It's for each and every situation, each and every circumstance We seek to pray in the name of Jesus Christ. So consider the text. It's God's will to tear down every place of false worship. It was his will to tear down the temple. It was his will to destroy the temple and to rebuild it. And so the old, the corrupted, the defiled temple had to be done away with. The withered fig tree was representing or seems to be representing that. And as Jesus curses it, we have that representation of the old temple being destroyed, turned down, torn down, never to be used again. And so Jesus, in a sense, was praying according to his Father's will and asking for this fig tree to wither and die as a representation, as a symbol of the tearing down, of the destruction of the corrupted temple. Isn't that what's ultimately going on in both of the pictures given to us here The first picture that actual withering of a leaf-filled fruitless boastful fig tree. The second of a grand, high, tall, exalted mountain upon which Jerusalem was built, upon which the temple existed, being cast low into the sea. Both of these pictures seem in one sense to be the same. One seems more difficult, casting of the mountain, but there's a similarity, the thing, the object, the whether the fig tree or the mountain. Going from an externally high, an outwardly beautiful, lofty, raised-up position now to one of lowliness or even death. The fig tree loses its leaves, which turn brown and fall off. The mountain's glory, its loftiness, now completely hidden, as it's cast into the depths of the sea, only water can now be seen. Both moved from a high and exalted position now to one of a low and mean estate. No longer projecting beauty or glory or majesty. No longer being gazed upon by others or complimented by pastorsby. It points to the human heart, doesn't it? So now it's critical for us to remember where Jesus was headed He's entered into Jerusalem and he's near the cross. Jesus is approaching that day when he would have the sins of the world, meaning the sins of every single child of God, past, present, and future, laid upon him. that he might die in their place, suffering the eternal wrath of his heavenly father, drinking the cup, his cup of wrath, to its fullest as punishment, eternal punishment for them. In the place of the children of God. And in that sense, Jesus was headed to become the defiled temple. In his death on the cross, that defiled temple would be destroyed. Just as the fig tree withered immediately upon Jesus' words, Jesus was about to become the old, defiled, and corrupted temple, not that he himself was defiled. But that he would have all the defilement, all the sins of each and every son and daughter of God, the elected, chosen, the faithful, laid upon him. And be destroyed only to be raised up again as the new temple What then is even more difficult than picking up a mountain and and casting it into the sea? Is it not changing the human heart? Changing, reforming, bringing to life a dead human heart, is that not the greatest act or work that can be done in this corrupt world of sin and misery? The heart is deceitful, above all things, desperately sick. Who can understand it? Jeremiah 17 Is not the rebuilding of the temple in terms of the new birth of the human heart, the changing of a heart from stone to flesh? Such that one no longer hates the living God, but longs to be with them. Is that not the greatest and most difficult work that can be attempted here in this life? Is that not even harder than than moving and casting a mountain into the sea or Proclaiming a curse on a fig tree. It seems that that is exactly what Jesus would have us to pray for. To pray, believing, knowing in faith, without doubt, that God can and will change hearts, human hearts, that He will restore worship. true worship, that he will bring to life every dead heart that he has chosen in Jesus Christ. And then he calls the faithful, the believers. The believers of today, the followers of Jesus Christ, to be in prayer for just that. He calls you, believer, to move mountains. In other words, bringing life out of death and new birth of all that have been chosen to be a son or daughter of the living God. Not that you can do it. But God can. And He calls you to prayer. That seems to be the power, the ultimate power of prayer. Prayer, isn't it? Such that Jesus can truly say, whatever you ask in prayer, you will receive if you have faith. Paralleling the passage in the Sermon on the Mount, ask and it will be given you. Seek and you will find. Knock, and it will be open to you. Do you pray? Do you pray for the conversion of each and every person that God has chosen? Or do you think, no, no, he'll just do that? Well, he will. But he calls you to prayer. Do you pray for it fervently Do you pray for it in unquestioned belief? Jesus has said the fields are white for harvest. And he has told us that he has his people in every tribe, every tongue, every nation on this earth. And he said, I must bring them. Because he has sheep and that are not of that fold. He says, they will listen to my voice. Be one flock and one shepherd from every nation, all tribes and peoples and languages. Are you praying for their new birth? The old temple has been destroyed in Jesus Christ. And God, the living God, will bring to life every new temple that He has chosen. Are you praying for it? The people of God will be satisfied as they seek righteousness through fervent, believing prayer. The golden calf had to be crushed and destroyed to allow the way for the people to truly be restored to that worship and communion, that righteousness which they needed in Christ. Pray. Pray for the elect. Pray for conversions. Pray for all false worship and idolatry to be destroyed. And pray for the restoration of true spirit-led worship and communion with the living God. Amen Father and our God, we need your help. We ask, Lord God, that you would Work in our hearts that we would be prayer warriors. That we would be those who who can't wait to open up our prayer closets, to enter in, to commune with you, and yet to also pray for conviction. Pray for the elect, pray for restored worship. Help us, Holy Spirit. Work in our hearts. Grant us this, we pray, in the name of Christ. Amen. Brothers and sisters, our hymn of response this morning is from the Psalters, number 61A.