Amen. Amen. If you turn your copies of God's word now to Psalm 61, that has not changed. I think you'll find that on page 566 in your Pew Bibles. And we'll read all eight verses tonight. This is the second time we'll uh be studying Psalm sixty one Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. To the choirmaster with stringed instruments of David. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. Lead me to the rock that is higher than I, for you have been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings, for you, O God, have heard my vows. You've given me the heritage of those who fear your name. Prolong the life of the King. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. A point to steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. So will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day. Amen. Please be seated. Would you play with me? Father and our God, as we come to this passage for the second time in a short period of time. And pray, Lord God, that you make this new and fresh to us. That by your Spirit you would illumine our hearts and we would see new things, new things about you, new things about Christ. New things about the Spirit. And that you'd encourage us tonight. Father, as we consider eternity. We know you've set that upon our hearts. And Father, we also know that as mere mortals, we tend to set our thoughts upon the things below. Help us now, Lord. Give us time. Give us time now to meditate. Meditate upon eternity with Christ Jesus. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. Where do you desire to spend eternity? Have you ever been asked that question? Have you ever considered that question? Do you think about eternity? As we even ponder that in our own hearts right now, I think most of us would admit admit that much of our daily lives at work or at home or at school We spend little of it contemplating eternity. We tend to set our thoughts and our meditations upon the events of our day. The circumstances seem to control and direct our thoughts, the tasks of the day, whether they be a project deadline at work or getting laundry folded and put away before beginning dinner preparations or finishing a homework assignment, tend to set our minds on the material world. Even more so when trouble arises. When a difficult situation comes to pass, a family argument, a friend who has offended us, or maybe even an occasional interaction with someone who mocks your faith in Jesus Christ. At those times, at work, preparing for dinner, finishing your homework assignment, when you're confronted with strife or an enemy of Jesus Christ, do you consider eternity? Are you able even to think of eternity and long for the return of Jesus Christ at those times? Are you able? So tonight let's spend a bit of time, a bit of our time, considering that question. Where do you desire to spend eternity? Or maybe the better question is, with whom do you desire to be with forever? Tonight, as we return to Psalm 61 and look at it for a second time, I'd like us to see tonight that those who long to live forever in the dwelling place of the living God. Will lovingly and contentedly submit to and obey King Jesus Those who long to live forever in the dwelling place of the living God will lovingly and contentedly submit to and obey King Jesus. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, an eternal existence. Secondly, an eternal refuge, and finally, an eternal praise. Well, first, an eternal existence. Considering that question, well, where do you desire to spend eternity? We must begin with a simple truth. You are going to exist forever. That's what's meant by eternity. Now this is a difficult concept for us to grasp. We know that. We are finite people. Every day that we live and move and have our being, our our day ends at twelve o'clock midnight. In fact, it usually ends as the sun goes down. And so there's there's an end to our day. And there's a beginning to our day as the sun comes up, so to speak, as it rises. And so, in a sense, we we live and move with boundaries to our existence every day. And there's a time when we were not. And there will be a time when our hearts will stop beating, when we die and will be placed into the grave to return to dust. Some would think that this would be the end of our existence But that's not what the Bible tells us. Even though we seem to be surrounded and bounded by time, and that there will be an end to our existence, that's not what Scripture tells us. Consider Ecclesiastes chapter 12. Dust returns to earth as it was, and the Spirit returns to God who gave it. King Solomon does not say your spirit dies. He says it returns to God. The Lord Jesus As he's preaching to his disciples, he speaks about eternity. As he speaks about his return, he says, the king, he's referring to himself, will say, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom. He's speaking of the kingdom of God. He's speaking of an eternal kingdom. And he will say to those on his left, depart from me. You cursed into eternal fire. Jesus spoke of eternality of every single person descended from Adam by ordinary generation. Even as Jesus himself is on the cross, he calls out to his Father, Into your hands I commit my spirit. Jesus knew that his spirit was eternal, his human spirit. There will not be an end to our souls. Our souls are made by God to be everlasting and thus will have an everlasting existence. Scripture tells us that on the day of judgment, the day when Jesus returns to judge the world, our bodies, our physical beings will be reunited somehow in the power of God with our souls, and once again each of us will have an eternal bodily, a physical, and a spiritual existence. It's appointed once for man to die, and after that comes judgment. Hebrews chapter 9 That's where we begin. And now David calls upon This eternal one, the living God. Look at verse 1. Hear my cry, O God, listen to my prayer. You know, we may be tempted to skip over this beginning and just say, well, that's just like the first line, that's the introduction to the song, to the psalm. Let's get on with it, let's get to the meat of this thing. But don't. Pay attention to this cry, or to whom David cries. It truly kicks off the theme of eternity. This psalm has a theme, a thread of eternity throughout. And it begins here with David's cry to God. He's pleading with the eternal one, the divine maker of all things, the only one who has no beginning and will have no end. The eternal God is your dwelling place, Deuteronomy 33 Psalm 90. Lord, you've been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. Moses recognizing the eternality of God. And the psalmist in Psalm 93, your throne is established from of old, you are from everlasting. It seems as David is feeling far from God, he is approaching him even as he feels far from him As he's not experiencing the closeness of God, this text indicates that he was not sensing the presence of God. That's why he's calling out, but he longs to be heard by the eternal one. Do you long to be heard? If you're like everyone else here, the answer to that question is yes. David cried out to the eternal living God, the one who had no beginning and will have no end. He cried out to the divine maker of all things, of heaven and earth, and of David himself, and he cried out to the one who knew him. Before he had taken his first breath, David cried out to the one who would knit him together in his mother's womb. He cried out to the one who knew his innermost thoughts before they hit the tip of his tongue, even before he cried out through this particular Psalm. David cried to the one who knew what he was going to write. David cried out to the one who had given him the words to write. David cried out to the one whom he longed to commune with. Does that describe you tonight? As you feel faint, as you feel distant from family and friends, from co-workers, from all around you. Do you not desire to be heard? Is it not your longing to commune with one who knows you? To speak with one who knows the very hairs on your head, to engage in conversation with one who's like you. You have eternity written on your heart. Again, that's what King Solomon wrote, the inspired king. He has put eternity into man's heart. Ecclesiastes chapter 3 Do you not long and desire to speak with, to commune with, to fellowship one with the one who has placed that eternity there? The one who is eternal himself? Of course you do. We all do, who are made in his image. You're made to commune with this one, with the one who made you, with the one who knows you. Yes, David was in trouble. He was in some way under attack. He was feeling faint as a result. Enemies were pursuing him. And so he cries out. But he cries out not Not to the mortal created commander of his army, if he was king at that time. No, David cries out to the one who will hear him. Who can and will hear. He cries out to the one who's eternal, to the one who has eternal hearing. David cries to the one with an unbounded memory, to the one who will never forget that which he has heard. From David. To the one who, because there is power implicit in his eternity, in his etern eternality, is able to respond. To the one who's eternal, just as David's soul is eternal. No one else will do. No one else can hear in the way that the eternal Lord of creation who made him hears. It's the same for you tonight. Hear my cry, O God. You see, this psalm is all about eternity. And David is pleading for help from the rock, the one who has always been, the permanence of rocks. He seeks to dwell with the living God forever, the heritage of eternity referenced has already been given. He's asking for the king's life to be enduring to all generations upon his eternal throne, all culminating in everlasting and eternal praise It's all about eternity. Do you think about it? Do you meditate upon it? Where do you desire to spend it That brings us to our second point, an eternal refuge. Well, to be heard then is a type of refuge or relief, especially when one is in peril and trouble abounds. How do you feel when you're not heard? When you're in distress, when you need help, when affliction is at your doorstep. Maybe you feel left out, maybe maybe you feel left alone, or maybe you feel that your concerns are not shared by anyone else. You might feel neglected or uncared for, in a sense, forgotten. Whatever you feel, it's not good and possibly dangerous. Again, we are communicative beings. We're made to commune. We're made and long to commune. We long to hear and to be heard. And when we are under attack, we need to be heard. And so David cries out, not only cries out to be heard But he cries out for the Lord God to hear him and acknowledges that he does. From the end of the earth I call to you when my heart is faint. David knows he's not crying out thinking, well, maybe God will hear. No, he knows God will hear, and that's why he's crying out. That's why this song was written For you, O God, have heard my vows. Verse 5. David knows. He acknowledges that God hears him And here seems to be a rescue of sorts. David is in distress and crying out to the Lord, but then in the middle of the song or the prayer, there's this recollection of the one who does hear him. And David knows it. This one to whom David is currently crying out has heard David utter vows And David knows that he prays, he cries out to a hearing God. He knows that this Lord cares enough to hear him at any distance. And in this knowledge, there's confidence that God will hear again. There's rest and refuge in knowing that God hears his pleas. And David knows that the eternal God is not a mere hearer. This is a critical truth, a blessing in and of itself. That God is the living God who acts. He hears and responds to the pleas of his children. Psalm 145, the Lord is near to all who call on him. Think of that in the context of this psalm. David's feeling faint. He's feeling distant from God. He's feeling at the end of the earth And yet he's calling out because he also knows that the Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call upon him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him. He also hears their cry and saves them. David knows this as he prays in accordance with the will of his everlasting and faithful Father, lead me to the rock that's higher than I. Rock, bringing to mind permanency, creating an image of a solid and everlasting foundation. David desires to be led to the place where he can set his feet. upon that which is sure and true and righteous, the rock. And David phrases this that is higher than I. We cannot help but think upon the person and the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. The name that is higher than all names, the one who's the rock. Therefore, God has highly exalted him. Can bestowed on him the name that is above every name. Philippians chapter two And as we read tonight from 1 Corinthians chapter 10, all drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them. And the rock was Christ. David is pleading with God to lead him to the rock, to Christ. Who do you desire to spend eternity with? For David, it appears that his longing was to spend the rest of his existence, his eternal existence, in the presence of Jesus Christ. Now he doesn't use that name, obviously. But the reference is it's unmistakable. Lead me to the rock Surely, surely David knew that his forefathers were drinking out of the rock. the one provided by the Heavenly Father that he was praying to at that very moment. There seems to be a progression here, a connectedness, in this song, this psalm. The psalmist now connects the rock to refuge. And refuge to a strong tower. Verse 3, you've been my refuge, a strong tower against the enemy. Lead me to the rock. Why? Well you've been my refuge. You've been a strong tower against the enemy. That's why. Indeed, the name of the Lord is a strong tower. The righteous man runs into it and is safe. Proverbs 18 All of which, the rock, refuge, a strong tower against the enemy, seem to refer to the same place, not different places. And so David is continuing his focus on eternity and comes now to what may be the centerpiece of this psalm, the song. And he asks for a place in the house of God. He refers to it as a tent. And you think, who wants to live in a tent? No, no. He's referring to the house of God. He's referring to the dwelling place of God He asks for a place. He asked to dwell with the Lord of the universe, the one who dwells above the heavens. David is asking that God would open his holy home to provide eternal shelter and refuge. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Let me take refuge under the shelter of your wings. Why would David ask for such? If he was king, why wouldn't David just ask for a fortress in Jerusalem? He was already king. He had a nation, if that's the case. Why would he not just ask for his army to surround him with mighty men armed for battle, ready to strike any and all who would seek to do harm to him or to his nation? Clearly David's thoughts and meditations run things above. Clearly David knew that there was something more, something better than an earthly fortress, an earthly kingdom. And so this seems to be the centerpiece, the primary request, the main supplication of David. Let me dwell in your tent forever. Is it yours? Is that your desire tonight? Is that where your heart lies? Isn't that what Jesus was asking his disciples? Lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, where thieves do not break in and steal. Where does your heart lie? For David, it seems to be his heart was on eternity with the living God. He continues, verse 5, for you, O God, have heard my vows. You've given me the heritage of those who fear your name. What is this heritage that he speaks of, having already been given? As Webster defines in uh heritage, it's an estate that passes from an ancestor to an heir by descendant. We would understand that. But could this be a reference by David to that covenant of grace, that which was given to Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and thus passed down to their descendants? And if so, if that's the case, then this heritage of those who fear your name, would not that be a reference to eternal life in Christ? Is that not what the covenant is truly all about? Here, David, as he references it, this heritage is that which has already been given to him by the Lord. So it makes perfect sense to understand this as a reference to the covenant of life or the covenant of grace, which David knows he has received. What is your heritage? Does it exist in this world? Or is it eternal? See the problem is this world will not last. What you see is not everlasting, but the heritage of God is everlasting. See, that's what Peter wrote about. By the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. Peter wrote that all that we see will not remain And that's exactly once again what Jesus Christ warned against. Do not lay up treasures for yourself on earth. Where's your heritage? Tonight. Now as David continues in the psalm, it seems as though he may have abruptly shifted gears. to a separate topic, as now he begins writing about the king. Prolong the life of the king, verse six. May his years endure to all generations. May he be enthroned forever before God. Appoint steadfast love and faithfulness to watch over him. This may be one of the most critical, most important parts of this song. As David pleads for the eternality of the king. And it's not disconnected, it is clearly connected with the theme of eternity. David prays for an eternal throne. And a king to sit on that throne forever. And now, regardless of whether David was actually king of the nation of Israel at this time or not, he's not pleading for himself. David knew the covenant. He'd been told by God through the prophet Nathan that one of his sons would sit on an eternal throne forever. And so now David prays that God would bring that covenant to pass. So here's the significance. Not only does David believe God's word and his covenant, not only does David know that his prayer will be heard and answered as he prays in accordance with the will of God. But hear this. David desires to be ruled by a forever king, a divine king. David desires to live forever under the authority of a king which God Himself will seat. David desires to be a submissive servant to a forever king in eternity. After a long day of work, whether it be with an employer or within the home or your homework assignments, where and how do you take refuge? You may sit down on an easy chair or just lay down in your bed to sleep when your work is done, your feet are weary, your mind is exhausted, your body aches, and you rest. There's a temporary reprieve. There is a refuge from your daily labors, but all of that is physical Certainly there may be emotional aspects to your daily labors, but here David writes of a spiritual refuge that will never end. Are you spiritually weary? If you're fearing God and seeking seeking him, then I assume you might be shaking your head yes. But I'm weary of my sin Like Paul in Romans chapter seven. The question is where will you find refuge? If you're fighting against the old man within your being, if you're speaking if you're seeking to knock down the darts and arrows, the flaming arrows of Satan who's seeking to tear you away from Jesus Christ. How are you refreshed? How are you renewed? Where do you find refuge? Where is your weariness turned into joy? Who will provide shelter and relief? Is it not the king? Is that not what David was praying for? That he would be one of the eternal king's subjects and given eternal refuge? Don't you see that's how your spiritual weariness is resolved ultimately Eternally addressed by your Heavenly Father, by sending a king to sit on an eternal throne to rule over your eternal heart. You see, all that's possible because Jesus Christ is the forever King. And he is paid for your sins once for all. He has washed away the filth of your sins in his pure and perfect blood, paying the debt you owed, and even now he sits on his eternal throne. And because he is who he is, and because he's changed your heart and brought you to himself, you will stand before him with no weariness and no sin, for sin will be no more. As you subject yourself to the eternal King. That's why that verse is not out of place. That's why it follows exactly along the lines of what David is asking for. Hear me, O God. That brings us to our third point, the eternal praise What is the end of your pleading with God? In other words, why do you pray? All of these truths in this psalm, all of David's pleading, all the inspired psalmist's heart lead to or culminate in this last verse. In a significant sense, David David has been songwriting about eternity. And this is where he ends. His prayer, his song ends on this earth exactly where it must and will end in eternity. Meaning that David's purpose in the prayer, he's writing in this song, is to lead his brethren, the church, in doing that which is happening now. And will continue to happen forever in glory. So I so will I ever sing praises to your name? Once again, this little words, these small words, help us understand David's spirit-led thinking. So, or therefore, or as a result of everything that I've already written here. David concludes that because of experiencing the refuge of the Lord, because of his experiencing the protection, the strong tower against David's enemies, That because of knowing that there is room for David in the dwelling tent of the Lord of the universe, because believing that the wings of the Lord are sufficient to shelter David from the attacks of all who would come against him Because he's trusting that the eternal God has ears for his pleas and that David's prior vows have been heard because he's already received the heritage of God along with all others who fear his name. And being confident that the covenant promises of the Lord will come to pass with regard to the eternal kingdom, the eternal king and his eternal throne All coming about due to the steadfast love and faithfulness of God, David commits to singing praises to his God without end forever. That's the end of his prayer. That's the purpose of his song. Is that why you pray? Ultimately, is it your purpose to praise the Eternal One who suffered and offered and provided you with refuge? And giving you his son as the higher rock. But David didn't stop with praise. He links his praise to obedience. Did you see that? So will I ever sing praises to your name as I perform my vows day after day He links his praise to obedience. Isn't that what the Lord seeks from his children? Isn't there a necessary connection between true praise and worship or obedience? Indeed, worship includes a strong component of serving. Indeed, the Westminster Confession of Faith, while not defining worship, in a sense does so As it describes it, the light of nature shows that there is a God who has lordship and sovereignty over all, is good, and does good unto all, and is therefore to be feared. Loved, praised, called upon, trusted in, and served with all the heart, with all the soul, and with all the might. In a sense, that's the definition of worship. And remember, as David recalls his vows, the vows that the Lord has heard, and now as the song culminates, the psalmist proclaims that his praise for this one who has provided that refuge which David needs. He promises, you may even say that David covenants to fulfill that which he has vowed He recognized that he's joined in communion and fellowship with this loving, caring, protecting, saving, and delivering Lord, and that in this communion he has something to do. I'll perform my vows. I'll praise you. And I'll perform my vows. Do you see David's desire is crystal clear as he sings of being in sweet union and communion with the eternal God and as he looks toward eternity, as eternity is upon his heart and mind It's that which the Apostle John wrote of in his first letter. The life, he's speaking about Jesus Christ, the life was made manifest, and we've seen it, and testify to it and proclaim to you the eternal life which was with the Father and was made manifest to us that which we have seen and heard we proclaim to you, so that you too may have fellowship with us. And our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son Jesus. Is that your desire? Where do you desire to spend eternity? With whom do you desire to live forever? Brothers and sisters, life in this world, this place of sin and misery is hard. The enemies of God are constantly fighting against Him and against you. And the circumstances of this life seem to overwhelm and overcome. But tonight, tonight you've been given time. The Lord's given you time to meditate on eternity. See the great blessing of doing so. That he might ask you even tonight, what is your desire? What's your prayer? Where do you desire to spend eternity? As the Spirit works, we should be asking and praying that He'd help us. To see beyond our circumstances, keep our thoughts upon the things above, and to meditate on eternity That we might be even now submitting ourselves lovingly, contentedly. to the supernatural rule of the King of Kings and Lord of Lords who's been seated upon his eternal throne Just as David was praying for. He was asking for it As those who long to live forever in the dwelling place of the living God will lovingly and contentedly submit to and obey King Jesus today. May He work in our hearts that our desire be to spend eternity with the one who saved us. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we're weak, we're frail, Lord. We keep our minds and hearts set upon this earth, and we pray that you break us of that. Help us to be those who set our minds upon the things above, upon Christ Jesus. Who long for eternity, who know that, Lord God, you're preparing us for it. And so we ask Work in us. Help us even today to submit our hearts, our minds, our very souls to the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for his rule. We thank you for his kingship. And we pray, establish it forever. Help us to be those who lovingly submit to