Please remain standing. I'd like to direct you to the same text that I preached from last week, Acts chapter 28, beginning our reading. Excuse me Acts chapter twenty, beginning our reading at verse twenty-eight. Acts chapter twenty and verses twenty-eight through thirty-one. Apostle Paul is speaking to a collection of the elders of the church at Ephesus, a place where he had ministered for three years. Let us hear God's word. Therefore take heed to yourself and to all the flock among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers. to shepherd the church of God, which he purchased with his own blood. For I know this that after my departure savage wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock, also from among yourselves Men will rise up, speaking perverse things, to draw away the disciples after themselves. Therefore, watch and remember that for three years I did not cease to warn everyone night and day with tears. Please be seated. These words, which we have recorded for us here in Acts chapter 20, Are the words that the Apostle Paul gives as his farewell address to the leadership of the church at Ephesus? We discover that he had been there ministering for three years. And in those three years, his ministry was associated with these other men. And now he is giving them last-minute instructions as he departs from their presence. The words which he speaks are heartfelt. This is a man who has devoted his life to serving the Lord Jesus Christ and his people. And as you read through these words, you cannot help but appreciate Paul's steadfast devotion to the welfare of Jesus' church. You're struck also by his amazing candor before these men and his remarkable humility. And his evident desire to have them see that everything Paul does, he does for the glory of Christ, and they should follow his example. Now, after Paul exhorts them to look out for their own walk, after he tells the elders, the leaders of the church, to look out for their own walk in faith. He exhorts them to remember that they are God's appointed men for this work of ministry They didn't just happen to be there as leaders. Verse 28 says, the Holy Spirit appointed you as overseers. Next, after he makes that point, he shares with them the outlines of what it means to be a leader in God's church. An appointed leader in God's church. It's very broad at this point. He says that they're to oversee and to shepherd or pastor the flock. And in that overseeing, pastoring, and shepherding comes feeding the flock with the Word of God and protecting the flock from that which isn't the Word of God. Finally, Paul reminds the leaders of the church that the church at Ephesus, where they are ministering, that they're ministering to God's people. And God's people are special to God. So special, in fact, that the Lord Himself bought and paid for with His own blood for their Privilege of being his own children. Today we turn to the last part of this section. Which are verses 29 and 30. Verses which at the very least show us that the task that is placed before these leaders Whether you call them bishops, overseers, pastors, shepherds, or elders, I don't care what you call them, they all have the same task. And that task is identified in our verses today and last week. And the ones today remind us that the elders' task will be complicated. It will be complicated because they will have to do what they're to do enduring interference. Interference from others. And that interference the Apostle Paul characterizes as dangerous Dangerous. Now I want to just share with you briefly, very briefly Some of the personal experiences that the Apostle Paul had with these dangerous, with this dangerous interference. And quite frankly, usually it came from other people. And very often it also came from people within the various different churches that Paul was ministering to. For example, in Second Corinthians ten, verses eight and nine, uh we read That Paul is reflecting here on how the Corinthian church initially viewed Paul. They were saying these things. For though I should boast somewhat more of our authority, that's Paul, which the Lord has given us for edification and not for destruction, I should not be ashamed. That I may not seem as if I would terrify you by my letters. For his letters, now the people are speaking, Paul is recalling what they said, for his letters They say are weighty and powerful, but his bodily presence is weak And his speech contemptible. In other words, when Paul is away from the church, he's powerful in his letters, but when he's present He's a contemptible mess. He can't even speak right. That's how they viewed him. That was the part of the interference, the opposition. Some, not all, but some at Corinth felt this way about Paul. And you read in Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter 14, of a of fellows, individuals who are identified. And there, Paul talks about Alexander, the coppersmith. He did me much evil. The Lord reward him according to his works. Well, that's not very that's pretty strong wording there. He did me evil, but Lord give him evil for what he has done. That's what Paul said. This was in another, this was most likely in the Ephesus Church, where Paul is talking to Timothy about Alexander. 2 Timothy 2, verse 16, another probable focus on Ephesus. He's telling Timothy, shun profane and vain babblings, for they will increase unto more ungodliness and their word will eat like a cancer, among whom is Hylenaeus and Philatus. Even Saint John, the apostle, apparently experienced similar kinds of opposition. Third John 9. I write I wrote unto the church, but diatrophies Who loves to have the preeminence among them receives us not. My friends, it seems clear from these citations That self-appointed leaders were a problem that Paul and at least John had to face in even the earliest churches. This is not new. This problem is not new. Because now Paul is warning the churches and the elders in Ephesus. And he's saying to them, It's your turn. This is on the horizon Paul writes in verse twenty-nine, look at this verse. I know that after this Excuse me, I know this that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. I know this. How does he know it? Does he have some sort of magical Ouija board that he's consulting? He knows it, you see, from practical experience. If he seeks to lead the people in God's word, there will come an attack. That attack may come in the form of individuals. Here he calls them those who come in from the outside. Those who are outside of the church may bring a tax. May bring a tax on the church. What do we have going on right now in some of these regions around the world where Christian brothers and sisters are suffering? The attack is from the outside. There, it's not from the inside. He characterizes these attacks in such language that it gets your attention because he caused the attackers. Savage Wolves. He calls the attacker Savage Wolves He says, they will enter in among you. Why in the world would the people of God let savage wolves come in among them? A good question. Most likely it's because they don't look like savage wolves right now. They don't come in with a big placard over their heart saying, uh, I'm a savage wolf. Look out, church. Wolves are very secretive in nature. They plot, they plot the destruction of their quarry. That all points to the fact that this is the this initially begins as a disguised attack. Known only to the wolves, not known to the lambs, nor the leadership I know that after I leave, savage wolves will come in among you. What an aptly chosen word for the fear factor it presents. People in the church of Jesus are routinely depicted as sheep. We're not talking here about wolves killing sheep on the prairie. We're talking about savage wolves going after the Lord's people, who are routinely depicted as sheep and furthermore as the Lord's flock. And wolves in nature are a fierce mortal enemy of sheep, who on their own have very little defense. It's if you ba at a sleep at a at a wolf, it ain't gonna stop him. If you try to kick him, he's gonna bite your leg off. And that's it. That's all the defense they got. Unless they happen to have horns. And then you're talking about rams and not so much sheep But even there, they're vulnerable. They will enter in among you, Paul says. The wolves are clever enough to realize they can't just enter in as wolves. They have to disguise themselves in some way. And generally speaking, the way they go about the disguise is to use word speak. Words speak that may sound initially just like the Christian jargon that the con that the common ordinary congregation knows. You know, those code words, that language that we employ in the church. They pick up on that and they use it, but they don't mean what they're saying by it Their entrance initially doesn't even seem to cause initial alarm And that's why it can be a very tall task for elders to spot and neutralize these attackers. But that's the task that Paul is giving them. So it calls for men who are going to be doubly on guard and can sift through fact versus fiction, can sift through sincerity versus insincerity Not simple. I already mentioned that wolves are very clever animals And they're at the top of the intelligence scale in the animal world. So it's kind of an apt depiction of these outside enemies as wolves They are capable of devising multiple strategies to take down their prey. They are relentless in pursuit. They adapt to whatever situation they find themselves in, and they tend to employ the tactics of a wolf hack. To hunt down their prey. Maybe more than one false savage wolves at a time When he you know, if it's not enough to call them wolves, he has to call them savage wolves as well That conveys also. That conveys the image that they're out for their praise blood. And they will employ whatever method will work, very pragmatic, will employ whatever method will work to get their prey. They are the kinds of uh these comparing them to people uh individuals coming from the outside into the flock. They want the sheep to satisfy their appetites That's what wolves in the nature do, but wolves here want the sheep to somehow satisfy their lusts It doesn't have to be lusts of a sexual sort. It can be, when we usually think of that word, it can be lusts To feed their desire for power, their lust to be a wanted, uh, an acclaimed Bible teacher I used to, when I was, when I was still in seminary, I used to, man could I preach good sermons in my sleep I was the most the best and most famous preacher in my sleep and then I woke up and couldn't remember a darn thing. I think I think to some degree every minister wants to feel um that he's good, that he's the best, that People want to hear what he has to say. But the savage wolves use that to feed their desires. To feed their desires in a wrong way. Their lusts, again, may be power, a desire for power. There is a lot of power that uh in Individual person can hold over people through the use of religious jargon. And sometimes that power will extend even into the accumulation of money As Peter warns when he gives the qualifications of elders in 1 Peter 5, verse 2, that such a man should not be given to filthy lucre. Remember the old King James? Not given over to filthy lucre. And again, that should be understood more broadly as not just a desire for money The desire to feed my lusts whatever they are and the beginning the minute you bring in the word lusts You realize you have a problem. The rest of us realize we have a problem with that because lusts are supposed to be given over to Jesus. And let his spirit work. There's something going on in these people where the spirit is not working, or they're not excuse me, they're not letting the spirit work. In their lives. In one way, I had to laugh recently About what I thought was an example of someone in the religious arena demonstrating in public his desire for filthy lucre. Perhaps you remember hearing about a particular evangelist, won't use the name, who told his flock Of supporters around the world. If you just give me $300, I can buy a Learjet. I'm not lying. Maybe some of you heard that. Where is gospel there? What is that man doing, if not being a savage wolf fleecing the sheep? He did back off of that after he got a lot of flack from other people who understood that this just wasn't connected to the gospel. But it was out there. And that may be the most egregious example recently, but there have been egregious examples from day one. Go back to Acts chapter 8, where Simon becomes baptized by the ministry of Philip, one of the first deacons. And when he saw the Holy Spirit being poured out upon the people, he wanted to buy the Holy Spirit. The Apostle Peter made no bones about it. That is bad news for you to say that. He said, may your money perish with you. So it's been there a long time. The Greek word for savage here The actual translation, and I think it's done because it seems to make more sense. It can be translated three different ways. Savage Is only the third in line of trans of actual translations. The first is the word heavy. The word heavy Heavy wolves. And you know that doesn't sound like what what are we talking about? A big fat wolf? Is that the issue? He's He's uh uh No, that doesn't, that can't be what the image is. However, heavy also fits well into Paul's meaning here Such wolves, you see, lay heavy burdens on people. Burdens that are a direct result of their false ministry Their false teaching, and their inordinate lusts. Jesus said something similar about the Pharisees. In Matthew 23 and verse 4. They bind heavy burdens and grievous to bear, and lay them on men's shoulders. But they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers. Okay, so elders, look out. There's a problem from the outside. You're going to get distraction, you're going to get interference, you're going to get a formidable attack. Coming from the outside. But that's not all, Paul said. That's not the only direction the attack will come from. And for lack of a better way of saying it, he warns them to look out from the attack that comes from the inside. The attack that comes from the inside. Listen. Also, of your own selves Shall men arise speaking perverse things to draw disciples after them? The phrase, out of your own selves, cannot have any other application To the very accept to the very elders Paul is speaking to It may have a more broad application later, but first and foremost, he is warning the elders. of the church. They too are susceptible to the lusts of the savage wolves. Because we all, whether we are elders or not, Not our sinful man being renewed in Christ's image. And we have temptations. Of all different sorts. Here the Apostle Paul writes, From your own self shall men arise. From your own self shall men arise. And I believe that the sense in which Paul is saying this Is that they will begin to assert themselves in the midst of the leadership And that assertion will be driven by the fact that they want something that they realize they cannot get being part of the group. Did you hear that? They want something they can't get by being part of the group. If I am correct in that assertion, that means that they're not satisfied to be one among equals. I've coined a phrase here. I think I'm the first one to ever think of this. Probably not, but I believe that these men, these kinds of men, have what's called now the Sons of Zebedee disease. The sons of Zebedee disease. Go back to Matthew chapter twenty and read if you want to know what that's all about. But fundamentally, in summary They want to be first. They want to be greatest in the kingdom of God. And my friends, that is sin. That is the sin of pride being manifested among the body of Christ. They want to be the greatest. They want to know all. They want others to follow them. They want them to follow them instead of serving God and the flock Didn't Jesus in that very context when the two sons of Zebedee, James and John, two of his greatest disciples, two of the ones who appeared with him on The Mount of Transfiguration and saw what happened there. They want it to be greatest. Who will be greatest in the kingdom of God after you leave, Jesus? And Jesus looked at them and he said, Well, if you want to be great, you have to be least. And servant of all. And servant of all. In Jesus' definition of true greatness in the church, in the kingdom of God, it is the greatest servant who is greatest The one who serves God out of his love for God. The one who serves God's people out of his love for God. And that fundamentally greatest character in all of God's kingdom is Jesus. Because he did that. He did that. The disciples in this particular moment in their life, they are so warped in their thinking about what true greatness is. They are so warped that Jesus will say to them, Are you able to bear the cup that I am able to bear? By that cup he's talking about the cross. And they say, yep. We can do that. We can do that, Jesus. Uh-uh. Facts of the matter is is they all ran from it when the cross was before them. Only John sticked around For a brief period of time as Jesus was being crucified. They were so scared. They were so scared. You know, being a leader in the Church of Jesus Christ is fine When all the privileges and all the blessings and all the benefits come, but when the persecution comes, who's going to stand? Who's going to suffer? Who's going to do the dirty work that has to be done around the church? When there are spats that occur within the body of Christ, and somebody has to go and bring reconciliation. Dirty work is probably the wrong phrase there, but But you understand, you must understand, that that kind of thing is it is intrinsically difficult, not easy devastating, heartbreaking, sad, frustrating. And any other thing you want to add to it, it is not fun. Thank God there are men who will do that. To bring the sheep, to try to bring the sheep back to the fold. These ones from the inside will speak perverse things. Oh my goodness, how can that happen? How can they make how can they speak things that are crooked, perverted, depraved, twisted, twist the word of God. That's the sense of the meaning of the word depraved. They don't often speak it right away, but they will eventually. That's why it makes it so difficult to spot them. And it makes it so difficult to spot them also because they were once one of you. And you give them the benefit of the doubt. You're you you you know you're you're wired that way. To be gracious and to be merciful. But at a certain point, the benefit of doubt doesn't come anymore. And the hard things have to be done. These men, you see, have to be addressed because they want disciples to follow after them Well, what's so bad about that, Pastor Taylor? You got people who follow after you. God, I hope not. I hope you don't follow me You need to be following Jesus. If the shepherds lead you in the right way, you won't be following a man. You'll be following Jesus that you may happen to see in that map being displayed. They want others to follow them, and they want to make disciples. They want to lead them away instead of having the people follow Christ. And not only following Christ, but following those Christ has appointed to the task of leadership in his church. Again, it's the Holy Spirit who makes overseers. Verse 28. Elders must take the lead in identifying problems from the outside and the inside. And that means they have to be on guard. And speaking as an elder, please pray for us. What can I do, Pastor, to help you? Pray for us Pray for us. Pray for me. Pray for Ken. Pray for Cliff. Pray for us. The elder who is God appointed and not self-appointed The self-seekers want to appoint themselves as chief among and over their people. I think that's the goal of those who rise up from within. And fundamentally, what drives them? I suspect it's pride. I suspect it's pride. And one way that you can discern pride at work among you. Is that everything it does, it does for me Big M, Big E, me. And that's instead of God and instead of Christ. Sinful pride shows itself subtly in every relationship with people. People are there to be used. For me, not for ministering and edification unto Christ. Paul, reflecting on his ministry to the Corinthians, speaks to the proper attitude the good shepherd, the good leader, the good elder has for the flock. I read it earlier. Let me read it again. 2 Corinthians eleven verse 2. I am jealous over you with godly jealousy For I have espoused you to one husband, that I may present you a chaste version to Christ. May God bless this word to your hearts. Amen. Let us pray. O Lord our God, our Heavenly Father, apply the lessons from your word. To our lives and to our hearts, Father, that we might uh continue to be uh uh aware of what it is, what kind of men you wish to be leading the church of the Lord Jesus Christ Because, Lord, the church, the individuals of the church, have to be willing to affirm those who are being put in nomination for leadership in the church They have to see, Father, that these individuals are in are interested and involved. Most of all, focused on being servant, a servant of Christ unto them. Lord, give us such leaders in multitude, we pray. And help us, Lord, to minister faithfully to the needs of your people, protecting them from the savage wolves inside and outside of the church. For we do ask it now in his name. Amen.