If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Exodus 31, continue our study there. It's on page 84 of the Pew Bibles, and we'll read the entire chapter as we continue to study the Tabernacle. Let's give attention to God's holy word. Exodus thirty-one at verse one. The Lord said to Moses, see, I have called thy name Bezaliel, the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah. And I filled him with the Spirit of God, with the ability and intelligence, with knowledge and all craftsmanship To devise artistic designs to work in gold, silver, and bronze, and cutting stones for setting, and carving wood to work every craft. And behold, I have appointed with him Oholiab, the son of Ahasmach of the tribe of Dan. And I've given to all able men ability, that they may make all that I have commanded you. The tent of meeting, the ark of The testimony, the mercy seat that is on it, and all the furnishings of the tent, the table, and its utensils And the pure lamp stand with all its utensils, and the altar of incense, and the altar of burnt offering, with all its utensils, and the basin and its stand, and the finely worked garments. The holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons for their service as priests, and the anointing oil, and the fragrant incense for the holy place, according to all that I have commanded you, they shall do. And the Lord said to Moses, You are to speak to the people of Israel and say, Above all, you shall keep my Sabbath But this is a sign between me and you throughout your generations, that they may know that I, the Lord, sanctify you. You shall keep the Sabbath, because it is holy for you. Everyone who profanes it shall be put to death. Whoever does any work on it, that soul shall be cut off from among his people Six days shall work be done, but the seventh day is a Sabbath of solemn rest. Holy to the Lord. Whoever does any work on the Sabbath day shall be put to death. Therefore, the people of Israel shall keep the Sabbath, observing the Sabbath throughout their generations as a covenant forever. It is a sign forever between me and the people of Israel that in six days the Lord made heaven and earth And on the seventh day he rested and was refreshed. And he gave to Moses, when he had finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai, the two tablets of the testimony. Tablets of stone written with the finger of God. As far as the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Father, we ask as we come to this passage To the end of this description of the tabernacle, the pattern, that should work powerfully in our hearts. That you, Father, would convict us of sin and then remind us of all of the promises of Christ. That you'd lay up your word in our hearts, help us to practice it in our lives, Father, and now, Father, we ask, lead us, illumine us by your Spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I recently heard of an encounter a counselor had with a woman she was counseling at a pregnancy clinic. And as the woman, the pregnant woman came and they sat down and began their discussions, the woman told the counselor, I don't want to talk about spiritual things It's quite impossible for them to continue their conversation. Because everything Indeed, even the reason that this woman had come to the pregnancy clinic was spiritual in nature. Continuing life of the child within the womb. This woman's desire to be rid of the child. Indeed, even this woman's eternity, her eternal life, it's all spiritual. At times we can think, as we enter into particular situations, that there's really nothing spiritual about them. Indeed, as we read through Exodus and have all of these chapters, all of these words on the tabernacle. There's a temptation that we might consider this all to be physical, of an earthly nature, nothing to do with spiritual things. I think this passage that we have before us today tells us just the opposite. But the tabernacle was all about the spiritual lives of the Israelites Moses has been spending 40 days and nights on Mount Sinai. He's been receiving direction from the Lord God as to this tabernacle, this pattern. This dwelling place for God amongst his people. And the pattern has been detailed, distinct. The ark, the lampstand, the court, the bronze altar. The Lord moved from the inner to the outer. The pattern, the physical structure, the description of that has been completed. The priestly garments were described in In great detail, this method of consecration of the priests, those who would be serving within, was set forth, and now we get to the conclusion of all that the Lord was giving Moses with regard to. This pattern, this tabernacle. This morning I want us to see that perfect obedience is provided for the children of God so that they may be refreshed through keeping the Sabbath. Perfect obedience is provided. For the children of God, so they may be refreshed through keeping the Sabbath. Two points this morning, only two. The Lord provides and secondly the Lord sanctifies. The Lord provides and the Lord Sanctified. Let's begin with that. The Lord provides. What we've seen as we were studying the tabernacle is clearly that that the Lord provides. Moses on Mount Sinai for 40 days has been receiving all of that provision. The plans have been laid out in great detail. Obviously, these detailed blueprints of what is in glory, what is in heaven and a pattern of that given to Moses to represent and symbolize God's dwelling amongst his people. The pattern given by God to Moses. God didn't stop there. He also provided the materials to build the tabernacle. You might be scratching your heads and saying, well, no, I think I think back in chapter 25, the Lord said to Moses, speak to the people, that they take for me a contribution. So all the materials were coming from the people. Well, that's true, but where did they get the materials? And it's likely that the Lord was using those materials that they were given by the Egyptians. The Lord first moved in the hearts of the Egyptians as the Israelites left Egypt to plunder The Egyptians with precious things. They let them have what they asked. And this was only because the Lord worked in the hearts of the Egyptians. That was first, that was foremost. But we see now that as the Israelites bring those contributions, it was only because he had worked in their hearts as well. From every man whose heart moves him, you shall receive the contribution from me. So the Lord worked not only in the hearts of the Egyptians, he also worked in the hearts of the Israelites that they've wanted to give up these precious things, these materials for the construction of the tabernacle for the priestly garments as well. The Lord was the ultimate provider. He certainly provided the plans and the materials, but now here in chapter 31 we see that he provides the laborers. As chapter thirty one opens, we might have a a question that's being answered here and unasked question. Moses might have been scratching his head as he's received these detailed plans. He's got within his arms all these rolls of papers. I'm speculating now. of of details. This is how you're to make it. And you might be thinking, how am I going to do this? How are we going to put together this exactly according to the word of God? And so the Lord once again Now remember, some of these things were very intricate and detailed. The mercy seat or the atonement cover. It was to be of one piece, the cherubim with the mercy seat, all of hammered gold. One piece Think of the lampstand made like almond blossoms, each with kylex and flower, one branch, three cups. Very intricate work. And maybe the most intricate was the ephaw that the priests were to wear. Gold, purple, blue, scarlet yarns. skillfully worked, finely uh fine twined linen. And then those stones, two stones With the names of each of the tribes, six on one, six on the other, engraved, set in gold filigree settings. Intricate work. Skilled craftsmen were certainly needed. So again, the Lord provides. Look at verse 1. The Lord said to Moses, see, I have called by name Bazalal. Son of Ur, the son of Hur, tribe of Judah. I've appointed with him Ohiah. Two men called out in particular, appointed by God. For this work, placing a desire within the hearts of these men to perform this work, these tasks given to them. Now, likely there were others working as well. But we see these particular men set apart, appointed. Moses didn't need to conduct interviews or test skills or train men. No, God had provided Men specifically for this, filled with the Spirit of God first, with ability, intelligence, knowledge, and all craftsmanship. And the description goes on. God had provided. I've given to all able men ability that they may make all that I've Commanded you. Do you see? God calls, he commands, and then he provides the way. He didn't leave Moses scratching his head. From the tent covering to the furnishings within the tabernacle, from the priestly garments to the incense to be used by the priests, everything, everything. Skilled craftsmen would only be able to do because God had worked in them. God had provided men. The Lord provided the pattern. The Lord provided the materials and the Lord provided labors and equipped them just as he had required them to be equipped to accomplish his holy will. So now the Israelites were in a position to do his will. Remember how this whole thing began. And let them make me a sanctuary. That wasn't a request. That was a command. And God gave to his people all they needed to accomplish his most holy and perfect. Indeed, the entire passage on the tabernacle begins with that command. Let them make me a sanctuary exactly as I show you, you shall make it. You see the perfection that was required? No deviations allowed Many times we see and read in Scripture of God requiring perfect obedience. Abraham was told, walk before me and be blameless. The people were told in Leviticus, you shall therefore keep my statutes and my rules. If a person does them, he shall live by them. You shall be holy. Leviticus 19, 2. Jesus Christ Himself said in his Sermon on the Mount, you therefore must be perfect. The Apostle Paul wrote, Let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit. Every. Every defilement of body and spirit Perfection required. Just like the standard set forth for the tabernacle, exactly as I show you, you shall make it. What would have happened if the Israelites failed, if they deviated? What would have happened if the Israel Israelites just refused to contribute or to build. What would have happened if they failed to consecrate the tent or or move the tabernacle once it was constructed or consecrate the priests or fail to dress them as as God had called for them to be dressed. That's mere speculation because it didn't happen. But we can imagine that God would not have dwelt among them, that worship would not have been possible. God is not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you, and that would have been evil to fail to accomplish all that He had called them to do. Perfection, obedience was required that God would dwell with the people of God and allow them to enter into worship. You might be asking that question now. How can I do this? How can I, a sinner, be blameless before a holy God? The Apostle John tells us that we are all sinners. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. Does the Lord really require perfection in his law? Yes. That's his standard for entry into his presence, for remaining in his presence. We see that in the tabernacle. The need to adhere to the pattern and assembling all of the components and building the tabernacle provides the picture that the only way to enter into God's presence is through perfect obedience. And the only way to dwell. The only way for God to dwell amongst this people is if they are perfect in that obedience The only way for the priest to enter into the tabernacle was to keep the pattern. Outside of the pattern, there was no dwelling with God. Within the pattern, God would dwell and his priest would enter. That same truth applies to each of us today In order to enter into God's presence, this standard, this pattern of perfection must be satisfied. God will be satisfied. Not only will his perfect and righteous judgment on sinners Punishment, decree, death, be satisfied, but God will also require righteousness and blamelessness and purity and perfection in obedience to his pure word. that to be satisfied as well. And so there's our problem. We can't do either Only the Lord Jesus Christ can. We've had that sense throughout this entire pattern that the tabernacle and all of its furnishings, everything about it was pointing to Christ. And as we reach the completion of it, that should be so clear to us. That everything about the tabernacle, the tabernacle itself itself, the court, and all the things that were going on within the tabernacle were pointing us to Christ, the one provided. You see? God provided the pattern, he provided the materials, he provided the people, and God provides his son. You must see Jesus here. The only way to satisfy God's righteous judgment for sin is in and through the blood of Christ. The only way to be perfectly righteous and blameless before a holy living God is the righteousness of Christ. It is Jesus alone who has satisfied his Father. It is Jesus alone who's met the standard of perfect obedience, and it is through faith or trust in Jesus alone that you can be made perfect. And enter into the presence of the Lord your God. That brings us to our second point. The Lord sanctifies. The tabernacle really begins with the Ten Commandments. There wasn't a pattern given within the Ten Commandments, but that's really where the tabernacle, the idea of the tabernacle, the need for the tabernacle, begins with the giving of the Ten Commandments in Exodus twenty. As God has descended upon Mount Sinai and he speaks with the people, he himself gives the ten words, the ten commandments, that broad brush description of them as that which would be in the heart of every single person that he would bring into his presence. A description, a moral nature, the character of all who would truly enter into his presence. And so then as the tabernacle begins to be unfolded or spoken about by God to Moses, he begins with the ark. Remember that. That piece of furniture, that furnishing which was placed in the most holy place With the Ten Commandments to be set inside. And then the atonement cover on top, or the mercy seat with the cherubim. They whipped the place where Moses would meet with God. The Ark of the Covenant was the first thing described, the ten words, the ten commandments to be placed within it. The center of this worship center, if we can refer to that in today's terminology, is the two tablets. Within the Ark. The fixed moral law. Now, as we get to the other end of the description of the tabernacle, we have reference once again to the Ten Commandments. Look at verse 18. If Moses has finished his 40 days on the mountain, he's coming down, and what does he have? He's finished speaking with him on Mount Sinai. The two tablets of the testimony are given to Moses, the tablets of stone written with the finger of God, intended to be placed in the ark. See the book ends. It begins with the Ten Commandments. It ends with the Ten Commandments. But before we get there, before we get to the end. We have this call, this repetition of one of the Ten Commandments. It seems somewhat out of place. As we're reading through it, as we're going through all of the physical things The construction of the tent, the the courtyard that goes around the tabernacle, all those things within the the details, the priestly garments. Now we get to the end, the end of the 40 days, and we have this repetition, this singling out of the Sabbath. Fourth commandment. Almost an exact repetition, not quite, but close It seems out of place. Everything else was external. But now we have this repetition of what seems to be centered on the fourth. Commandment. So now I'm hoping that we're getting the picture that tabernacle really wasn't all external. The tabernacle was focused upon the internal. Indeed, the Zaliel and Oholiah are told to do all that I have commanded you according to it. But the people of God, the Israelites, all 600,000 men, women, and children now, above all, you shall keep my Sabbaths. Not above all, do not lie. Not above all, make sure the gold is pure. Not above all, measure the tabernacle curtains accurately. Not above all, do not use my name in vain. Not above all you shall fill in the blank. Above all You shall keep my Sabbaths. Why? Why the Sabbaths? Ten words, ten commandments. Why the fourth one? Think about that for a moment. All the Ten Commandments, all the Ten Words, are clearly significant and critical to our lives, critical to God, that we might live in such a way. But God separates out this one. At the end of Moses' time on the mountain, he separates out this one above all, you shall keep my Sabbath. Other translation put it a little bit differently. New American Standard has, you shall surely observe my Sabbaths. New King James, surely my Sabbath you shall keep. But each one has this emphasis on the Sabbaths and this command to keep them. There's a strong emphasis on keeping God's Sabbath, so we should be asking that question why? It's a bit curious. Lord Jesus Christ said, without a doubt, the greatest commandment is love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. No question. So why not here? Why would Moses place this portion of Scripture concerning the Sabbath here at the end of the pattern given for the tabernacle? At the end of this description of the dwelling place of God, and of certainly his worship. Well, first you have to remember why Moses was sent to deliver the Hebrews. Come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians to bring them up. Out of that land to a good and broad land. God transforming the Israelites, certainly physically. But truly spiritually. You shall serve God on this mountain I will bring you up out of the affliction that we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. This was why. This was why they were being delivered. That picture of their bondage to sin being broken as they were removed from the affliction of the Egyptians and placed in a good land. That we may sacrifice to the Lord our God. That's the purpose. Brought out so they could worship. And then remember why the Israelites were sent into exile. They were brought out to be placed in the promised land so they could worship God rightly. And then they were removed from the promised land, placed in XLY. Because they weren't worshiping God rightly. Nehemiah writes, In those days I saw in Judah people treading wine presses on the Sabbath. And then he confronts the nobles of Judah and said to them, What is this evil you are doing, profaning the Sabbath day? Did not your fathers act this way, and did not our God bring all this disaster? On us and this city. They were brought to the promised land to worship. They were removed from the promised land because they failed to worship. It can't be denied that the greatest commandment is to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. But yet Moses was inspired here to write, above all, or surely you shall keep the Sabbath. Moses was moved. He was inspired to write about and emphasize that which exposed the heart of the Israelites. How do you tell if the Creator God is being loved Within your own heart. You can't see that. That's the command. Love the Lord your God. Can't see that. How do you know? How do you know if someone else is doing that How is it that one shows that deep within the heart that he or she is loving God, serving God, submitting to God with all of one's heart, soul, mind, and strength? Isn't it through keeping the Sabbath, at least in part? There's really nothing like it There's no other command in Scripture like keep the Sabbath holy. To do it, it requires a deep and abiding love for God. It requires one to step away from the world and worldly activities and worldly thoughts and worldly desires and fix the heart exclusively and entirely on God. That means that a heart's been transformed, completely changed. To truly keep the Sabbath requires just the opposite for the Israelites. The Sabbath is a sign. He writes in verse 17 is a sign forever. Sign has a couple of different definitions, but it can be a wonder It can be proof or a sign to tell them every week, week in, week out, I am the one who sanctifies you. What does that mean, sanctify? Again, it can have different meanings. It can mean to purify, to make holy, to separate, to purify for divine service. Certainly, these people of God have been set apart, identified as sons of God, delivered out of the hands of the Egyptians, specially cared for, provided for, and kept, brought to this place? Yes. They were set aside. But they were also being prepared. You see, they're prepared for divine service. That's the way Webster puts it. Remember what the Lord said as he descended upon Mount Sinai. Exodus 19, verse 6. And you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Notice he didn't say you are. You shall be. The Lord God, the Almighty, was preparing his people to become that holy nation. Meaning he was about the work of sanctifying them, preparing them. Sabbaths, the Sabbath regulation, were given by the Lord to his people week in, week out. As a reminder, as a proof, as evidence that that was happening. Weekly continuing signs, signaling that he was preparing them for divine service. Do you understand the Sabbath today that way? The call to keep the Sabbath? It hasn't faded. It hasn't gone away. The fourth commandment's still there. Continuing moral law of God. But if you love Jesus Christ this morning and you are participating in the Lord's Day, in the Sabbath, It's a sign that God is preparing you, He's purifying you for that divine service. You're part of the Bride of Christ, waiting for His return. Do you understand then that this weekly Sabbath, this weekly Lord's Day, is a sign of His sanctifying you as the body of Christ, as the bride? That brings us back then to the tabernacle. All these furnishings, all these priestly garments, the court, the altar, the ark, the cherubim What was the purpose? The Israelites couldn't fit in it. 600,000 weren't going into the tabernacle. They were excluded. Indeed, some of them were so far away they probably couldn't even see it. So what was the purpose? Sabbath is mentioned as Moses is about to walk down the mountain, this thing that they're to keep above all. Surely you shall keep my Sabbaths? Tabernacle then seems to be this hub. It's hub of a wheel. If you think of a bike wheel and the thing right there in the middle This is a tabernacle. All the Israelites. Like the the the rim. Way out there The rim only turns because the hub turns. The people of God could only keep the Sabbaths. As the tabernacle was doing all that he had called for to be done within it. As the pattern was being kept, as it had been constructed, exactly in accordance with God's word as the priests were putting on their garments in the way that he had called for them to be made and and worn. And as they were cleansed and as they were performing the sacrifices morning and evening as they were bringing in the incense to be burned within, and lighting the lamps, and putting the bread of the presence on the tables, as the tabernacle was functioning as God had called for it to do, to be Then the people of God could be worshiping. It could be setting aside and keeping the Sabbaths Because the tabernacle was there, because the tabernacle was kept in accordance with God's word. Because he was dwelling in the midst of his people. Do you see that with regard to Jesus Christ t today? You're called to keep the Sabbath. The question is how And the answer is it's only because Jesus Christ is sitting next to his Father in glory. The answer is because Jesus Christ has gone to the cross, he's shed his blood at Calvary. The answer is because Jesus Christ rose from the tomb and defeated death and sin and broke your bondage to sin. And now he's ascended and he's mediating for you. Now he's doing all of that. So you can keep the Sabbath. That's a sign that God indeed is sanctifying you. That he's preparing you for that divine service. And it can only be done because of who Jesus is and because of what Jesus has done. The tabernacle means so much to us because it points to Christ. Brothers and sisters, perfect obedience is provided for the children of God so they may be refreshed through keeping. Sabbath. It was all spiritual. Just as Jesus Christ is leading us in spiritual things this morning And as God has promised, He continues to sanctify us and prepare us for that day when our bridegroom will return. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you so much for Christ. We thank you for the tabernacle, for the pattern, for all that it represents. But we thank you for Christ. We thank you, Lord God, that we can are given the Sabbath as a blessing. Knowing every single time. It's a sign pointing us to your work Sanctifying us, preparing us for eternal divine service. We thank you, Father. Help us now. We ask all these things in Jesus' name