If you'll remain standing while I read, uh now I'm reading a longer section in uh 1 Peter chapter 1. Uh we're actually going to look at uh two verses 6 and 7, but we want to get a feel for the whole picture. So let me read uh in God's Word from 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 1 to 9. This is God's Word. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ. To those who are elect exiles of the Dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia According to the foreknowledge of God the Father, in the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ, and For sprinkling with his blood. May grace and peace be multiplied to you. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading. kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being kept are being guarded through faith for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him. and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. Praise God for His word. Please have a seat Think people uh if you've been here when I've been here before You know that one of the things I do is to try to give you something to think about. Um because you may get bored, I realize That uh somebody up here talking for a long time. But I was about nine years old when I got my first bike. And my dad got this bike, and uh Um it had um it was green and had a white stripe on the fender and on the front and those big balloon tires and it had coaster brakes, no no hand brakes or anything. that stuff. And uh my dad would take me uh to like dads have done, take me to the parking lot. And he'd hold on to the back of my shirt or the back of the seat and he'd kind of get me going and he and he'd help me push off and then he'd say, I know you can do it, I know you can do it, keep pedaling. And then after a while he let go. And he'd stop holding on to me and and I'd learn to balance and I'd learn to ride the bike. And and sometimes we think that's what God does That God says, Good job. Here you go. And He pushes us and He gets us going and He lets us go. And that's not it at all. God never lets us go. God's always holding on to the back of our shirt. He's always keeping us And he said, Yeah, I know you can do it, but he can do it because he's there and he doesn't forget us. And that's what we can talk about. But let's pray that God will help us all Our Father in heaven, we thank you that the Lord Jesus Christ has come and He's given His Spirit that we might endure. Because this is a hard world and difficult things happen to us. So we come to you now and ask you by your Holy Spirit to plant your word in our hearts. Not my words, Lord, but your word, that you might receive glory and praise, and that we might trust in you more as we live these lives. In Jesus' name we pray Well I could uh I could tell you about things that uh that I've been through. You've heard about that. Some. Um but let me tell you about uh the Underwood family. They were in uh Fredericksburg, six kids. Father has taken the garbage to the dump His uh oldest daughter's next to him. He has a heart attack and he dies in the car. She grabs the wheel And makes they pull off to the side. He's dead. Six kids. Wife at home, homeschooling. Six kids. What's gonna happen now? They're face tested. Joni had uh particular surgery. Surgeon didn't do a good job Job. She began to bleed when she got home. And I remember the scene. Called 911, ambulance came and took her, did another surgery to repair what had happened. Faith tested Family has twin girls, Abigail and Naomi. Abigail thrived. Naomi died. Faith tested. Your faith may be tested by job losses Uh by the death of a spouse, uh uh child, uh family members turn away. Tested all the time. We're in a sinful fallen world, and these things test our faith. Faith is about things that are not seen, right? We don't have them yet in our hands. We'd love to have them in our hands sometimes, but by faith we're holding on to them. You know how Hebrews 1 or Hebrews eleven verse one says Now faith is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. The assurance and the conviction And sometimes, if you're like me at all, you feel like your faith is pretty small. And it's shrunk. Down pretty small. Is what we believe true? God says it's going to end in glory and joy, but right now we don't have And sometimes we're holding on to it just by our fingernails. And we think, well, this Bible stuff, this Jesus stuff, and people come to us And they say, look at that stuff you're going through. How can there be a good God and He's doing that stuff to you or letting that stuff happen to you? Um and we asked, is God good? It's God good to me in this situation by faith. Can I say God's good when our faith is tested? We have examples in the Bible, of course, whole books. The book of Job tells us about struggling like that. Well, here in 1 Peter We come back to some verses that I really love, verses 6 and 7. I love this whole first section of Peter. You see what uh what Peter is doing. He is talking to people who are understanding that they're exiles, that their home is not here. That's how he begins, those who are elect exiles. And we're exiles. We don't look at we may have been born right here in PG County. We don't feel like exiles, but we're exiles to heaven. That's our home. And we forget it, don't we, because we get comfortable here And this world seems so much the place where our home is that we forget that now it's not. Our homes had So we're going to work through uh this passage a bit, focusing almost exclusively on verses six and seven, but we've got to bring in some of the things that are happening. Happening beforehand, if we want to really understand it. So we're going to just walk our way through those verses And we have to remember that because we believe this is inspired Scripture, that when God inspired Peter The Holy Spirit had us here on this day, November 24th, 2019, in Atlanta, Maryland. He had I don't know how he does it, but he's God and the Holy Spirit does it, so he's got us in mind. Now look uh there at verse six. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith More precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. In this, that's how he begins, in this, in what in what is Peter writing about? Well, those believers were a tiny, tiny, tiny minority among the great Roman Empire when he writes. This little church here, this little church there, that little church there. They're scattered like seeds, as pilgrims, and he's going to talk about them as pilgrims later on. Chapter two. As pilgrims they're away from home, just like Abraham, Isaac and Jacob were pilgrims. They didn't have any permanent place. Read the book of Hebrews, chapter eleven. You see they don't have have any continuing city, no place to really call home. And so right now we're here and we're living with the reality of a fallen world. In this we grieve. In this we face the trials, because the world is not what it's supposed to be. Sin has brought into our world death and sorrow. It's brought into our world weakness and disease. Things that happen to us that we don't like. But our hope is secure. Do you get that? Look back at the earlier verses. Begin at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, according to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to what? It's a living hope, a hope that is alive in our hearts right now, that is functioning in our hearts. right now, to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. We have this hope because Christ has been raised. And because that event has happened, it's taken place in history. We know it from the gospels, we know it from the history of the church, that the people of God have believed in the resurrection of Christ. Christ, we know that our hope is grounded, our hope of heaven, deliverance from sin and death, our hope is grounded in that resurrection. Because Christ did not stay on the cross, he rose again from the dead, ascended into heaven, and now we have a living hope And then he says in verse four, to inheritance that is imperishable. It's an inheritance that man can't take away. You think about what Jesus says in the parables. He says, uh don't put your treasures here on earth where moth and rust corrupt and thieves break in and steal. Put your treasures in heaven where moth and rust don't corrupt, where thieves can't break in and steal. You know, because you have an imperishable inheritance and your inheritance, brothers and sisters, is God Himself. That's your inheritance. You belong to God and you'll be with him forever. So here we are. It's treasured up in heaven, and we are kept, look at this, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven forever. time. We don't have to wonder if we're going to make it and we're going to look at that. We don't have to wonder if we're going to make it because we're being kept by the same power that raised Jesus from the dead. So if you think you run into trials and difficulties that are too much for you, you have a power keeping you that is God's own mighty power. And this is what we've got to think about here. Now when I was growing up, we always went camping in the Blue Ridge Mountains in Virginia. And um we had in a barn We had a great big box. My dad had gotten it someplace. I don't know, but it was huge. I couldn't move the thing. But we put all the camping stuff in there, all the tents, cots. uh all the cook stuff, uh backpacks for hikes, canteens, everything. We put it all there. Um and when I heard that we were gonna uh go camping, I would start sorting through all that stuff and say, we'll take this, we'll take this, we'll take this, because I love to go camping. And the day would come when I'd help my dad get the car type carry on because we couldn't fit it in the car But we weren't there camping yet. We were just getting ready. And I'd go in and I'd help my mom get stuff together for our meals. Then we drive drive down twenty-nine and we go through Sperryville, Virginia, but weren't there yet. We get up on Skyline Drive, beautiful drive, see the mountains, see the valley of Virginia, trees all around. We weren't there yet. It was only when we pulled into the parking lot at Big Meadows and our campsite that we were finally there. The salvation that we have is already ours I had started camping from the moment my dad said we're going to go in a week. I'd started camping in my mind. I'd already been thinking about the the the camping gear and the food and everything. I'd started thinking about building fires and cooking marshmallows. I'd been thinking about all that stuff. But I wasn't there till that final day we pulled in. And that's our salvation We know it's there. We know what it's going to look like because God has told us we're going to be in His presence forever. And we haven't read Received it all yet. We're waiting to receive it. So in this, he says, in this, in this anticipation, in this waiting We're facing trials, but we rejoice. You see, that's the next thing he says. Look at verse 6. In this you rejoice. Now he's going to talk about the trials, but he says, first of all, you rejoice. And one of the things that's a problem for us as Christians in America is we don't seem very joyful We have the reason to be happy, to be glad every single day. Jesus Christ is my Savior. What more do we I've been in some tough places. I think some of you have been in tough places. Because Jesus is my Savior, that was a good day We don't act like that, do we? We don't act joyful much of the time. You're loved by a holy and almighty creature. Creator. You are loved. If you are a believer, if you trusted in Jesus Christ, if you repented of your sins, you were loved by an Almighty Creator. A holy creator who knows everything about you and loves you. Isn't that something to be glad about? His love is such that it cannot be removed because it's one for you, not by what you are, what you do, but by Jesus, who is made you the child of God. That's the Christians' hope. We are children of God through the Lord Jesus Christ. And God's favor, His love, rests upon us. So we rejoice. We rejoice in trials. Look at this. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while We often think that our trials are going to last forever. You think you're in the dentist chair and that guy is never Never a lady is never gonna stop drilling. You think that that's gonna go on and on and on. Or you're laid up and you think I'm never going to get better. And it seems to last and last and last. Well Paul calls this our light and momentary afflictions are light and momentary afflictions. Think about that. They sure don't seem momentary when we're in them, do they? They seem like they last forever And yet what Paul says is that they are light, they don't have any weight to them, and they're momentary, they're gone. They pass away before we uh Even recognize that. Nothing we experience here goes on forever. And here is the sober lesson that if you are not a Christian today, I've got to tell you. I gotta tell you this, if you're not a Christian, the light and momentary affliction that the Christian faces is light and momentary. But the affliction that the ungodly face, that the unsaved face, is eternal and terrible The ungodly may have the pleasures of sin for a season, but they do not have the joys of heaven for even a second. That should sober us. Make sure that we trust in Christ. And give us a perspective on the people that we talk to. Because you don't talk to any people who are ordinary people. The people you talk to every day, you and I see every day if they live in our house or they're next door to us or we work with them or we see them in the store. They are eternal beings and they're either going to spend eternity in hell or eternity in heaven. And if they're not Christians, no matter how nice they are That light and momentary pleasure is all they've got. Because it's gonna go. It's sober, but that's what we gotta remember. Well he says, in this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary. And we ask God, why is this necessary? I just pay Passed my one year anniversary of my heart attacks. Why was that necessary? That was not what I had in mind. I didn't have that in mind at all. I had my life planned. I was going to finish out things, I was going to retire in May, and then Juni and I were going to begin a nice, quiet retirement. It's not been that way at all. But God says, if necessary. Now we think we know what we need for our lives, don't we? We look at our lives and we say, well, this would look pretty good in my life. You know, I'd like this right now. And God says, that's not what's necessary. There's an old saying, and I think it was from uh Scottish preacher Robert Leighton, he said, it is the battle which tries the soldier and the storm the pilot. Now think about that. If you're a soldier and you're training, training, training, training, training, and you never go into battle, you don't know whether you can do anything or not. You've got all these skills that you practiced, but you don't know whether at that moment, when it comes down to it, you're going to do anything Or if you're a sailor and you're taking your boat out on the water, unless a storm comes, you don't know how you can reef the sails and make it through the storm. God says it's necessary that we we go through trials in this life. We don't like it. We would ask God somehow to relieve us of those in this those trials, but God says they're necessary. Because we've been grieved by various trials, Peter literally says we have been or we are being in heaviness. And that's what it seems like, doesn't it? Trials, whatever form they take, the loss of a job, the loss of a spouse, loss of of health, uh the loss of finances, whatever it may be It seems heavy. It weighs on us. You stay awake at night thinking about it. You can't get it out of your mind. When uh when Joni had that emergency Uh and we called 911. That day nothing else mattered. Nothing else mattered. Standing by her bedside in the ER I didn't care whether anybody was present, I didn't care whether we had an atomic war. That was the war woman I was thinking about Because in those trials they seem heavy. They weigh on us. Those trials come because we're in our mortal bodies Because we have souls and spirits that are still being perfected. Yes, we're saints. Yes, we're we're called holy in God's eyes. But we all know that we battle with sin. And if you're like me, you get really tired of fighting those sins. You want it to be done with. But it's not going to be done with till we intervene. So these trials grieve us, they weigh on us, they're heavy. And then we come to this verse. Verse 7, so that the tent tested genuineness of your faith Now, this is where I want you to, if you're asleep, I hope you'll wake up. Because I want you to catch this. The tested genuineness of your faith A lot of times we feel like our faith comes from within us, don't we? I was uh not a Christian. I had uh a friend who saw me reading the Bible, my sister had given me a Bible, she'd just become a Christian, and um and he said, Steve, why are you reading that thing? 'Cause he was said he was an atheist And and I remember like it was yesterday, I said, I'm trying to get myself to believe it That's how we think about faith. We're going to make ourselves believe this stuff. Just give me enough time and I'll get it right. Now this idea of the tested genuineness of your faith trips us up because we think of testing as pass fail. You know you watch one of these spelling beams And those kids have studied thousands of words. And and they've they know consonant connections and all that that stuff. And and then it comes down to the two finalists. And the one who wins gets every letter right. And the one who loses usually gets one letter wrong. Sometimes that's how we think about going to heaven is. We mess up in one place and we're done God says, look, I gave you those tests, you passed three, four, and five, but when you got to six, you failed. And that's how we think of it, don't we? The tested genuineness of your faith. But we've got to think about this. Because what Peter is saying here, he's using a verb in the Greek. That means you're revealing what's already present. Listen to that. God's revealing what's already present. It's not a pass-fail. It's not, Steve, you got faith, or Steve, you don't have faith. He's saying, Steve, I'm going to show through the trials that you're Faith is genuine. I'm going to show what I've done. Because we believe, I hope you believe this is what the reformed faith says. Faith is a gift of God. It's not anything in me. I don't work it out. I don't come up with faith. I'm dead in my transgressions and sins. I can't make myself believe anything. I could sit there and read the Bible and my my friend could have said, Why are you reading that stuff? And I said, Make myself believe and and I could have gone through the whole Bible and still not believe. Because I can't make myself believe Faith is a gift of God. God regenerates the hearts of the heart. He brings in a repentance and faith that we might believe, that we might turn to Christ Faith as a gift of God is not something from within you. That's not a biblical idea. What God is doing, listen to this carefully. When God is testing us, he is revealing his work in us, not our power. Got that? God is revealing what He does that the glory might be His. Because it's more precious than gold that perishes the testimony. You know, you see that in the old westerns, you know, that old prospector comes into town, he's got a bag of ore and he takes it to the askseer's office and he wants the asset to to put it in his smelter and Find out what the stuff is. Is it real gold in that vein? Or is it only fool's gold, iron pyrites, if I remember right? And the process that the assir uses is he subjects it to a trial. He puts it in a smelter. Because he's got to clean away all the the debris, all the dirt, all the other minerals that are there. And he does that that he might show that it is gold. Exactly what what you hope long for thought it was. Our trials reveal God's work in us That were held or kept by the power of God, the same power that raised Jesus from the dead. That's why Peter can say You are elect exiles. You are chosen by God. You're not at home, you're exiles, but you're chosen by God, and God will keep Keep you on the way. God's goals in our trials is not to defeat us, not to make us despair. Because we don't measure up. Because sometimes we look at it and it seems like we got this incredible shrinking faith, and we are just wondering, do we have faith at all? Well, God reveals that he does good work. God always does good work. And you know what? This is precious When the refiner of gold, the goldsmith, gets 100% pure gold, you know how he knows it's 100% gold. He looks and he sees his reflection in it. It becomes a mirror. And brothers and sisters, That's what God does because in Jesus we become like Him. We're transformed from glory to glory. The old Old is put away and the new is come. And we're showing the work of God in our lives In the face of trials, the incredible, inevitable trials in life, do we continue to hope in God? That's prefaced, of course, by the fact that we're kept by the power of God. That hope guards us and keeps us from despair. When it seems like we just can't make it. Because God wants to bring glory to his own name. Look at the conclusion of verse seven. Though it is tested by fire may be found to r to result in praise and glory And honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Who gets the praise? God does. Who gets the glory? God does. Who gets the honor? God does. Because He's kept us or held for salvation, ready to be revealed in the last days. Days. You know, Job in the midst of his dialogue with his friends says this in Job 23. But he, God, knows the way that I take when he has tried me. I shall come out as gold. There's a hymn that uh I've come to love, one of the new hymns. Two of the stanzas go like this. If I can read it without getting choked up. When I fear my faith will fail. Christ will hold me fast When the temper would prevail, he will hold me fast. I could never keep my hold through life's fearful path. For my love is often cold. He must hold me fast. He will hold me fast. He will hold me fast. For my Savior loves me so, He will hold me fast. For my life he bled and died. Christ will hold me fast. Justice has been satisfied, he will hold me fast. Raised with him to endless life, he will hold me fast. Till the faith is turned. Turn to sight. He will hold me fast. Let's pray. Our God, I pray that you would hold us all fast. That there not be a one here today who is not rejoicing to bring praise and honor and glory to you in that final day for heaven. This is a fearful path that we go All of us face trials, young or old, whatever form those trials may take. And yet you will hold us fast. That you might be praised for the genuineness, tested genuiness of the faith you've given us. We trust in you and look to you and hope in you, Lord. Lord Jesus, as our only hope and savior, we pray in your name, amen