If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, we'll continue our study there in chapter 9. You should find that on page 968 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll be at the end of the chapter. I'll begin reading at verse 35 and read to the end of the chapter. Let's give attention now to God's holy word. Matthew chapter 9, verse 35. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers. into his harvest. As far as the reading of God's Word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we come to a short passage in Matthew's gospel, we ask, Father, that you would use this. Use this powerfully in your children's hearts. Encourage us, Lord. Help us. Help us to see that the Lord Jesus is indeed. Lord of the harvest. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. On March seventh, President Biden is scheduled to give the next State of the Union address. You may not have known this, I didn't, but apparently the U. S. Constitution calls for the President to periodically give Congress information on the State of the Union. And that's what he's supposed to do on March 7th. As Wikipedia puts it, He's going to be talking about the current condition of the nation, including the budget, economy, news, agenda, progress, achievements, and his priorities. I'm not going to talk about that today. But I think it gives us an introduction into what Jesus was doing. As he takes a broad brush look at his ministry and at the people, and then he gives direction. So far in Matthew's gospel, we've gone through the Sermon on the Mount. Wherein Jesus tells his disciples that they're not to be anxious about their life, because their heavenly father cares for them. Jesus has cast out demons. He has healed many. He has called his disciples. He has informed them that he is the bridegroom. Most recently, we've seen many healings done by the Lord Jesus Christ supernaturally. This morning I want us to see that despite men's stony hearts, through prayer, the Lord of the plentiful harvest will gather his church. Despite men's stony hearts, through prayer, the Lord of the plentiful harvest will gather his church We'll see that this morning in three points. First, the tireless evangelist. Secondly, the compassionate shepherd, and finally the hearing harvester. Well, let's begin with the tireless evangelists. As I said as I opened, this is somewhat of a summation of Jesus' ministry in this world to date. Look at verse 35. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. There's a broad brush taken by Matthew at this point. There's no city, no village, no persons are named in particular. It's just a broad general statement concerning what Jesus has done so far and and where he's done it. What has he done? He's been teaching. There are three participles that are used in this one short verse. He's been teaching, he's been proclaiming the gospel, and he's been healing. And he's done this throughout all the cities and villages in their synagogues. In this passage, we read that Jesus has done all things. In Mark's gospel, we read that Jesus has done all things well. And so if we combine those two things together, we just see so very clearly that everything that Jesus does, he does well and he does everything. He heals all. No city or village was excluded in Matthew's description here. He went throughout all the cities, all the villages. He's not excluded anyone from his ministry. That's how Matthew presents it. He's gone all places where his father has sent him. He's not overlooked a single city, a single village has been bypassed. At least that's the way Matthew puts it. That's the way he wants us to understand that Jesus' ministry has been comprehensive. But it's not just geographic location that Matthew speaks of, does he? He speaks of Jesus healing every single sickness, illness, and affliction. There was not one sickness, illness, or affliction noted that wasn't healed by Jesus. Nothing was presented to Jesus which he could not heal. Nothing within the creation that Jesus could not address positively every illness, every malady, every single disease brought upon the people by their own sin, Jesus was able to and did heal. Nothing could escape the healing hand of Jesus. No one was presented to Jesus whom he could not heal. Just think of that for a moment. I think we have wonderful doctors and nurses. But as we think upon our own experiences, there are times when we're going to the doctor or the doctor's office and we're presenting the doctor with certain symptoms and The doctor may raise his hand and say, look, I just don't know. Or even if one can be diagnosed, not every illness can be cured. We have so many diseases, some which end in death, not healing. And yet Jesus was able to and did heal every single sickness, malady, every disease. But we would miss the centerpiece of this verse, wouldn't we? If we stopped with the supernatural physical healings, the all-encompassing healings done by the Lord Jesus. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages teaching, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel. Jesus was preaching the good news. You see, all the healings, all the supernatural healings, were not only to show the people, all the people, that they needed healing. That they were sick and they needed a true physician, and that Jesus was the only one who could truly heal. Yes, it was for that. But they were also confirmation. That what Jesus was preaching, what he was teaching was divine truth. Come from God Himself It was so important that all hear the gospel. That's why Jesus was sent. That's why Jesus came in Mark's gospel, Mark records this, let us go to the next towns that I may preach there also, for that is why I came out. Jesus came to preach. He came to proclaim the gospel. He went throughout all Galilee preaching in their synagogues and casting out demons. Don't miss the centerpiece of this verse. What is the gospel? What was Jesus proclaiming? The gospel is translated the good news. You might ask the same question, well, what is the good news? What is the gospel? John Calvin puts it this way: Christ is communicated to us. By the gospel, Christ is communicated to us. We're taught That we are flesh of his flesh. That's the gospel. And bone of his bone, that he is the living bread that came down from heaven to nourish our souls. That we are one with him even as he is one with the Father. That's just a bit of the gospel. Calvin continues In this way, we perceive him to be a sacrifice. Isn't that the centerpiece of the gospel? by which he expiated our sins before God. That word we sometimes just don't understand. What does that mean, expiate? Webster says it's to perform some act which purifies the person who is actually guilty. Expiate. Wash one clean. Our sins are expiated before God. The wrath of God is appeased, and we come back into favor with Him. Our souls are purged from all pollution. And by his death our sins are blotted out, such that they shall not come into remembrance before God. Our guilt is erased and abolished That's the good news, isn't it? That's how Calvin put it. Theodore Bezer puts it very simply We call the gospel the good news, which from the beginning and by his grace and mercy alone, God has announced to his church those who by faith embrace Jesus shall partake of eternal life in him. It's the gospel. That's the good news It's where Jesus Christ, as another theologian puts it, appeases the wrath of God and made us at one with Him. Now I don't know that Jesus was using these very words as he goes and preaches the gospel, but this was the essence of what Jesus was proclaiming. The good news in his shed blood. And so Jesus goes throughout all cities, as Matthew puts it, all villages. As he was busy healing, now he with the healing brings the good news, not only the temporal, the physical relief, but Jesus brings the eternal, everlasting reconciliation that's possible. through him with his father. He brought, he proclaimed the news of reconciliation with the God of creation, whom all of these people whom he was healing had offended and had become his enemy. Jesus brought news of spiritual, eternal healing in his blood. The one who had no place to rest, his own head. It was the very same one who did not stop telling the people of the healing possible in his sacrificial blood. Jesus was the tireless evangelist. What is it that ails you this morning? What is it that you're afflicted with? Some physical distress that you're experiencing this morning. What is it that Jesus cannot heal? Have you thought of it that way? Have you considered this passage? But maybe there's something else, not physical. Maybe there's some spiritual brokenness. That you're dealing with this morning. Maybe you're burdened with stress. Maybe you're wondering what the future holds. Maybe you're concerned for financial stability. Have you turned to Christ? Have you turned to the one who did all things and did all things well? Have you turned to the one who has healed every disease, every affliction? You may be thinking, well, I'm not dealing with a physical malady, I'm not dealing with the disease, I'm not afflicted that way. But remember the centerpiece of this verse. It's really not the physical. Yes, of course, Jesus cares about your physical well-being, but the emphasis here was the good news It's no coincidence that the gospel went alongside each and every one of these healings. Have you turned to hear the gospel again? Have you turned your heart away from the things of this world, away from your concerns about what tomorrow might bring, to hear the gospel, the good news from the very mouth of Jesus Christ? The tireless evangelist, the one who is constantly delivering his good news through his spirit. Isn't that what he tells you? Isn't that what the gospel tells us? Isn't that what he preached in the Sermon on the Mount? I tell you, do not be anxious about your life. Is not life more than food and the body more than clothing? He wasn't talking merely about food and clothing. He was talking about your concern, your worldly concerns, and how they separate you from the Father. Yet the Heavenly Father knows what you need, and He will clothe you. Isn't that the gospel? Not your clothing. But the Father cares so much for you that he would send his son to die on the cross at Calvary. And wash away your sins and clothe you in his righteousness. Yes. He will much more clothe you. with the righteousness of Christ. That brings us to our second point, the compassionate shepherd. Now here's the State of the Union idea, but it's the state of the church. Jesus has gone throughout the region. And now Matthew records what he saw. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless, like a sheep without a shepherd. What happens to a people when when their leaders stop leading? Well, the obvious answer is that that people cannot function or exist as they expected they would. There would be a loss of direction, a lack of purpose, and a failure to achieve their unified goals. You might consider what's happening on the football field. As the football teams don't accomplish what they set out to do, what happens? Well, they get rid of their leaders. The coaches go out the back door and they bring in the new coach. What happens when the leadership of a particular group actually turns on its people. Not only failing to lead, but actually harming those they've been charged with leading and protecting. Although those people would be decimated. It's exactly the situation that's described by the prophet Ezekiel, which we read earlier this morning. The inspired prophet. Remember now, Ezekiel was writing in the time of the exile. Meaning that the Jews had already been removed from the promised land because their shepherds had failed to lead them, and because they failed to worship the one living God. So now they're in exile, and Ezekiel is Prophesying, he's writing to them, he's inspired, and he describes the spiritual estate of the people, but he's looking at first the spiritual estate of the shepherds The weak you have not strengthened, the sick you have not healed, the injured you have not bound up, the strayed you have not brought back, the lost you have not sought, and with force and harshness You have ruled them. That was a picture, a description of the shepherds of the religious leaders of the day, even in exile. They had turned against God, against his commandments, and against his anointed. They'd refused to have compassion upon those who were sick and straying, they decimated them by leading them astray and failed to feed them with the pure word of God. Now we may tend to think that that was just for that time. Ezekiel was just writing about that time, about what was going on then, but we learn here that Jesus saw exactly the same thing. When he saw the crowds, They were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. You see, that failure continued until Jesus' day. Jesus observed it. Well, how did Jesus know? We live in communities. We live amongst many people. Do we actually know the spiritual estate of everyone who lives around us? I think the answer is no to that. But how did Jesus know that they were harassed and helpless? Harassed could be translated weary? It is in the New King James. It could be translated as distressed in the New American Standard. Or helpless, harassed and helpless, which could be translated as scattered. As thrown down. That's the idea. That the people were weary, bothered, troubled, and cast off. to speak, thrown down. But how did Jesus know? How could he tell that they were harassed? It's a valid question. Well first, because he was and is compassionate, Matthew recognizes that. He had compassion for them. Webster defines that as one who is inclined to show mercy. That's Jesus' heart. It was inclined in that direction. Webster says it's having a heart that's tender, easily moved by the distresses, suffering wants and infirmities of others. To be compassionate just means in general to care sincerely about others and then to do something about it To care enough, to observe, and to know others in their struggles, and their afflictions, and their spiritual well-being or condition, to actually understand it. And Jesus wasn't as compassionate in that way. He so cared about their spiritual condition, their spiritual well-being of these people that he'd come to serve. How is it that Jesus could come to serve and not care about their Spiritual well-being. You couldn't. He couldn't He desired to see them flourish, to grow, to mature in their love for God the Father, in their love for his word, to grow in their obedience, their loving obedience to the commandments of the Father and certainly in their love for one another. He longed to see these things in these, the people of God. And so he looked for them because he was compassionate and he didn't see them And secondly, Jesus is not only compassionate, but he is also the good shepherd. He knew what it was to be a good, a true shepherd. We've already read that in in Matthew's Gospel, in chapter two. As Matthew speaks of Bethlehem in the land of Judah, by no means least among the leaders of Judah, for out of you shall come a ruler who will Shepherd my people. David, the psalmist, in Psalm 23, writes so very clearly about the attributes of the good shepherd. I shall not want, because the Lord is my shepherd You see, the shepherd provides so abundantly that the person who's being shepherded can say, sincerely, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside still waters, he restores my soul, he leads me in paths of righteousness. Jesus knew what it was to be the true shepherd. He was born to be the true, the good shepherd. How can I say that? If we had kept on reading in Ezekiel, we would have read this. I myself will be the shepherd of my people. I will feed them in justice. I will seek the lost. I will bring back the stray. I will bind up the injured. I will strengthen the weak. and the fat and the strong I will destroy. Isn't that a strip description of what Jesus has done so far? I myself will be the shepherd of my people. He was sent to be the good shepherd. He was born to be the shepherd. And so he knew the work of a good shepherd. And so he was looking out on the people and he was seeing the failed work of the human shepherds, wasn't he? Because he knew what it was to be the good shepherd. Might cause you to think this morning, am I being shepherded by Jesus? Do I know him as my shepherd? Has he led me to that green grass, those quiet waters? Can I say this morning, because Jesus is my shepherd, I shall not want. If you're here this morning and you can't say that, then Jesus still cries out, Come, come to me. And he'll feed you. He'll give you those green pastures. He'll lead you to those quiet waters. He will restore your soul. Cry out to Jesus. That brings us to our third point, hearing harvester He is the compassionate shepherd. He is the tireless evangelist, but he's also the hearing harvester. And so Jesus continues his own state of the church address. Look at verse 37. He said to his disciples, the harvest is plentiful. It's a pretty surprising statement that Jesus makes. We might have expected Jesus to state, the church is dead. It's over. Go home. But he says just the opposite. The harvest is plentiful. How can he make such a statement given his observation of the people? They were harassed and helpless. They didn't have a shepherd. It's because the health and the well-being of the church, the existence of the church, was not dependent upon the people. It's dependent upon its head. The health of the church is dependent upon the Lord Jesus Christ, the sovereign God of creation. And so he can make that statement. And then he he uses this illustration, the harvest is plentiful. He's the ultimate teacher. And he brings another image in for the disciples to grasp and understand what he's saying. This time he uses agriculture or farming. Well the Israelites were shepherds and farmers, the peoples of the land, they would have understood this, and they would have understood that Jesus was noting initially that there was a spiritual desert that the people were in. They were harassed and helpless. They didn't have the shepherd. And now he makes that extraordinary statement, the harvest is plentiful. John puts it this way, the fields are white for harvest. In either case, the meaning is clear. The Israelites who depended upon a good crop for their sustenance, for their food, if they were to survive, the harvest needed to be plentiful. A drought would have had a devastating effect upon the land's ability to produce an abundant crop, and so there's the illustration. Jesus said very clearly, the harvest will be plentiful, more than enough to sustain the people. But we have to apply it to the spiritual context, don't we? Because that's where we find the statement. Well the hearts of the people are distraught and distressed, yet Jesus was saying, there is an abundant harvest to be had. The picture is clear. As Jesus begins this portion, as Matthew records it, it's as if the disciples were looking out over a grain field, and as they saw it, they saw a sickly, a weak, a malnourished Stocks of grain. As they looked out, as Jesus described the hearts of the people, the disciples were seeing not an abundance, but they were seeing starvation. The people weren't being fed. The harvest didn't look like it was going to produce anything. The silos were not going to be filled to the brim with new grain. And so it would have appeared to the disciples that the fields were quite lacking in what would become the harvest. The church was not well. It was sickly. But Jesus had a different view. As he looks out on, he sees, and he knows that the harvest will be plentiful. Jesus was able to see beyond the surface of the field. He was able to see beyond the current estate. of the hearts of the people. He was able to see that while the people may be sick and close to death now, that life would be given, the harvest amongst the people would be plentiful. Many would be brought into the kingdom. Remember, he's the one who is proclaiming the good news. That's how this passage starts. Jesus was the one healing. Why would he heal if all of these were doomed to die? Why would he care? If the church were dead and with no hope of revival, why would he proclaim the gospel if no one had ears to hear? See, this is what Jesus was telling his disciples as a means, presumably of a of encouragement. Consider Consider what the disciples had seen with Jesus. Consider what the disciples had just heard. The people weren't well. They were like a flock of sheep which was leaderless, shepherdless, hapless, hopeless. But Jesus was calling them to his ministry. Why would they go? Why would they continue to follow Jesus when things look so dire and hopeless? Fishing wasn't great, but it was looking better. And so he tells them. Things might not look good now. Things might not look promising now. But the harvest will be plentiful. And so what were the disciples to do? How were they to respond? They may have very well have been thinking, how can Jesus make this statement? How can he know? But Jesus had already answered the question. You might be asking yourselves, well where does he answer that question? It's right here. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into the harvest. That's what they were to do. Go cry out to the Lord of the harvest, the master, the owner, the possessor, the true farmer, the expert agriculturalist, God Himself. He's the Lord of the harvest. He's the master of the harvest. He's the one who is able to ensure a plentiful harvest. Pray. This work was beyond the ability of the disciples. They couldn't change hearts. They couldn't bring the people from being harassed and helpless to being joyful and assured. To being in Christ, they couldn't do it. But what is impossible with man is possible with God. It's possible with the Lord of the harvest. And so Jesus now calls his disciples to pray. But notice how. Pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers. into his harvest. See what Jesus said? The harvest is already there It just needs to be brought in. And so we need some laborers to go out and bring it in. The true shepherd has come and has fed. And now the harvest only needed to be gathered. That's what Jesus was saying. Sometimes we look upon the church and wonder if it's growing at all. Indeed, we question whether we as a church are growing in grace. Sometimes we wonder why don't we see numerical growth? We pray for it. Sometimes we don't see it. Sometimes we may get discouraged. We may even wonder whether the Lord is hearing our prayer. But brothers and sisters, this passage should put to rest all of those questions and doubts Is the church growing in grace? Of course it's growing in grace. Think of the image that Christ gave his disciples The harvest. The harvest is plentiful. That means that the grain is going to grow to that point where it's going to be abundant. It's going to grow to maturity. It must. There's a day that's going to come when it's ready to be harvested, plucked. There comes a day when it can be used for that which for which it was intended. It's the same with us. It's the same with the church. If you're believing in Christ this morning, sincerely believing in Him for your soul, then you are growing to maturity. But what about the numbers? Where are the additional members we've been praying for? Did this verse, does this verse only apply to spiritual growth within the heart of existing members? Well, the answer once again is resounding no. This passage applies across the board. It applies to growth in grace as well as growth in numbers. God is growing his church. He's the Lord of the harvest, and he will bring new people, new converts. when and where he desires. He's not stopped converting people. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me I will never cast out God will continue to build this church until each and every one of the elect, of the chosen, but brought in from having a stony heart to having a fleshly heart, believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. He will accomplish all that He's ordained from eternity past. It cannot be any other way. Does that mean we stop praying? Of course not. The Lord is building his church. He's building his church here We add to our numbers? If it's his will. We have to pray. That was Jesus' direction to his disciples. Where's the harvest? It's all over. And it's up to God. It's up to the Lord of the harvest. As to when he will bring that in, when he will gather that. But we need laborers. And we need to be in prayer for labor Are we? I think if we search our hearts, brothers and sisters, we would say that we've not prayed enough Every single prayer meeting we have, that should be number one. Pray for laborers. Pray for laborers. Pray for laborers. Yes, despite men's stony hearts, through prayer, the Lord of the plentiful harvest will gather his church. The State of the Union is scheduled for March seventh, but we already have the state of the church given to us by the Lord. Jesus Christ. What a blessing. What an encouragement to hear that the harvest is plentiful. Brothers and sisters, that should give us much joy this morning. Praise be to God. Amen. Father. We thank you and praise you for this passage. What an encouragement it is for us in particular this morning to know that you are ensuring that your harvest will be plentiful. Help us, Lord God. Encourage us and cause us by your Spirit to remember to pray. Father, we do pray even now. Raise up laborers. Raise up laborers for this place, for this state, for this country, for the globe. Lord God, raise up laborers for your harvest. Pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.