I was anxious to get to the Word of God. Let's now read Lamentations chapter 2. This is a short book in between the prophet Jeremiah and Ezekiel. I'm just going to read a portion of chapter 2, kind of jumping into the middle, but it's God's Word. Lamentations 2, starting at verse 11. My eyes fail with tears. My heart is troubled. My bile is poured on the ground because of the destruction of the daughter of my people. Because the children and the infants faint in the streets of the city. They say to their mothers, Where is grain and wine? They swoon. Like the wounded in the streets of the city, their life is poured out in their mother's bosom. How shall I console you? To what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare with you that I may comfort you, O virgin daughter of Zion? For your ruin is spread wide as the sea. Who can heal you? Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions. They have not uncovered your iniquity to bring back your captives, but have envisioned for you false prophecies and delusions All who pass by clap their hands at you. They hiss and shake their heads at the daughter of Jerusalem. Is this the city that is called the perfection of beauty, the joy of the whole earth? All your enemies have opened their mouth against you. They hiss and gnash their teeth. They say, We have swallowed her up. Surely this is the day we have waited for. We have found it. We have seen it. The Lord has done what he purposed. He has fulfilled his word which he commanded in days of old. He has thrown down and he is not pitied. He has caused an enemy to rejoice over you. He has exalted the horn of your adversaries. Their heart cried out to the Lord, O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night. Give yourself no relief. Give your eyes no rest. Arise. Cry out in the night at the beginning of the watches. Pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord. Lift your hands toward him for the life of your young children who faint from hunger at the head of every street. See, O Lord, and consider To whom have you done this? Should the woman eat their offspring, the children that they have cuddled? Should the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord? Young and old lie on the ground in the streets. My virgins and my young men have fallen by the sword. You have slain them in the day of your anger. You have slaughtered and not pitied. You have invited as to a feast day the terrors that surround me. In the day of the Lord's anger, there was no refugee or survivor. Those whom I have borne and brought up, my enemies have destroyed. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Father, we pray that you would lead us now by your Spirit. Come to a difficult passage. Difficult to read, difficult to hear. Open our eyes by your Spirit Give us understanding. Convict us, Father, of our sin. Comfort us. In the light We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. In some cultures, the method of grieving, of mourning the dead, is quite different Then what we might do here in this country in America. If we attend a viewing or if we attend the time of greeting a family of the deceased prior to the funeral in America, the mood is solemn. It's somber. It's usually fairly quiet. But in some African cultures The method of public grieving and mourning with the family is not quiet. In fact, some cultural traditions call for days, even weeks, of mourning for and with the family. Tents might be set up in the street. For friends, for members of the community to come and to be and to sit with the family, even if they don't know them. Even if they don't know the deceased. And as women enter the place of mourning, there are not only tears, But there is wailing, loud, verbal, crying out Speaking loudly in cries and wails for all to hear, many fall to their knees to the ground as they wail and lament and mourn and grieve, and it happens and it continues throughout the days. of mourning. This passage that we have before us this morning is all about lamenting. It's all about mourning. It's all about grieving. Lamentations in our English Bibles follows the prophet Jeremiah Jeremiah was a prophet to the southern kingdom. Remember, Israel was divided up because of their sin. into the northern and the southern kingdoms. And and we had prophets. God sent prophets to each one, sometimes to both, at the same time. But Jeremiah was a prophet to the southern kingdom. The northern kingdom had already fallen. And so he was proclaiming God's word to the southern kingdom. He's calling the people to repent, to return. He prophesied. He spoke the very words of God. He told them What would happen if they did not return, if they failed, if they refused to heed his words, which were the very words of God? I just read one verse or a couple of verses from Jeremiah. The Lord of hosts said, Cut down trees, build a mound against Jerusalem. This is the city to be punished. She is full of oppression in her midst. Be instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from you, lest I make you desolate in a land not inhabited. Jeremiah was providing a warning, the last warning. That the southern kingdom would receive. Lamentations in this way is a sequel to Jeremiah. Southern Kingdom did not heed Jeremiah's voice. Did not heed God's word. It did not turn back to God. And now Judah has been destroyed. That's the picture we enter into as we're reading Lamentations. Judah has been decimated. The people have gone into exile now. Utter devastation of the once princess of the promise princess of the provinces. Chapter 1 in Lamentations is really an overview. It's personified. The city is crying. Jerusalem. She's lonely. Because of her devastation. Because of the sin of her people. She's in sorrow. The Lord is far off. Chapter 2, that portion which we didn't read, gets into the specifics of how the Lord worked to bring about the destruction. Of Jerusalem. He is the one who has swallowed up. He is the one who has destroyed his place of worship. He is the one who has removed his protective hand from the nation. He is the one who has sent them off. into exile and stopped sending his prophets. Today I want us to see that the Spirit Moves the followers of the Lord Jesus to lament over sin, drawing them closer to the Father through prayer. So you've got in three simple headings, the basis for lamenting, the picture of lamenting, and finally the result of lamenting. Why are we reading this portion of Scripture? today. Well, we don't have a church calendar. We do think of this time of year as to what happened in Jerusalem nearly 2,000 years ago. The world is thinking of what happened in Jerusalem nearly 2,000 years ago, it's good for us to remember to consider specifically all those events which led up to the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ, including that crucifixion. And as we do, we typically fix our minds, our thoughts upon Christ Upon the pain, the suffering, the wretched scourging, the crucifixion of our Saviour, we tend to think about the nails, we tend to think about the open wounds, about the blood. Streaming down his head as a result of the crown of thorns being pressed into it. And this is right and good to do. As we consider what a great price our Savior paid to wash away our sins. But we would be mistaken, we'd be remiss if we didn't at the same time focus our hearts and minds upon our sins. If we only look and consider the pain and suffering of the Lord Jesus Christ, God the Father, the Holy Spirit, as they experience the unknowable suffering of separation, we would fail to consider the whole picture. Today it's my hope that we will not take a step back. Not take a step back from God. considering Jesus and his suffering, but take an inclusive step forward, including our own personal and corporate lamentation over the reason for his suffering. That reason being are sins, our transgressions, our defilement before a holy God. So we go through this passage. Ask yourself, do I need to lament over my sins? If so, have I? And if not, why not? Well, the first heading and the basis for lamenting You may be asking yourself this morning, why should I lament? You may also be asking, what is a lament? We don't use that word too often here in our culture, in our society. We don't think about it. We see throughout Scripture laments, the prophet Joel called out to the priests. Gird yourself with sackcloth and lament, O priests, wail. We see a combination of the physical and the internal going on in this lamenting in Samuel as Abner was slain wrongfully by Joab. King David calls out to the people, to all the people, and tells them to tear your clothes. Gird yourselves with sackcloth, mourn for Abner. And he sings a lament over Abner, and all the people weep. Beginning to get a picture. Webster says that lament is to mourn, to grieve, to weep, to wail, to regret deeply. Wikipedia says it's a passionate expression of grief. That's the idea. There's deepness within this feeling, within this emoting. But those definitions are really not sufficient, are they? What's the basis for a lament? What brings a person to lament? Or what What is that passionate expression of grief or regret or mourning? In Joel, it was the day of the Lord. The day of the Lord was at hand. And he was calling the people to return to himself. The locusts had come and devastated the land. And he was calling the priests to lament over their sins. In Samuel, it was the wrongful death of Abner Here, here in lamentations, we clearly see the outward basis for their lamentation, for their lamenting In chapter 1, as the writer describes that lonely city of Jerusalem has now been emptied of the people of God, she's pictured as weeping. Personified. The city itself is having these emotions, this lamenting as a result of what God has done with her people. The feast days are gone, the enemies prosper. Worship has ceased because of her transgressions In chapter 2, while chapter 1 gives us an overview, the portion that we read, verse 11, begins with a lament, doesn't it? My eyes fail with tears. My heart is troubled. My bile, this is the inward portion of the narrator, is poured out on the ground. He's lamenting. Over the destruction which is just described by the narrator. The destruction which was really the people of God, not merely the physical, not merely the physical temple, but But the people describing how Yahweh has dealt with his people who've strayed, who've who have neglected him and longed after other gods, their eyes of the narrator seeing All of this was the basis for his weeping, the outward basis. We see the detailed works of God If it was not clear in chapter one, now the narrator is providing much more information as to what this destruction looks like. The Lord has swallowed up and has not pitied. The Lord is referred to in a simile as standing like an enemy. Standing like an enemy. Seemingly said in stark contrast to God's covenant promises to Abraham. He said, I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants after you in their generations to be God to you and to your descendants after you, and now God stands like an enemy. against Jerusalem. Seemingly said in contrast to the even the recent confirmatory covenantal promises made by the Lord in And Jeremiah, for I know the thoughts that I think toward you, thoughts of peace and not evil to give you a future and a hope. You see the contrast Lamentations 2 describes this removal as casting off of God's worship It expands upon that which is in Lamentations 1. He's done violence to his tabernacle as if it were a garden. Do you understand? He's even taking us back to the garden and saying He has wiped out his tabernacle. He has crushed the temple. That place of worship, that place of meeting with God is gone. The appointed feasts and Sabbaths to be forgotten. He has spurned his altar. He has abandoned his sanctuary. Worship is completely decimated. He's removed all means of communing with the Lord God, the creator of the universe. The law is no more. The prophets find no vision. They can't even open his word. It's gone. That which describes the nature and character of God Himself. They're not able to open it and see it and read it and understand it. It's gone. Prophets are finding no vision. They're not telling anything. They're not communing with the people. It's quiet. And the city lies in ruins. He's caused the rampart and wall to lament. They languish together. Her gates have sunk into the ground. Getting the idea that this devastation is complete. And then there's the effect upon the children You see, the people are the ones who have entered into sin. The people, the mothers, the fathers, they're the ones who have neglected God, and now they're seeing the effect upon the children. The children, the infants faint in the streets. They swoon. The extent even goes to raising up enemies, doesn't it? Enemies of God. The devastation was so great, so complete, the downfall of the people was so public. Now the enemies, those who hated God, are exalted They even say, we have swallowed her up. Surely this is the day we've waited for. They hated Israel. They hated Jerusalem. They loved to see her destruction. They were waiting for it. We found it and we've seen it. That's the outward, the physical basis for the lament. Described in excruciating detail. And we might stop there. The city is destroyed, the temple is destroyed, the people are gone, worship is abandoned, no way to commune, no way to fellowship. with the one living and true God, but let's not stop there. For the outward was given, the physical was given. That graphic description of the external work of the Lord and removing and destroying was clearly given to the people, even now to us, the readers, to show that which the Lord was doing in their hearts. It was a picture of breaking their hearts. Breaking them down removing their prideful hearts and shattering the paths that they had constructed for themselves to destruction and death. The Lord was using the outward, the physical, to bring the people Not merely to see their sin, but to understand the offensiveness of their sin and to lament and grieve over it. In fact, the end result of sin was shown. It was demonstrated. It was very real. It was tangible in physical ways to a people who had refused to listen to the words of the messengers of the prophets. Who were sent to them to warn them of that which would come upon them if they continued in their sin, their transgression, their neglect of God. That's the physical, the outward. Even the devastation of their children was being used by God to get to their inward, to get them to have their hearts penetrated, to have their hearts Turn back to him. It worked. The outward moved the inward. It moved the heart, such that this becomes the basis for the lament. Their sins become the basis for their sins. Lament. Our sins brought about the devastation, just as our sins brought about the crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. Should Christians lament? What has happened? That we don't hear of Christians lamenting. It's not part of our worship generally. It's not part of our weekly routine. It's not part of our walk with Jesus. Why not? Jesus lamented. Shortest verse in scripture. Jesus wept. Verse 35 of John 11. Say, well, yes, of course. Lazarus was dead. It's weeping over Lazarus. I don't think that really can be. He knew that Lazarus was about He knew that he was about to breathe life back into Lazarus. He knew he was going to speak to him, fellowship with him. So, what was that weeping, the grieving, the groaning of Jesus? I think we might understand it as a lament over sin. A mourning, a grieving over the wretchedness of sin, over that which brings death. That which is a wretched offense and abomination against the holy and pure God. And remember, Jesus told his disciples that they would lament. We read it in John 16. You will lament, but the world will rejoice. Sounds very familiar to what's going on here in Lamentations. The enemies are exalting, they're rejoicing. City, the narrator is weeping, lamenting. Why? Why would the disciples lament Ultimately, it was because of their sin. Ultimately, they would see that their lament needed to be rising up out of their sin. They would see what their sin did to Jesus, and that's why he was taken from them. And see the wretchedness of their hearts as they forsook Jesus, as they ran away and denied him. But as he arose, There's joy. Yes. Christians should lament What's the picture of lamenting? That's our second heading. We've seen the basis. The basis of our lamenting is our sin. What's the picture of it? Well, first there is no hope. That's the picture given to us here in verse 13. How shall I console you? To what shall I liken you, O daughter of Jerusalem? What shall I compare with you? That I may comfort you For your ruin is spread as wide as the sea. Who can heal you? You see what the narrator is doing, what the inspired writer? He's using rhetorical questions. He's not expecting an answer. He's using them for power. He's using them to convey the message that there is no consoling for you, Jerusalem. I can't make you like anything. There's nothing that's happened like this. The people of God being smitten by God Himself. There's nothing to compare you to And there's no comfort. You have forsaken the only one who can comfort you. And the last question is most likely the most powerful. Your ruin is spread wide as the sea. Who can heal you? There's no hope. The implied answer here to the narrator, to the inspired writer, is none. There's no human solution. There's no way to re-enter into communion with God. The door appears tightly shut. That begins the picture of the lamentation. It's because of their hard hearts, isn't it The picture of lamenting continues to come into focus as the narrator reveals that which has happened in the hearts of the Israelites, those of the southern kingdom. Look at verse fourteen. Your prophets have seen for you false and deceptive visions. They have not uncovered your iniquity. But have envisioned for you false prophecies and delusions. They've been led astray. Like Eve, they were led away from the truth. They discarded the truth for lies. The prophet was telling the people that they must see what their hearts had done. They longed to have their ears tickled with falsehoods so that they could and did disregard the pure word of God. There's an extraordinary verse here which we might skip over by thinking to ourselves, yes of course, that's right. Let's move on. Verse 17. The Lord has done what he purposed. He has fulfilled his word, which he commanded in the days of old. He has thrown down and has not pitied. Don't skip over that verse. The prophet has stated that clearly the law is no more, the word of God is departed, but now the hearts of the people are directed back to the Word of God. See how they go together? Prophets have led you to falsehoods. And now he says, but God's word is being fulfilled. It hasn't failed. God's true and fulfilling that which He's spoken, the fact that you didn't listen doesn't void the word. It has not returned to the Lord who first and will always accomplish what he purposed. There's a subtle call here to return to the truth of the word To hear it, to believe it, indeed to lament over the refusal to receive it as truth. Do you see? Do you see how lamentation and lamenting might follow after the picture? Of what their hearts had become. Like these Eve, or like Eve, these had followed another voice, the voice of a stranger. The deceitfulness, the wickedness of their own hearts. Well, no hope Being led astray, all part of that picture of lamentations. And now we have the call to weep, verse 18. Their heart cried out to the Lord, O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night. Lamenting here is pictorially manifested with tears, so touched, so pierced. Is the heart over offending God in sin that tears flow from the eyes? The sorrow of grieving the Spirit is so prevalent that not a few tears fall from the eyes, but Streams of tears, rivers of tears. Lamenting was to be full. It is to be full. In your weeping. In your weeping, not merely full, but consistent and persistent. The idea here is not lamenting all the time, 24 hours a day, seven days a week. That's not the idea But the call of the picture here is as one engages in a lament, as the heart is lamenting over sin, then there is a persistence about it, a consistency about it, about the flow of tears. about blocking other things out and and focusing upon this such that there's a a consistent flow of tears from the eyes represent the persistent grief or sorrow within the heart during the lament. And then the call to join the The tears with the verbal, with the crying. Arise, cry out in the night. At the beginning of the watches. Notice that it's at the beginning of the watches. The implication is that it's to last throughout the entire watch, pour out your heart like water before the face of the Lord, lift your hands toward him for the life of your young children. Not only were the tears to flow consistently and fully, but the weeping was to be joined with a verbal crying out to the Lord. This lamenting was pictured not only as an inward act of the heart. being pierced and now flowing out, but but joined with at least metaphorically physical acts of verbal crying and reaching out to the Lord. Lift your hands toward him. Do you see there appears to be a building or an increase picture from weeping to crying to physically going and raising up the hands? Showing that the lamentor brings nothing. Showing that the lamentor has cast off His pride or her pride and and the lusting and running after false gods is gone and the and the lamentor has now returned to Jehovah with a broken, a sobbing, a weeping, a crying heart sincerely. ready to call upon the Lord. That's the picture of lamenting. That's the picture of lament that we have given to us Well what's the result? That's our third point. We've seen the basis, we've seen the picture, and now what what is the result results of lamenting. How does God use a lament? Everything that has gone before in lamentations leads to this end. The last few verses of chapter two set forth a prayer, a plea to God. The destruction, which has been described as complete, no rock left unturned, so to speak. Yet, there's a voice, voices that come, voices left to cry out and to pray to the Lord. There is hope. Do you see that the act of lamenting results in hope, in the reassurance of the promises of God The devastating conditions, the heart that's been pierced because of the wretchedness of sin now results in a plea to God. Verse 20, see, O Lord, and consider. It's coming to the Lord with open hands and crying out that he would see what he's done To whom have you done this? Should the women eat their offspring, the children they have cuddled, should the priest and prophet be slain in the sanctuary? To plead to the Lord to reconsider, to remember in a way his covenant promises, to have mercy and compassion upon his people, to revive his inheritance. those which the enemy has destroyed, to bring the people back and to repopulate the place where where he will dwell with them, to build up his kingdom. In essence, a plea to see his glory abound. Concerned that the enemy would continue to rejoice in the destruction and devastation of God's people and delight in their downfall and a call for God Himself to be glorified. We must see the end of lamenting. We must see the result Wasn't it preparing this one for praise? Isn't that what God uses it for to prepare us to praise? Lamenting is part of praise for God. As brothers and sisters in Christ, they recognize and through lamenting confess sin together, the various ways in which we have individually and collectively offended the living God in our sins, our transgressions, our omissions. Praise for God in a sense begins with lamenting For in it, the sinner confesses that he or she is unworthy of communing and worshiping with the triune God. But in his unbounded grace, the Lord has made a way. He's washed away the filth of sin in Christ, such that while we grieve over having committed it, our mourning is turned to joy as Christ has opened the door through his blood. To true worship and communion. Yes, lamenting is an exercise of praise. And lamenting leads to more heartfelt praise. Why don't we lament? Here's the danger. And it's twofold. First, we don't lament because we don't think we need to We don't believe that our sins are quite that bad We think that the sins have been paid for, for the debt's been removed and redemption has occurred, and that's true. Praise God yet It's dangerous to have an attitude which fails to recognize the wretchedness of our continued sin before a holy God. It's dangerous To fail or refuse to couple your meditation upon the suffering of Christ with a lamentation over the reason for Christ's suffering. One of the greatest laments in Scripture comes from one we we might think of as being the most blameless, one who did the much good for the church, the Apostle Paul. Remember what he wrote to the Romans? A wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? That's a lament. I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord So then with the mind I serve my s I myself serve the law of God, but with the flesh the law of sin. Secondly. We don't lament because we're not aware, or we're ignorant of, or we neglect the blessing that comes through it. What was Jesus sent to do? To preach good tidings to the poor. To heal the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, to comfort all who mourn, to console those who mourn in Zion. To give them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise, for the spirit of heaviness. Isaiah 61 All of these blessings which Jesus was sent to give, they come by and through Jesus, are based upon a poor A broken hearted, a mournful, a heavy, and thus a lamenting heart. These blessings are not for any other Jesus himself said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Spirit does move the followers of the Lord Jesus to lament over sin, drawing them closer to the Father through prayer. The wailing women during the days of mourning in Africa are a powerful reminder of how Christians might consider lamenting over their sins Our sins sent the Lord Jesus Christ to the cross. Our sin was and is so horrendous That the precious blood of Jesus was poured out so that all believers would be separated from their sins. Brothers and sisters, let us wail and lament such that our praise for Christ, for the God, for God the Father and for the Spirit, would increase as we grow in grace. Amen. Oh Lord God, we We ask now that you'd help us. Help us, Lord God, as we consider this act, this work, this praise of lamentation. Work in our hearts, Father, by your Spirit. And help us to praise you with even greater praise. All for your glory we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Hymn of response this afternoon is number two hundred and fifty-four. Alas, and did my savior bleed, number two hundred and fifty-four. Would you please stand? Let's sing with joy in our heart. From score for the Torah host few people first senti And I save your bleed, and did my sovereign die Would he devote that sacred head for sure