Last Lord's day, we began looking at Galatians chapter one, and we gave particular attention to verses six through nine, uh part of that in which we see Paul speak a double curse In verses 8 and 9, but also at the beginning of the letter, we see that he identifies himself as an apostle. He was sent of God. It wasn't that he just went, he was sent, he was sent by God, and that he says that his apostleship Is not from men nor through men. He says that right at the beginning in verse 1 This morning we're going to focus a bit on verses 11 and 12, although we'll expand out from that somewhat. And we see that Paul makes a similar point. In verse 11, but I make known to you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached by me is not according to man, for I neither received it from man. Nor was I taught it, but it came through the revelation of Jesus Christ. So that's at the center of what we want to be thinking about this morning, these two verses. But by way of review, first I want to do a brief review of where we were, and then look at the uh issue of the difference between a true and false gospel, what the gospel is. And then thirdly, how do we choose which one is right? How do we choose Which one to follow. Okay, by way of review, again, last week we saw that in verses eight and nine, Paul draws attention to the seriousness Of the right gospel by issuing a kind of double curse in verses 8 and 9. He says there But even if we are an angel from heaven, he says he includes himself in it. Even if we or an angel from heaven preach any other gospel to you than what we have preached to you, let him be accursed. Then it it's doubled. It's it's it's said again in verse nine. And uh What are we to say about this method of speaking? Well, last week I noted that it's an unusual tone. Considering that the message of Paul in Galatians and the New Testament generally is a message of grace, free forgiveness So it's an interesting tone to have this double curse, this anathema pronounced in verses 8 and 9, but Uh the purpose of it, as I suggested, was uh to draw serious attention to what is the ultimate issue in life The ultimate issue being where we will spend eternity and how we can be assured that we will spend eternity in heaven with Christ as opposed to the alternative, which is an awful alternative When Paul issues this, I was reading a commentary this past week that looks at the rhetoric r rhetorical style and structure of Paul's argument here in this letter, i it it it occurs to me that anybody, I suppose, can issue a threat. Anybody can issue a curse if we just throw out empty words Anybody can do that. So how does that function in Paul's letter here? And You have a couple of choices here. You can say, well, either Paul is just a crank who's trying to scare people into accepting his view of things. Believe me, or you're going to hell, that kind of thing. Which again, uh anybody could just use those words Or it could simply be the case that Paul is trying to show the seriousness of the This is serious. This is serious business. If you want to dismiss me as a crank I can't force you. That can be your choice, but I'm telling you how serious it is. And so it's this serious. Now comes the argument. Now, after he shows the seriousness of this issue Hopefully I've gotten your attention. That would be Paul's, I think, uh logic here. Uh hopefully you've gotten attention that we're not just Speaking in ordinary tones here. Now we're getting down to real brass tack. What is the argument? For Paul's statement. First of all, you could say it's a simplification of the issues by drawing the seriousness this way. And the seriousness falls primarily upon the people who are bringing the other gospel, the different gospel. Now that has implications for those who accept this other or different gospel They're in trouble too, but Paul issues the curse primarily upon those who bring the other or different gospel. And again, using illustration that I think I closed with last week of medicine If somebody, if the world is dying of some disease, that it's an awful thing. And what becomes a great, great sin is if somebody passes off false medicine. Because then there's no further hope and somebody's just profiteering and they're they're they're not really trying to solve the problem. They don't care about it at all. They're just caring about profiting from selling bad medicine. And so that's the person who has brought this different gospel, this other gospel. They're they're offering some alternative that won't work or maybe even is poisonous. And it really comes down to the same thing. If it doesn't work, it's it's it's keeping people from getting the true medicine, which is functioning essentially as if it were poisonous. So that's why there's a focus here Now, if somebody accepts this bad medicine, they're not going to be healed. But Paul is writing to the Galatians, I think, hoping That in writing to the Galatians, he can say, don't accept this bad medicine. You started to accept it. I'm not cursing you yet, or I don't have to. The problem is if you're cut off from Christ if you go this other direction. But let me persuade you again. Let me be in labor with you again, so that you will bring forth the life that is part of the true gospel. So the double curse has implications for people who believe or accept the wrong gospel, which is no gospel at all. But uh it it it is primarily a threat or curse that is issued to the teachers that And we know the Bible says that there's a certain liability or danger to being a teacher. That there will be incurring of greater judgment. Uh and so I think that's behind this uh this threat or this warning that you see And the double curse. Okay, now the issue is over the true gospel versus anything that competes with the true gospel. Gospel. What is the true gospel? I think Paul assumes that they were already informed What the true gospel was. They had already heard it from him, and he was amazed that they had so quickly departed from it But we saw last week that there's at least the beginnings of some explanation of what that true gospel is in verse 4. Jesus Christ, who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil end. Christ gave himself for our sins that he might deliver us from this present evil age That's a very short synopsis of the gospel. It is possible to give a short summary of the gospel Paul does that in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, I delivered to you of first importance how Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures. He was buried and rose again the third day. That's a short synopsis of the gospel. There are some other things that I believe are contained in the gospel that are also essential. And so we didn't read it this morning, but if we have read a couple of more verses on. If you look at Galatians 2. 16, it says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, But by faith in Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified by faith in Christ. And not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law no flesh shall be justified. So that's certainly part of this message. That Paul is interested in getting across. This is essential and a part of the gospel. Now, in this context, he's writing against a competition That is saying you need to become a Jew in order to become a Christian. And Paul's saying, no, you just need to become a Christian You don't need to have Jesus plus, or you don't need to have Judaism plus Jesus. You need to have Jesus Jesus Christ and Him alone. He is sufficient. And if we say that you need something besides Jesus, then you're saying he's not enough. And that's a denial of the gospel. When Jesus hung on the cross to pay for our sins, there comes that moment when he cries out, It is finished! To telestai. It is finished. It's done. And we can't add anything to that. Christ paid for it all. And so that is part of the gospel Uh we don't uh see Paul spell out the gospel the way you do in a four spiritual laws tract or something But it's it's woven throughout this letter and it's built upon the fact that he has already shared the gospel with them before. So as he writes to them, he assumes that they will recognize these elements as he goes through this letter. Interestingly enough, at the end of the letter In chapter 6, verse 15, just right down the very end, he says That circumcision doesn't account for anything either way, but a new creation Now, when you see new creation and compare that with the beginning of the letter That Christ gave him for cell for our sins to deliver us from this present evil age, I think you're seeing a cosmic view of the gospel. A cosmic view of the gospel in which Christ did something so earth-shaking, so cosmic. That it doesn't only pay for our own particular sins, but he is beginning a whole new creation. That's the outcome, that's the goal. And that's something that in some sense begins now In the life of a believer, we are a new creature in Christ. We're anticipating the day when all things will be new But we are to have newness of life in us now. And so that new creation is, you might say, the cosmic dimension of this gospel message. That circumcision, which seems to be the big issue that the the question in Galatians That stirs up this question or this controversy over the true or false gospel is something that is falling back into the shadows. As far as Paul is concerned. It was important for a time in the Old Testament, but it was important for a time in the Old Testament because it was pointing forward To the fulfillment of a bloodshed, a cutting away of flesh, towards a fulfillment That came about when Christ hung on the cross and shed his blood for our sins. And once the shadow or the type or the thing that prepares us Once the thing comes that was preparing us for, that earlier thing is no longer necessary. New creation. That's the whole goal, the end. Christ died that he might deliver us from his present evil end. and inaugurate a new creation that begins now in us, but is brought to fullness when he comes again. So the gospel. Christ died for our sins. He rose again from the dead. That's the beginning. of a new creation. And that begins in us as we receive the Holy Spirit, as we receive Christ into our heart. Now, this is what Paul wants people to understand and to hold on to firmly so that if they go back And start saying, ah, you know, those Jewish ceremonial laws, like circumcision, or you could add the dietary laws too. Those are important for some reason. Why are they important? They were important for their time. Has God kept the people separated and used them as an anticipation of a new creation? That would be brought about by Christ. But that time has passed. That time has passed. Now there's newness of life in Jesus Christ. You don't trade in The old for the new. You keep the new. Well, those are the things that are the center of the true gospel, that Paul is saying, don't leave this gospel to go backwards. That seems to be the problem. The competition is encouraging people to go backwards. It is true we can learn from looking at our past and the mistakes, but you can get into some problems when you're always looking back. You can look back at old sins and revel in them. You can look back at old sins And become discouraged by them. But you're to live in the present with the eye to the future. Faith today Trust in Christ today, who has begun a future for us today. Don't always be looking back. And in In this case, the looking back involved looking to a wrong hope, a wrong hope of salvation, a wrong kind of salvation. There is one salvation And there's one way to that salvation. And it's through Jesus Christ. Okay, so now we come to The argument of Paul, and you have a kind of thesis statement in uh verses eleven and twelve that we're focusing on On. He says, I didn't receive this gospel. I didn't receive this message by man or according to men. I received it by revelation. Now in some ways that uh is sort of doubling down on a problem, you know. Uh you say Well, you issue this double curse. How do we know that that's true? Prove it. But then Paul says, here's the first part of the proof. The first part of the proof that this is serious business and that the gospel I'm preaching is not to be eclipsed or challenged by somebody else's version of the gospel is that I received it as revelation. Now As you go further through the book of Galatians, you're going to see how Paul develops that argument, or develops, or proves that argument. It's not an easy argument to prove if I say to you, I had a revelation from God last night. Sheila, you're supposed to marry Ed. There have been groups around that have done that kind of thing. Some of those marriages turn out to be rather weird and strange and not too successful. successful because somebody else is playing the role of a prophet that God didn't give them Revelation is in its very nature something that is extraordinary. It is not ordinary. It is extraordinary. If you look at the Judaism, the Jewish faith of Paul's day, what did you have as your source of finding God's will? Well, you would go to synagogue. You would hear the scriptures read. Remember Jesus? He took down the scroll and read from Isaiah. That was part of the way in which they learned God's will. You would have teachers, human teachers, but you would have teachers And some of them were more literate and more skillful than others. There were rabbis and teachers And this is the way the people tried to learn the Word of God. They did not come along and say, I have a revelation today for you They would say, God had a revelation for you, and now let's discuss, or I will teach you, what I think it means. And so that would be the way in which people would learn the will of God in the days of Jesus and in the days of Paul. Bible study! Listening to sermons, listening to the word of God explained. And so as Paul comes along and teaches his gospel There are probably people who are saying, okay, he's another rabbi. He's another teacher. You know how it is with rabbis and teachers? I like this one, you like that one. Today, You turn on Christian radio. There's probably some people you listen to on Christian radio and you say, I'm not sure that that person is always right where they should be. And then others you say, you know, that person is pretty well close to the Bible. Or I like the way they explain things. And so we sometimes have people that we find Seem to communicate to us better than others when it comes to the Bible. But what is it they're trying to communicate? Well, if they're being honest, they're trying to communicate the Bible. Not their own revelation. They're trying to be a teacher. Now, when Paul says He received the gospel by revelation. He's saying something more. He is a teacher, but he's a lot more than a teacher. He's an organ of God's revelation. He is part of the Bible as the Bible is now being brought to fullness. Not just the Old Testament, but the New Testament. He is part of the revelatory process like the prophets were in the Old Testament. And so he's saying, my claims here Are not claims based upon the fact that I am just more clever when it comes to explaining the Bible than other people are Or that I'm more eloquent. Paul evidently wasn't a particularly great public speaker as far as we can tell. He seems like he was an organized speaker. Seems like he knew how to organize his arguments and get his ducks in a row and all of that. But his authority goes way beyond that He says, I received this gospel message as a revelation. The most any of these other people could claim Is that they're trying to explain some kind of revelation. Paul says, I'm not just explaining it. I'm doing that. But I'm doing more than explaining it. I'm giving it. This is a revelation straight from God. Now, much of the rest of the book of Galatians will go into how this is the case. How do you prove that you receive I think we don't have time this morning to go through all the rest of the book of Galatians, but I'll give you a taste of how he does this. First of all, there's a kind of negative argument that he gives. And the negative argument as you go through it is, look at the history of my life. It doesn't fit with just being a teacher. I was a teacher. Been there, done that. I was a T I I was PhD, Summa Kum Lari, traditions of Judaism. I match them all. But that's not what my message is about. If that's just being a better teacher is all what it's about, I was there. But something new came into my life something new and powerful. And so there is this negative argument, and then he traces it and he says After this new thing came into my life, this revelation from God, I didn't immediately compare it with what the other apostles had to say. So you can't say, oh, you know, he's still learning from other people, other apostles. And he's putting his own little spin on it. No. Since that's not the way it worked. After our time After a period, I met with some other apostles, and there's a debate. about when some of these meetings were. Some people believe uh Paul first met with some of the other apostles during the famine visit that's mentioned in Acts eleven. Some people Think it was during the Council of Jerusalem in Acts 15. We don't have to solve that one here this morning. Whenever it was, it was well after God had called him and given him the revelation. It was already established what his message was and what his understanding of revelation was. before he ever conferred with anybody else. So this supports what he's saying that my message is not from man. My message is not from man Now that's part of the negative argument. Just to anticipate briefly, there is a positive part of the argument too that You see taken up in Galatians three, where he says, Did you receive the Holy Spirit by the works of the law or the hearing of faith? Did God work miracles? In your presence, by the works of the law, or the adhering of faith. In other words, the fruit, the experience The thing that got you interested in these questions to begin with, the reception of the Holy Spirit, the mighty works of power, the miracles. Did that happen because when I came to you with the message, it was this new gospel, this competing thing that claims to be a gospel, or was it the gospel of truth? That I brought. Not the works of the law, but the hearing of faith. So, in other words, reflect back, people You received the Holy Spirit. You saw miracles. There were things that happened in your experience that hadn't been there before. That happened because of the message that I brought, not because of what these competitors brought. That wasn't happening before. And so we're always being challenged to try to add something or novelty or go some new direction. I think that's particularly true in this country. We're very faddish. What's the latest fad? What's the new thing that everybody's talking about? Well, it's okay to sort of be aware of what's happening and going on, but uh the truth is always the truth. The gospel is always the gospel. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and tomorrow and forever. There are temptations to get tired. Because we're in a spiritual battle And it can wear you out, that spiritual battle. And sometimes you just want to get off the battlefield. Maybe there's some other group, some other group that offers some immediate relief to your weariness. Are they offering the gospel? That's the question. Jesus offers peace. Hope and strength to the weary. Jesus says, Take my yoke upon you and learn of me. My yoke is easy. My burden is light. Those who offer easy ways and shortcuts Often have a clever way of pulling you into a new kind of bondage. That's true of many of the cults. Oh, look at the joy and happiness of all these young people singing and everything. And we have a special leader who has hidden truth for you. I still remember we heard of a cult in our old neighborhood. We peeked in on them one Sunday night. And my son, who's kind of a wise, wise guy, listened to what was going on and he turned to my wife and said Mom, don't off don't drink any of the Kool-Aid. I'm thankful that even though So he wasn't a theologian in his own way, he intuitively recognized when something wasn't right. You don't have to be a great theologian to know when something isn't right. And it begins when somebody starts exalting themselves. When they offer some secret that isn't already there in the Bible. Everything you need to really know is there in the Bible. It's the gospel and we keep keep getting distracted into thinking or being taught by other people that, well, you need this other thing What you need is Jesus Christ every single day of your life. Trusting in Him. Turning to Him every day. That's one reason we need to spend time with him every day. So that our eyes don't get diverted and turned to some other group or some other people or some other teacher Jesus began a good work in you. He will finish it. There will be days when you grow weary. But the Lord gives strength to the weary. They shall mount up with wings as equal They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. This is Jesus. living in you, to give you his strength to endure to the end. Trust in him. Keep your eyes on him. And don't be deceived by those who come along with some other supplement or a new set of ideas. Let us pray. Lord, we thank you that we are not saved by the works of the law or any of the things that we might claim to be good works. But by the work of Jesus Christ, we thank you that He is alive, working in us what He wants to work in. Help us to rely upon him and him alone for grace and strength in this pilgrimage, in this journey. That we shall not grow weary in well-doing, that we shall not be diverted or deceived by those who would lead us off from the truth of your word revealed to us in Him In your word we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.