Amen. If you have your Bibles, let's turn to Isaiah. Chapter 40, reading a familiar passage, I think, from Isaiah 40, verses 1 through 11. This is a sermon entitled The Voice, and we'll look at it in three points that I will highlight in a few moments at the appropriate time. Beloved, this is God's Word. This is His inspired, inerrant, infallible. God breathed out Word. And it is to us this particular morning, from before the foundation of the world, this was God's word to us this day. This morning. This is what he wants us to hear this morning. And before we read, let us pray for the illumination of the Spirit. Lord Jesus, life-giving Spirit at God's right hand. Prophet, priest, and king, we thank you that you are our Savior, our Redeemer, our King, our Lord, our Friend. And we ask that you'd pour out your spirit now, that these living words would be true life. and joy and abundance for us this day, that you would address us exactly where we are, that we would know beyond a shadow of a doubt. That you are with us and that you are changing us and that you are committed to us and that you love us. And we pray that you would help your servant to decrease, that you may increase. That we may behold your beauty, your majesty, your glory, and be transformed from one degree of glory to the next. We pray in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. Hear God's word to us this morning. Comfort, comfort, my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare Is ended, that her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins A voice cries in the wilderness: Prepare the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level and the rough places plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord has spoken. A voice says, Cry. And I said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all its beauty is like the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. Surely the people are grass. The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God will stand forever. Go on up to a high mountain, O Zion, herald of good news. Lift up your voice with strength, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. Lift it up, fear not Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God comes with might, and his arm rules for him. Behold, his reward is with him, and his recompense before him. He will tend his flock like a shepherd. He will gather the lambs in his arms. He will carry them. In his bosom, and gently lead those that are with young Thus ends the reading of God's word to us this morning. You may be seated. Beloved, this is a a message Entitled The Voice, and we'll look at it in three points. The first point will be The voice of comfort. The second point will be the voice of repentance and anticipation. And the third will be the voice of the shepherd. The first is the voice of comfort. Beloved, I want to ask you wherever you are this morning Whatever trials, whatever temptations, whatever struggles, whatever difficulty that you're experiencing the true God, the Lord God, the one who made you, the one who has redeemed you if you're a believer in Christ. knows your heart and knows exactly where you are. If there's darkness, he is light. If there's death, he is life. Where there's sadness and sorrow, he is joy. Where there's trouble, anxiety, there is peace in your God And I want you to see how Israel, in this situation that God addresses, Israel's in a time of trouble, a time of trial. A time where everything to them looks hopeless because they're homeless. It's like a war torn, devastated Very discouraging life in which they live at this time in Isaiah's prophecy. You see, this is the second part of Isaiah, and Israel has gone into exile. They're no longer in that place where God was dwelling in the shalom peace, in his special presence. They're no longer enjoying life and life more abundantly. Everywhere they look, they see burnt homes that used to be their dwellings, the place they've raised their families. They've been disconnected, separated even by death from their loved ones. They have seen the very temple of God, which was a permanent structure where the true and living God would come. To them and dwell with them and be their God. And they would offer sacrifices and worship and praise. It's in ruin. Hopeless, homeless devastation. It's like coming home to your village and seeing nothing but ash. Dead bodies, charred remains, no church building, no home, nothing. And on top of that, your enemy Has taken you into exile and is taking the best of you and assimilating you into something foreign and heinous, abhorrent Citizens of this age, this dark age, the city of man, they're in the Babylonian exile And in that place, God says, Comfort, comfort my people. Yes, it looks hopeless, and yes, I understand you're homeless. Some of you are experiencing this because of my condemning judgment that is just because of your sins. Because you've defied the true God, the living God, though he specially revealed himself. But some of you are experiencing this trial, this trouble, this time of temptation as discipline from a heavenly father, because you believe. And it's to you I speak, God says. Not to those who've turned from me, those who deserve my judgment and my trouble. But know this, I recognize you're in the same lot. With the rest of them? Because of my power, because of my grace, because of my guidance. This is what is best for you. But I know you don't understand that Comfort, comfort, says your God. I remain your God and you remain my people. My word of hope is your present, your present help, your present help in your time of trouble. And I want you to embrace me, says your God, through the word. Because my message to you has always been believer in my promises My message to you always has been, always will be, my beloved who believes my promise. That I am your God, and you are my people, and I will dwell with you. And I will make your lives joyful and abundant again But in this time, receive my word. Because this is what it says. It says that I'm the God who comforts you. I'm the God who is full of tenderness and compassion for those who are going through this. In fact, I'll turn your exile, I'll turn your exile death state. I'll turn it into Resurrection through my sanctification. I'll make you better. I'll make you purer. I will make you joy more joyful through your trouble and your trial I want to speak to you today in your present tense, the Lord says, as if it's already passed. And that's why he speaks. Cry to her now, through the word, make it comfortable that her warfare, her hardship is over. That all of her sins are forgiven. And one day, one day, you will see the glory of God in your midst in a way that you have yet to dream about. That I have revealed and yet somewhat concealed to your eyes, but one day that Path in your hardship, that path in the wilderness, that path in death There'll be a voice crying in the wilderness. Prepare the way of Yahweh. He's coming. Not to merely receive our offering in the Holy of Holies. He's coming out of the Holy of Holies. United personally and permanently to our flesh, our humanity. You're going to see his glory. The word will become flesh In fact, verse 5 says, The glory of the Lord shall be revealed. The glory like you've never seen it. The glory beyond being in the midst of you, in the middle of you, in a temple setting. No, the glory will be In your flesh, in your humanity, in your midst, as one of you without sin. And all flesh shall see it together. Why? For the mouth of the Lord is spoken. Beloved. When we're called to hard times, when we're called to those places where we experience very uh poignantly that we're in a wilderness death state. When we look around and things seem more dismal than usual, and it's not just the weather. When we see our sins and the still the patterns and the sins we struggle with within, and we see death here. Family members, loved ones, sickness, sorrow, struggle. When the male is not opened up whether electronically or snail mail or the mailbox outside without something inside going I'm worried about that test. I'm worried about what I might receive today because I don't know that I have what I need to have. In all of those situations, the Lord says, let my word guide you, not your circumstances, not the things outside you, not the things within you, definitely not, not in your feelings. But let my word be what you embrace as truth. That I am the God who comforts. I am the God who is tender-hearted. I am the God who will provide for you physically, mentally. Financially and most gloriously spiritually. I'm using all this So that you will know more fully that I am your God and you are my people. And though it's troublesome, though it's difficult, embrace my word, for the mouth of the Lord is spoken. He is always faithful. God is always faithful. And we live on this side of the cross, beloved, where we can see the glory of the Lord has appeared in the person and work of Jesus. That the glory of the Lord appeared in our humanity. That there was a voice that came before him crying in the wilderness, John the Baptist. Who is saying the time has come, the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. The Lord Jesus is coming. Let us all bow and be prepared to receive our King, the one promised. The beginning of the end of exile is over. The beginning of the end of death is over. The beginning of the end of suffering is over. The beginning of the end Of our sins is over. And that's what Jesus came to do He came to show us God as the comforting God in our own flesh, to show the tender-hearted love of God, to show compassion. To show that ultimately through his precious blood, as the Lamb of God who takes away the sins, he would lay down his life to put himself into the exile death state. That we all deserved. And on the third day rise to a new life, to a resurrection life that we are all a part of, all of us who believe, both in the old time of promise. And the time of fulfillment in which we live, we are all, if we believe the word, if we trust in the word, if we look to the Lamb, we can know that God is the God of comfort no matter what we go through, and He does not change. He does not lie. He is always faithful. And we have that as evidence in the person of Jesus, in that glory of the Lord that should be revealed. The glory even on the cross. The glory especially in resurrection and ascension. But the glory of God, the light of God, the kindness of God, the forgiveness of God, all of that. He has come And so we see this voice of comfort for the hopeless, for the homeless. We see this voice of comf com of comfort saying You're in exile. And beloved, remember, when I say exile state, I want to accent that for a moment. When the prophet Ezekiel found Israel, He found them as bones in a wilderness, the desert. They were in death. And there was no hope for them beyond the power of the Word. The Spirit and the Word would raise them up and create a powerful army. And it's often, beloved, is it not, in these times of hardship when we're hopeless and we're homeless, literally or figuratively That the Lord comes to us and we hear him for the first time. We hear his beautiful voice and we hear comfort. We hear I'm a God of compassion. We hear your sins are forgiven. Your hardship has begun to end. Because I have spoken. And the Spirit raises us from the dead out of the exilic death state. raises us up and seats us with Christ in the heavenly places through what we call being born from above, being born again, being regenerate, being regenesized. Being made new creations. It's all done by the power of God through the Word. And what does he do? Do her son. There were some in this exhilaric death state that deserved it. Who had turned away from God and God gave them more time. He was patient with them, and they came to saving faith. And then there were some from the nations, far from God, without hope, without God in the world. And he drew them to himself Through his powerful word. He's still using this word. And wherever we are, we want to hear his word of comfort today. We want to understand that he is the one who takes us from our exile death state and brings us not just back to Eden. He takes us forward, fast forward in Christ by the Spirit, to an escalated, eternal embodied Edenic existence. He doesn't take us back to Eden. He gives us something much better. An eternal embodied Eden with him. What made Eden Eden? God dwelt with his people in joy, in love, and abundance. He walked with his people. He was our God. We were his people. And that's his great purpose and plan for all believers in Christ. And so the first thing we want to note is this voice of comfort, and it speaks to us still today, beloved. It speaks to us still today. Hear the word of the Lord. The second point I'd like to make from this passage, found primarily in verses six through eight, is to remember this reality. That at first when we see this we we think maybe this is out of context. Or sometimes when we read it, we often quote it out of context. Well, of course it's not out of context But sometimes we quote it out of context. Consider this on the second point as a call to repentance and anticipation. Because what is God then saying to those in the exilic death state, those who are hopeless and homeless? What does he say to them? He says this The prophet begins and he hears this voice, it says, Cry. And he looks up and he says, What shall I cry? What's more important, if you will, than what I've already said in the first five verses? What's most important? Tell them about the brevity of life. Tell them that they're all in an exilic death state. That all have sinned. Every nation, every tongue, every tribe, every people have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God Tell them. Because their circumstances can take them from the reality Of just how brief their lives are. And that time, that sweet time is given for repentance and anticipation of God's coming. In kindness and fully saving us from this death state. Look in verse six. A voice cries, they said, What shall I cry? He tells them, all flesh is grass. And all of its beauty, all flesh, all the beauty that we have is like the flower of the field. It's here today, it's passing tomorrow. It's like the leaves on the tree. They're changing, they're falling. The trees are losing their leaves. It's like when we see that beautiful uh flower in the field and it is there that day, and then the wind blows over it, and the next day it's gone, and as uh Psalm one oh three says that its place is remembered no more We were looking at pictures yesterday of the place in which we've lived for 25 years, and there was a house, a little house that had been there since the 1920s. And there was a man who we loved very much named Melvin who lived in that house. And Melvin used to walk around our neighborhood and Melvin was a faithful man in the community. Everybody knew him. He was one of the few people who had still been raided in Round Hill, Virginia, and was still there. But his time came to an end. And within just a few moments, it seems, the house was gone. Two new ones were built in its place. And we have to remember real hard. We have to work at it to remember Where he was, and that he was here, and that his life was significant. And he's only been gone a little while. But he's an example of what death does. Death, because we're in an exelic death state, it's because of sin that death is in the world. And because of that sin We're here today and then gone tomorrow. And our place remembers us no more. I would not doubt that the two people who live in the new houses where Melvin lived do not know the name Melvin and do not know what had been the past in our present. Because that's the way it happens. And beloved, what uh Isaiah, what the prophet is being uh taught here, what he's being told to say to the people is while you're in your exilic death state Take your eyes off your circumstances. Take your eyes off your pain and your sorrow and your trouble and the reality of your hopelessness and homelessness. And put your eyes on God and His Word. Because you're only here for a season. And as we learn in the New Testament, when Jesus comes, he brings the beginning of the end to suffering. He brings the beginning of the end to death. He brings the beginning of the end of all sorrow and exile. But he says, this is a day of salvation. I've given you this day so that you'll be a good steward of your time in the Very brief life you have, you know, and we can look at the wisdom literature, beloved. You know this. You know if you have lived more than twenty-five, maybe thirty-five years, you know how quick it goes. You know, looking back Here I am in an older body. And I was just here in a younger body in the late 90s. Here I am in an older body. And I'm still looking out of the same eyeballs. That I was in high school. The only thing that's changed is I've deteriorated a lot on the outside. The outward things have faded. But by God's grace, the inward things are renewed day by day. And so he says, tell them the beauty is like the flower of the field. It's fading. Don't put your trust, young people, in beauty or strength. It's all fading. We have a way of masking our death state, even our funerals are set up to cover all the horrific nests, all the horrors of death We don't see the dirt. We don't see what happens afterwards. And I'm not trying to be gross. I'm trying to get us to think together about how we mass so many things with distractions and busyness. We cover it up. Don't want to think about it. And Isaiah's called to tell the people in exile, that's us We're in the exilic death state because if we don't take hold of God's promises in Christ, we will be condemned. We will be forever under the wrath of the just and eternal God. And we'll not only be under his just and eternal wrath, we will live in a death state far worse than this. You think you have problems. I think I have problems, but nothing is worse than having God Almighty as your enemy. Make friends today through reconciling mercy with Jesus Christ. It's so beautiful to know that we can call God Father. We can call him friend. We can know he cares. We can know he's with us. He'll never leave us nor forsake us. And so the word to us today is a word to draw us to repentance. Why did Isaiah speak this? To get him to repent To get us to repent, to get us to anticipate the coming, but be ready for it with right hearts. Because he says the grass withers, the flower fades when the breath of the Lord blows on it. That is When it's time, when our time has come, when it's ended. Breath. Surely the people of grass, but the grass withers, flower. But the word of the Lord endures forever. That's the eternal word. That's the word of hope. That's the word of comfort. That's the word made flesh, the Lord Jesus. That's the one we embrace today by faith. He's the resurrection and the life. Whoever comes to him, though he die, though she die, you will live again. Do you believe this? Because right now, what do we want to do with our life? We want to be adventual people. We don't want to just wait on a season set by the church at a time called Advent to be looking forward to the coming of the Lord. We don't want to just say, oh come, oh come, Emmanuel uh once or twice a year, maybe at Advent and Christmas time. We want to be repentant, anticipating adventual people all the time. Some of the last words in the Bible in Revelation 22. 17. The Spirit and the bride say, Come, come. Come, Lord Jesus. I have seven things I try to remember. Seven three word sentences I try to remember every day. And it ends with, Come, Lord Jesus, so that I will stay repentant and I will stay anticipating, I will stay as an adventural man in the presence of God, in reliance upon his Holy Spirit. You see, he wants them to prepare not just for the death state that they're experiencing now, but to realize that this is just momentary, this is this is light and momentary affliction. This is brief. There's going to be one that's coming that will be without rest or reprieve. And so he says, put your trust in me. Because why is God that refuge from the exilic death state? Because In his beloved son for us. He entered that exilic death state, real death, taking the penalty for our sins, taking the very hell And wrath of God upon himself on the cross. Eli Lama Sabactani. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? So that we could be received, so that we could be restored. So that we could know we are loved. And we know we have a purpose. We know he has a plan. And we know he is life and life more abundantly. You see, he gives his life. So there will know life. What's the opposite of exhibit destiny? It's resurrection joy. It's resurrection life. It's resurrection peace. Shalom from God. It's first a reconciliation with God in Christ. And then it's a reconciliation with our minds and our hearts and all the things that are bent and broken inside us. And then it's a reconciliation with others. We're made whole. We're made shalom. We're made peace. And that's the peace that Pastor Don't say and that's the joy. That's the word by the Spirit that can come into our lives in the wilderness, where we are, still with death looming large. Until all of God's enemies will be placed beneath his feet. Death shall be no more. No more crying. No more sorrow. Shalom peace. Not merely back to Eden, but an escalated, a wonderful, eternal, embodied, Edenic existence without possibility. of falling and sinning ever again. No surface gonna come into that garden. No The word of God is being emphasized, beloved, because this is a passage about the word made flesh. You see that in the first part And verse 3, chapter 40, verse 3, in the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord, that way was that highway of holiness that Isaiah spoke of earlier. In chapter 12 and chapter 35 about the way of holiness, Jesus says, I am the way, the truth and the life. That's what Jesus is meaning by that. I am that way. I am that truth. I am that life promised by Isaiah the prophet and the Word of God. And I am the one who is the Word that became flesh. God's comfort became flesh. The final third point I want us to look at, beloved, because we are, through that word, by the Spirit, in Christ, we are made his sheep. As Elder Jim Van Damme prayed this morning so beautifully from Psalm 100, we should be thankful that we're his people, that we're the sheep of his pasture. But we also know. Isaiah fifty-three six All we like sheep have gone astray. Each of us have gone his own way. But the Lord has laid on him, that is the shepherd, the iniquity of us all This last point is just to see, or if better, to hear the shepherd's voice, to hear the voice of the shepherd. And why do I say that? Because Isaiah is told, and through Isaiah to believing Israel. That's the point here, is it that that through Isaiah's word, through the word of the Spirit, he's taking all the believers in Israel and He's saying, now, go. Get up high on a mountain with boldness and fearlessness. And I want you to say, Behold your God, behold your God. Put the true and living God before them. Witness to this reality. Witness to the word. Our Lord Jesus, in his resurrection and his ascension, he will say, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me, and go. He continues this, that God was already telling his people in the Old Testament, go. You're on mission now. And you got a message. And it is, behold your God. The God of comfort, the God of grace, the God of mercy, but the God of justice and judgment too You see the way it says, it says, if verse I go upon a high mountain, get up there whether your voice can be heard, O Zion, herald of good news, or the gospel Lift up your voice, O Jerusalem, herald of good news. That is as a as a as a speaker, as a witness, as a preacher, get up there and tell about this gospel. Lift it up fear not and say to the cities of Judah, say to those believers, behold your God, even here, right here, especially here in an exilic death state. And tell them their time is brief, its time short, it's a mist, it's a vapor, it's going to pass away so quickly. It'll make your head spin. I'm speaking experientially But notice verses ten and eleven, this voice of the shepherd. Behold, the Lord God comes with might. You don't want to meet the true and living God in all his omnipotence and power and strength without a mediator, beloved. You dare not. We dare not. He's a consuming fire. He's just. He's thrice holy. He's the king that even the great Isaiah saw in a vision and said, I am a man of unclean lips and I live among a people of unclean lips. My eyes have seen the Lord. I'm done for. I'm inside out. And God made an atonement for him, just as He does for all of us in his beloved Son, the Lord Jesus, through his blood. But he comes with might. His arm rules for him. We see the shepherd here in all his power, and notice His reward is with him. This assurance that we will receive the well done for those who believe, though homeless. though hopeless feeling at time, though we've been troubled, though there's been trials, though there's temptations Ah amazing grace, how sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me through many dangers, snares, and toils I've already come. 'Twas grace that brought me safe thus far, and grace will lead me home That exile wilderness, that exilic death state. It's hard. And yet he comes with reward. He comes not just to give himself, which would be fine. We're going to be just fine with that. Okay, thank you, Lord Jesus. I don't know of anything else I need. I've got you. But he's going to say, no, no, no, no Like the most beloved king you can imagine, like the kindest friend you've ever had, he's gonna say, I've got some jewels and some special things I've put aside for you. And well done Well done. Good job. That affirmation that we're all want wanting, that we'll finally get. And it won't pass away His recompense is before him. You notice that that's the the word that often means getting what we deserve. For the believer, that's getting what we have coming to us because of Christ. Because of Christ. We're heirs because He's the great heir. But the recompense for those who meet God without a mediator, without Jesus. They'll get what they deserve in an eternal wrath. The most horrifying exilic death states you can imagine. Because what makes an exilic death state? There's death, yes. There's wrath, yes. There's trouble, yes. There's darkness, yes. But there's no presence of the favor of God Almighty. You were made for the presence of the favor of God Almighty. If you don't have the favor of God Almighty, you already know what a death state feels like. Because ain't nothing in this world going to fix it apart from Jesus. But verse eleven, finally, it tells us he will tend his flock like a shepherd. Look at that. The shepherd will come, the great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the eternal covenant, he'll lay down his life for us. The great shepherd of the sheep will call us and we'll hear his voice. Some of us are hearing his voice again today, hearing his voice very specially in our times of trouble. Some of us may be hearing his voice for the first time. Some of us are just hearing his voice for the first time in a while. Because death states happen on the inside too, beloved. That's what we mean when we say we're dry, we're desert, we're parched With a deer that pants after water. He'll tend his flock like a shepherd. Look at this. Okay? You ready? He's going to take his lambs, the little ones. The beloved ones, the ones he's had his affection on since all eternity, from before the foundation of the world. He's going to gather them. See that? And he'll even carry them in his bosom. That's what he does for us. And gently lead those that are with young, those that have special needs, those that are in the flock with special needs. Those that don't have the strength are in particular places that are hard for them. He's the shepherd that comes alongside us to love us to tend us so kindly, to feed us, to gather us, to carry us many times, and gently lead those who are with Yang. See beloved, the the the voice of the shepherd is what we need each and every day in our wilderness. Yes, the wilderness, the exile, um has begun to be over. But the exile death state remains until his return and his restoring offer. That's why the author of the Hebrews can tell us, and if you're able, let's turn there as we begin to close. the author of Hebrews tells us that there is this full redemption This full rest for the people of God. And in chapter four of Hebrews We're told that this Edenic, this escalated, if I would say it that way, eternal embodied like existence with the triune God for all eternity is a rest It's a place of shalom. It's a place of rest from our enemies. It's a place of rest from our sorrows. It's a place of rest from our sins. It's a place of rest from death. It's Life and life more abundantly to put it in and summaring That's what rest is. And it says in verse 1, while the promise of entering is rest still stands, today, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. For good news came to us just as to them, that is, those who fell in the wilderness in unbelief and anger against God. But the message they heard did not benefit them because they were not united by faith with those who listened. That's the voice. Do you hear his voice? The voice of comfort. The voice of repentance and anticipation. The voice of the shepherd For we who have believed enter that rest. As he said, As I swore my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Although his works were finished from the foundation of the world, for he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way And God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in the passage he said, They shall not enter my rest, since therefore it remains for some to enter it. And those who formerly received the good news failed to enter because of disobedience. Again he says, he appoints a certain day. Today, saying through David, so long afterward, in the words already quoted, Today, if you hear his voice. Do not harden your hearts. For if Joshua had given them rest, God would not have spoken of another day later on. So then there remains a Sabbath rest for the people of God. Note this, for whoever has entered God's rest has also rested from his works. As God did from His. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest so that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. Why? Because of what we've learned this morning, the Word of God is living and active sharper than any two edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit, of joints and marrow, and discerning the thoughts and the intentions of the heart, and no creature is hidden from his sight, but all naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give an account Beloved, the voice of the shepherd says, I have come that you may have life, and life more abundantly. I have come that you know the way through the wilderness and that you get home to your rest that I've purchased for you through my precious blood. The Lord Jesus says, It's through me you find life. It's through me you find peace shalom. It's through me you find resurrection and hope in death. It's through me. And you find a home and hope in God alone And so the Lord Jesus tells us as the shepherds of the sheep, I loved you and I love you now, because I have laid down my life for you. To bring my sheep safely into pasture, so that goodness and mercy will follow you, believers, all the days of your life And you know what? You're gonna dwell in the house of the Lord forever and ever. Your house will never be destroyed. Your hope will never be threatened. Because you put your hope your trust in the voice of the shepherd. It's very good news for us who are sinners. Very good news today. To know that even in our wilderness our rest has even now begun because we're united to Jesus Christ and seated with him in the heavenly places. Let us thank our God, and then we get to come to his table that he sets for us in our wilderness experience. Our Father and our God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the voice. We thank you for the voice that meets us where we are with comfort, with tenderness, with forgiveness, with hope, with glory, with your person. We thank you for the voice. That reminds us of the brevity of life and calls us to repentance and anticipation And longing for your return, so that we can be fully with you, at rest, shalom, that we can have a full uh exodus from this present age and from sin and death and hell and satan. And thank you for the voice of the shepherd that speaks so sweetly, who's all powerful And yet united to our humanity, who is the mighty God, and yet who is a tender shepherd. We thank you. Lord Jesus, pour out your Spirit upon us and continue to give us hope and help us as a congregation to grow in grace and in the knowledge of you. And that as we leave here today we'd be transformed, that that we'd be uh thankful, that we would be more hopeful, that we would be more confident, and the peace that passes all understanding would guard our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. We pray these things in the mighty name of Jesus, and all the church responded with a resounding Amen.