The cross behind Jesus. And following him was a large crowd of the people and of women who were mourning and lamenting him But Jesus, turning to them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, stop weeping for me, but weep for yourselves and for your children. For behold, the days are coming when they will say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bore, and the breasts that never nurse. And they will begin to say to the mountains fall on us and to the hills cover us, for if they do these things when the tree is green, what will happen when it is dry? To others also who were criminals were being led away to be put to death with him And they came to the place called the Skull. There they crucified him and the criminals, one on the right and the other on the left. But Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them, for they do not know what they are doing. They cast lots, dividing up his garments among themselves. And the people stood by looking on, and even the rulers were sneering at him, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself, if this is the Christ of God, his chosen one. Soldiers also mocked him, coming up to him, offering him sour wine, and saying, If you are the king of the Jews, save yourself. Now there was also an inscription above him. This is the king of the Jews. One of the criminals who were hanged there was hurling abuse at him, saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other answered, and rebuking him said, Do you not even fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed are suffering justly, for we are receiving what we deserve for our deeds. But this man has done nothing wrong And he was saying, Jesus, remember me when you come in your kingdom. And he said to him, Truly I say to you Today you shall be with me in paradise. Let's start on the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. As we come to you tonight seeking to know more about the way of salvation, this this Calvinism, these five points, We pray, Lord God, that you would teach us by your Spirit. Not mere intellectual knowledge, but real truth. Truth that changes hearts. Truth that makes us more like Christ. Truth that pierces to our innermost being and then gives us cause for rejoicing and joy. Guide our hearts tonight, Father. Help us to exalt Christ and to glorify your name and to please the Spirit. We ask these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen. Well, uh, we're going to continue our study tonight, briefly, on uh the way of salvation, or the what we are been calling tulip, or the five points of Calvinism. If you remember, uh TULIP is that acronym which stands for those five points Total depravity, unconditional election, limited atonement, irresistible grace, and perseverance See the Spanish theory. Really can't make out that same acronym from the Spanish. But that acronym is just a way for us to remember these five doctrines And not that these five doctrines are all of what Calvin taught. There's certainly much more than that. But these five doctrines are all focused upon how a person can be saved, as that is found in Scripture So this is a very limited study, but a very important study as we think of all the ways in which we can get this wrong, but if we get this right The Lord will bless our ministry, our love for one another. We can truly be that bright light of Christ. Well we've already gone over two of uh of these five points, these five doctrines The first one we touched upon was uh T, total depravity. We started there. As that really sets the foundation for us, knowing that this is where all people, all men, women, children start. In sin, uh born in sin, with a sin nature, inherited from our first parent, our first father Adam, after he fell, passing this along to each one of us. We've wholly lost all ability of will to do any spiritual good accompanying salvation. That is total depravity Not that we can't do good deeds from a worldly perspective, not that we can't give people food or a cup of cold water. That's not what this speaks to As we are totally depraved as we are born, that means that we can't get back into the garden. We can't enter into God's presence in our own strength. We have no power, no ability to come into his presence. We can't do any spiritual good. That's what it means. That's what total depravity is. We have no strength, no power, no ability to do anything good. And that's defined as anything which accompanies salvation. Then we touched upon last week unconditional election. Knowing that no one can save themselves, then you probably ask the question, well, how is anyone saved? The answer to that question, at least a partial answer to that question, was that God is the one who saves, and the first thing, if we think of it in human terms, the first thing that God does when he saves is he elects or he chooses, we can think of that as God placing his love on a particular person. That's the first step, really, from a human perspective. God is the one who selects those who will receive his saving grace. You can think of it uh as uh a box of um cookies In someone's pantry, it's taken out, and all the cookies look the same. But the person who's going to be eating selects just one. They choose. They put their hand in the box. They look at them all and evaluate which one has more chocolate chips. In a sense, that's what God does. He looks, and in his perfect will and wisdom, he selects, he chooses. Now, that remains a mystery to us. We don't know what basis, upon what basis, God makes this choice. We know that it's not based upon our intellect or our the way we look or whether or not we have committed 10 or 10,000 sins. We're all sinners It's not based upon whether or not he sees we'll come to faith. It's not based upon anything in us, and that's why that word unconditional is there. God's choice is not conditioned Upon us in any form or fashion. He makes the choice according to his most holy and perfect will. Total depravity Unconditional election. First two doctrines that we've studied. And now we're going to dig into very briefly the third one. We refer to this as limited atonement. Some prefer to call this one particular atonement. I think you'll see why as we open it up just a bit. Well now that we know, and please excuse me, I didn't put the uh Spanish in yet, so you're going to see a lot of blanks tonight. Now that we know that as a result of Adam's fall, as a result of his sin, as a result of his disobedience in the garden, That he became totally depraved, and that he passed on That attribute, that nature, to every single man, woman, and child that descended from him by ordinary grace, and that's everybody with one exception, Jesus Christ. Now that we know that no one is able, has the power to save themselves, and now that we also know that it was God Himself, Who called, who issued a call to every single person that he chose to save When we speak of the call, we're speaking of God's decision, God's choice, his election of a particular person. That he unconditionally, meaning it wasn't anything in the person, it wasn't conditioned on the person, that he chose certain individuals or elected certain individuals for salvation. In and through the atoning sacrifice of Jesus. We know that Adam Gave us sinful hearts, we know that God chose some for salvation. Now that we know those things. We might ask, well, who did Jesus die for? With those things as a background, did Jesus die for all men, women, and children? Was the sacrifice of Jesus like fruit hanging on a tree? For everyone to see, for everyone and anyone to pluck Just hanging there waiting. But only those who actually go and and remove the fruit from the tree and and eat of it, only those are able to Taste it, to receive the benefit of it, to eat it. Is that what it's like? Some would say that the atonement or the sacrifice of Jesus Christ is just like that fruit hanging. Waiting for people to pick it. Some would say that Jesus therefore died for all people. That like that fruit that's just sitting waiting, that's what Jesus' death was He accomplished it. He went to the cross. He really did die. He shed his blood. He suffered God's wrath holy and completely. He went to the tomb He lay in the tomb three days, truly buried, and then rose from the dead in power, in glory, defeating death and sin. Some would say, yes, of course, he did that. And it's there that work of Jesus is there for anyone To take hold of, to benefit from. In other words While only those who really and truly do come to faith or believe in Jesus, while only those receive the benefit, just like those who pick the fruit and eat it, receive the sweetness. Nevertheless, Jesus died for everyone, all people There's a problem with that. Even though some would say, well, that's exactly what we read in the Gospel of John. That Jesus was sent and died for everyone. For God so loved the world. We can't get too much more inclusive than that, the world. Look a little further down in verse 17. In order that the world might be saved through him, Jesus was sent. Jesus was given to save the world. There you go, it proves the point. But here's the problem. Other scripture, in fact all of scripture, tells us that not everyone is saved. Scripture is clear that not all people will spend eternity with God in glory in heaven. The Bible tells us unequivocally That there are those that will spend eternity outside of the presence of God or in hell. So how do we reconcile these if they are in conflict How do we understand the scope of the work of the Lord Jesus Christ? What's true? Well, we know without a doubt that Jesus spoke often Referred often to hell. Toward the end of Matthew's Gospel, we read this in the 25th chapter as Jesus is speaking So truly I say to you as you did not do it, and that this passage comes from that larger context where Jesus refers to the king who returns and separates the sheep from the goats. The sheep would be those who would enter into heaven. The goats would be those who would go to hell. And so that's the context. There is this separation that Jesus speaks of. And he he finishes this portion of his preaching here in verse 45 and 46. And as he uses that pronoun you, he's speaking to those who are not loving him. He was referring to those who are not serving him. He was referring to those who would not come to faith in him. Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, and he's referring to uh giving food or visiting or um loving neighbors You did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Clearly Jesus speaks of a separation. Clearly he speaks of those who will go to hell. Clearly he's telling them that not everyone will enter into glory. What about the betrayer Judas? He did not appear to have been headed toward glory, and this comes out of the book of Acts. As the apostles got together and recognized, obviously, that Judas was not with them and they needed to replace him We hear this as they discuss this, Lord, who know the hearts of all, show which one of these two as they're trying to decide between uh two to become an apostle. Show which one of these two you have chosen to take place in this ministry and apostleship from which Judas turned aside To go to his own place. Clearly a reference to Judas entering into eternal punishment, eternal damnation, or hell Not everyone spends eternity with God in paradise. So we can start with that truth that not everyone goes to heaven That there are those who will be, or even today are, in hell. Where do we go from there? Where does that lead us? The atonement of Jesus is limited if the word world in Jonathan, John 3. 16 Does not mean every single person, if the atonement is limited, then how What does limited atonement mean? How are we to understand it? What does Scripture tell us? Well, from this book, Five Points of Calvinism, Steele and the other authors write this All Calvinists agree that Christ's obedience and suffering were of infinite value. Let's just stop there. This idea of a limitation on Christ's sacrifice, on the atoning work does not go to the value of what he did. It's not as though Jesus' death, his shed blood, Only could go so far. Let me finish reading here If God had so willed, the satisfaction rendered by Christ would have saved every member of the human race. We know that it didn't. And so the question then becomes, well, was it just not powerful enough? Could it only save a few? And the answer is no, that's a wrong understanding. We have the right understanding here in this sentence. It wasn't God's will. that Jesus' sacrifice would apply to every single person If we want to use this language, that was the limitation. God's will. The book continues, it would have required no more obedience nor any greater suffering for Christ to have secured salvation for every man, woman, and child who ever lived. than it did for him to secure salvation for the elect only. Do you see what they're saying? that the value of Jesus' atonement is so great we can't measure it. It's so powerful. And we can't know its boundaries because it has none And so they're saying it has nothing, this limitation has nothing to do with Jesus' power, the value of his life, and the value of his blood. Has nothing to do with the strength to save It has everything to do with God's perfect will The writer continues, he came into the world to represent and save only those given to him by the Father. You see, that's the limitation. That was his mission. That was the design. That was God's intent. It was his will. That's why he was sent. What was the purpose? To save only those given to him by the Father Only those the Father had chosen. Only those the Father had set his love upon. Thus Christ's saving work was limited in that it was designed to save some and not others. That was the Father's purpose all along. It wasn't a mistake. It wasn't that he ran out of power like a car running out of gasoline. Oh, he can get this far, but We can't get to the end no. Jesus got to the end He fulfilled 100% of God's will. And if I could say it was like 150%, I would, but that doesn't make sense. He fulfilled God's will completely. There weren't some remaining. It just didn't get saved because he wasn't strong enough. Everyone, everyone that God willed was saved and will be saved. The atonement was not limited in value, for it was of infinite worth. Well, that's really a very brief overview of this truth and Jesus' work on the cross, in the tomb, and in his ascension Didn't lack power. Didn't lack effectiveness but did everything that the God the Father had purposed The value of Christ's atonement cannot be measured. The power of his resurrection has no bounds But his work was limited. And it was limited in application. The truth is true for all. And the power is immeasurable But according to God's will and perfect plan, the benefit of the atonement applies only to those whom God has chosen. Praise be to God. For his wisdom and his will is perfect This should cause us to want to spread the gospel even more. You might think tonight, well, this really puts a limit on what we want to tell people. Because not everyone will be saved But that's just wrong thinking. This is a glorious doctrine Because all of the glory goes to God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit. He is the one who does all of the work. He is the one who has made these wise and perfect choices. He is the one who is building his kingdom. And we just get a glimpse of it tonight, of how glorious that kingdom will be. That's cause for wanting to proclaim it to all we come in contact with. To show them that this is what Jesus has done and this is what he's doing, and this is how majestic his kingdom is. Don't you want to come? Be there forever. For there will be none in God's kingdom That he hasn't invited, that he hasn't called, that he hasn't prepared, and that he hasn't placed his love on. Those who have rebelled and rejected won't be there So this is a passage, this is a doctrine that causes us to give praise, adoration. And worship to our triune God. Amen. Brothers and sisters, we've got a bit of time. If you have comments or questions, I know that was very brief, and there's much more to be touched upon. If you have questions or comments, please, and then we'll go to a time of prayer. I've got to plug in my computer, but I'm listening. So please, please chime in. And Pastor Chris it's Tony. Hi Tony. Hi. Um people always quote John 316 But they never want to go to three seventeen. The that's where it's qualified. It was not that he's um saving the whole world for seventeen states quiet trouble For God did not send his son into a world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He who believes in him is not condemned. 18 But he who does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only begotten Son. Son of God. So it says right there it's qualified. He came for those who will believe in him or who do believe in him. That's perfect. That's that's perfect. Um thank you. And and you're right. Uh many people stop and and they miss that And that is so critical. Thank you. Yeah, we are not saved now. We are since the foundation of the before the foundation of the world. Excellent point. Um yeah this is not something that it happened uh y yesterday or or two years ago. Uh this is God's plan. Uh and i it it didn't evolve. Uh he didn't have a different plan on day five and then changed it uh two years later. This has been God's plan uh before anything else was. And it has remained unchanged from that first proclamation of this is the way that I'm building my kingdom. And uh Yeah, thank you. That's an excellent point and so important for us to remember uh as we as we dig into these things. Uh Brother Chris. Uh uh You know, I'm not in a church of the Holiness or the Nazarene or anything. I'm in the Baptist church and the doctrine the fundamental things are the same. And uh sometimes we have problem thinking about the doctrines although it is true, one hundred percent true, the mind of God is way above our mind. But In our own country in my own conscious sometimes I'm thinking, see in the Girls is The next day John see Jesus coming unto him and said, Behold the Lamb of God, which takes away the sin of the world. takes away the sin of the world. We know that the Lord did not take away the sin of the whole world. It is his his own only. Now it is not that the sinner did not take advantage of it. We understand it is God's purpose is not that the sinner would not be saved. God in the Bible, as he mentions in several verses, that those whom he chose only will be saved. The others, even though it they try, they may not receive it. But the other thing that I feel in my conscience it hurts me that those sinners did it is God who created them. They did not come to earth because they wanted to. It is God who brought them. And God is sending them to hell to suffer there day and night and day and night and year and year and year and all eternity they will be suffering. If they were given the choice, possibly they would say, we don't want to be creative. This thing My wife also may disagree with me. We should leave this, not think about it. But sometimes we think about it. Fred, you uh you raise you raise a big issue uh and one that is difficult for us to address and to wrap our minds around Very briefly, and this will in no way be sufficient. But as we think of those kinds of things, of those those if we have those kinds of thoughts And there are many others like them. Um for me It helps me to go directly to not only the sovereignty of God But within the sovereignty of God, the perfection of his holiness and of his wisdom And certainly of his knowledge. That these things come to pass Because he has ordained them, because as you just said, he has determined this. And we're tempted at times to think, well, you know, if if I were making these decisions, it wouldn't be this way. It would be different And so when we start doing that, we we impose our uh corrupt fallible incomplete wisdom for gods. And so I I can't explain why this is the best I just know that it is because that's what Scripture tells me. And I also am led to think upon what God is doing in the end. And that is, he is creating a people for himself, a kingdom for himself, which is free from wickedness, and sin. That he is creating for himself a bride which is blameless and holy to be with him forever. And this is the way he's chosen to do that. And so those two things help me as I consider what the point that you've raised. Without being able to explain it, because I don't have God's wisdom. I rest I rest in his wisdom and I rest in in what I know that he's doing. That is true. And I also have another excuse that helped me is that those who are going to hell, God says to them, You are sinner, you deserve it Yes, just like I do. Just like but on the other hand come question, the judge of the whole earth would not do justice But I I know God is holy and God is just and his decision is true, even though I don't understand it And he don't make any mistakes. Praise God, yes. Oh man. God was by. Yeah These are our deep things, brothers and sisters. Good things for us to talk about, for us to look to him for wisdom and ask for the Spirit to guide and direct us on. I'm seeing a lot of uh red microphones. Yeah, I had um Hey Ben. I had a coup hi, how are you? Good, how are you doing? Good. I had um a couple of things I wanted to share. Um this is a particular topic that's um close to I d I don't know if this is the right words to say, but it's close to heart for me because um it's a particular topic that um when I was doing street evangelism um with some gentlemen from my old church. They um we weren't on one accord about this and that led me to leaving the ministry with them, um, rather than have a dispute kind of the same way. I I saw it kind of the same way of what happened in Acts, um with the dispute that they had. Um And uh ever since then I have because um it was actually me and another brother we we um you know we we have reformed um our our I guess you could say Calvinistic um um view uh or I I just call it a biblical view of this and they did not and we kind of tried to meet and go through the scriptures and come to one accord, but we weren't able to and um ever since then um You know, I've just been you know, whenever I study, lots of times God will just open my eyes to scriptures that just show clearly that um you know, that election or yeah, election is limited or atonement is limited, excuse me. Um and I'll just make note of it and make note of the different verses that, you know, speak to some of the things that people try to say to refute this biblical truth. So I have like a whole list of things and um one of the particular things that um I I just wanted to point out was this how again how in the Old Testament God uses Israel, the nation of Israel as a picture. Um you know, of salvation and how the Passover is used as a picture of um our salvation in Christ and how that Passover wasn't for all people. It was specifically for the nation of Israel, specifically for God's chosen people that were believers in Jehovah, God and not for everybody to participate in. And in Leviticus um sixteen thirty-four It says that, and this shall be an everlasting statute unto you to make an atonement for the children of Israel And for their sins once a year. And he did this as the Lord commanded Moses. So the atonement was only for the children of Israel and for all their sins It wasn't for every nation. It wasn't for the Hittites and the Perezites and the Jebusites and the Egyptians and all these other nations, it was specifically for the children of Israel that their sins were atoned for And it's the same way with, you know, God's people that he elects. They are the ones that receive the merit or the benefit of the atonement. It's Christ's atonement doesn't just apply to every single person in the world. Um another scripture um I just wanted to share quickly is um in Matthew um Um twenty six um it's twenty six twenty-eight. Um yeah, Jesus says um For this is my blood of the New Testament, which is said for many for the remission of sins. So Christ, you know specifies um and says that it's for many, not the whole world, not everybody, but for many, and then he says it's for the remission of sins So if your sins are remitted by this this blood, that means your sins are atoned for. They're wiped out. They're they're they're you know they're cleansed. Um i if Christ sacrifices for everybody then everybody would be going to heaven you w your sins would be cancelled out, your sins would be paid for, they'd be atoned. So clearly it can't be um for everyone. And then one last thing I want to point out too was for people that always talk about all the whole world. They point to that scripture, John 3. 16, and say, oh look, it's for the whole world. It says, you know, God for for God so loved the whole world they don't they point out there and they say that means every single person, every man, woman and child. But clearly in the Bible, when the world the word world is used, it doesn't always Specific doesn't always mean every man, woman, and child. Even John himself, in that same book, if you go to like um I think it's in John um sixteen. He um he uses the world in a different way. Um he says uh And John No, it's John fifteen. I think it's John fifteen, eighteen. He says um If if the world hates you, know that it hated me before it hated you If you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you are not of the world, I have chosen you out of the world. Therefore the world hateth you So clearly John is using the world in the sense of the fallen world, the the the world ruled by Satan, the world of unbelievers, not every man, woman, and child. So, you know, you can't just look at world and say that every time the word world is used, it means every man woman and child and it it can be used in various different senses or various different um uh ways or meanings and You know, when he uses it in John 3. 16, you know, he's showing that Jesus is the savior of the world. He's the only savior in the world. Um God God so loved the world, meaning everyone in the world that he will save, everyone that's elect in the world, doesn't mean every single Man, woman, and child is going to be saved. Um, so there's lots of different verses that show world being used in another sense and also that word all. A lot of times people will use that too because other verses though say, you know, God wants all men to be saved And they'll say C that means God's gonna save every person. Um all is used in a different sense in other verses too, so I just wanted to point that out Thank you, Ben. Those are excellent verses to for us to be thinking about, and I really appreciate your taking us back to the Old Testament. Any other comments tonight Um I think also the the question we ask or or we should think about too in in relationship to to these truths is is that we often get into these intellectual debates over what does all mean, what does limit atonement mean since everybody limits atonement in some way, shape, form, or fashion Um but as we study the doctrines of grace, um I think, you know, to to paraphrase in a sense, Francis Schaefer in a sense, how then should we live in light of these truths? Right? Because that's really, you know It's not about intellectual debate or it isn't about trying to prove yourself more right than the other person. It's in light of what God's done for us in and understanding the doctrine of grace. How do we respond to that and how do we live in light of that truth? I think is is something that often gets lost in these um these kind of back and forths about this this doctrine uh or or it or the whole debate on on TULUP versus you know Arminiism, it it kind of those are some of the things that actually get lost. Yeah, Richard, I agree. Thank you for reminding us of that. I'm a ho I'm hoping we're not getting lost um uh tonight, but uh I appreciate uh the warning, uh and it's a good one and we need to be aware of that. And really it that applies not just to tulip, but every single time we open God's Word we should be asking Well, first do I understand it, secondly, how do we apply it? Uh and and g very good point. Thank you. Well, I don't want to cut us off, but I'm going to suggest that we uh share some prayer requests and uh go to the throne of grace.