We're looking at a familiar story during the Christmas season. I'd like to just uh back up again and look at verses nineteen and twenty. It says, then Joseph, her husband, being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example, was minded to put her away secretly. But while he thought about these things, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, son of David, do not be afraid to take to you Mary your wife, for that which is conceived in her. is of the Holy Spirit. Lord, we pray that you'll go with the speaking of your word, our hearing. Help what is said to be true, but also profitable, and we pray that you will give us open hearts to be taught of you. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen. In uh this nineteenth verse, uh I think there's a couple ways of looking at that, and I haven't decided Uh, but it says Joseph, her husband being a just man and not wanting to make her a public example Are those things different or are they part of the same thing? You look at the the rest of that verse. It says he was minded, he was thinking about putting her away, but putting her away secretly. So it is possible to see that Joseph felt that righteousness required that he put her away. But another part of him said, uh, I don't want to make a public spectacle out of her, so maybe I can do this secretly somehow. Whatever the case is, you sense in this passage that Joseph is going through a lot of wrestling. With how he's going to respond to the news that Mary's pregnant. And uh it's easy to imagine uh the the uh kind of turmoil this causes him because he knows he's not the father So I'm sure there's a lot of thoughts running through his head. Like, who is the father? How long has this been going on? And why didn't I see it? And why Is every other thing that I know about Mary and our lives, why does none of that fit Why doesn't it add up? Why is there no clue that something like this was going on? I mean small towns, people kind of get into each other's business and they grew up in a small town. People know what's going on and they talk about it. That's why some people eventually like to move away from the small town, I guess. But uh no hint So I'm sure he's struggling with this in his mind. And as you see him thinking about what he's going to do If he were all about his own reputation and honor, he might have reacted like that. Ancient forefather of his, Judah, did. It said, take her out and burn her. You know, Tamar, Judah, that story from Genesis Insulted honor. And uh we all like to preserve our reputation and honor. And you know what As a Christian, there is a place for being concerned for our reputation and honor, but not as an illusion that we're better than we really are Not as the illusion that we're without sin and without need of grace. That's phony honor. That's a lie. The the reason we I think should be concerned about living a life worthy of a good reputation and then preserving that reputation is so that we can use that as capital for God's glory. We can use a reputation for ministering to God's glory and then ultimately to tell people if I I have any reputation it's not because of anything I did in my own strength. It's because of what God did in me. And yet I'm still someone who constantly needs God God's grace and forgiveness. So uh I've been in the church for a while and I've seen Uh people get very insulted about how they've been addressed or uh something has been characterized and they're insistent upon preserving their reputation and Pardon me says, yes, we shouldn't allow people to besmirch other people's reputation. We need to take care there. But sometimes I think we get a little bit obsessive and forget that uh Even if somebody has not characterized our thoughts or our behavior accurately, we can at least be thankful that they don't know the whole truth about us. I still remember that Andy Capp cartoon where he says, Andy, someone's spreading lies about you. He says, Well if they're in the truth, if they start telling the truth, then lay into them. So here's Joseph. He's a just man, so he feels that he can't go ahead with this marriage. Uh why not? I mean, sometimes people get married to others who have had a past, as they say. And it's forgiven, it's it's uh laid aside, a new start has has happened. Uh it's not a ideal situation, it's a wonderful when two people can come to their marriage uh pure and uh having reserved their chastity for one one another but it doesn't always work out that way and people find ways of still uh having a godly marriage and and moving on with their lives? Could Joseph had found a way to say, well, I'll get past this. Well, how does he get past it? If there's not some acknowledgement on Mary's part, how does he do the family family, a relationship, a marriage, if there's no truth. Grace comes with acknowledgement of failure and sin And what is Mary to say to Joseph? I mean, that's the one that gets tricky. Joseph, it's all God Right. That doesn't that doesn't make a whole lot of sense. In a difficult or embarrassing situation. God caused it to happen. So if she says something like that Then it's even more critical. Mary is either a blasphemer or crazy or both. So it's it's a tricky situation. That Joseph is trying to work through here. And things don't add up. This just doesn't seem to be the merry. that he knew. How well he knew her personally, we don't know, certainly in those days. Uh you didn't spend months and months dating each other and getting to know each other the way people people do today. Whether that's good, bad, or indifferent I won't bother with, but uh it doesn't add up So that's why I think he's thinking, just in case I'm missing something that there's a mental problem maybe. I I care about this person enough to not hold them up to public ridicule And that involves a certain sacrifice on his part, because on the one part, if people think that this was another man besides Joseph You know, what kind of man are you, Joseph? Why don't you stand up for your honor? You know, there in the old south. When uh Uh the Kentucky Colonel feels his honor has been insulted. Uh he hands the man his card and we'll meet out there in the meadow for a duel. Uh on the field of honor. I'm not so what's so honorable about seeing who the better shot is in a duel But that's the way some people thought of their honor back then. They had to settle it, somebody had to die. Um On the other hand, there are going to be people who will say, eh, Joseph got married pregnant. And then he put her away secretly. None of this is going to look good on Joseph. If Joseph was only concerned about upholding his honor and reputation because he values what people think so much Then he would not only put her away, but he would put her away publicly, making the accusation that it wasn't him. But that's not Joseph. Joseph is interested in doing what is just. And Joseph is not naive. I don't know whether Mary said. you know, this thing is of God or a miracle or not. But Joseph didn't immediately imagine, well, it could be a miracle. He's realistic, and we have to live our lives with a certain realism. Uh but God Comes and lets him know through an angel. Nope. This is one case where there actually is a virgin conception. And in its own way, that was prepared for seven hundred years previously. previously through the prophecy of Isaiah the prophet. So it's not a brand new idea that was hatched, and besides that, there's an angel. And so there are some miracle claims that we may as kind of stern faced Presbyterians say, I wonder if that's true or not. But when it gets backed up by something else like an angel appearing and telling you that it's a miracle then even the stern-faced Presbyterian has to say, okay, that's the way it is. Now, why is this story here? You don't find it in the Gospel of Mark. You find a little different set of circumstances recorded in Luke. And uh as I have read through it and read through the genealogy, which we didn't read this morning, but There were some good comments about that. I feel like there's something that is going on. in the first century. And there was something going on that Matthew felt like he needed to address. And so when you look at the genealogy, we didn't read it, but you have several women mentioned in it. Kind of unusual women to be listing in the genealogy. Verse 3, Tamar. Oh, Tamar. Hmm. That's the woman who posed as a prostitute. and tricked her father in law, Judah, into getting her pregnant. Why do you stick that in your genealogy? I mean the DAR would never stick that in. one of their DAR j genealogies. Uh Rahab. Verse five. Another prostitute here. Ruth, who most of the time you look at and say, This is a nice woman, nice love story. She is a Moabite, however, and I'm a little unsure about that story out on the threshing floor whether there's at least some seduction going on there. So that's a perhaps a controversial interpretation. But it looks a little suspicious to me. Maybe that's just me being suspicious. But uh she is a Moabite. Why is she in the genealogy? And uh further on, you're gonna get to David, and uh You look at verse 6, Jesse begot David the king. David the king begot Solomon by her, who had been the wife of Uriah. The woman's name isn't even mentioned. She whose name shall not be mentioned. Uh had the affair with David. Got pregnant. So what's going on here with the genealogy? And then you get to Mary And I think what's going on is that in the community, or in some community, or in some circles, people are saying Mary had a child out of wedlock, Jesus. Jesus is a mamzer, illegitimate child. And no Mamzer is to enter into the congregation of the Lord. If you want to discredit somebody's teaching, sometimes you go after their reputation. You want to discredit somebody's reputation, you go after their reputation. Maybe you go after their mother while you're at it So as I sometimes put it, I think we have a yo mama thing going on here. Matthew is the confronting people who uh are Casting aspersions directly or indirectly upon Jesus because we know the real story. We don't go for that miracle explanation He's a mamzer. He's illegitimate. He doesn't belong in the congregation of the Lord. Much less making a claim to be a Messiah. And so what does Matthew do? He says, okay, you want to play that game, yo mama? Look at what we have here in the genealogy of Israel. And we can go back a while. And check that genealogy. And when it comes to the line of David, the line that the Messiah is supposed to come from. Look at some of the mothers that are connected with that line. Now they really have a reputation problem But Jesus and Mary, Mary's the only woman in this whole genealogy that doesn't have a real problem. Because she was conceived of the Holy Spirit. And so we have, I believe, this attempt to denigrate Christ and Christianity, and that hasn't changed. People have continued down to this day to call evil good and good evil. To turn things upside down. And I trust that you are not fooled by that. But there are people who don't have anywhere substantial to get their values and sense of right and wrong from. They're not nurtured in the scriptures. They're not nurtured in the faith. They're not nurtured in the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. So they have a hard time admitting fault when there is fault. And something I've noticed, that there is a certain self-righteousness that we're seeing today in secularism. That we are the right ones, we're the enlightened ones, we're the ones that are free from bigotry, and all of you are haters. I'm tempted to add, so that's why we hate you. The who are the real haters We come with a message that God needed to enter into history. A sinless person needed to enter hist In our history, to take upon himself our sins. And So, because God did that, we have a certain freedom now to not try to hide. behind the nearest bush or fig leaf, like our first parents did, to hide the shame of our nakedness People without a savior need to change the rules. And then when they fail those rules, they have to supply an excuse for why the rules are Don't apply to them. We're pretty good excuse factories. Pretty good at finding explanations that justify our behavior. The good news of the gospel is we don't have to come up with a fancy excuse. We have a Savior who is Christ the Lord. There's a lot of the same kind of humiliating going on today. Some people Imoral pasts are being drug out to public view, and perhaps they haven't helped the situation. That's other people have been, I think, falsely accused of an immoral past. But uh there's not a whole lot of provision for forgiveness. In the secular world. Their version of forgiveness is to say, well, it doesn't matter that much. God is a holy God. If the human race fell into sin and misery simply for eating A forbidden fruit. Look at all the other sins that have committed down through time and history and the sins in our own life. The ingratitude and the things that we have done to Turn our own way after God's done so much for us, and we would say, you know, I really need forgiveness. Well the good news is Christ came into the world. He came into the world sinless, and then he bore our sins on the tree. And when he exhausted the penalty of our sins, there was nothing left but for God to raise him from the dead because the job was And if you trust in him for you, the job has been finished. And you can turn to him. And find grace and help and forgiveness for whatever it is you've done. That's a great Christmas present. That's the best gift. And that's the only gift that really matters. Don't turn that gift down. Let's pray. O Lord our God, we come to you this morning, thankful that Jesus paid it all. That he even allowed the indignity of rumor mongers to slander him and his family. We thank you that the truth has been preserved in your word. That we are the ones who would be illegitimate in making any claims. Sonship. But you have adopted us into your family through Him who is the perfect Son, the firstborn, the Pure One, who has paid for our sins. We pray for everyone here that they may find in Jesus the perfect gift and sufficiency for the forgiveness of sins. We pray in his name. Amen.