If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Psalms, tonight I'll be reading there Psalm 14. You should be able to find that on page five hundred and thirty-four of your Pew Bibles, Psalm fourteen. Let's give attention now to the very Word of God, to the choir master of David The fool says in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There is none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. They've all turned aside. Together, they have become corrupt. There is none who does good. Not even one. Have they no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread, and do not call upon the Lord? There they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. You would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice. Let Israel be glad. Amen. Please be seated. Our Father and our God, as we come now to the preaching of your word, we ask that you would work powerfully in us. By your Spirit, Lord God, we would gain not only understanding But Father, be reminded of your promises, become even more confident in how they are worked out in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the truth, Father, that you indeed are our refuge. Guide us tonight, Father, for all of your glory. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a passage in Deuteronomy as Moses is basically writing his last to the nation of Israel as they are about to enter into the promised land, and he's not able to go with them because of his sin against the Lord. He writes this to them, you shall not go over this Jordan. The Lord your God himself will go over before you. He will destroy these nations before you, so that you shall dispossess them. He was encouraging the people. Remember, forty years earlier, they had come on the Cusp of entering into the promised land and decided, no, no, we can't go. They're too big, they're too strong, we'll be defeated. And they turned. But now as a matter of encouragement, Moses is writing to the people of God that he would be with them. But the Lord your God Himself will go over before you He ends this section of the scriptures, what would become the scriptures, this way, be strong and courageous. Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you or forsake you. It seems that that might be what David was thinking of. As he penned this Psalm 14. We're not quite sure when it was written, what the circumstances were. Possibly it was prior to David's taking the throne, prior to the United Kingdom, prior to the centralization of the government of worship in Jerusalem. Certainly, the people of God were being oppressed by those who were not truly the people of God. And so, as Moses writes or wrote to the Israelites, as they were about to enter into the promised land, Do not fear or be in dread of them, for it is the Lord your God who goes with you. He will not leave you nor forsake you. That seems to be the idea. In this Psalm. Tonight I'd like us to walk away with this: that the Lord Jesus Christ will not forsake his people, even during times of suffering and persecution The Lord Jesus Christ will not forsake his people even during times of suffering and persecution. We'll see that in three points tonight. First, the vanity of the fool. Secondly, the vision of the Lord. And finally, the refuge of the poor. Well, first, the the vanity of the fool. David, the inspired psalmist, begins this psalm this way. The fool says in his heart There's no God. Well, what does he mean when he uses that word fool If we were to open up a Hebrew dictionary, we would read foolish, meaning intellectually and morally foolish, or godless. That's really the idea behind the use of the word fool. This is one who is godless. If we kept on reading in Deuteronomy and gotten to Deuteronomy 32, we'd read this about those who were probably falling into that category of being foolish. They've acted corruptly toward him. Meaning God. They are not his children because of their defect, but are a perverse and crooked generation. That seems to be the idea. We remember the name of Abigail, the one who helped David when he was being pursued by Saul. Her husband's name was Nabal. Given that name because his he was foolish, folly is with him, as the scriptures tell us. One who is senseless, as another lexicon puts it, one who has no perception of ethical or religious claims. In Psalm 74, we read this: Arise, O God, and plead your own cause. Remember how the foolish man reproaches you all day long. The fool then here as David uses that title Speaks to himself. He speaks in his foolishness. There is no God. This is the only speech which David records in this psalm. This is the only thing that the fool is attributed with saying to himself, there is no God. This is the one who is unwise, the one who scorns the rock of his salvation, the one who is harsh and evil in his dealings. He's presented as the sum then. There is no God. This is the summation of the thinking of the belief of this one who's Noted as the fool. This is the foundation head, so to speak, of all other concepts, ideas, thoughts of the fool. Everything flows out. of this one statement, this one thought, there is no God These few words describe the condition of this fool's heart. That's the point that David is making. He's giving us a picture of what the inner workings of the heart of a fool looks like and how this will affect all thoughts, all words, all actions. Nothing will come out of the fool that has not been immersed in this, covered in this, rolled in this, everything will reek of this. There is no God. And so this is what the fool speaks to himself. They are corrupt. They do abominable deeds. There's none who does good. See, everything flows out of that one statement. There's no God. The heart is wicked. It's deceitful. It's desperately sick. Who can understand it? And here's the heart of the one who speaks as a fool. The seat of the very being of this one speaks inwardly to himself, to the will, to the conscience, to the intellect, to the emotions. Every intent of the thought of his heart is only evil continually. This then is the condition of the fool, the deadness of this one. But brothers and sisters, even as we use this term of being dead, we should not equate that with being inactive, for the fool is not inactive. The fool's heart is very much alive, alive to sin, working out sin, relishing sin, but dead to the things of the Lord. That's the distinction And so these, these fools, they attempt to deny there is no God. What does David mean by that? We can take it on its face, but I'm not sure that we should. In this context, I don't believe it really means that the fool denies the very existence of the God of creation, the God of the covenant, the God of Scripture, because all men, women, children, know God. Let me explain what I mean by that. First, everyone is made in God's image. Genesis 1. God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female, he created them. The image of God, referring at least to the fact that every single human being was made in knowledge, righteousness, and holiness with dominion over the creatures. like God, not perfectly like God, but having some of those attributes of God that's what the image of God is. Now, we know that we've been corrupted through the fall, and so each one of those attributes has been corrupted And so much of the image of God has been tainted, but yet we still retain portions of that We know, as moral creatures, that there is an absolute moral right and an absolute moral wrong. Everyone knows that. And so we can't, no one can truly deny the existence of God because everyone has been made in his image. Secondly, we have the law written upon our hearts. It's part of being made in the image of God, isn't it? And thus we have that feeling of guilt until our consciences are seared. Paul writes of that in his second chapter in his letter to the church at Rome. The Gentiles who do not have the law do instinctively the things of the law. These not having the law are a law to themselves, and that they show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness And their thoughts are alternatively accusing or else defending them. The law is written upon our hearts, on everyone's heart. And then finally, we see God, so to speak, in general revelation For since the creation of the world has invisible attributes, speaking of God, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen. being understood through what's been made. So they're without excuse. He's speaking of the Gentiles who can see God through what has been made, what's been created. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handy work. work. So the existence of God really can't be denied. Even as we consider verse five of this psalm, there they are in great terror. He's speaking of the fools There, they're in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. Now, David might not have been saying they're in great terror at the time that they persecute. David may have been saying there will come a time when they'll be in terror when they finally realize that God is with the righteous. But they certainly cannot deny the existence of God at that point. There is no God must then be a rejection of God Not that the wicked do not know God, for they do, but that they reject God They do not, they will not seek him. They speak to themselves having become their own God, attempting to convince themselves, holding on to the truth that That they have by creation, and yet denying their creator in unrighteousness Attempting to rule their own lives, and thus not being subject to the rule of the living God, attempting to suppress That truth and unrighteousness, as they speak to themselves and also act out of that which is in their hearts How then is it that certain men, certain fools, can deny God's existence? With all of this, how is it possible? Because they hold on to the truth unrighteously. Romans chapter 1 and verse 18 reads this way. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men who suppress the truth in unrighteousness. I learned this past week that Theodore Beza, a reformer of the 1500s Translated Romans 1. 18 this way, God's wrath is open re openly revealed from heaven against all the ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, because they hold on to the truth. unrighteously. See Bezir was saying that they know God. It's not that they have taken the truth and put it in a box and set it aside and don't even look at it and don't know it. No, no. They hold on to the truth. They know the truth. And yet they hold on to it unrighteously. It's much more of an active sense than suppressing the truth. It takes much effort to hold on to the truth that way, doesn't it? Truth just seems to spring out, but these hold on to it in such a way that they don't allow it to spring out To come to the to the fore, so to speak. We'll see just how much effort is expended as we progress through this psalm. This passage then defines the root, the foundation of the problem. It's not within God, it's within man. It's not that God has failed to make himself known. It's that men have and continue to rebel against him, knowing him, determining to reject him, despite being made in his image. despite the law of God being written upon their hearts, despite the attributes of God being clearly, clearly displayed in all that which He has made, men continue, fools continue. To refuse openly to acknowledge the God of creation and submit themselves to Him. That's it. The foolish deny God in the sense that they will not submit themselves to Him. This is their heart. But doesn't stop there with a mindset. No, that mindset works its way out through action. And that's really the focus of this Psalm. They've all turned aside. Together they've become corrupt. There is none who does good, not even one That's just a general idea of how the fool acts before God. It all turned aside. Just another way of saying that these are not seeking to follow the precepts of God. They are not desiring to keep his moral law instead of turning away from sin and turning toward God, which is repentance These fools do the exact opposite. They turn away from God and toward sin. Instead of attempting to remain within the boundaries, the commands that God has set down, these have determined to stray from them and thus to turn away from God Himself. That defines becoming corrupt. They are corrupt. The definition of being depraved. The heart of the fool is immersed in the idea, the concept of there is no God, and this flows from it. No one who does good. How can a fool do good when the fool is denying God? When a fool will not submit himself to the one who defines good? As God is goodness itself, there's no way to understand or define goodness outside of God. Outside of God, good becomes self-centered, man-centered, a concept of relativism, lacking any absolute standard, lacking justice, lacking truth. No, once God has been denied, there is nothing Nothing but what Jesus spoke of. For from within out of the heart of men proceed evil thoughts. Not good. Jesus never said, From within perceive, from within men come good thoughts What are good works? Micah tells us he has told you, O man, what is good, and what does the Lord require of you but to do justice, to love kindness, and to walk humbly with your God? These fools, as they deny God, they have become a law within themselves. Here's the sense. They deny the law of God. They deny that they're bound by his law. As Calvin writes, they imagine him, meaning God, to be shut up in heaven and divested of his righteousness and power, as if the time would never come when they will have to appear before him in judgment. Those are all the general works of the fool. But David provides specific works as well. Look at verse 4. They have no knowledge, all the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread and do not call upon the Lord. Eat up my people. My people would be the nation of Israel at that point in time. As we fast forward, it would be the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Or reference to the ones serving God. Those depending upon God as their sovereign, knowing God as their deliverer, comprehending God as their provider and sustain as their refuge, their protection, their shield and their strong tower. These are the ones that are being feasted upon by the fool They're being consumed. So they're the general deeds of the fool, and now the specific ones is the fool attacks those within the church. You have to see the truth of Scripture, the very Word of God now being worked out at this point in time in the history of redemption. For in the garden God told the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your seed and her seed. And now here in Psalm 14, we're seeing that enmity being worked out. God is establishing his kingdom and he's creating a separation between these two lines. Clearly, the two lines are seen here in this psalm, the fool and those who the fool is feeding upon. Speaking here of persecution. Jesus spoke of persecution Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and other all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. That's what David was writing about. Persecution And so as God is working out this separation, which he promised in the garden, as he's working it out, this distinction becomes more and more clear. The people of God will be professing his words. Words of truth, words of love and service toward God of the universe, constant reminders of that which the wicked are attempting to suppress or hold on to in unrighteousness. The rebellious who do not want to be reminded. They don't want to hear. See, this is not a merely a controversial subject. It's not merely something with which they don't agree. It's not which they would tolerantly listen to and then allow to go in one ear and out the other. No, this message, these words are offensive The words of the gospel. The message of truth is offensive. The gospel states that you are a wretched sinner. That you are subject to a sovereign God of the universe, that He has established His holy and righteous standard, and that your sin, which you love, Disqualifies you. And as a result, you're storing up wrath for yourself on the day of judgment. And there's nothing that you can do about it except trust in Jesus Christ for your sin. And so Jesus becomes a stumbling block, doesn't he? A stone to strike and a rock to stumble over. And they took offense at him. See, this whole thing is about Jesus, isn't it? All the persecution. The fool who's saying that there is no God. It's all about Jesus. It's all about him and running from him and hating him so much so that the fool would seek to destroy the followers of Jesus. Jesus. That brings us to our second point. The vision of the Lord. So what is the truth? Did the fool speak it? There is no God? Absolutely not. David would not permit the thoughts of the foolish to stand without response. While he records for the reader the words of the foolish, the psalmist here now sets forth the truth. He's not seeking to prove the existence of God. Note that. Indeed, we can go through all 66 books. And we're never going to find a prophet, an apostle, anyone seeking to prove the existence. of God. Scripture assumes the existence of God. The Lord, look at verse 2. The Lord looks down from heaven on children of man to see if there are any who understand who seek after God. See what David's doing. First, he just assumes God exists. He knows God exists. He trusts God exists. And so he begins to write about his dwelling place. The Lord looks down from heaven. He's telling of the Lord's all-seeing vantage point. That he looks down. The Lord is high and lifted up. And he looks down upon his creation. He looks down upon the sons of men, his creation. He looks down. You know, usually in a court of law, as you enter the courtroom, there's a bench And usually it's raised up. Everyone who's coming before the court is down here, and the judge sits up here on the bench. He or she is up there. And you already have the notion as you enter the courtroom that this person has the authority because of their position, because of where they sit. And the truth is even more evident with God. He's above everything. Above everything And it's not just his dwelling place. The Lord knows. Not only is God transcendent, that means he's above his creation. He dwells far above and outside of his entire creation. The Lord is also intimately involved with this creation, and David tells us now how involved he is. They've all turned aside. Together they have become corrupt. Verse 3. There's no one who does good, not even one. See, as God looks down from heaven, you think, what does he know? That's what the fool believes. The fool believes that God doesn't know. And here David is saying it's just the opposite. Yes, he's transcendent, but he's also imminent. He also knows. He understands. He knows your heart. It's not just that he sees you going in your house and coming out or driving here and there. He knows your heart. David writes that God exists, yes, there's no doubt about that. That God is above all. Yes, there's no doubt about that. But there's also no doubt about the fact that He knows everything. He knows everything about you. Not just the hairs on your head. He knows what's in your heart. So any attempt to deny God or His rule does not preclude or prohibit or somehow shield one from being searched out by the Maker of all things. The denial of God does not limit or detract or weaken or undermine his rule, his sovereign rule. That's the truth. That's what David is setting forth in this psalm And that should provide much comfort for you tonight. As you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, this knowledge, this truth of who God is and what He knows And how he rules should comfort you. Notice where he places God's knowledge. Verse 2: The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. Here's his knowledge. They've all turned aside. It's not until later on in the Psalm that we learn about the persecution in verse 4. See, he tells you first that the Lord knows. He's transcendent. He rules everything and he knows everything. Now, with that comfort in mind, now David says, oh. And the fool, he's seeking to consume you. But the Lord knows all things. He gives you that first. That the Creator God, your God, the Lord who loves you, the one who dwells above all, the one who sees all, the one who knows all, the one who nothing escapes his knowledge. The one who governs all, nothing is outside of his control, is the one who protects and provides for his children. So that brings us to our third point. The refuge of the poor. Used in verse 6. You would shame the plans of the poor. Now I believe you is referring to the fools. The plans of the poor are referring to the children of God. Remember how Jesus in the Beatitudes refers to the poor in spirit? In the first Beatitude, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God, meaning those who are humble before God, those whose hearts have been changed. From stone to flesh, those who have come before God and submitted themselves to their Creator. Blessed are the poor in spirit And so now that that word is used here, the plans of the poor, you, meaning a fool, would shame the plans of the poor. And so now that separation between the seed of the serpent and the seed of the woman is continuing and set forth. Verse 5, they are in great terror, meaning again a fool. For God is with the generation of the righteous. See, the opposite of that is God is not with the generation of the unrighteous. God is not with the generation of the fool, for the fool is denied God. We now understand what this means from God's perspective. See, God will not be with the fool. We see that throughout Scripture, don't we? As men deny God, as men reject his rule, as men seek self-rule, as men repeatedly and consistently refuse to bend the knee and subject themselves to God as King. He will deny them. Do you see the irony here? The fool denies God, but yet the end result is that God will deny. The prophet Hosea writes of this in chapter 13, they forgot me So I will be like a lion to them. Like a leopard, I will wait, lie in wait by the wayside. There I will also devour them like a lioness. As a wild beast would tear them. Do you see the parallelism? The fool seeks to devour or consume the children of God, and God is saying early on. No, no. I will devour the foolish. Christ says it in different words, but I think with the same effect Whoever denies me before men, I will also deny him before my Father who's in heaven. That is a terrifying thought. To be denied by the Lord Jesus Christ, the only one who can confess you before his Father. See, if there are any listening tonight who have identified with a fool, this passage is a clear warning for you. That unless you confess Christ, unless you submit yourself to the rule of the Lord Jesus Christ. Unless you confess your sins and you come running to Christ and ask him to cleanse you of your sins, you will be in this category of having him deny you before his Father. And you will head to eternal destruction. The call tonight is to repent and believe upon Jesus and cry out to Him that He would indeed confess you before His Father. This then explains that great dread or the terror That is referred to in verse 5. As this separation is brought forth in this psalm and was predicted by God, promised by God in the garden. And as it continues between the people of God and those who are not, the fool now ultimately sees himself as being separated from God. And that is the terror or the great dread that is spoken of apparently here by the psalmist in verse 5. They are in great terror for God is with the generation of the righteous It's a bit like the Philistines. As the Ark of God is brought into the Israelite camp. And as the Israelites and the Philistines are in battle, and they hear, the Philistines hear, the cries of joy that go up from the Israelite camp. They know that God has come into the camp of the Israelites because the Ark of the Covenant was there. Even though they are not believers, They were not followers of God. They say, Woe to us, for nothing like this has happened before. Woe to us who shall deliver us from the hand of these mighty gods. There was terror in the Philistine camp. And that's the great dread. The great dread, the great terror that David writes of. They're not fearful or dreadful enough to submit, to repent, to plead with God for mercy. Now these these will shame the plans of the poor. Yet, like the Philistines in woe. They are dreading the judgment that will come. You see, brothers and sisters, there will be tribulation in this world. And that's what the psalmist writes of. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. David is asking. He's pleading with God that there would be this deliverance. From this persecution. As these two lines continue to be separated, and the battle is joined David is saying, Lord, please allow salvation for Israel to come out of Zion. But there will be tribulation in this world. And we as the Lord's children are to expect it, but not merely expect it Know that Christ suffered the same to a greater extent that we cannot imagine. Through many tribulations, we must enter the kingdom of God. Part of that tribulation is living with those who deny God and seek to destroy his people. As part of the suffering of this world. That Christians will be called to live in a world where there are tares. Even in the church where there are tares. And so David is crying out, When will salvation come? Seems to be his prayer. Calvin takes it as a prayer. When will salvation come? A plea, a request? Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion. David knows that salvation is coming. He knows that relief from this persecution is coming. And he's looking forward to that day, a day of deliverance from the oppression of those who hate God. And he does so with confidence. Look at verse 7. When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people, he knows it's coming. He doesn't say if. He says when. And so he has confidence in the promises of God. And that's David's refuge, isn't it? He's got confidence that God's promises would come to pass. He just didn't know when But the Lord is his refuge. That's the basis of David's writing. Yes, he's inspired by the Holy Spirit But the Lord is his refuge. And everything flows out of David because of that. The Psalm doesn't end with tribulation, but with rejoicing. When the Lord restores the fortunes of his people, let Jacob rejoice, let Israel be glad. Not only does the inspired psalmist know that the kingdom of God will prevail, that God Himself will prevail. He knows that the nation of Israel will be established, and he knows that salvation of the Lord will be accomplished. And that that produces rejoicing and gladness, even in the midst of suffering. Are you rejoicing today? The Apostle John wrote in his first epistle, for whatever is born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Are you rejoicing today? Are you glad? See, faith is such a blessing. But indeed it brings suffering But Christ brings healing. He's the one who provides refuge. He's our rock. He's our shelter. He brings us into the family of God where there is abiding love today. Love of the Father, the Son, the Spirit, abiding love, love of the brethren. These persecutions will happen, brothers and sisters, if it hasn't happened to you already, it will. The enemies of God they seek to destroy, to annihilate, to silence the proclamation of the good news of salvation of the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be the target. So as you ponder the persecution of fools, remember the victory of Christ. Remember that those who opposed him, those who denied his authority, those who denied his appointment, as an ordinations, as the Christ Who denied as being the very Son of God were no different than those who are referred here by David who say there is no God. But Christ was victorious. He's defeated his enemies. He's defeated death. He's established and made salvation a certainty And yes, he has put enmity between himself, meaning the seed of the woman, and the seed of the serpent. And as we look forward, he's leading the way as that enmity spreads and is perfected to its fullness in himself. And that as separation becomes more and more definite throughout time until he returns, and that separation will be complete and all of his and our enemies will be vanquished. He will not leave you nor forsake you. Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ will not forsake his people, even in times of suffering And persecution. What a joy to dwell upon the promises of God. Even Moses knew As they were about to enter into the promised land and engage in a battle which we can't even imagine, they knew the Lord was leading the way. And that he had promised never to leave them nor forsake them. Brothers and sisters, that should be great encouragement for us tonight, as we are the subject of persecution The Lord Jesus Christ will never leave us nor forsake us. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for this reminder tonight, a reminder of your promises, your existence, your sovereignty, your sovereign rule. And father of the knowledge that there will be persecutions, that there will be the fools that will seek to destroy the church and to eliminate Jesus Christ, if that were even possible. But yet we also know that Jesus suffered persecutions beyond what we can imagine. And yet he was victorious. And so we rest in that victory tonight. We rest in the fact that he has gone and he's seated at your very right hand and interceding for us, and he has told us he will never leave us nor forsake us. Help us, Lord. Help us in the days to come in this year to remember these truths and to be confident. That you are working out your promises through the Lord Jesus Christ, and that you're keeping your children, never leaving us nor forsaking us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.