Turn to your in your Bibles to first uh Timothy chapter three First Timothy three, and we begin uh reading at verse fourteen and read on through verse uh sixteen. Uh Tonight. As we continue our study in First Timothy, may God add his blessing to the reading of his word. I will therefore I'm sorry. These things write eye onto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly. But if I tarry long thou sh that thou mayest know how thou ought to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground. of the truth. And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels preached unto Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory Tonight, the title of the sermon is The Mysterious Life of the Godly. And as we begin looking at verse 16, we see that the Apostle Paul writes to his listeners and he he uses the phrase, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. And that word controversy probably is better translated It is undeniable, or without a doubt, great is the mystery of godliness. Now, to this point, the Apostle Paul is saying, without a question, Mark, godliness is a great mystery. Godliness or a godly life or living in a godly way is a great mystery. Paul up to this point has exhorted the people in the church, the people in the church to maintain a certain order. He um he has told Timothy, for example, that he is leaving the area. Timothy's going to take over the responsibilities of being the pastor. This is the church at Ephesus. And he wants Timothy to promote godliness by making sure that there is no false doctrine that creeps into the church. But it is also, I mean that, you know, obviously right doctrine promotes godly living. But at the same time, he is very interested as well in the having godly examples of believers before the rest of the church. And that's part of the reason why he gives these in chapter 3 of 1 Timothy The qualifications for the leaders of the church, the elders and the deacons. And if you were to look at those qualifications, in many ways they help sum up If a person was doing those things, you would say that person is rather godly, living a righteous life. In the verses leading up to this passage, verse 15 of chapter 3. The verse right before us, Paul is saying that he hopes that he'll be able to come to Ephesus soon. But if he is delayed, he wants them to know how they ought to behave themselves in the house of God, which is the Church of the Living God. And so the question that Paul is concerned about is that the little flock there in Ephesus of which is the Church of the Living God, that it would itself manifest a holy life. That it by doing so it would Be a witness to the world, and it would be to the glory of God's name And so we come with those thoughts in mind, we come to verse 16, where Paul talks about something called the mystery of godliness. And initially, when you hear that, the mystery of godliness, you think And and not just the phrase mystery of godliness, but the things that occur after that, God being manifested in the flesh. Those Those are phrases that support this idea, the mystery of godliness. Well, God manifested in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles believed on in the world, received up into glory. That's all referring to Christ. And so the the first um the first uh Focus that you get from looking just at that verse alone, the mystery of godliness, you begin to understand that that mystery has very much to do with Christ. Uh that his incarnation, uh uh his his ministry, his exaltation, um uh his uh his uh uh uh uh preaching and everything about his his his ministry is a fulfillment of one of the mysteries that God has spoken about but has now fulfilled. Spoken about in the Old Testament. spoken about regarding the coming of the Messiah and the incarnation of the Messiah and the work of the Messiah But uh and so the the yeah again the first thing that you think about is that this is indeed Focusing on Christ. And I'm not trying to say that it's not with what I'm going to say next But that emphasis doesn't quite finish out the thought that Paul has been building up in the contest. The context is godliness in the church, holiness in the people of God. Living in a certain way. Exhortations to live according to an orderly fashion, behaving themselves. uh not not uh going into um uh false doctrine, false teaching, not listening to all kinds of idle chit-chat and fairy tales You know, all those come before all this in our passage. So there is a second focus here Which I think that he is preeminently talking about Christ's life, but he's also talking about ours. He's also talking about life in the church. Godliness in a believer's life is a great mystery. In what sense do I mean that? In what sense do I think Paul may mean that? The author of this text. When we think about mystery as it's used in the Bible, mystery refers to something that is hidden, but is now revealed For example, how the gospel would go to the Gentiles. That was something that was in the Old Testament, predicted, not necessarily with great clarity, but it's there. It's embedded, for example, in the fact that Abraham's seed would bless all the nations of the world But there's something else about just being a person who is said to be a worshiper of God. And we read it earlier from Exodus chapter 19. You see, God desires to have a peculiar people. You always like that old English there. By peculiar, he means a particular people. A certain kind of particular people who aren't peculiar, or maybe they are peculiar depending on your reference point. Um and and what is particular or peculiar about them, whichever way you want to go, they are people who will live to please God. And they will live to please God because they will follow his laws. And they will follow and embrace his attitudes. Particularly laws and attitudes as they reflect on their own personal walk, their own life of holiness. God redeemed Israel so that she would be that particular peculiar people. That's what he says in Exodus 19. That they alone would be so Desirous of loving God and serving God after all that God had done for them, that they would live lives That would please him. And if they lived lives that would please him, that means they would obey the scriptures, they would obey, particularly Ten Commandments, and they would have a type of godliness. They would be his royal priesthood, his holy nation, a people for his possession. And again, we read that in uh what I just read earlier from Exodus chapter 19, verses 5 and 6. Now, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, you shall be a particular treasure unto me above all the people. For the earth is mine, you shall be a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. These are the words which you, Moses, shall speak to the children of Israel. God didn't just say that Israel was a special people and was supposed to be a particular, peculiar people of godliness. In Exodus, he says it again in Deuteronomy 7, verse 6, you are a holy people unto the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a special people to himself, above all the people that are upon the face of the earth And you recall that as time moves forward and the centuries roll on with Old Testament Israel, you recall that the story of them being a special people unto God, a holy people, didn't materialize It wasn't because the promises weren't there. It wasn't because God failed to keep his word. It wasn't because he neglected his people and let them do whatever they wanted. It wasn't because the uh uh they they they uh uh that God was silent about what they were doing. It wasn't without God trying to turn them away from their paths of wickedness on multiple occasions It wasn't even because God never cared to intervene when they were at their wits' ends. The problem rested with the people. The problem rested with their hearts. The problem was they had wicked hearts, not godly hearts They were not inclined to godliness, no matter how merciful, no matter how gracious, no matter how good God was to Israel throughout the Old Testament. With repeated blessings and multiple deliverances, and in spite of many warnings of dire consequences, if they didn't repent. Israel as a people were never godly people. There may have been instances of individuals Who were godly and were believers. In Hebrews chapter 11, we're going to go through a number of them. But as a people, as a corporate body, they failed They failed to be God's special possession because they were not godly. They were not holy. Well, if now this phrase in verse 16, without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness, if that has something to do with believers living in a holy fashion What guarantee is there that New Testament believers can live in a godly fashion in a way that will please God? What's different? What's different now? Why doesn't the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, or why can the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ Live in a godly fashion. What mystery has now been revealed that was not there with Old Testament Israel Well, that's an important issue. And the mystery of how God brings godliness to his new covenant people Involves the work of the Holy Spirit and the new hearts that the Holy Spirit produces. God made it clear that in Ezekiel that he was going to bring about a people who had new hearts. Not hearts of stone, but hearts of flesh. God made it clear that that would be accomplished by the Spirit, His own Spirit, in dwelling in the hearts of his people. Exodus chapter 36, verse 25 and 20 through 29, which is a very familiar passage to us all. Where God promises, prophesies, I will sprinkle clean water upon you, and you shall be clean. From all your filthiness, from all your idols, I will cleanse you. A new heart also will I give you. A new spirit will I put within you. I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh And I will give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit. My spirit. The spirit of God. I will put my spirit. The spirit of the risen Jesus in you and cause you to walk in my statute. You will keep my judgments and do them. You shall dwell in the land that I will give your fathers. You shall be my people. I will be your God. I also will save you. From all your uncleanness. That all sounds like godliness to me. And it all is predicated on God giving his people The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the mystery. It was prophesied The mystery you see is of godliness is that God through Christ and the Holy Spirit has done what God promised he would do in the Old Testament. Something which he never did to the chosen people of the Old Testament nation, Israel. He has brought his son Jesus. To accomplish godliness in the lives of his people. A holiness which comes by faith in the work of Christ's death and resurrection. By which we are justified, and a holiness which is progressively being added to through the work of the Holy Spirit. God has unleashed His Holy Spirit on the hearts of his new special people. You, believer, the believers in the Church of the Living God, He has created a new people with new hearts. With new desires for holiness, and who cannot fail to become more godly. Because God will cause them to walk in his statutes. That's, I think, given the context of building up to having a house that's a group of people that are godly, I think that's part of what Paul is taught The mystery of godliness, brothers and sisters, is in you It's in you because of what Jesus has done. God is the preeminent Jesus is the preeminent fulfillment of the mystery of godliness. Truly, God was manifested in the flesh through him. And God alone was manifested in the flesh through him. God raised him up unto glory. Christ has done the great impossibility in his ministry. By godliness, Christ lives for God. He lived for God as a witness to the world. In word and deed to save souls. You know, Jesus didn't take a gun and put the gun at people's heads and say, repent and believe. But he simply showed them godliness in word and in deed. Not by the force of arms or might, not by the acts of cunning or trickery, did Jesus save sinners. But he saved them by being holy. God, I think, wants his people To accomplish their great task of ministry, of sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ into the world for God's glory. It's a great task, it seems to be impossible, but by faith in Christ, and with godliness at work in the Holy Spirit But through the Holy Spirit, in all who are faithful, they will accomplish God's will. Again, it's not by trickery. It's not by force. Simply by proclaiming the word In word and deed. Great is the mystery of godliness. Whether it be in Christ or whether it be in you Amen. Let us um let let us pray. O Father, how we um thank you that Throughout the scriptures, you are revealing yourself. And at various different times in that revelation Um what you're saying is veiled to our understanding Nevertheless, O Lord, when we look at the fullness of Revelation or we look at the full counsel of your word, and we are willing at least to uh see the Old Testament prophecy. fulfilled in Christ. Lord, we can begin to see that very at the very top of your agenda is for you to receive Glory from the world in which we live. Glory from the creation and glory from your people. And we see secondarily to that, Lord, is you desire to have a people for your own possession, a people who will live In response to your abundant mercy by saving them from their sins in Christ. A people who will love you, and a people who will live for you, accessing the help of the Holy Spirit to live godly lives. to produce the fruits of the Spirit, to produce those fruits which are qualities that are endearing unto you. Because those qualities are exemplified in your very son, who loved us while we were yet enemies. Who loved you with a ever-trusting love, who placed his own life into the hands of sinners. because he believed the scriptures that said, you would not allow your holy one to see corruption. Grant, O Heavenly Father, to your church, that it might Be aware of the need to live in such a way That godliness is displayed in the church and in the lives of the people, to the world around us. And Lord, may you be pleased to use that to the building up of the church and to the ingathering of the nations. So that, Lord, the full assembly of the Church of the Living God will be gathered on the great day of your return. And we'll be ready to sing your praises, to worship and sing the song of the Lamb. We ask these things in our Savior's name, who alone is worthy of all praise. Amen.