I just love that, him. Um the uh it it seems like it might be so simple, but it's so profound. It it it uh captures the very essence of the gospel gospel uh for how we are to live as God's people in in response to the gospel and that's what I want to talk about today uh in the in the sermon. Uh so let's turn to Hebrews chapter ten. Verse 26 through 39. Turn in your Bibles there and let us hear God's word. As it's recorded for us here in this passage of God's uh amazing uh word Let us hear the word of God. Therefore, brethren, excuse me, for if we sin willingly after we have received the knowledge of the truth There no longer remains a sacrifice for sin, but a certain fearful expectation of judgment and fiery indignation which will devour the adversaries. Anyone who has rejected Moses' law dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. Of how much worse punishment do you suppose will be the thought Will he be thought worthy who has trampled the Son of God under foot? Counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, a common thing And insulted the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again, the Lord will judge his people It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But recall the former days in which after you were illuminated you endured a great struggle with suffering. Partly while you were made a spectacle both by reproaches and tribulations, and partly while you became companions of those who were so treated. You had compassion on me and my chains, and joyfully accepting accepted the plundering of your goods, knowing that you have a better and enduring possession. For yourselves in heaven. Therefore do not cast away your confidence, which has great reward, for you have need of endurance so that after you have done the will of God, you may receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he who is coming will come, and will not tarry Now the just shall live by faith. But if anyone draws back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who draw back to perdition, but of those who believe to the saving of the soul. Thus far ends the reading of God's Holy Today we come to a passage of Scripture as we've been going through Hebrews, a passage which contains a warning. That everyone who reads that warning or hears that warning should heed. The author knows that he is addressing a local Fellowship of believers. He has just told them that because we have a great high priest in Jesus Christ, we have boldness to enter into the Holy of Holies. He has just exhorted them to live their life accordingly. Hold on, hold fast the confession of your hope, he says in verse 23. Consider one another to stimulate love and good works. Verse 24. And not forsake the assembly of one another. Especially as the day approaches. Verse 25. Because of what you and I now have in Christ And the fellowship that we enjoy among his people, the writer next gives a warning to that same group that he is writing to To the same audience, to the gathered together saints. In one way, this warning is confusing Because it seems to suggest that those who are saved can lose their salvation. That is a false doctrine, which we here firmly reject Nevertheless, the author does say something which seems to imply we can lose our salvation in Christ. Why? I believe there are two interrelated reasons for why the author wrote these words. One, and probably the most important reason, he knows that in every fellowship of believers, there are those who are not believers. They are false disciples of Christ who say they believe Jesus, but secretly they continue to live with evil in their hearts. They are the tares that Jesus spoke of in his famous parable. They are of the spirit of Antichrist that John speaks of in 1 John John two nineteen they went out from us, but they were not of us. Or they are those that Paul declares to the elders at Ephesus in Acts 20, verse 29 He says, I know that after my departing, grievous wolves shall enter in among you, not sparing the flock, also of your own self. Men shall arise, speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them. Do you realize what he just said? Of your own self? Who's he talking to? The elders of the church. Those who have a track record of a certain degree of heightened faithfulness to God And so, you know, he he recognizes the fact that within every church there are going to be unbelievers. They're going to be tears. And with that fact in mind, he is giving the members, the believers in a church, the witness against the deceitful hearts of men. One that they should not take lightly. He's telling them that there are some people that they have known And fellowship with in their church for a long time may suddenly reveal their true colors and abandon the faith. I can't tell you how many times I have seen that. And probably you have seen it as well. And you know, when you see it, it causes profound disturbance in your lives I bring this warning today to this congregation not because I'm trying Because you doubt, or because I take some perverse delight Declaring a warning from God. I believe this is not a hypothetical warning. I believe that what it says is true. And I must declare it because God I I vowed to declare the Word of God And God will have to deal with you and with me on the reality of how this passage applies in our lives. I speak these warnings against hypocrites and against deceivers. I do so to encourage you, the people of the Lord, to persevere in your profession of Jesus Christ. And let me make no mistake about this point. Confessing Christ as your Lord and Savior means for you What the author says about believers as he closes chapter 10. What he says about you is simply this. The just shall live by faith. The just shall live by faith We're going to get to that as we go through things. Not today, but we're going to get there. And we're going to unpack that. And understand what that means. But for today, how are the unjust, the wicked, the false confessors of Christ depicted in this section? How do they live? And what will be the result of their deceit, the lives of deceit that they live? They are depicted for us in verses 26 through 29. If we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remains no more sacrifice for sin. But a sure, fearful looking for judgment and fiery indignation which shall devour the adversaries He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses, of how much more sore a punishment Do you suppose shall he be thought worthy who has trodden underfoot the Son of God? Counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified as an unholy thing, and hath done Disservice, despising unto the Spirit of Grace. That is not anything you want to have ever said about you. And originally, as I looked at this, my my fascination was piqued by the question I was asking in my mind: what does it mean to trample the blood of God under I throw that out there because I'm not going to answer that today I didn't get that far. I got hung up on sinning willfully That's all the further I've got. What does that mean? The author here of Hebrews has a very specific type of individual in mind. Maybe not a name of a person, but he has a certain type of individual in mind, and he's very careful to describe them They are those who sin willfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth. Little bit awkward kind of phraseology, particularly when he says, after that we have received the knowledge of the truth. But I want to explain what I think he means there in just a second. Sinning there are people who sin willfully. But then he adds, after we having received the knowledge of the truth. Apparently, the we there is a reference to the fact that the entire church Heard the truth. The entire church, even these Deceitful, sinful, willfully people heard the truth. They Had the knowledge of the truth. It was preached to them, it was taught to them, it was shared with them. They heard the free offer of the gospel in Jesus Christ. And when they heard the free offer of the gospel of Jesus Christ, it meant nothing to their sinful hearts. They chose to remain in the fellowship, in that condition, for whatever reason They liked the people. It was socially a good thing to do. Or maybe they were rebels without a cause. And for whatever their reasons, you see, don't get, don't look, don't forget, they heard the gospel. As you regularly hear the gospel. But For God by God's gr God's grace didn't grab them. They didn't believe. They didn't repent. Changes didn't occur in their life. Their lifestyle went on just like it was before they heard the gospel. That's the type of person I believe this text is addressing. So it's not addressing, fundamentally, it's not addressing the born-again believer who seeks by God's grace to live out his profession of faith. And from time to time, who may stumble, who may sin, who may even do something very wrong in God's sight? But yet, the person who does have the grace of God constantly yanking him back to the truth and to faithfulness and to live by faith. In God. There's a difference. Do you see it? Do you see the difference These people that this text is most pointedly addressing are those who sin willfully. Now let me break that down for you. I think you probably understand what that means, but let me just bring to bear the Greek The word willful, although I don't think any of you have it translated this way, can also be translated deliberate Deliberately. The word for sin, present tense, ongoing translating The action of their life is ongoing, continuously, deliberately sinning. That isn't, you see, what God has in mind for his people. When we come to know Christ There must be, of necessity, a transition, a transformation in our lives. We embrace Not just Jesus as Savior, but Jesus as Lord. And we give our lives to serve Him To obey him. Again, we are those people who finally say, along with David, Oh, how love I thy law and mean it. Such a person who sins willfully loves instead of hates his sin. Do you hate your sin? Do you? Praise God if you can say that. I hate my sin. Because that's evidence that God's at work in you. Because otherwise you'll love it. You'll love it to death. You'll love it forever This person may externally be a member in good standing of the local fellowship, of the local church the synagogue or wherever God's people gather together, but in his heart he loves sin. And he secretly continues to practice sin. That person is not born again. And don't think that he is, or she. God forbid that this describe any of you. And that's partly why I'm focused on this this morning. I'm sure that this isn't the message you expected today You see friends, it's not always about God loves you. It's there are times when we have to look at ourselves And I think that time is not necessarily because I'm seeing problems. That's not the point. I don't want there to be problems I don't want there to be problems in your life, but I've been a minister long enough to know that the very people I believe are Christians sometimes surprise me with devastating results. And I might add, grieved me. And I don't want to be grieved by any of you Call me selfish. I hope I hope is that you understand that I said that because of my pastor's heart for you. Because you see, if this describes you, if you're sinning willfully after having Heard the gospel so many times. You're playing at being a Christian Does your life seek to live for God? He calls you Christians. He says that you are righteous in his sight by faith in Christ. He's given you the grace to believe that. And if you are that person, my experience is, I hope it's your experience I believe it, Shores. I believe my experience is common to your experience. I am constantly fighting sin. I am constantly battling against sin as I try to serve Christ. Are you, with the Spirit's help, seeking to mortify your members, which are on the earth Fornication, uncleanness, in the word affection, evils, lust, and covetousness, which is idolatry. And are you putting off anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth Are you lying not to each other because you have put off the old man with his deeds? Are you, with the Holy Spirit's help Trying to put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, compassion, kindness, humbless Meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another, forgiving one another, even as Christ forgave you. And above all, have you put on love, which is the perfect bond of unity. Remember, love, serve others Priority others. Think about how to benefit others. Not be so Self-centered, that you're so preoccupied with yourself that you don't even see need in front of your very eyes. You don't even see torment, discouragement in your brothers and your sisters, blinded by your own selfishness Who are you really? Are you it can be summed up this way. Are you willfully sinning against Christ? Or are you willingly living to love and serve Christ? If you are constantly sinning, then there remains, according to verse 26, no more sacrifice for sin. You better hadn't think that you can get away with it Christ will not stand up for you on the day of reckoning and say, Yeah, it's a filthy, miserable sinner, but I die. Died for her. I died for him. He's not gonna say that if you're sinning willfully And instead of being vindicated by the Lord Himself, hearing His well done, good and faithful servant As you have for many years believed on him and loved him and loved righteousness for his sake, instead of looking forward to the day of vindication. You will have only a certain fearful looking for judgment and the fiery indignation which will devour you. You're the adversary Of God It's not possible it's not popular to talk about a God of vengeance. It is not popular Talk about judgment even. And those are men uh out there and Other theologians who kind of want to wish that God was not a god of vengeance. And they use all kinds of words to get around it and ignore it. Notice how the text goes on and declares that if such people who sin willfully were living under the Mosaic law. They would be guilty of violating it, and they would be stoned by the community. That's what we read in Deuteronomy 17. earlier. They would be stoned by the word of two or three witnesses, simply because their sinful actions demonstrated they didn't love God and they didn't love God's community. And there's a little word for that. It's called idolatry. It all fits under that category. The author of Hebrews warns his audience of coming judgment. The wrath of God on sin is real. It is coming. And only those who have hope in Christ, and those who by God's grace turn from their wicked ways and live Believing in Christ, they have the life-giving, transforming Holy Spirit that will help them overcome their sin. And remove it from their lives. So that you're not caught up in the dominion of sin where you are constantly Constantly, willfully sinning. For anyone who thinks that God is being unfair In executing such harsh judgment, I pity you. I pity you Because you have no understanding of sin's offensiveness before a holy God. You have no comprehension why your sin offends God. And until you do And when you do, you need to fall on your knees and ask for forgiveness. And I pray that our God perchance might grant you that. That forgiveness as he has done to all of you in here who have heard the gospel and repent From the text itself, God views the offensiveness of deliberate sin through these lenses. You have trodden underfoot the Son of God. You have counted the blood of the covenant as an unholy thing. And you have insulted the Spirit of Grace. How in the world are you going to answer? God, if He places that indictment on you. This is God's threefold indictment against sin. I speak, I will speak about those three charges next week Charges for which willful sinners will have to answer. But for now, I pray that that indictment never be said about you by the Lord Jesus on the great day of his coming. Let the Lord Jesus say of you instead, the just has lived by faith. Amen. Let us pray. Merciful God, our Heavenly Father, we pray, O Lord, that This message and other true messages to your word, Lord, that it would resonate with the hearts of people Around the world, that you would direct all of your people to hear, to have ears to hear. You would bring some, Lord, who are trapped in the deceitfulness of their willful sin. To repent instead of dying in their sin We pray, O Lord, that it might be your will to help us who have testified that Jesus is Lord and Savior. That we might fight the good fight against sin and death. That we might live for Jesus. That we might in faith glorify him in all that we do, whether we eat, drink, or in anything else we do, that God might be glorified. These things we pray. In Jesus' name.