Hebrews thirteen four Let marriage be held in honor among all, and let the marriage bed be undefiled. For God will judge the sexually immoral and adulterous. Keep your life free from love of money and be content with what you have. For he has said, I will never leave you nor forsake. Please have a seat. Brothers and sisters, this is a subject That perhaps we all should have been trained when we were young and were getting ready to get married. Not all of us had the privilege to grow in a Protestant church where some of these teachings happen. In my case, I was in a Catholic school, so these things were never taught to us. Only we were told to read. But now it's never late to learn. Therefore, I want you brothers to pay attention to this. We're gonna talk about Hebrews 13. 4. Can you remember your wedding day? Were you nervous? Wondering if everything would take place according to schedule Were you frightened as you contemplated your marital responsibilities? Can you remember your war in vows? Did you realize what you promised God before all of those witness witnesses? And what you promise your spouse. Those five or six lines are a whole sermon. We have plenty to talk about, plenty to think about. Plenty to remember. And hopefully as we go through the Lord will touch your heart and remind you of some things that perhaps you Needed to do or something that you can do. Tonight I invite you to join me as we re-examine our marriage covenant. The outline for our study is taken from the traditional wedding ceremony, which has stood the test of time because of its faithfulness to the scriptures. And he has been used practically by every denomination. The ceremony begins with a statement of purpose. Dear beloved, we are gathered here today in the sight of God and in the face of this company to join together this man and this woman in holy matrimony. Which is commended by the Apostle Paul, and he goes on to say, it is honorable amongst all men, and therefore It is not by any to enter inadvisable or lightly, but reverently advisable and in the fear of God. into this holy state. These two persons come now to be joined. And that will be a pastor that's doing the ceremony. It is interesting that those theologians that put together this particular ceremony assume that the Apostle Paul was the writer of Hebrews. Because that phrase marriage is honorable among all men is taken from Hebrews chapter 13, verse 4. When you think about that open declaration, I want you to realize that those words were just not taken by theologians. and put together as a fitting way to begin a marriage ceremony. They were taken by theologians that obviously knew God And they knew his word, and they wanted to take from Scripture the essence of what marriage was. And put it together in a ceremony that could be used by Christian people in such a way as to bring glory to God And indeed be fitting testimony of what they were doing in the day of the wedding. So, every phrase practically of this ceremony has its roots in the Word of God. And if you cannot remember anything else of what I said this evening, please remember that. In Genesis chapter 2, it's quite obvious to us that marriage was instituted by God. It was not the idea of men. Any idea that two capemen millions of years ago decided that would be a good idea The man and woman live together in a monogamous relationship is ridiculous. Marriage was God's idea. And it was in his mind before he created the world. Marriage was instituted by God for many reasons. He was instituted by God to bring glory to himself, first of all. Everything God does was initially and originally and primarily given or instituted to bring glory to his own name And marriage is not an exception. How is it that marriage brings glory to God, you may ask? Well, it brings glory to God Because true marriage union is a picture of the union, first of all, between the members of the Godhead The Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. That is a perfect union. In fact, it is a true unity, and we shorten To say that God is a Trinity composed of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. But also marriage was to picture the union between Christ and His church. And so, when the Apostle Paul gives that magnificent passage in Ephesians chapter 5, he compares marriage to the most sacred relationship known to man, which is because of the work of Christ to establish Between them and God. Saving relationship. The picture of the union symbolizes, first of all, the work of the man. The husband's role is to symbolize Christ, great sacrifice. And so When a husband is walking in obedience to God, as he should, he should remind his wife of the great sacrifice which Christ made to his church, for his church. A sacrifice which caused him to give his very lifeblood for the life of the church. The wife's role is to symbolize the work of the church in submission to her role. Our generation is woefully lacking in speaking of the Lordship of God over people's life. That seems to make us nervous. And I think it makes us nervous because we are so far out of culture with God's will and plan. for mankind and for his church. Well he says in the passage in Ephesians 5, the wives are to submit themselves to their own husbands, even as the church to Christ. Is the church walking in submission to the Lord Jesus Christ? Hopefully it is. And I believe that the true church is walking in submission to her Lord. But so much of professing Christendom, even the evangelical scene, has very little to do with the scriptures, very little to do with sound theology, and knows very little of walking in submission to the sovereign will of God. In individual lives and in the life and ministry of the church. But wives, as you walk in submission to your husband According to Scripture, it should remind your husbands of what the church should be doing in walking in submission to the Lordship of the Triune God. over his life, over your life, over your entire family, over our church and our ministry together And in that way, of course, we see the marriage brings glory to God. But there is a second way in which marriage is to glorify God, or another purpose for marriage, and that is To meet men's innermost needs, to produce a godly seed. To produce a godly seed, yes. So the truth of God that He has given to you will indeed be passed on to another generation. who in turn, God willing, will pass it on to yet another generation. That there might be continuity in the family of God. And so it behooves us to recognize that as God in His grace grants us children, That these children are to be reared in the nurture and harmonization of Christ, and we are to be praying for them. That God might save them and regenerate them, and that they might be his servants all of their lives. And as they serve him, and the truth is passed on to another generation, then we can die in peace. Knowing that indeed we have performed that of what God wanted us to perform in our life especially with regard to our wearing of the godly seed But marriage, you may ask you must understand, is something which is honorable for all. That is particularly important. Some over the centuries have suggested that the celibate life was superior to the marriage life. And was to be preferred because was superior. Therefore, the clergy were also to a life We're all to a life of to to live a life of celibacy. I think Martin Luther put the motion or the notion of incorrect and false and unbiblical notion to rest once and for all when he established the Protestant personage, as he did After God saved him, he began to re-examine everything he has he was taught. And he came to the conclusion that what he had been, he had been taught in many cases, was contrary to the scriptures. So he began to write down what God was teaching him. And he produced Massive volumes of theology, Bible commentaries, and instructions on how the Church of Jesus Christ should be administered. and how the work of God should be done. It might have been passed down to us from generations before. That's probably One of the things that came to his attention was that celibacy was neither superior nor inferior to the marriage state, according to Scripture. And so He said to his young theologians, you need to be open to God leading your life with regards to marriage. And even picked up a wife for his associate, Philip Philippe Melanchthon. Different name. But Luther, up to that point, was not married himself. And then a number of nuns left the camp and arrived when he was trying to arrange marriage marriages for each of them Because he was so excited about the prospect of marriage and for God's will to be done and raising up a godly seed. To pass down the fate from generation to generation. But he had one particular troublesome man, Katherine von Boda. And she was not interested in anyone, the Luther suggested. And finally he says to her, then who will you make? And she responded, I will marry you. And Luther was shocked, to say the least. But he decided that was the will of God for him. And so he didn't believe in long engagement He said lest he gets cold fit. So he entered into the marriage covenant soon after that. And they had an exemplary relationship all their lives. It was an stormy relationship. Most good ones are stormy. Because they were both strong-willed people, and Luther was about 41 years old when he got married. So we can say that he was set in his ways. And Catherine was about 26 year old, 26 years old, and perhaps she also was ever so slightly setting her ways. God bless their marriage with a number of children. And we have the record of what happened in the family. re in the family recorded on a book called Table Talk and we saw that yesterday Uh at the P at the PMA there were so many tabletop books or bookies. The book was recorded as they sat on meals. The seminarians will come and eat meals with the family. His wife should would sit at one end of the table and he would sit at the opposite end. And the children would sit on both sides, intermingled with many of the students. that would come in their turn to have dinner with the Luthers. And while they were eating, they would ask Dr. Luther Various questions, all kinds of questions, from election and predestination and marriage and eternal punishment, and you name it. They asked the questions. And while he was sitting and eating, that he loved to, and he loved to eat, if you don't believe me, just find a picture of Martin Luther. He loved to eat While he was sitting and eating, Luther would be giving answers to all those young theologs. And someone got the bright idea that they should write down his answers. And they did that. And it is a magnif magnificent volume. which talks about every imaginable subject and gives his off-the-cast remarks on those subjects and are amazingly accurate and true of what he says. In his theologies and his commentaries and what we believe today. But he felt that was important to establish In people's minds, the ministers should be married. And if it was God's will, they should marry. And they should establish Christian marriages just like the members of their congregation. So that whole thing came down to us from the Reformation. And so today we almost think it is odd for a minister not to be married. But there are many that are not married. But it is unusual. They are not the norm. So we take it for granted that ministers are permitted to be married and can do so. But it was the right of Hebrews that said, Marriage is honorable in all. And the bed and defil, but fornicator and adulterers, God will judge. So it is perfectly fitting for those whom God has gotten together to indeed. follow his leading and unite in sacred matrimony and begin a married life together to the glory of God. Now, if the Lord does not lead you to get married, then he is leading you to a life of celibacy. And that is God's call for you. That is neither inferior to marriage nor superior. You see, in either case, it is the will of God, the call of God, which is always the determining factor. The ceremony goes on. And secondly, talks about the qualifications of marriage. In fact, it is a reminder of the qualifications for marriage. I will read this section. I require and charge you both as you will answer at the dreadful day of judgment. When the secrets of all hearts shall be disclosed, that if either of you know any impediment why you may not be lawfully joined together in matrimony, you do now confess it. For be you will assure that so many persons are joined together otherwise than God's word does allow. Their marriage is not lawful. Many ministers have totally d deleted this particular section of the ceremony. They should not dare leave this one out of the ceremony Because there is something to be learned from this particular paragraph or section And say to the couples getting married, I want you to know I'm going to read this ahead of time. So you have to tell me ahead of time if you have any reason why you shouldn't be getting married. Don't wait until the marriage ceremony. I will be Lyra Embarrass. We all will be Lyra Embarrass. It is better if we deal with it now. It can be used as a teaching tool to the whole congregation and to those who listen over the net in our case, to bring to their attention that we have to take very seriously the qualifications of those coming together in matrimony. And so proceed to read it. Now that this warning is all now what is this warning all about? At least as I require and charge you both that you will have to answer at the dreadful day of judgment. I think that He is suggesting there that the first thing that obviously is of great importance is that both Partners that are coming together and regenerated are regenerated individuals. They know God through Jesus Christ and they are alive. They haven't just known God the day before or the week before. But they know God and they are coming to be to the marriage relationship already knowing the Lord. That is very important. And the pastor will say, I have become very apprehensive and very nervous when people make a profession of faith. only to get married. Invariably, so many times that never works out. It never works out What they promise to do never seems to be fulfilled. And it is so sad. So sad. So I'm sure that as a minister should turn down more weddings than they have performed. They should not in not be in any hurry to do weddings. When people are qualified and ready, then they should be delighted. But I said it again, I am not in any hurry. There are justices of the peace, there are mayors, and there are older ministers who would be delighted to do anything. That comes to the way. But don't feel that way at all. Not at all, because I believe that uh going to be held accountable, the pastor or the individual that does these these things will be going to be held accountable before Almighty God. for what they permit to do of what they do. So we let's always remember those things for everything that we do in our lives. So you are talking about when he says you will answer the dreadful day of judgment, that these people are not an equally yoke together. 2 Corinthians 6. 14. The Apostle Paul warns believers not to be unequally yoked together. And of course, it refers to a lot of things, but surely and primarily, in foundation refers to the family. Not to be unequally, you're together with an unbeliever. And here comes the Most important thing, by choice. We should not be yoked together with an unbeliever by choice Now I realize that many people will come to know Christ after they have been married. Obviously, we're not speaking of those instances. But I'm talking about when people are believers before marriage they are to be sure that they indeed themselves know the Lord. And that their future spouse also knows the Lord. There should be evidence of that. There should be a hunger for the word of God. There should be a love for God. There should be a delight on the worship of God. There should have been some kind of transformation of life. So you can see a difference of what they were and what they are today All of these things are very important because to come to the marriage relationship with one person on one level, another one, an entire different level. Either unsafe or in a different level, it is going to cause troubles and difficulties at the very beginning of their marriage. an issue play you throughout. Brothers and sisters, this message is in two parts. He arranged the first part. And I would like to now to To pray. Let us pray. Lord God, we come to the To thee, through the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you for your every provision for us. First and foremost, we thank you for the provision of redemption. for bringing us into your family. Through the glorious work of salvation which was brought In our behalf and in our lives. A salvation which began in your mind before you created the world and which end came into our existence at a point in time when the Spirit of God made us alive. And then we were able to repent and believe. and entering to f and entering fully to the experience of following you as you desire We thank you for the gift of marriage which you have given to mankind, and for the family, and for all the means. Father, we thank you for this opportunity. And we bring these things to you in the name of your Son, our Lord and Savior, the only one, Jesus Christ. Amen.