Our sermon text this morning comes to us from that passage we read, Colossians chapter 3. And I just want to discuss the ideas that we find behind Paul's thoughts in verse 10. I'm going to begin reading in verse five, and in this time I'll just read through verse eleven Paul writes and says, Therefore can put to death the members which are upon this earth, immorality, impurity, passion, evil desire, and greed, which amounts to idolatry. For it is on account of these things that the wrath of God will come. And in them you also walked when you were living in them. But now you also put them all aside. Anger, wrath, malice, slander, and abusive speech from your mouth. Do not lie to one another, since you laid aside the old self with its evil practices. and have put it on the new self, who is being renewed to a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him, a renewal in which there is no distinction between Greek and Jew circumcised and uncircumcised, barbarian, Scythian, slave and freemen, but Christ is all and in all. And again, and have put on the new self who is being renewed through a true knowledge according to the image of the one who created him. Bow with me in prayer. Father, as we look at the thoughts and the ideas that lie within this passage, lie within that one whom Paul calls the new self. Help us to understand. And Lord, as we see the new self, help us to put them on. And Lord, as we put them on, help us to walk. In Him, as we, Lord, walk in a way that honors and glorifies our Savior, Jesus Christ. In His name we pray. Amen. You perhaps have heard the idiom that says it's the clothes that make the man And there's many thoughts or ideas behind that. One is it you need to dress for success Another idea is how you dress indicates where you think of yourself as a person, the culture in which you belong. Clothes identify a person Come with me to the high school where I substitute. And you see kids dressing different ways. You see the normal kids. And then you see the kids who are goth. And then you see the uh the uh the ones who think they're gangsters and then the ones I love the most are the John uh what I call the the John Deere crew. This is Damascus is an old farming community the inst You see a lot of old farmers there and these boys they dress in their blue jeans and their their their their uh uh uh plaid shirts. But one of the things they all do, they like to wear these farmer boots, you know uh ankle high boots or or beyond. And they're always unlaced. And even in this uh s uh spring and early summer and in the fall they will wear shorts with these boots on They want to identify with something. They want to identify with a particular thing. Well In this passage, when Paul says put on, or you have put on the new self, That's just what he's talking about. In fact, in verse 9, he says, you've taken off the old self. You've taken off that one. Now you need to put on this one. You need to put on this new garment And you need to walk in this new garment. And this is a new garment that's being renewed. And it's being renewed in the image of the one who created him. And Paul's thoughts are going all the way back to Genesis Where man was created in God's image, but man fell. And Paul says, now God has come and he has given you a new life in which you are no longer living according to the old Adam, but according to the new Adam, Jesus Christ. New Adam. And so the question is this. What is so unique about this new man? What is so unique? And I just this is just a two-point sermon this morning. And just because it's not a three-point, don't think it's any shorter. I don't want to give anybody any expectations. All right. But the two things we're going to look at this morning is the new inner material and the new outer pattern. The new inner material and the new outer pattern. Now when you go to the store and you buy clothes, you want clothes that are appropriate. You want uh uh uh clothes made out of material that's will last, that will will uh withstand stains, withstand wear, which will repel stains, which will uh uh withstand wear sturdy, but you want it also to be attractive, you want it to uh it to be usable Well, that's what we're talking about in this new inner material. And there's at least five things, and I'm sure we could find 25 things if we want. wanted to. But I'm just going to cover five things this morning about the new inner material. First of all, it starts with a new birth It's woven at the new birth. That's where the threads first come together. It's a a new birth. The old birth was a material act The new birth is a spiritual act. The old birth was a natural event. The new birth is a sp Supernatural birth. The old birth enters you into Adam's family. The new birth enters you into Christ's family. The new b the old birth was enacted by man. The new birth is enacted by the Holy Spirit John says, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, sinful and mortal. That which is born of the spirit is spirit, holy and immortal. You have a new birth. A new birth. New life is given to you. You have been born again. You have been raised up with Christ into the heavenly places. And that new birth gives rise to the fact that you are now a new creature. Sometimes I like for people to turn in their Bibles as we preach. This morning I want you to turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Chapter 5. This is a great verse to memorize. Look at what Paul says in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17. Therefore, if any man is in Christ, he is a new creature. The old things have passed away. Behold The new has come or new things have come. This means in part, says John Calvin is an abolition of what is our old self. There's an ending, there's an eradication of the old self, the old man, the flesh. Paul says in Romans chapter 6, for we have been crucified. You have been crucified with Christ If you're a believer, you were on that cross with Christ, and all of your sins uh uh uh uh uh uh uh were uh Given the just penalty in Christ on that cross. In Colossians chapter three, you're uh uh in ver uh chapter two, Paul says um Sorry about that. And when you were past tense dead in your transgressions and the ins uncircumcision of your flesh. He made you alive together with him, having forgiven us all our transgressions, having cancelled out the certificate of debt, consisting of decrees against us, and which was hostile to us and he has taken it out of the way, having nailed it to the cross. When Christ was crucified, and today when we we uh uh show crosses we show that upright piece at the top of the T. Well th there really wasn't an upright piece to the cross. The cross was in the shape of a T And what they would put behind the condemned man was a placard of some sort that would describe why he was being crucified, what his sins happened to be And what Paul is saying here in Colossians chapter 2 is that when Christ was crucified, your sins were written above his sins. Uh as it says here, having cancelled out the certificate of debt consisting of decrees against us, he has taken it out of the way, nailed it to the cross. Your sins were nailed to the cross. The old man was crucified. The sinful, sinbound self is dead and buried. And it has been replaced, not just repaired but replaced with a new creature. When Christ restored sight, he gave new eyes. When he restored hearing, he gave new hearing. So the new man that you put on starts with a new birth that gives rise to a new creature A new creation, and this new creation is one with a new heart. Turn with me to Ezekiel chapter 36. I'm gonna begin reading in verse twenty two. Therefore, say to the house of Israel, thus says the Lord God, it is not for your sake, O house of Israel, that I am about to act. But for my holy name which you have profaned among the nations where you went. And I will vindicate the holiness of my great name, which has been profaned among the nations, which you have profaned in their midst. Then the nations will know that I am the Lord, declares the Lord God, when I prove myself holy in their sight. For I will take you from the nations, gather you from all the lands, and bring you into your own land. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you and you will be clean. I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from all your idols. Moreover, I will give you a new heart And put a new spirit within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of the flesh. You have a new heart Now in scripture, when scripture speaks of the heart, it isn't speaking of the entire man. I in modern culture when we use the term heart we usually often uh think of emotions. You broke my heart or I had my heart set on this When scripture speaks of the heart, it's speaking of the mind, the will, and the emotions, the central core essence of an individual. Of the old heart, scripture says it's stony and unrepentant, cold, set hard. Scripture says that the old heart is hateful to God. The old heart is full of evil. The old heart is. just desperately w wicked. It's darkened. It's prone to error. It's blind. It's deceived. It's spiteful. This is the doctrine of total depravity. Not that a man is as bad as he could be, but every part, every aspect of man, every aspect of his heart. is depraved. And that's the the old heart. But God has given you a new heart And the new heart of one that seeks God, that wants God, that yearns for God. As the deer pants for water, so my heart longs for you, O Lord. Lord, I want to be with you The new heart is joyful in God, not giddy and not silly, but subtle joy saying whatever it is well with my soul, whatever befall me, it is well with my soul. The new heart is upright and saying, Lord, I want to walk with you. I want to walk according to your commandments. Lord, I want to do what you want me to do. It's clean. This morning in my devotions I read Psalm 101, where it says, I will set no unclean thing before my eyes. The new heart wants clean things, wants upright things, seeks those things out. The new heart is tender, it's compassionate. It wants to help. It wants to soothe. It wants to do well. The new heart is broken and contrite. It mourns over sin. It cries over its own sin. It's broken over its own sin. The new heart is obedient. It wants to live according to Christ. So you have a new bahart, I mean a new birth that gives rise to a new creation. In that new creation beats a new heart. And this One has a new name. You know, in scripture, today we, you know, I was given a name at birth. James Joseph Stasney. We all have names. Today names are simply tags used to identify someone. Biblical times names were meant to reflect this person's character. Think of the names of God, Elohim, which is a plural of majesty, El Shaddai, God Almighty, El Elion, God Most High, El Oram, uh uh everlasting god Yahweh the self-existent God of all time yet Yahweh Sabaoth who is the Lord of heavens the Lord of the hosts lord of the armies So as a new creature, you have a new name. The first name you have is Christian What does it mean to be a Christian? Why do you have that name? Well, because we're followers of Christ. Well, why was Christ given that name? Well, it means Messiah. Yeah, but what does it all go back to? It goes back, the word means anointed. Christ was anointed, and he was anointed to three offices. To be a prophet, to declare God's word and to show what God is like, to be a priest. To stand before God on behalf of his people and to be a king to rule. And you are called Christians to be prophets and priests and kings. You are to be prophets to declare God's truth among the nations. You are to be priests to intercede on behalf of others And you are to be kings, to enter into Christ's rule and to overcome this world. That's just one of the many names you have as a new creature that you put on. That's part of that fabric of your clothing Now there are at least 81 titles of believers in the New Testament. I'm not going to read them all to you. But Christians are called believers, beloved of God, beloved of the brethren. We are the brethren of Christ. Christ is not just our Lord and our King. Back off from that. He is our Lord and our King, but He's beyond that, He is our brother. We are His Brothers and sisters, we belong to the same family. We are those who are the called of God, the called of Christ. We are the children of the Lord, the children of the living God, children of the Father, children of the highest, children of Abraham, children of the promise. We are chosen vessels, children elect at the faithful fellow citizens, friends of God, heirs of God, heirs of grace, heirs of the kingdom. Heirs of promise, heirs of salvation. You are a holy people, a royal nation. A holy priesthood. You are kings and priests of God. You are little children And to to sustain this new life, this new fabric You eat new food. Those who have received heart transplants cannot live on machesterol sandwiches. McDonald's won't suffice. You need real food. And we start out with the pure milk of the word. And even as older believers, mature believers, Peter says to them, long for the pure milk of the Word. It's good to go back to the ABCs. It's good to sing, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so. It's good to refresh Those simple doctrines, but then we need solid food and and meat. Paul t says to the Corinthians, I wanted to give you solid food, but You've been too immature. We need to grow in the grace, as Peter says, we need to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We have to keep ongoing. But this material of the old self must adhere to a new shape. You want new clothes, you don't go down to the fabric store. Find a bolt of material you like and you say, I like that pattern, I like that fabric, that looks good, it will look good on me, cut me off a couple yards and then just drape it over your shoulders and walk out It's gotta fit a pattern. It's gotta fit a shape Well, we do have its outer pattern. It's outer pattern, first of all, it Fits the new covenant. Turn to Hebrews chapter eight In verses seven through thirteen The writer of Hebrews says, for if that first covenant had been faultless, there would have been no occasion sought for a second. For finding fault with them, he says, Behold, days are coming, says the Lord, when I will effect a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Not like the covenant which I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand and led them out of the land of Egypt. For they did not continue in my covenant, and I did not care for them, says the Lord For this is the new covenant that I will make with the house of Israel. After those days, says the Lord, I will put my laws into their minds. I will write them upon their hearts. I will be their God. They shall be my people. And they shall not teach everyone his fellow citizen and every one his brother, saying, Know the Lord For all shall know me from the least to the greatest of them. For I will be merciful to their iniquities, and I will remember their sins no more. When he said a new covenant, he made the first obsolete. But whatever is becoming obsolete is and growing old is ready to disappear. You live according to the new covenant You have God's law written upon your heart, so you adhere to that law. Your life reflects that covenant and reflects that law. And as a result, you have a life of peace with God that displays the peace of God And being in the new covenant, the new man then lives by a new commandment. Jesus says in John chapter 13, verse 34, A new commandment I give to you. That you love one another, that Christ says you are to love And that love i i is that old familiar word which I am sure you have all heard, agape. Not love because of. Perhaps years ago, my wife could have said to me, Jim, I love you because you're handsome. Not in your fit, in your trim, and your athletic. But when I lost that handsomess and that trimness and that athleticness She could have said, Well, you don't have that anymore. So I don't have to love you. When any we ever hear someone say, I love you because you have a certain quality When that quality is lost, that love tick can be lost. A gap by love says, I love you Because I have decided to love you. And because I have decided to love you, no matter what you may do or not do, or how you may change, I will continue to love you. There is you can a sense in which you can say, I love you in spite of the unlovable things. So you have a new commandment to love one another. Love says Paul In Colossians, in verse 14, in our passage, that love is the perfect bond of unity. I came to know the Lord or came to faith Around 1970 and at that time in America, this there was a movement in America called the Jesus Movement And young college kids and hippies were coming to Christ by by the boatload, and uh they were even called Jesus freaks, and they didn't mind being called Jesus freaks And they used to sing these little praise songs. Back then praise songs that actually had meaning. And the lyrics of one of these praise songs was, And they'll know we are Christians by our love. By our love. By this all men, says Jesus, will know you are disciples of mine if you have love one for another. And that love then gives rise to a new way of acting. The old self, with its passions and desires, lived for self. Lived for pleasure, lived for power. The new self lives for Christ. Lives to sacrifice himself, lives in humility, walks as Christ walks. Puts Christ on, reflects him. And when this new self is walking down the street Walking in the new commandment. Wal w walking uh uh in the new covenant with the new commandment, uh with the new self, it will sing a new song It will sing praise to God. Songs are an expression of emotion. Songs are an expression of worth. We sing of love, we sing of devotion, we sing of patriotism, we sing of those things which are meaningful to us. Will the new self has part of the fabric a song or songs that exalt Jesus Christ? When the new self thinks of its sin, it sings, Lord, like the public, and I stand When it has joy over salvation, it sings, oh, can it be that I should gain an interest in my Savior's blood? Died he for me who caused his pain Then the new self, thinking of the greatness and the power of God, sings, a mighty fortress is my God, a bulwark never failing. And then when it thinks of God, it says, Oh Lord my God, how great thou art. And when it worries And it's concerned and and it's afraid and it doesn't know where to go with things, be still my soul. The Lord is on thy side. And when it needs encouragement. It sings, trust and obey. Or come thou fount of every blessing, tune my heart to sing thy grace, songs of praise. Singing that new song Then reminds the believer that he lives in a new home. Philippians 3. 20. For our citizenship is now in heaven. Those who know me know I'm a flag waving red, white, and blue patriot. Oh, I stand and I salute the flag when the national anthem is sung. I am proud to be an American. I really am But I'm even prouder and happier and more grateful to have a new home in the kingdom of heaven. And in that new home in the kingdom of heaven I live with a new family And in that new family, we live together in harmony and peace. And 59 times, I believe The phrase one another is used in the New Testament, not always in absolutely positive ways But most often, and these one-anothers teach us how we are to live with one another in our new home. It says we are to be devoted to one another. We are to be devoted to one another. How in brotherly affection We are to owe nothing to anyone except to agape love one another. We are not to judge one another. Instead, we are to accept one another. We are to admonish one another. That doesn't mean scold one another Father was talking to his young son. His young son was doing something that was perhaps wasn't the best thing to do. His young son was standing on a friend's porch and he was jumping over a bush from the porch, over a bush onto the driveway, and back and forth and back and forth. And the father was afraid perhaps the son would fall into the bush and not only get hurt, but do d damage to the bird uh Bush. Instead of so scolding the son and and telling him how that was wrong, he simply said, Son, do you think you ought to be doing that? And then he added a little humor to that, he says, because that's where our friend keeps his snake. You know, he was able to admonish his son and to keep it loving at the same time. We are to care for one another. We are to serve one another. We are to show tolerance to one another A word that I sometimes substitute or a phrase that I sometimes substitute for tolerance is put up with. We put up with one another We just swallow it and go our ways. People of God You have taken off the old self, says Paul, and you have put on the new self. Now walk in that new self. Walk in that new with that new inner material making up the fabric of your inner self, giving you all the the the motivation and strength and power you need to live carrying out that new pattern. That new pattern. That is created in the w after the image of the one who created you. With these things in mind, let's pray Father, we come before you and we thank you for that new self because in the old self we were nothing. In that old self, Lord, we were condemned, we were doomed, we were lost. But in the new self we have found Christ. And so, Lord, cause us to walk in him. For it's in his name we pray. Amen.