Remain standing and turn to the sermon text from Hebrews chapter six or twelve. Hebrews chapter twelve Uh beginning at verse one. Um I have uh finished a series of sermons on the work of the pastor and now we're back into Hebrews and according to my notes we finished Hebrews 11 and so we start Hebrews chapter 12 today. Let us hear God's word. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. and has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God For consider him who endured such hostility from sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not yet resisted to blood shed, striding against sin And you have forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as to sons. My son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him For the Lord loves. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens, and scourges every son whom he receives. Blessed be the word of the Lord. Amen. Please be seated. Today I will be focusing just on verse one. We're going to be bringing verse two into the discussion today, too, but The focus on two will come next next time. And I'd like us to uh to uh I'd like to share with you the things that I have uh gleaned from this section of God's Word. And it suddenly dawned on me as I was reading through this, verse 1 talks about the believers running a race. And the more I began to study about this race, the more it became apparent to me that it is not a hundred-yard dash that we're running That's in view here. It's a marathon. It's more of a marathon that's in view. And so I've titled this sermon, The Believer's Marathon. And you all know that this summer the uh Olympics will be on television. And many around the world will be watching amazing athletes competing in a variety of different events. That they are specialists in. The last event of the Games is the Olympic marathon. It's always the last event. Twenty-six point two miles of a grueling obstacle course Designed to give the world's best long distance runners a challenge Worthy of the winner to be able to stand up and say, I am the best marathoner in the world And the gold medal, as the gold medal hangs around his neck. When the marathon is run, Many are gathered around the street, and the Olympic Stadium is normally filled because the last lap is run in the Olympic Stadium. So along the route and in the Olympic Stadium, there's probably upwards of 100,000, maybe more, who are witnessing this run. And that doesn't count the estimated billions of people who'll be watching on television. This one event I, frankly, have a bit of a fascination with anybody who can run a marathon. It's again 26. 2 miles running. And it's not like you're kind of just loping along Normally the winner will win in about two hours and eight minutes or so I see some of our people here shaking their heads. No, not for me. Well I I have something to tell you. Uh I am never gonna run that race Uh because I can't anymore, but I also hate it. I do not like long distance running. It may surprise you to know that 25 years ago when I was in Texas, I would run three times a week for two miles. And I got my time down under 12 minutes for two miles, which wasn't too bad for a 40-year-old guy at that time. But I hated it. And I the first time I had a reason to stop, I stopped and stopped permanently. But I can understand why so many people do run. And not just marathons, but run in general for a period of time. I mean it is a an opportunity. First of all, it's good for the health, supposedly, unless you have serious health issues going into it. But also It allows you to compete against yourself, to improve yourself. It's also a time when you can be alone with your thoughts unless you're listening to rap through the earbuds. But you also you can think. Yeah, you can think while you're running. And that's not to mention the so-called endorphin rush that comes from running. uh which uh is said to be uh very uh beneficial, although I've never run that long to experience it. But it dawns to me, it has dawned to me as I studied this verse, this one verse, verse one. Wherefore, seeing we are compassed about by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight And the sin which doth easily beset us, let us run with patience the race that is set before us. It dawns to me that the believer is running a race. And it really is a marathon. We don't stop running this race until the day we are in glory. Let me share with you my thoughts about this passage. It's a race that is set before us. It's a race that is given to us. It's placed in our way. It's not a race that we have designed. It's not a race that And we decided, well, it would be a great thing to run for God. No, this is a race that God has placed before us. And um and the race is being witnessed by some And the race has obstacles that could sidetrack us At at best, or take us out of the race completely, at worst It says that we are compassed about by with so great a cloud of witnesses. Now, the beginning word that says wherefore or therefore in your Bibles or Whereas That links chapter 12, verse 1, with what has previously occurred. And remember what previously occurred? All of the names of the saints, not all of the names, but selected names of saints in the Old Testament who believed in God's saving work coming in the future in Christ. And so this this this verse one Is linked to verse 11, and it's kind of in the mode of, all right, this is what God has declared about believers in the past. And therefore, this is something you should be aware of. And what we should be aware of is that We are being surrounded by a cloud, a great cloud of witnesses. The word uh surrounded, you may have it uh translated in circles, encircled And even though the writer of Hebrews, the divine writer, does not say who is being definitively encircled, he says we. We assume he's writing to Christians. So it's the fact that Christians are being encircled by a great cloud of witnesses. As they are running a race And it may be now that we can better appreciate why God brought the writer of Hebrews 11 to include all of these individuals. named in Hebrews 11 because they're part of the cloud of witnesses They're part of the cloud of witnesses watching you run the race Abraham, Moses, Gideon, Sarah, Samson To name a few, of the many in Hebrews 11 that are mentioned as being faithful, they're watching you. Christian As you run the race. They're watching from their perspective in heaven, which I think is probably the reason the word cloud is thrown in there. Um, they're watching to see how you're running the race. How you're progressing through your life as a fellow believer in God and in God the Savior, God the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ They are watching you because they ran the same race when they were alive here on earth. Well, surely it's Hebrews 11 are the people who are witnessing, and I suspect there's a whole lot more than just Hebrews 11 because You know, how many are mentioned there? I didn't count them all up, but it's, you know, 40, 50 people. There's probably others up there in glory watching. Watch 'em how you're running the race They, you see, also, they're not only witnesses in the sense that they're watching you, but they're witnesses in the sense That the race can be won But I must add the disclaimer. Only because Jesus himself won the same. Race. And a second disclaimer: only because Jesus is there to help you. You win the race too. They ran the same difficult race called Life Filled with the same obstacles you face every day, by grace they all won. They all finished the race. Because your God in Christ was with them, encouraging their faith and helping them continue. To surmount each obstacle. Or if you fell down, he was there to pick you up. And keep going. Each moment of disappointment and discouragement, his spirit was there to remind you, I'm with you. You're not alone in this. I'm on your side. I'm with you. To remind you in faith of what God's plans are for this world, regardless of what your plans are What God's plans are, and it's a glorious plan filled with wonder for God's people who believe in Him. It's not a great plan for those who don't believe, but for you who are running the race, it's a great plan. It's full of wonder. But God would take such creatures as we and fill us, give us everything, and then have us turn our backs on Him and rebuke him and disobey him and rather go our own way and then he lets us but he brings his son in to die for such rebels. Such inbrates, such obstinate creatures as we are By nature. Such know-id-als. So much are we know-adolls that we're willing to stand before God and tell him, Father, you don't know what you're talking about. Mother, I know more than you do. It's an interesting thing about that phenomenon. Do you if you those of you who those of you who don't have older kids Kids who get to be 30 and 40, it's an interesting day when they come home and they say, gee, mom and dad, I never knew you were that smart Well, well I I keep longing for that day. But I think it'll come. I've heard it a little bit. Yeah, you see Christ is there even through the suffering. The suffering which is self-imposed, but also the suffering for our own sake, for his own sake, excuse me. As I read from Philippians chapter 3 verse 9, remember that how Paul describes his life? And you read it, he says, verse 10, that I may know of chapter 3 of Philippians, that I may know Christ and the power of his resurrection. The fellowship of his sufferings be made conformable unto his death And then he writes from his time period, from his earthly life time period, he says, not as though I had already attained. Or were already perfect, but I follow after that I may apprehend that for which I have also, for which also I am apprehended of Christ. Brethren I count myself not to have apprehended. I haven't got there yet. I'm on the race. I'm in the race I'm enduring the suffering, but I haven't got there yet to the upward prize of the resurrection, the eternal glory with God. But this one thing he says, I do, forgetting those things which are behind, reaching forth to those things which are yet before, I press on. To the mark for the prize of the high quarreling of Jesus Christ. And then he says, as many of you who wish to be perfect, be thus minded. Challenge. Because you see, Paul understands, just as the writer of Hebrew understands, that the Christian life is a marathon. It's a marathon race. You know, one thing that stuck I don't understand this in a sense, but one thing that really got to me as I was another thing that got to me as I was looking at this text, the word race there. that talks about running this race. In Greek that word translates into English to the English word agony. Agony. That was the first clue that said to me, this isn't a hundred-yard dash. This is more like a marathon. You watch the runners cross the marathon marathon, even those guys who are trained, and the women who run. Even the women who are trained, man, that is oftentimes agony just to watch it. But it it it does point out that this race is a difficult race Another thing that suggested to me that this was not a hundred-yard dash was it says, let us run with patience. the race that is before me. You know, if this is a hundred-yard dash, patience isn't any good. Because everybody's going to be at the finish line while you're still thinking what you're going to do. You're going to let them go ahead of you. Right? You don't need patience to run a run a hundred-yard dash. Famous Confederate general said I at one point, what's your recipe for success? He said, I get there fastest with the mostest. The word that's used here for patience, interestingly enough, is not the Greek word macrothermia. Which is the word that translates patience in the fruit of the Spirit in Galatians 5. 22, which is what I expected, but it's a different word. Not only does it mean impatience, but it also means endurance and perseverance. A run the way race with patience, a patient kind of endurance. Patience is a virtue. Endurance in Christ is a virtue. If it's a long-distance race. Because, brothers and sisters, you're going to need it. And they're going to be in this marathon race obstacles Obstacles. You know when they lay out the marathon, they don't lay it and I'm no I'm no I'm no expert at this. Probably there's somebody here who knows more than I do, much more than I do about this. But they don't lay out a flat course. It's got hills. It's got valleys. It's got steep inclines. You know, you may be running through the streets, or you may be, which is a different kind of running that you have to do. You may be running through the streams at times. There are obstacles in the way. You have to negotiate those obstacles. You have to get around those obstacles. And the text tells us. That the obstacles in this marathon that we run, it tells us what they are. It says, let us lay aside every weight and sin. Which so easily ensnare us. To lay aside can either mean to put aside or to take off. To take off and discard. Now imagine, imagine you're the same marathon runner at the Olympics, and you have to put on your back a 50-pound knapsack. That's an obstacle. You're probably not going to win the race because you're going to get too tired and you're never going to finish. But the point of this race is that you finish That you finish the marathon, that you're running, called life for Christ, with Christ's help, in faith, by grace. With the Holy Spirit. Lay aside the sin. Throw it off. Discard the sin. Because it will entangle you. You know, you can't run if you got vines wrapped around your feet. You can't run this race if you got sin wrapped around your heart. You can't win the marathon, the Christian marathon. What could be some of these entangling sins that kind of weigh us down and prevent us from continuing on the race? There's some that are mentioned prior in Hebrews chapter, in in the verses prior to Hebrews, Hebrews 10, 38 and 39, he says, the just shall live by faith. But if men draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in them. Entangling sin. If you draw back, you doubt, you fear for some reason Drawing back. Perhaps hearing the wrong person is one of those entangling says, I mean fearing men rather than fearing God. It's going to get you off the track. Uh disappointment, disillusionment With people or with God. Hebrews 12, 15 writes, Look diligent, looking diligent lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up in you, and thereby many, many be defiled. Now I know it's kind of a stretch, but a root of bitterness has been my experience. If a person continues to harbor bitterness against people, their spiritual life is in trouble. Whether people did something unjustly against them and they harbor something against them, it will start to have repercussions in how well they're progressing in this race. And you know, pretty soon after we start having problems, roots of bitterness, we harbor root of bitterness in us, pretty soon we're going to start also having trouble with God. Because they're not going to recognize that the problem that we have with people is also under God's sovereign plan. And he's got it there for a reason. Maybe it's to teach us something about how to deal with people that are difficult. Yeah, people aren't easy. They aren't easy to deal with. But, you know, people and people do awful things to people. Awful things. I mean, how do you how do you think you would react If we were over in uh uh uh uh if we were over in um an Islamic country controlled by the uh what do they call them? Yeah, controlled by ISIS and somebody before your very eyes that kills your husband or your child You think that's not happening? It is happening. It's happening to Christians. Do you think you won't be bitter? Probably, yeah. But you can't let it fester It's one of the things you have to give to God. It's one of the things you have to wait for Him to make all things right when He returns. Do not seek your own vengeance. Give it to God. Let God take care of it. He will. He promises. He promises. All things, good or bad, will be revealed in the end, and judgment will fall. He will judge. And lastly, one of these possible problems would be one that you might more naturally expect. Sensuality and lusting for immediate gratification. Chapter 12, verses 16, lest there be any fornicator or profane person. And then look at who they mention. Esaul, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright, entangling sin, fear of men. Disappointment, discouragement, root of bitterness creeping up. Sensuality, lusting for immediate gratification, all three of those. They're not the only ones It could be anything, any particular sin that you may have that you're you're dominated by and you can't get rid of and it or you don't seem to be able to get rid of it. Pretty soon you don't want to get rid of it And then it's got you. Until you turn to the Lord and ask for help. Right? And you ask him to forgive you. Now, I've laid out a pretty exhausting set of circumstances here. And many of you, some of you, I don't know how many, might be asking or saying to yourself, Pastor, you're asking too much. I and you're saying I can't run this race, it's too hard to run a marathon. I hate running a marathon, I hate even running, and I don't like being put in this position. By you, God. I'm not up to the task. I don't want to, I can't, and I don't see any good in it. But God in his word reveals there is one who is up to the task. And you should notice that his identity is revealed in verse 2. And how we are to relate to him. Looking to Jesus, the author and finisher. Isn't that interesting? The finisher of our faith. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Talk about endurance Talk about suffering, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Beloved, in every way, in every situation, the Lord Jesus is your help, and he is willing. Qualified to be your help. He has perfectly run the race already He has given me a helper to be with me so I can run this race. I can run the race and I can cross the finish line just like Abraham, just like Moses, just like Son. Sarah. Just like Samson, that that character I'll talk more specifically about the nature of Christ's health next week But until then, run the marathon that God has set before you. Amen. Let us pray. Gracious God, we pray, Lord, that you will Your Spirit will now be with us, and that the Spirit of God will assist us, Lord, in hearing the words, but also, Lord, in understanding them and applying them to the specific set of circumstances in our life. Where we need to live our lives in in more of a way that indicates that our hearts are matching By your Spirit's work, that our hearts are matching what it is we say, so that what we hear becomes what we do. We ask this, Lord, for your glory's sake, that we might be constantly reflecting the image of Jesus Christ to the world around us. So that from us, Lord, as the lights to whom He has given light will be shining in the darkness of this world That someone who may be, who is one of your chosen, will see the light, be attracted to it. And will come to hear the sweetest words he will ever hear. The Lord Jesus. Is my Savior. He has died for me, and I live for Him. Amen.