And if you turn in your copy of God's word now to the prophet Joel. I think we can find that on page 904 of your Pew Bibles. Tonight we'll be in the second chapter as we continue our study here. Joel chapter 2, beginning at verse 1. Let's give attention to the Holy Word of God. Blow a trumpet in Zion. Sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming, it is near. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, like blackness there is spread upon the mountains, a great and powerful people. Their like has never been before, nor will it be again after them, through the years of all generations. Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them. Their appearance is like the appearance of horses. And like war horses they run, as with the rumbling of chariots, they leap on the tops of the mountains like the crackling of a flame of fire devouring the stubble, like a powerful army drawn up for battle. Before them the people are in anguish. All faces grow pale. Like warriors they charge, like soldiers they scale the wall, they march, each on his way. They do not swerve from their paths, they do not jostle one another. Each marches in his path. They burst through the weapons, they are not halted They leap upon the city, they run upon the walls, they climb up into the houses, they enter through the windows like a thief. The earth quakes before them. The heavens tremble. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great. He who executes his word is powerful, for the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Yet, even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning, and rend your hearts and not your garments Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love, and he relents over disaster. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the Lord your God? Blow the trumpet in Zion. Consecrate a fast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the people. Consecrate the congregation. Assemble the elders. Gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room in the brider chamber. Between the vestibule and the altar, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep. And say, Spare your people, O Lord, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God? Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we are so blessed to have your word. And now we ask, Holy Spirit, give us understanding. Dig deeply into our hearts tonight. That you might uncover our sin. That you might convict us of it. That you would indeed convince us of the coming day of the Lord. And then, Father. Help each one here to grasp your mercy in Christ. We ask all of this in his precious name. Amen. Do you need a savior? That seems to be the question for tonight. Do you need one? In Matthew's gospel, as he records the Sermon on the Mount, as we get toward the end of that sermon Jesus Christ tells his disciples that not everyone who says to him, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. He recounts that many on that day will say to him, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do many mighty works in your name? Then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me. These that Jesus refers to had no need for Savior. In their corrupt minds, they had earned life, recounting all that they had done in the name of Jesus. They were not sinners waiting on the day of the Lord, but good servants who knew nothing of the coming of the wrath of God. In a sense, that brings us to our passage tonight in this prophecy. Written by Joel, the son of Pethuel. This one who is writing to elders, this one who is writing to all the inhabitants of the land. This one that was calling for priests and ministers to put on sackcloth and lament and wail. This one who was seemed to be focused on the day, the coming day of the Lord. If you remember last week as we opened up the first chapter, we we read of the locust swarms that were coming and coming and coming, one after the other after the other, which caused this devastation. throughout the land. Everything all vegetation, grain fields, vineyards were destroyed, so much so that Joel puts the fig trees and the harvest in personification. They were languishing. They had perished. The beasts of the field were groaning and panting and perplexed, and yet the people slept. Awake, you drunkards. They were dead to the things of God. A priests, the ministers were called to wail and lament. In fact, it was a picture of the precursor to the coming day of the Lord. And so Joel called them to assemble, to cry out for mercy, for they had been cut off from true worship. The grain, the drink offerings had been dried up, and they couldn't worship Now Joel in chapter 2 draws a connection between the locusts and their devastation and the day of the Lord that's coming. He warns of the day of the Lord. Indeed, in these first 11 verses of chapter 2, we have that which is likely the centerpiece of the entire prophecy, the coming of the day of the Lord. And Joel's using the image of the locust which had already come, which the people were intimately familiar with as they had experienced the destruction. He uses that to tell them this is what it's going to look like This is the picture you already have of the day of the Lord that's coming. He knew that it was impossible for his readers to fully and completely grasp what the day of the Lord would be for They were finite creatures, just as we are. And the day of the Lord would be an infinite judgment, an infinite wrath being poured out. On unrepentant sinners. And so Joel speaks to the people in their finiteness and provides a horrific picture An image of the ultimate, the eternal wrath, the unending plague of God's righteous judgment on sinners who would not believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. The picture itself is not difficult to understand. Joel reveals an unbeatable, an unquenchable, an unbounded army. Before them, people are in anguish, all faces grow pale. Like warriors they charge, like soldiers, they scale the wall, they march each his way, they do not swerve from their path A trained, disciplined, supernatural army. Fire devours before them, and a flame burns behind. Nothing escapes them, just like the locusts. Their appearance, like the appearance of horses, like war horses, they run. Rumbling of chariots, they leap on the top of the mountains. These are supernatural soldiers. They run upon the walls, they climb into the houses, even through the windows like a thief. It's the army of God that's being described by Joel. An army which cannot be resisted, it cannot be defeated, it brings unspeakable horror, just like the locusts, which had one single purpose. An army which will not be dissuaded, which will not be deterred from its goal, which is to pour out the terrible, the unquenchable, the righteous wrath of God against all the rebellious ones. An army commanded and sent by the Lord. The Lord utters his voice before his army. No one can endure. Did you notice that? For the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? See, Joel doesn't stop with a grave warning, the reality of the coming judgment. Now he provides the people with a solution. Yet even now, in verse twelve, return to me, declares the Lord With weeping, fasting, mourning, rend your hearts, not your garments, for he's gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. Joel is the perfect evangelist, setting forth this evangelistic call to return to their God in the face of the coming judgment. Tonight I'd like us to see that the terrible and eternal judgment of God is coming, and yet today is the day of salvation in Christ. Very simply. The terrible and eternal judgment of God is coming, and yet today is the day of salvation in Christ. And we'll see that in two doctrines. First, the eternal judgment of God is coming, and secondly, the unbounded mercy of God is now. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you again to be asking yourself that question, do I need a Savior? Well, first, the eternal judgment of God is coming. That fact But the day of the Lord is coming. The fact that many may deny that Does not negate the truth. Recall that Satan denied the day of the Lord. You may not say that, well, he didn't do that actually Expressly, but in fact he did. As he's speaking to Eve, he tells Eve, you will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be opened, you'll be like God, knowing good and evil. The fact that Satan denied it doesn't negate its truth. The fact that today's culture scoffs at the truth of the coming judgment does not negate its truth. The fact that you may not think much on this subject, on this topic, does not deny the fact that the day of the Lord is coming. Scripture is replete, that means it's full, with references to the day of the Lord or the day of judgment. In fact, God Himself, the Lord spoke to Adam of it, didn't he? As he warns him. You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day That you eat of it, you shall surely die. The prophets spoke of the day of the Lord. Isaiah in chapter 13, wail for the day of the Lord is near. As destruction from the Almighty, it will come. Behold, the day of the Lord is cruel with wrath and fierce anger to make the land a desolation. And destroy its sinners from it. Jeremiah continues, today is the day of the Lord God of hosts, the day of vengeance To avenge himself on his foes, the sword shall devour and be sated and drink its fill of their blood. Ezekiel For the day is near, the day of the Lord is near, a time of doom for the nations. Amos writes, The day of the Lord, darkness and not light, gloom, with no brightness in it. Obadiah, for the day of the Lord is near upon all the nations as you As you have done it, it shall be done to you. The apostles wrote of the day of the Lord Paul and 1 Thessalonians, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. Peter The heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up, and the earth and the works that are done in it will be exposed. This day is also known as the day of judgment, isn't it? We read a passage tonight in Matthew chapter 11 where Jesus Christ spoke clearly about the day of judgment at least three times. On the day of judgment, people will give an account for every careless word they speak in chapter 12. And Peter. And the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. Brothers and sisters, it's throughout Scripture. There is absolutely no doubt that the day of the Lord is coming, the day of judgment will bear upon us. And all unrepentant sinners will be eternally consumed And so Joel describes that day. The Lord utters his voice before his army. Consider that. Just as the Lord created all things by his word, he will destroy all things by his voice. He who executes his word is powerful. The day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Think of that. That's a rhetorical question. Joel wasn't waiting for an answer. The inspired author puts it this way for emphasis. He could have merely stated, No one can endure it, but for power to get your attention. to cause you to ask yourself, the Spirit moved Joel to use this form. Who can endure it? Do you need a savior? Ask yourself. Could I endure the awesome wrath of God What was the Spirit doing? Why did the Spirit move Joel to write this in this fashion? Was it a mere scare tactic? Is the design of the Spirit to scare, to frighten individuals into faith, to push them in this way, binding their arms behind their back Terrifying one of the coming day of the wrath of God for sins committed against him, that he would run to Jesus only to avoid his wrath, his coming judgment. Is that the purpose? Is that the design? Is that the will of God? Is the Lord gathering frightened sinners who are seeking solely to step out of his eternal fire? Is that a description of a true child of God, choosing to live in his house with him forever, merely to avoid the unquenchable fires of hell? I think the answer must be no to that question. Does the Lord call all to fear him? Absolutely. Indeed, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. This instruction, this wisdom is certainly designed to fear God. But this fear of the coming judgment is then intended to instruct those with ears to hear of the wretchedness of their sin. That's the idea. Joel is describing this terrible day so that you may get a grip, a grasp Of how wretched your sin is before a holy God, so wretched that this is the way He would punish it. This is the way He would eradicate it. The coming judgment is so terrible that it must speak to those with tender hearts of the filth and offense of their sin. This then must be intended to instruct the children of God regarding the abomination of their sin which warrants such a just and eternal punishment. Which then leads a sinner to Jesus Christ. The Savior, the only one who can cleanse sin, the only one who can separate your sins as far as the East is from the West. The only one who can take the punishment that's due to you and suffer it in your place. See, that's the intent. The Lord wants happy, joyful children in his house. He's made you in his image. Not to be frightened and fearful of punishment. It is a fearful thing. But to be happy and joyful in your communion with him. And so this is designed. To inform you that today is the day of salvation, that it's not too late to repent And turn to God that your sins are not so great that they cannot be covered today by the precious blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. Seek the Lord While he may be found, call upon him while he is near. Behold, now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. But friends, the door will shut. And judgment will come, and the day of the Lord will be terrible for all those who are outside of Christ. That brings us to our second head, our second doctrine. The unbounded mercy of God is now. Joel has set forth the problem, hasn't he? The coming day of the Lord, in which he, meaning God, will meet out divine, eternal punishment for all unrepentant sinners. Now, in a sense, paralleling chapter 1, Joel speaking the words of God, once again calls the people to return to the Lord. Think of that. He's just described this terrible day, this God of wrath and righteous judgment, and now in the midst of that, in the midst of the coming terrible day of the Lord, there's a call to return. Look at verse 12. Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping and with mourning, rend your hearts and not your garments. Yet even now. Think of that. Even as you hear of the coming judgment. Even as you hear of the day of the Lord, even as you hear of the terror of the Lord, this army that can't be stopped, that can't be quenched, that can't be defeated, even as you hear of that. Even now, return. That's the call. It's an amazing evangelistic call It's a call to those who were once with God. Return. Come back. Consider Adam, the federal head of all humans, with the exception of Jesus Adam once walked with the Lord in the garden, and as a result of his sin, as a result of falling from grace, he was removed. He was separated from God. And the Israelites, who are now called as his people, removed from Egypt, separated to become the nation of God. Who had been brought back and had now strayed from the Lord and worshiping idols. Called to return. Come back. With all your heart. Did you hear that call? Return to me with all your heart, fasting, weeping, mourning. Come to the Lord with your whole being. That's Joel's call. That's the Lord's call. Return to God with everything. Leave nothing back in reserve. This is a call to completely pour yourself out. Revealing all, telling all, throwing everything on the mercy of God, confessing all his sin, acknowledging the great offenses that you've committed against the Holy One of Israel. all with sincere tears, weeping, mourning for the way in which you have treated or mistreated the living God. Cutting yourself off from all pleasures of life, fasting, in such a way that every aspect Of your very life is fixed and focused upon the God of creation, seeking forgiveness, pleading for pardon. Yet even now, return to me with all your heart, and rend your hearts and not your garments. That clause there, that phrase, is a reference back to what we read in the Old Testament of those prophets. who would tear their clothes because they were mourning over their sin or the sin of the people. Consider Ezra. As the people in exile are now returning to the promised land, as they're going back, as they've been punished, as they've been spending seventy years in exile and now returning to their home, to the promised land. And and now he finds out that the people of Israel, the priests and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the peoples of the land, that they've taken wives as their daughters, those of the the the peoples that God said do not intermarry with them. They've mixed themselves with the peoples of the land. And what does Ezra do As soon as I heard this, I tore my garment and my cloak and pulled my hair from my head and sat appalled. He had rendered or rent his garments. He'd torn them because he was so moved to sorrow because of the sins of the people. But Joel now proclaims the Word of God, rend your heart, not your garment. It's the heart that must be sorrowful. It's the heart that must mourn over your sin. And isn't that a call to repentance? Isn't that exactly what was going on? Isn't that exactly what the Lord had called the people to do? And we read in the shorter catechism, repentance is unto life is a saving grace, whereby a sinner out of a true sense of his sin and the apprehension of the mercy of God in Christ, does with grief and hatred of his sin turn from it to God, with full purpose of an endeavor after. New obedience. Repentance involves an acknowledgement of the truth, doesn't it? That's what Paul wrote to Timothy. Lord's servant must not be quarrelsome, but be kind to everyone, correcting his opponents with gentleness. God may perhaps grant them repentance, leading to a knowledge of the truth. Repentance involves a knowledge, coming to a knowledge of the truth, coming to the knowledge that you have offended a holy God, that your sin is so offensive. And hating it. Coming to the knowledge that your sin is wretched before the eyes of your Maker. And the spirit working on your heart such that you now come to hate that which you've done And repentance must include, along with that hatred of sin, that acknowledgement that you've offended a holy God, then with the mercy of God in Christ, they must go together. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. The psalmist David was confessing his sins before God, and at the same time, he was acknowledging his mercy. That's repentance. And then striving toward new obedience. Recognizing that your past history involves so much wretched sin that all you want to do now is is walk in the way after Christ. That you want to keep the law, that you want to do what is pleasing in the sight of your heavenly Father. Again, David, as he writes God's very words in Psalm 51, then I will teach transgressors your ways. When you restore to me the joy of your salvation, uphold me with a willing spirit, then I will teach transgressors your ways and sinners will return to you. Do you see what David was saying? As you restore me, Lord, now as I'm striving toward new obedience, I'm going to actually teach transgressors to come back And Joel proclaims the mercy of God, doesn't he? Return to the Lord your God, for He's gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love, and relents over disaster. Isn't that amazing, the way Joel puts these two together? The terrible judgment of God, the eternal wrath that's coming, and yet Recognizing that this is a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love, he relents over disaster. That seems to be the crux of this passage. The two together. There's a parallelism. That we must recognize here in verse 15 of chapter 2. We have blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people, come, submit yourselves to the Lord. Remember how the prophecy began. Blow the trumpet in Zion. Consecrate a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the people. For the day of the Lord is coming. The day of the Lord was coming, and the first trumpet blast, it was an alarm to awaken the people out of their sin-induced sleep. That they might see the coming judgment for their sin, that they might be warned of the terror which would befall each of them for the way in which they had sought after other gods and idols. As they had failed to truly worship the living God. And as they awaken, or as some of them came to their senses, a second trumpet blast. Even as the first was yet ringing in their ears and hearts, the second is heard to call them to come together and seek the mercy of God. knowing the coming judgment, the terrible wrath and the just of the terrible wrath of a just and righteous God, and at the same time, at the very same moment, recognizing and knowing and believing in His mercy. Knowing he's a gracious and merciful God, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. The prophet now becomes that perfect or ideal evangelist. Do you see it? For he first points to the people the danger, the eternal judgment that they will indeed face on the day of the Lord. Their sins have brought the wrath of God uh to bear on their backs, like the weight of the bricks on the Hebrews, as they were required to make them for the Egyptians, the weight of sin, the weight of the weight of wrath that would come upon them, bearing down upon them, upon the people of God. Joel had to awaken them to that truth, to that reality. And then as he does, as the perfect evangelist, even beginning with that truth, that terrible news, the wrathful God, he instantly turns the corner. And immediately shares with them the good news. Joel proclaims that this God is a God of grace, not a different God. But one who will see the satisfaction of his judgment, who at the very same time will see the mercy, his mercy, triumph over judgment in his son. Immediately upon alerting them to the coming judgment, Joel proclaimed a solution to their eternal problem. Turn back Turn back to the one you've been neglecting. Return to the God of mercy. Humble yourself before the Lord of Lords and King of kings that he may have pity on you. Come with your entire being to plead for undeserved pardon, for he is the God of forgiveness. He abounds in steadfast love. He's full of grace and mercy. A perfect, powerful, evangelistic message. Joel, without knowing the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, speaks of a forgiveness that can only be found in the cross of the Lord Jesus. He speaks of the life that can only be had in the tomb that Jesus emptied. And indeed, we read of the parallel that Jesus proclaimed in Matthew's gospel. As he denounced the cities where his mighty works have been done and proclaimed, woe upon them, woe after woe. And then what did he do? He called the people to come to him. All you who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and lowly in heart. You will find rest for your souls. You see, Jesus combined the wrath of God Along with the mercy that would be found in him. Exactly what the prophet Joel had done. Have you returned? Make no mistake, all who have Adam as their first father have departed from the God of creation. That's exactly what David wrote in Psalm 51. I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned, and not evil in your sight. That's exactly what the Apostle Paul wrote. You were dead in the your trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that's now at work in the sons of disobedience. And we're by nature children of wrath. You see, we were brought forth in iniquity. We were enemies of God. We were following Satan. We lived in our fleshly passions and our sins. We are children of wrath. Alienated and hostile in mind to God. Have you returned? To God, from wallowing in your sins. In other words, are you repenting? Are you believing upon the Lord Jesus Christ to your salvation? See, to return to the Lord is to hate your sins and turn back to Him, to seek His face, to seek His help by the Holy Spirit in defeating the old man and thus Your inclination to sin. To return to the Lord is to love the Lord your God and thus to seek to do his will. By this we know we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. First John chapter two. Have you returned? And if not, what is stopping you? What are you waiting for? For now is the favorable time. Behold, now is the day of salvation. Hear Joel once again as he describes the God of mercy. Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful. Slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. And he relents over disaster. What are you waiting for? What is stopping you? Yes, the terrible and eternal judgment of God is coming. And yet today is the day of salvation. Those that the Lord Jesus spoke of in the Sermon on the Mount were self-deceived. They didn't think they needed a Savior. Friends, tonight Joel the prophet has said unquestionably that everyone descending from Adam by ordinary generation needs a Savior. And the only one is Jesus Christ. Amen Father and our God, we thank you for the prophet Joel. We thank you for this reminder, this rehearsal of the coming day of the Lord. But even more so, Father, we we thank you for the reminder that you are merciful and gracious God. Help us, each one of us here tonight, to apprehend your mercy. In the Lord Jesus Christ, to come running to you for Christ. We ask all these things in Jesus' name