If you turn down your copy of God's Word to Matthew, we'll read there once again in chapter 5, the first 12 verses, the Beatitudes. I believe that's on page page 962 of your Pew Bibles. The beginning of the Sermon on the Mount More particularly known this section as the Beatitudes. Let's give our attention to God's Word. Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain, and when he sat down, his disciples came to him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father in heaven, as we come to this verse this morning, we ask. We ask for mercy. We ask, Lord God, that the Spirit would teach us all things this morning. We ask that we'd be reminded of the precious mercy that you have poured out upon us. And the precious mercy that awaits us on the day of judgment. Oh Father, work in our hearts That we would be the merciful. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In the Gospel of Matthew, in chapter eighteen, we see Jesus Setting forth a process of reconciliation, how we should behave if somebody sins against us, going to a brother or sister. As Jesus says, tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you have gained your brother. Jesus continued, if that didn't work, with additional processes, ultimately to gain your brother And following that teaching, Peter asks an interesting question, Lord, how often shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? What's the limit? How much should I forgive? When can I stop Jesus answered and said, I do not say to you up to seven times, but up to seventy times seven. Jesus didn't leave it to the math, though, because then he provided this parable about a king Who wished to settle his accounts. He compares this to the kingdom of heaven. And there was one who owed the king 10,000 talents, a lot of money And the king orders him to be sold. And the servant pleads with him for patience. And the parable tells us that out of pity or out of mercy, the king forgives the debt. And then you probably know the end of the parable. The same servant goes out and finds one who owes him a little bit of money and seizes him and begins to choke him and says, Pay what you owe to me. The servant hadn't learned the lesson of mercy Even as that servant had received much mercy from the king, he refused to exhibit a similar kindness or mercy to one who owed him much less. Peter needed to see how much mercy he had been given. That seems to be what this passage is about today as we continue in our study of these beatitudes. Jesus has begun his earthly ministry. This one, the son of the Most High, the one who will reign over the house of Jacob forever, this one who is the Son of God, has been baptized. He's been tempted And now, after that he was certainly prepared for his ministry, and he begins what we have is the longest sermon recorded by Matthew in his gospel, the Sermon on the Mount. And we're right in the middle of the Beatitudes. We're going to be focusing on verse 7 today. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. I'd ask you to think upon these lines as we go through the preaching of the Word this morning that Jesus Christ calls his followers to imitate his life of mercy. Jesus Christ calls his followers to imitate his life of mercy. We'll see that in three points this morning. Your outline is a bit reversed, or I'm going to reverse it for you. We'll first cover the significance of mercy, secondly, the gift of mercy, and then finally the promise of mercy. As we go through the preaching this morning, as we look at this one, this single verse in the Beatitudes, I'd like you to be asking yourselves, how merciful do I need to be? That Peter was asking Jesus, how merciful do I need to be? Well, first, the significance of mercy As we continue to study these Beatitudes, we come to this topic of mercy. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. And Jesus continues to describe Those who will populate the kingdom of heaven. Literally, that's what these beatitudes are. Who's going to be in the kingdom? Well, you said these are the citizens This is what they look like. This is my description of them. And he only uses eight qualities or attributes. We've already studied that those who will be in the kingdom, those who will be citizens, are poor in spirit. They have contrite hearts. They will be mourners. That attribute of a grieving heart over sin, they'll be meek or gentle of heart, and they'll have that heart which strives after, hungers after righteousness. We've seen those Lord willing, we'll study the pure heart in weeks to come, the peacemaking heart, and then finally the suffering heart. So today, along with this attribute of a merciful heart, Jesus describes those citizens of heaven as having these eight attributes. So we must be thinking, as we think through that, that all of these attributes that he describes for us must be significant, very significant from the Lord's perspective. There are only eight of them. So if that's the case, if they're significant, then this attribute of mercy must also be significant. It's included within these eight beatitudes. Mercy or being merciful, one of the descriptors of those who are blessed must be then of great significance. Along with being contrite and a mourner, meek and hungering after righteousness, and so on. The fact is that Jesus is merely picking up upon what the rest of Scripture tells us about the significance Of mercy in the eyes of God. What is God's desire? The Israelites misunderstood or misapplied or maybe just rebelliously read the Word of God. They placed an extraordinary, nearly exclusive emphasis upon the external aspects of the law of God and failed to follow or strive after a more significant internal aspect of his will. We see it throughout Scripture. A constant emphasis by the Israelites on the ceremonial law-keeping, upon the keeping of traditions, and the neglect. Of what was going on in their own hearts, of how they treated their fellow man, how they related to their one living and true God. Prophet Hosea. The Prophet Hosea is all about the the wife who strays. The wife who was an adulteress now she continues in her life of adultery. She leaves her husband Hosea who had taken her in, even after a life of harlotry, and now after this marriage she continues to go out. That's what the book starts with. And it's a picture of Israel and how Israel strayed from the living God to the things of the world. And within Hosea we read in chapter 6, for I, meaning God, I desire steadfast love and not sacrifice. The knowledge of God rather than burnt offerings. Do you see what God was saying through the prophet Hosea? That, look, I don't want the sacrifices, I want your heart Jesus encountered and proclaimed the same thing with lawyers and Pharisees. We just need to turn to the Good Samaritan. That parable is all about mercy as this lawyer comes and tests Jesus asking how one can inherit eternal life. He really didn't seek to want to know the depths of the truth of what Jesus had to say. He was testing Jesus. His heart was not a merciful heart, and Jesus Christ turns him and says, this is what I want you to see. Remember the parable. As the lawyer asks, Who's my neighbor? The man going down from Jerusalem to Jericho fell among robbers, stripped him, beat him, departed, leaving him half dead. And then next we see a priest walking by. One who should have had compassion. And then a Levite walks by and they both cross by on the other side of the street. They're not wanting to get close. to this one who is half dead, probably all dead according to their knowledge, and they didn't want to make themselves unclean by touching him They passed by, they kept themselves clean in their own minds. They kept themselves righteous. Mercy was nowhere to be found in the heart of the priest nor the Levite. But the Samaritan, when he saw him, he had compassion. The lawyer was missing compassion. So were all who were listening. that day. Focused on the external. That's what the Pharisees did As Jesus proclaims, woe upon them, woe to you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, for you tithe, mint and dill and cumin And have neglected the weightier matters of the law. You see, they took the tithing to the infinite Mint and dill setting aside 10%, 10%, 10%. But they neglected justice and mercy and faithfulness. Focused on the external, not upon mercy Those who are righteous in and of themselves have no true appreciation of the significance of mercy because they don't need it. You might be thinking, well, that's not me this morning. Christians also If you're believing in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, we have a tendency to fail or to fully appreciate the significance of mercy that has been poured out upon you this morning. Think of Jesus at the Pharisees' home. Remember that Account in Luke chapter 7, the Pharisee invites Jesus to come and dine with him. And as he does so, as Jesus does so, there's a woman who comes, is touching him. And the Pharisee is thinking, if he only knew this woman was a sinner You see, self-righteousness leads to a lack of, a complete lack of compassion and mercy, and this Pharisee had no mercy, had no time for this woman who was a sinner. Jesus gives him a parable which dealt with the canceling of debt. Who would be more thankful? The one who had a large debt canceled or a small debt? And the Pharisee, well, certainly the one who had the large debt canceled. He said, yeah, that's right. Exactly. Let me remind you of what's happened as I came in. This woman Has wet her feet, my feet, with her tears. She has not ceased to kiss my feet. She's anointed my feet with ointment. The Pharisee did none of that. See, the woman loved much because she had been forgiven much. And the Pharisee didn't know that he really needed the same amount of forgiveness. Therefore I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little. Like the Pharisee, we tend to forget what we deserve. We need to constantly go back to the garden and remind ourselves of God's words to Adam, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. Every sinner who's transgressed the law, and that includes every one of us in this room, deserves death. The wages of sin is death We deserve eternal separation from God. And it's only when we remember what each one of us deserves, and that is eternal wrath, can we begin to understand Understand and grasp the significance of mercy. Let me ask, are you able to see the centrality? of mercy this morning? Are you able to grasp its importance in the gospel? Are you able to see your need for it? Not only in receiving it, but then in giving it. Yes, the significance of mercy That brings us to our second point, the gift of mercy. Well, there's a sense that maybe this second point should have gone first But I hope it all goes together. Let's go back to the garden Let's go back to the garden and remember how Adam spoke of his dear wife, his bride, as she's brought to him in chapter 2 of Genesis Remember, he had gone through that process of looking for a helpmeet, and there was no animal, nothing in the garden which could actually be a helpmeet, a companion. And so God fashions the woman out of the rib of Adam and brings the woman to Adam, and his heart is full of thankfulness. He spoke kindly and compassionately toward his dear wife. This is at last, think of that, at last, bone of my bones, flesh of my flesh, she shall be called woman because she was taken out of of man. The words which flowed from his mouth were words of kindness. Words which indicated the tenderness of heart heart toward this one who is fashioned from his rib. She's part of me. There's no one who's closer, who could become closer to me than this one. And as such, I think that Paul really brought these words of God in Ephesians Ephesians 5 from that account. In the same way, husbands should love their wives as their own bodies. That was what Adam was saying. She's of me She's of my own body. He who loves his wife loves himself. There was a oneness in Adam's voice as he spoke of his bride before the fall. There was a closeness about his words which evidences being filled with mercy toward this woman. who was now his help meet. But after the fall, we see a complete change in the man. One from one whose heart was full of mercy or merciful to a man whose heart was emptied of mercy. After Adam took the forbidden fruit, he ate it. After his transgression, after his offense against God, after his sin, his words changed toward his wife. Completely changed. His whole attitude, his whole condition toward his nearest neighbor was the opposite of what it had been. As God asks him, Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? What are the words that come from his mouth? The first words. The woman The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit. The woman. Adam's words now evidence not a tender heart, not a heart filled with compassion, not a heart which lifted up the interests of his dear bride. No. He didn't say, it's my fault. I should have been guarding her Adam takes out his newly found accusatory finger and points it directly at the only other person made in the image of the Creator in the garden. It was her. She did it. A tender heart, a heart filled with compassion and mercy, would never allow such words to spew forth from one's mouth. The fall from grace had so changed Adam's heart that he could no longer speak mercifully about or to his bride. Mercy was gone. There was no sense of forgiveness. There was a self-protective spirit which had replaced it. A spirit of lifting up one's own interest above that of his newest near neighbor, and it replaced the kind-hearted attitude which was originally gifted him. by God. Adam had now cast off mercy and compassion. And that's where we must begin if we're going to understand this beat. This morning. As children of Adam, our first father, we have inherited that merciless heart, that which is so significant to God. Mercy is gone In the post-fall Adam, our hearts are devoid of mercy or compassion. This is part, a large part of our corrupt nature that each one of us has a result of Adam's fall from grace. We usually think of a loss of original righteousness, and that's right, we lost righteousness. We lost the original righteousness which Adam had in the fall, but along with that loss of original righteousness, we've lost mercy. One of the other key attributes. And that's where we begin. None of us are born full of mercy. None of us are born with Adam's original mercy. All of us are born with Adam's merciless heart. Like the priest and the Levite who walk by, the one who's beaten by robbers, and continue to leave him half dead in the street. A complete lack of mercy. This is our estate in Adam. This is who we are in Adam. Well, what is it to be merciful? Since we lack it, what is it to be merciful? Or what is it to be full of mercy? Because that's what the word means Mercy of full, full of mercy. Not just part, not just a little here and there. No, this were this verse speaks of one who is full or filled with mercy. We have a general idea, but let's be a bit more speci Because it's embodied in Scripture. It's throughout Scripture. If you just did a word search on mercy, you would have many, many, many hits, many verses to start study, and that's a good study to have. But if we were just to turn to Romans chapter five, we would be full. of this idea of mercy. Because we we must remember that mercy comes from God. It was gifted to Adam. He came And so God is the one who who grants it. God is the one who it originates with. And so we as we read Romans chapter 5, uh we read just a couple of verses there and we have the idea right away for while we were still weak. While we were still weak. At the right time Christ died for the ungodly. That's mercy. That's mercy. As one commentator puts it, it's not receiving that which you deserve. And that's what Paul describes in Romans chapter 5, while we were still weak. We were ungodly. Verse 8, we're still sinners. That was our estate. That's our condition. And as such, as he describes us in that way, he's saying, you deserve hell and damnation. At that time, that's when Christ died. God chose his love for us. While we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Christ stepped into our shoes. Christ Took that which was due for us for our sins. The punishment for our sins was laid upon him. That's mercy. Because God laid it on the one who didn't deserve it. He took it from us. And satisfied is justice and wrath in the innocent one. In Christ, that's mercy. Hendrickson, the commentator, defines mercy as love for those in misery and a forgiving spirit toward the sinner. You see, there are different aspects to mercy. The primary aspect is what we just read in Romans chapter 5, Webster's defines it as the benevolence, mildness, or tenderness of heart which disposes a person to overlook injuries. To overlook injuries. And treat an offender better than he deserves. Mercy is different than grace Similar. But it might be helpful to think of mercy as being that which God takes away from us. Punishment that was due to us, that which we deserve, He doesn't meet out upon us. That's mercy. That's forgiveness. It's pardoning. of our sins. Grace. Grace is is giving us that which we don't deserve. That was just summarized by one pastor. That I read this week. It's such an easy way to think of it. Mercy. Not receiving that which we do deserve, grace, receiving that which we What is Our inclination. This morning, like the priest and the Levite in the parable of the Good Samaritan, since the fall, none of us are inclined to be ministers of mercy. We don't have time to help. We don't have a desire to help. We may become unclean. Serving mercy can be a dirty task. Think of Jesus washing the feet of his disciples. Or then we might want to hold on to an offense. If someone has offended us, we may just want to grip it tightly. Hold it over their heads. Withhold forgiveness. But brothers and sisters, here's the good news: the Spirit overcomes our Inclinations, doesn't he? To be full of mercy or merciful is not our inclination. Our corrupt hearts do not lean into and pursue mercy, so we understand that becoming full of mercy or merciful is a gift It's a fruit of the Spirit. If you were to open up Galatians 5, we would read it there. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control against Such things there is no law, and you'd be asking me, where's that word mercy? Where is it? If it's a fruit of the Spirit It's not there expressly. But think of the words: patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness, self-control. All of these can and do fall under an umbrella we might call mercy. Patience flows out of mercy, doesn't it? On the way to church I saw a bumper sticker on a car. Said have patience. I'm a student driver. You know, the inclination is you're not going to have patience. And so the science says, hey, there's a special condition here which you should apply patience to me. Because it knows that our inclination is not. Patience flows out of mercy. Kindness is a synonym for mercy. Goodness Is what we call it when we treat others with mercy. Gentleness goes hand in hand with mercy and cannot be possibly separated from it. Do you see? The fruit of the Spirit, so many fruits fall under the umbrella of being merciful. Pray for the filling of mercy. That must be a response This morning. We must pray for it. Pray for the continued change within your heart that mercy would be your first response to an offense. Forgiveness would be your first. Inclination. Pray that mercy would be your first response to one in need, not passing by on the other side. Of the street. Brothers and sisters, we must pray for the filling of mercy. That brings us to our third point: the promise of mercy. Mercy. And like the beatitudes which we've seen thus far, this beatitude ends in a promise. Blessed are the merciful For they shall receive mercy. Yes, it's part of the blessing. It's caught up in the blessing, but this is set forth in the future. They shall receive mercy Mercy, it's a promise. Just like theirs is the kingdom of heaven. They shall be comforted. They shall inherit the earth. Yea, they shall be satisfied. We now come to this central tenant. of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, more accurately the promise of receiving mercy. We've seen the significance in God's eyes that He places upon mercy, mercy shown to one another. We now read of this promise of mercy to be received by all who are filled with mercy for their fellow man. We know that being filled with mercy is a gift itself. It's not something we work up in ourselves. It comes from the Spirit's work. It's a gift of the Spirit. And so we see this promise. This promise is given to one who has been given the gift of mercy, those who are full of mercy today toward their Father. Follow man have already received this gift of mercy, this blessing. And so we see This promised mercy has already been received by those whose hearts have been changed to be merciful. The good news, then, of being forgiven. This mercy cannot be overstated. If you follow the significance of mercy, you've seen how God values the mercy of forgiveness between men. And now as we consider the promise of his mercy, of God's mercy, We must grasp an even greater value of that mercy, the surpassing value of mercy being granted and given by God Himself. The blood of his Son. It's founded in the Lord Jesus Christ. This promise of receiving mercy is founded and rooted in the atoning sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ The mercy promised here by Jesus as he is reciting these beatitudes is a reference to the pardoning of your sins as they were nailed to the cross at Calvary. Canceling the record of debt that stood against us With its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. Colossians chapter two. This promise of mercy means that that if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for your salvations, that your sins or the punishment for your sins has been satisfied. God's perfect justice has been satisfied in Christ. That's this mercy that's been received by you for your sins, past, present. and future they have been washed away. This mercy means that that you can rest assured tonight and and tomorrow and until the Lord takes you on or he returns that your sins have been atoned for completely. Do you see? This mercy promise is itself a present assurance that God has declared you innocent. You should have been declared guilty. You should be suffering right now in hell for what you might consider to be your smallest and most insignificant sin. But you're not. And that's mercy. One commentator described mercy as being freed from that which you actually deserve, we usually think of being set free as being set free from sins. The chains have fallen off. And that's a good way to think of being set free. But here we speak of being set free from the punishment. From the justice that you deserve for your sins. Dr. Luke records this in Acts chapter 13. Let it be known to you, therefore, brothers, that through this man, meaning Jesus, forgiveness of sins is proclaimed to you. And by him everyone who believes is freed from everything which could not be freed by the law of Moses. In a sense, mercy means that the bars of the jail have been opened. You've been released, set free to live this life without the burden of punishment for your sins hanging over you day by day That's mercy. This is what Jesus Christ has done for you. The weight of that burden has been removed. Jesus Christ has carried it. He's taken it off your back and laid it upon his own. Isn't that what he means when he says, Come to me, all who labor and are heavy. Laden and I will give you rest. There's one more aspect that we need to consider this morning as we are thinking of this promise of mercy. For there's a day of judgment coming. A day when all persons born of Adam by the ordinary generation will stand before the judgment seat, the throne of the Lord Jesus Christ, every single person who has been, who is, who will be born. Will provide an account. Before Christ, every thought, every word spoken, every deed, whether good or bad, will be testified to. On the day of judgment. And as we read in Matthew chapter 25, Jesus will then, based upon that testimony, separate the sheep from the goats. The sheep entering into eternal life with their master, the goats going into eternal damn. What will your testimony be? Before the Lord Jesus Christ. What have you thought? What have you said? What have you done? Everything. Everything will be revealed. Nothing will be hidden from before the King. Now think of the promise. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. Meditate upon that promise of mercy Without a doubt, whatever any one of you testifies on the day of judgment, it will not be a testimony of purity. It will not be a testimony of perfect obedience. It will not be a testimony of blamelessness. The fact is that everyone will deserve eternal damnation. Upon the day of judgment, there's no one good but in Christ, there's mercy. In Christ there is the eternal promise of mercy. The promise of mercy to be received means that which you deserve, judgment, damnation. Condemnation, hellfire, and eternal separation from God will not be suffered by you as you trust in Christ. And it's only for the sake of Christ. Only because he promises you mercy. Brothers and sisters, you must see and know And bemoan the truth that all of us deserve hell. And then rejoice in the truth that Jesus Christ promises you mercy on the day of judgment, the last day. His day to return. As Jesus Christ calls his followers to imitate his life of mercy. How many times are we to forgive? How much mercy are we to have? Peter learned. We will never match the mercy that's been poured out upon us or will be poured out upon us. Let us give thanks to God and pray Pray that he would continue to fill us with mercy. Amen. Father in heaven We thank you for this passage, this verse. We thank you for the way in which this describes the central, a central tenant of the gospel. The good news. Father, that you have pardoned sinners in the blood of Christ. That you have had mercy upon us Even as we read Nehemiah this morning, we've seen, Lord God, your long-suffering, your patience, your kindness, your mercy. Help us, Lord. Help us, Lord, to be merciful. Work in us by your Spirit. Build us up to have tender, merciful hearts, and help us then to look forward to that day And the eternal mercy of Christ will be poured out upon us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.