Please continue to remain standing. Turn in your Bibles to John chapter 10. John chapter 10, and we will read verses 1 through 21. Dealing with um um of God's word, dealing with the Work of God's uh leader, the shepherd of the sheep, uh the ultimate shepherd being Jesus. Our Lord and Savior. Let us hear now God's word. Most assuredly, I say to you He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs up some other way, the same as a thief and a robber. But he who enters by the door is the shepherd of the sheep. To him the doorkeeper opens. And the sheep hear his voice, and he calls his own sheep by name, and leads them out. And when he brings out his own sheep, he goes before him, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. Yet they will by no means follow a stranger, but will flee from him, for they do not know the voice of strangers Jesus used this illustration, but they did not understand the things which he spoke to them. Then Jesus said to them again, Most assuredly I say to you, I am the door of the sheep. All whoever came before me are thieves and robbers. But the sheep did not hear them. I am the door. If anyone enters by me, he will be saved. And he will go in and out and find pasture. The thief does not come except to steal, and to kill, and to destroy. I have come that they may have life, and that they may have it more abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd gives his life for the sheep. But a hireling, he who is not the shepherd, one who does not own the sheep, sees the wolf coming, and leaves the sheep and flees. And the wolf catches the sheep and scatters them. The hirling flees because he is a hireling and does not care about the sheep. I am the good shepherd, and I know my sheep, and am known by my own. As the Father knows me, even so I know the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have which are not of this fold. Them I must bring, and they will hear my voice, and there will be one flock and one shepherd Therefore, my father loves me because I lay down my life for my life that I may take it again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have the power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This command I receive. From my father. Therefore, there was a division among the Jews because of these things. And many of them said, He has a demon and is mad. Why do you listen to him? And others said, These are not the words of one who has a demon. Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Thus far as the reading of God's Word, please be seated. Well you can't imagine how good it is to be with you and uh to be to have the uh the blessing of uh again your fellowship and your friendship. Uh I think as I think back over uh what I have missed most that is that And the uh our connection with one another, our friendship. Um It's indeed an honor to be asked to come here and to share God's word with you. And I pray that the text that I have chosen today will be of benefit to you in in terms of the events of this day. Certainly it speaks of uh the work of the shepherd rather uh prominently. And uh since you're thinking about calling uh uh potentially calling a new shepherd It seems that these this is apropos, and I won't deny that I had that on my mind when I picked this text. But there are other reasons why uh this text is important For all of us today to hear. And I'd like to explain some of those other reasons today. The title of the sermon is The Voice of the Shepherd. And um let's uh let's pray first and then we'll begin uh the message. Our Heavenly Father, we ask now that uh the things that you want your people to hear, that you want your sheep to listen to, that uh Lord, they will. They will hear it And it will impact their lives, their thinking, and will help them, Lord, as they progress through this life. To remain steadfast in their commitment to you and not to wander and follow others who are seeking to lead them astray. These things we pray now, with reliance upon your spirit to work in conjunction with your holy word in our hearts. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I have made no secret of the fact that there is a good possibility that come springtime I will buy some sheep I know you all think that's funny. Uh but if you saw if you saw the two and a half acres of grass that I have to to mow uh of the four acres uh four and a half acres I have to mow, you understand uh why uh sheep might be a good Now uh I'm sure there's going to be a learning curve in this process I should know more, and after I go through that curve, I should know more about pending sheep, which will result in the improvement of this message. Unfortunately, you have to hear it without the improvement. But for now, I'm doing everything I can. And fortunately in our area, there's an expert On tending sheep. I'm trying to learn everything I can from him so that I'll take care of my sheep well and not unwittingly kill them In this well-known text before us, the passage reveals unmistakably that God is the good shepherd of his sheep. His people. That's right. God is a shepherd Your shepherd. A job that many would consider demeaning, and beneath them, God relishes. In fact, in Genesis chapter forty-six and verse thirty-six We have the story of the brothers coming to Egypt, the brothers, the 12 brothers of Israel, and Hearing that their brother Joseph is now the Pharaoh, and in and finding that out, the long-lost brother And in that passage, uh we find uh the statement, Genesis 46, 36, the Egyptians believed that all shepherds were an abomination. Did you know that? But this is what God is willing to take on this job for you. The image of God as our shepherd is so amazing Isn't it? It's amazing for reasons that Christ reveals for us here further in John 10 So I'd like us to focus on John 10 and learn about these three things. There's much more I could bring out, but I want to focus on three things in John 10. First, bad shepherds and their actions. Secondly, the danger to sheep. Who follow bad shepherds, and thirdly, the blessings good shepherds will bring to the sheep Again, bad shepherds in their actions. Secondly, the danger to sheep who follow bad shepherds, and thirdly, the good shepherd and the blessings he will bring to his sheep Now, this passage of John 10 has an immediate context, and the immediate context is chapter 9. And if you go back to chapter 9 and you look at chapter 9, you'll see there the story is about Jesus healing a man in the presence of the Pharisees, his archenemies. Healing a man who was blind from birth. The Pharisees react to this healing in a very negative way. They are so upset about this healing And in particular, they're also upset about this man, this formally blind man defending Jesus, that they excommunicate the blind man And so it's on the background of that example of those who should be good shepherds actually being bad shepherds of Israel, that John Jesus gives these statements that he makes in John ten about good shepherds, and ultimately about himself as the good shepherd. As we come to our verses now in chapter 10, and I'm not going to look at every verse, I'm going to highlight certain verses. But in verse one, Jesus says, Most assuredly I say to you A mixed group of listeners. He who does not enter the sheepfold by the door But climbs up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber. Now The sheep fold, of course, is whatever enclosure they're using that gathers the sheep together and protects them. Good fences, as you can well imagine, are necessary. Strong gates are necessary in order to care for the sheep. They protect the sheep from enemies, number one, and they make it harder for the sheep to go astray. Because you see, it's when sheep go astray that they get into trouble. It's when sheep get out of the sheep hold that they have problems. Also, the fact that there is a sheep fold or some sort of enclosure where the sheep are kept, it assumes that that area is a good area for the sheep. It assumes that in that area are going to be opportunities for the sheep to eat good food and be well fed And not roam around and eat something that would be detrimental to them or expose themselves to danger. That that little field that I have there that I have to get some sheep for. Uh we made the great mistake of letting Butter, our dog, uh roam that field for a while. Well, they have the These things they're called burdocks, which are kind of a horn. They're not really hard horns, but they stick to everything. So Butter is out there and she's roaming around in the field. And soon sooner, uh no sooner than she's out there for five or ten minutes, she comes in and she's got paws that look three times their normal size because all these thorns are attached to them. her. Now you can imagine you know, having um sheep in that kind of situation, um that it wouldn't be good for them to be eating those sheep. Goats can eat that, I'm told, but sheep can't. It's not good for them. So um you want to have a an enclosure that uh is relatively free of bad food and that assume That if you have an enclosure that you'll take care of the thorns and get them out of the way. Now, these uh so there's not just the food problem, but there's also the problem for the The sheep from bad shepherds. Notice what it has to say in verse 1 about these bad shepherds. It says, those who enter the sheephold by some, or he who does not enter the sheepfold by the door, but climbs up some other way is a thief or a robber. That tells you that there is a prescribed way to get into the sheepfold And it seems that there's only one prescribed way. It's through the door. Now he doesn't yet mention who the door is or what the door is, but there is that one way And at the same time, he says there are those who are going to be uh uh Willing to come in some other way, another way. It seems almost foolish that if you have this enclosed area where there are the sheep These sheep, which by the way, you all know represent God's people, where there are these people of God in this enclosed protected area where there is only one way in and out. That others would try to get in some other way. And yet, that seems to be the reality. And those others Jesus identifies as the Thieves and robbers. Thieves and robbers. I've been learning that in nature, and actually where we live, sheep have some natural enemies. Coyotes. And apparently there are some wolves around. You would never see them, but they're apparently around They have natural enemies. They look for any weakness in the sheep uh in the in the in the enclosure so that they can exploit that weakness for their own benefit For their own benefit, just as human thieves and robbers look for the house that is unprotected Right? They look for the house that apparently is left vacant or people aren't seemingly watching out program. You you know what it's like. It's all it's rampant in our area. Thieves and robbers pick the easy targets, don't they? Not the hard targets So but again, the reason they do that is that they're exploiting The sheep for their own reasons, or for their own benefit Now, also reckon with the fact that the sheep or the the the bad shepherds uh and I know I'm going back and forth Between wolves and enemies and bad shepherds, but that's the story that Jesus is telling, and really he's telling this story directly to the Pharisees In my opinion, because they are the bad shepherds, contextually. Okay? They who have entered into the Sheepgate by another way must resort to deception. They must resort to deception because they They refuse to go in the prescribed way. They won't enter by the door And that results in consequences to the sheep. And Jesus does not mince words regarding the consequences. Look at down a little bit. Look at verse ten The thief does not come except to steal To kill and to destroy. The thief does not come except to steal, to kill and destroy. A little later in verse 13 of chapter 10, Jesus gets into the motivation of the bad shepherds or the hirelings, and he says, they don't care anything. I don't know about you, but Stealing, killing, and destroying are not something I want to have happen to me. And the Lord does not want those things happening to God's people Now, it may not necessarily be that a bad shepherd would come into the flock of God's people and kill them Physically, but killing them spiritually is more deadly, especially when it's done under the guise of looking like But not going through the prescribed way. type of deception. Who is the father of deception and deceit and lies? So again, we've come from the perspective of the bad shepherds To look at the bad shepherds, and now we want to look at the consequences to the sheep if they follow the bad shepherds. Again, those consequences range from being stolen to To death. Many of you probably have loved ones Who are in other churches and I'm not sitting here pointing fingers at any one particular church. I'm not doing that but it's and it's it's an epidemic a spiritual epidemic across the land and across every denomination where there aren't good shepherds we Machine. And people sit there and they listen to the messages, which are supposed to substitute for messages Where the I've heard this, and I don't know if you've heard it, where the pastor comes in, he reads the Word of God from the scriptures, slams the book, and then talks about whatever he happens to feel that day. Whatever particular issue, never feeding the flock with God's word. And I'm going to make the uh I'm going to make the connection why that's important in just a few minutes And so the people sit there year after year. The sheep sit there, hearing their shepherd. Talk to them about what is supposed to be God's word, but is really the thoughts of men And they think that they are solid citizens in the kingdom of God, when in reality they are being driven further and further away. From the voice of the one shepherd that matters. They're not being fed, they're being starved. Star of the words of life Christ is not just talking about a woolly animal when he is referring to the sheep. He is referring to people. He's referring to you. He's ultimately talking about God's people. They are his sheep. They are being warned in verses one and two that not everyone who is in their sheepfold who looks like a shepherd is their friend. But there is one shepherd that all the sheep can trust in. The identity of that one shepherd is revealed in John 10, but even before John 10 It is revealed as far back as the Old Testament. That one shepherd that God's people can trust in. Is God Himself and His Son Jesus Christ? Listen to this. Remember Genesis 46? The Egyptians consider shepherding an abomination. Listen to Jacob in two chapters later in Genesis forty-eight verse fifteen Then he blessed Joseph and said, May the God before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac walked faithfully The God who has been my shepherd all the days of my life. He understood That God was his shepherd, and he had been with him all his days Of course, no one does not know one of the most famous passages of scripture, Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Lesser known, Isaiah chapter forty, verse eleven. He was He will gather the lambs with his arms, and carry them in his bosom, and gently lead those who were with him. And then the passage I read earlier from Ezekiel, did you catch what God says he does as the shepherd? Of his sheep? What Ezekiel says God does for his sheep? Listen again. Ezekiel 34, verse 11, and following. I indeed will search for my sheep. And seek them out. As the shepherd seeks out his flock on the day he is among his sheep, so I will seek out my sheep And deliver them and deliver them and deliver them from the places where they were scattered on a cloudy and dark day. I will bring them out from among the peoples and gather them from the country. I will bring them to their own land. I will feed them on the mountains of Israel. In the valleys and in the inhabited places of the country. I will feed them in good pasture. Listen to this. Listen to this litany of things God as their shepherd is promising to do. I will feed them in good pastures And their fold shall be on the high mountains of Israel. They shall lie down in a good fold. They shall feed in rich pastures. On the mountains of Israel. I will feed my flock. I will make them lie down. I will seek what was lost and bring them Bring what was driven away. I will bind up the broken hearted and strengthen what was sick. That's what God says he will do. You see, to be separated from God, a shepherd, for any reason Is to be the victim, lacking in effective, diligent, loving care of the shepherd. And in the case of the bad shepherds, that ultimately leads to a number of bad consequences. Spiritual strangulation, spiritual death. If the sheep followed the bad shepherds Like those in Jesus' day listening to the Pharisees, they're on the slow road to everlasting death disaster. No good food, no quenching of hunger, no binding up the brokenhearted, no strengthening the sick, no suffering searching for and finding the lost or returning them home. Instead the sheep were always left thirsting for spiritual life, always separated from the faithful shepherding care of God their Acre and Redeemer, but for you. In Jesus Christ. You have the good shepherd of the sheep, the crowning fulfillment of God as our shepherd spoken of in those famous Old Testament Passages. He alone enters the door the right way He alone comes through the door. He alone, as verse 3 puts it, calls his own sheep by name. And they follow him. Now you wanna take that really, you wanna think about that just a minute or two What that says is that there are sheep in the sheepfold, some who will follow the bad shepherds, but some will follow the And that is due, that is due to nothing less than God's providential care for his people He will bring those who are his to him in spite of bad shepherds. Look at the Good Shepherd's actions, and we're getting close to wrapping up here. I think I have seven more points. No. Look at the good shepherd's actions and the blessings that come to the sheep Verse 1, the thief and the robbers climb in to climb into the sheepfold to steal and destroy and kill But Jesus says in verse 10, I have come that they may have light and have it more of dominant light. It's pretty s it's pretty serious there, isn't it? On the one hand, bad shepherds destroy and kill. On the other hand, Christ the Good Shepherd, abundant life. How is it that Jesus alone gives abundant life to his sheep? Notice how other verses in the passage depict this giving of abundant life. Notice this. This is extremely important. And you should not miss it. 11. Verse 11. He gives his life for the sheep. Verse 15, he lays down his life for the sheep. She and in verse sixteen it makes the causal and effect relationship between Giving of his life for the sheep to some effect. Notice what it says, verse 16: I give my life for the sheep, verse 15, so they will hear my voice. The effect. In verse 27, my sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. The sheep will follow me, Jesus, they will follow me They will hear his voice, they will hear his words, they will listen, and they will follow. And we're are Jesus' words. Are they up there in the in the atmosphere somewhere? Where we have to get a gigantic telescope to find God's words written in the sky? No, my friends, they're right here. These are his words Words. My sheep will hear my words. They will hear my voice. Why will they hear his voice and not the voice of the bad shepherds? Because his voice is the only one linked to their redemption His voice is the only one that gave He gave his life for the sheep that they will hear. His words. So it's the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, the giving of his life that gives Jesus' words instant credibility in the ears of his sheep. He knows his sheep. His sheep know how much he cares. It's not empty words, you see. They know how much he cares for them Jesus is not in it to extract from them something that he needs. He's shepherding them because it's what they need. And they appreciate that. Why should they listen to anyone else? And in reality, that's the really penetrating question here. Why do the sheep listen to the bad shepherds? Who do nothing for them, who don't care for them Who have no skin in the game, who haven't laid down their life for the sheep. Why do they listen to the other shepherds The shepherds that pose a different way of salvation, a different message, a message that's false. A message that lead leads to death. The Lord your good shepherd never stops leading and speaking his voice to the sheep. He finds the lost ones, the broken hearts, broken hearted ones he personally and redemptively deal The wandering ones he searches for, finds, and brings home Even in the sheepfold, however, there are voices, other voices, that are spoken to the sheep. Competing voices that keep seeking always to lead the sheep astray, that keeps to tear the sheep away from the voice of the shepherd And away from his redemptive work. Sometimes the sheep regretfully listen to the false shepherds Yeah well, I know my dog is not a sheep. She is an animal And uh, you know, she can she can be the most loving dog one minute and the most exasperating dog the next But I have noticed something more and more since we've been down in the country. Um I call her, and when I call her, if she can Hear me, she's going deaf, but when she hears me, she will hear my voice And she has the option to listen to my voice or not. It used to be that she would ignore me, which would make me oh so very happy She would listen to the voices in her head. She would seek her own way and be free. Follow the call of the wild. But more and more my butter has learned to hear my voice and follow me, because she knows that my voice is the one that cares for her. The one who feeds her, and the one who loves her. She has learned that following her own voice or any voice but mine does not pay. Because very frankly, all those others don't give her any treats. Many voices the Lord sheep But only one voice, Christ's, gives his sheep treats. Greatest of all treats Life abundantly. I give them verse twenty-eight eternal life, and they shall never perish Neither shall anyone snatch them out of my hand. Contrast that again with the thieves and the robbers who care nothing for the sheep. But to steal, to kill, and destroy. False shepherds, false voices, false words lead many astray And to destruction. But Jesus' words to his sheep. The Good Shepherd feeds and comforts and encourages me. Because they are the words which focus the sheep's attention on the healing ministry of Jesus Christ No one else has such words. No other shepherd has such good news. No other shepherd has fled and died for its sheep. No other shepherd has gained eternal life for them. No other shepherd has given them peace with God. Only Jesus. And we see Jesus using this illustration of the sheep, following good or bad shepherds, referring to the Pharisees of that Day. They were the bad shepherds, then Christ alone is the good. But today, they're still full Shepherds. And of course, there's still one good shepherd. So, how can you, the individual Christian Evaluate bad versus good shepherds. By now, you ought to have some ideas. How can you follow good shepherds and not bad shepherds? The bad shepherds fear nothing for the sheep, let me remind you, Christ, the good shepherd, lays down his life for the sheep. Sheep. So your shepherd must die for you in order to be considered a good shepherd Seems to be the uh the inevitable logic of where I'm going here. No. Only price death for you makes any difference So, are we to conclude then there are no good shepherds at all today? Are they all bad shepherds out there? How will you know if he can't die for you? The difference between a good and a bad shepherd. My answer starts with these words. Does your shepherd demonstrate Christlike commitment? to Christ's words. By that I mean at least Matthew sixteen twenty-four And Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone desires to come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross. follow me. Do you see your shepherd willing to sacrifice? That's the language. Of taking up his cross. Do you see your shepherd willing to sacrifice or give? Do you see your shepherd having the commitment to serve you for your spiritual advancement? Without that, you likely have a bad chef who cares more for himself. than he does for you or for God. Whose voice, whose words do you listen to today? The false shepherd who seeks only advantage for himself at the expense of the sheep, or Jesus, the good shepherd. With the good words and abundant life that He secures for you by His cross. The death and resurrection of Christ backs up his good word. There is only one shepherd of God's people who has told us as early as Genesis 48 that you as his people are His sheep, his flock, the sheep of his pasture. Christ, the good shepherd, has seen to it that you do have under shepherds. Who give of themselves to bless you in Christ. The Good Shepherd has spared no expense to find his sheep who are lost And scattered and make sure they come home. He puts his own life at risk. He exposes himself to the savagery of the false shepherds Your one and only good shepherd, Jesus Christ, gives his life for the sheep. I can't do that. Nobody else can do that Only he, but it behooves every good shepherd, to make sure that he feeds the flock of the Lord With the voice of the shepherd, with his words, amen