And now let's hear God's word. By faith Abraham obeyed when he was called to go out to the place which he would receive as an inheritance. And he went out not knowing where he was going. By faith he dwelled in the land of promise, as in a foreign country. Dwelling in tents with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he waited for the city, which has foundation whose builder and maker is God. By faith, Sarah herself also received strength to conceive seed. And she bore a child. when she was past the age, because she judged him faithful, who had promised Therefore, from one man, and him as good as dead, were born as many as the stars in the sky in multitude, innumerable As the sand which is by the seashore. Thus far ends the reading of God's wonderful word. Please be seated. Well, again, as we've been working our way through Hebrews 11 and the number of people that are mentioned here as individuals who had true saving faith. We are beginning to discover some of the aspects or some of the elements that make up what constitutes true saving faith. And we saw last time from Abraham that his faith was an obedient faith. He believed in what God had told him. To do. His faith also was a faith that looked forward to the future, believing in God's promises, even though From his own perspective, he didn't really fully know what he would encounter Today, we look at the faith of his wife, Sarah. For the Bible here chooses to speak of them both, not only as individuals possessing true faith, true saving faith but also as a family, and how their faith together from God brought blessing to the world. Adam and Eve are the first family in terms of representatives for the human race Unfortunately, they sinned and were driven out of the Garden of Eden. And their spiritual death, and their sin, excuse me, brought spiritual death to all. But Sarah and Abraham figure prominently in a covenant A covenant of redemption that God has brought to them and to all mankind. They are the first family of saving faith, much as we might refer to the president. And his loved ones as the first family. They're first in terms of significance and importance God clearly announced this covenant blessing to Abraham. He took three chapters of the Bible to announce it and to emphasize it Genesis 12, 15, and 17. Sarah does seem by her actions to embrace God's covenant with Abraham as well. After all, she went with them from Ur of the Chaldes down to the promised land, no small journey. But she really does play a critical role in the outworking of the covenant of redemption. As our text and other passages show. So today we will consider her faith. For our text says, verse 11 and 12: by faith, Also, Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed. And it was delivered of a child, and was delivered of a child when she was past age. Because she judged him faithful, who had promised, and therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars in the sky in multitude. And as the sand which is by the seashore, innumerable. We are treated to the writer's evaluation of Sarah in these two verses. There are other supporting verses from Scripture that we will also look at. But it's enough to start off by saying right up front, as it has been, as God discusses all of these individuals that are named in Hebrews 11 Right up front are the words by faith. By faith. Whatever is about to be said regarding Sarah It is crucial to understand that it is by faith that she has done the things which she is commended for. A faith which we believe is not earned, but is given by God. As one of his most precious gifts, even as Ephesians 2 tells us. By faith, Sarah herself. I want to just look at those few words for a minute. I like the fact that in the original Greek it uses not only the word Sarah, but then it comes back and it adds the word herself. It would have been just as compelling if the word herself was not here. However, there is something that the word herself brings to this understanding. It is pointing it's pointing out and emphasizing that word herself is emphasizing That she had faith too. She was not riding on Abraham's coattails. But she had the same kind of faith that Abraham had. It was part of her existence. The text goes on to say That she is past the bearing the age of bearing a child. At this time when We read in Genesis 18 and also in Genesis 17 where God mentioned to Abraham that he would have a seed, and in particular he would have a son that would be uh the bless the world and that Sarah would be the one who would conceive this child We find details that are just very humorous. It's not just Abraham laughing, or Sarah laughing, at God's plan here. We all laugh We see the picture from Genesis chapter 17, verses 17 through 19. Where we read, Abraham fell upon his face and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is uh that to unto him who is a hundred years old? And shall Sarah, who is ninety years old, bear a child? You know, we're dealing with Old people here. I can I can actually say, these are old people As a 25-year-old seminarian, I made the grave mistake of one time talking about age and then feeling like I had to qualify it. That old age kind of began at 40. Needless to say, I was reminded that that's not the case after the sermon. But be that as it may, there is no doubt here that these two are old. And there's no doubt here that Sarah is way, way beyond what we normally consider as the normal time for childbearing. Well in that Genesis 17 passage, not only did Abraham ask the question, shall I have a child? When I'm 100 years old and Sarah is 90, he went on to suggest, quote unquote, to God, a better idea. And his better idea was, according to the text, oh that Ishmael may live before thee. My son Ishmael. Who I actually fathered through Sarah's handmaid who was given to me. May he be the one, may he be my descendant, upon whom the world will be blessed. All the nations of the world shall be blessed, and I shall have descendants as numerous as the stars in the sky and as the sands of the seashore May it be may that fall to Ishmael. And it's interesting in the text that I'm going to read into what God said. And God said, No! I like to think that that's how God said it. He may have thundered it even greater. He said, No, Sarah, thy wife. Shall bear thee a son, and you shall call his name Isaac. I will establish my covenant with him. as an everlasting covenant and with his seed after him. See, Abraham thought that God's idea was funny. He thought that what God was doing was to raise up a child. From the birthing of the results of his flesh. Something that he kind of put into the equation to help God along. But God made it clear. No. Sarah is referred to in the Greek. It doesn't come out in some translations. It comes out that she was past the age of bearing a child, but the actual Greek indicates that she was barren. She could not have children. It wasn't just that she was old. She could not have a child. Impossible. Impossible as we consider what is humanly possible. This point should not be overlooked. It is major Imagine how much quote-unquote buy-in Sarah has to make to believe what God has said to Abraham, her husband. But Sarah bought in. And she bought in because she believed her husband wouldn't lie to her. Right? No, no, that isn't why she bought in Sarah buys in because, as verse 11 says, the latter part of verse 11, she judged him. The hymn there refers to God, she judged him faithful. Who promised? Abraham didn't make this promise. God made the promise. Sarah believed in him, God. God, especially, would keep his promise. She had no reason to doubt That God would keep promises, especially after what she had just experienced coming from Ur the Chaldees to the promised land. As I said before, a 700-mile journey. It was no mean trick. God provided all the way But still, it is a struggle. And I can well understand why she laughed at the prospect of having a child after being barren for 90 years suddenly you know We had a child, my wife and I, when we were in our early 40s. And I used to sit back and I used to think How am I going to make it to graduation from high school? I'll be 60-some years old And then, you know, sixty some years old came and passed, and now she's graduated from high from college. But I can sit here and tell you I'm not looking to have another child All kinds of struggles in child rearing, as those who have children understand. Struggles that stake away your physical. Strength and your vitality, and put gray hairs on your head, or in my case, remove hairs from your head No matter how great the child. See, what is part of Sarah's understanding is she believes God. And what she believes about God is simply this. That God, when He says something, He means it. And when He says something He does it. He does what is impossible from our perspective He does what is impossible. You see, it's one thing to believe that God does the impossible. It's quite another thing to believe it when you're 90 years old and in labor. She had to greatly appreciate the promise God made to her in verse eleven. She will we she will receive s she will receive strength to conceive seed and be delivered. There's something extraordinary going on here of God's help, even in the birthing and in the conception of the child Now, even though that Sarah and Abraham are both placed here in Hebrews 11 as testimonies of faithfulness to God's promises, You should not conclude that they were without sin in this matter. Because the record shows that they got impatient. waiting for God to fulfill the impossible promise. And they devised up man-centered solutions. As Sarah offered up Hagar to her husband Abraham to raise up seed. And those solutions produced devastating consequences Both then and to this day. Later on, Abraham would lie to a pagan king about the relationship that he had with Sarah. So they were not perfect. But isn't it amazing that even though they commit sin, doesn't mean that God has blotted them out. of the record of the faithful. Why? Doesn't say it here, but you know the answer. It's because their faith focuses on the seed who would bring blessing to all the people of the world. And who is that seed? You know that some of you know the answer to that And I will reveal that in just a minute for those who who don't. Therefore, sprang verse 12, even of one, and him as good as dead. The commentary is very forthright, isn't it? Abraham's a hundred years old. It's good as bad. But seeds sprang forth. He had a child. At more than a hundred years old, he had a child. So many as the stars of the sky in multitude. Remember as God told Abraham previously in Genesis 15, I'm going to raise up a seed. For you. And Abraham's complaining, where is that descendant? My nearest descendant is Eliezer of Damascus. And God said, no, it ain't going to be your seed. And he took him outside and said, look up at the sky. And he said, So shall your seed be, as numerous as the stars in the sky And the next words that come out of the scripture after that occurrence of Genesis 15, do you remember? And Abraham believed God, and God reckoned it to him as righteousness. Sarah contributed her part to this promise fulfillment by faith. And the seed of Abraham, that child who would bless so many, would be therefore human. Which is important. Because just as Adam, our first humans, violated God's word, so would the seed of Abraham. Obey God's word perfectly. Abram becomes Abraham, the father of many. He has the child of promise. Unknowingly, for Abraham and Sarah Is the significance of raising up the seed of promise from a barren woman This becomes another major part of God's redemptive plan and his promise. But those of you who know your Bible know that Sarah is the first in a line of famous women in the Bible who were either barren or elderly. Who would miraculously give birth to a child who would grow up to be mighty in the eyes of God? Sarah, Rachel, Manoa's wife, Hannah, Elizabeth Would have these children, respectively, Isaac, Jacob, Samuel, excuse me, Samson, Samuel, John the Baptist. The question is, why does God do this? What is he trying to tell us? But there would be one more woman. This time not one who was barren. Nor one who was old, but a virgin One that the prophet Isaiah said in Isaiah chapter 7, verse 14: Therefore the Lord Himself will give you a sign, behold, a virgin. Shall conceive and bear her son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. See, the point is, in God's fulfillment of his promises Whether the woman is old or barren or virgin, the point is the same. God alone does the impossible And that doing of the impossible was what fulfills his prophecy to save sinners And so to Mary and Joseph would be born Jesus the Christ. Not just their son. But the Bible says he is Abraham's seed For Galatians 3, verse 16 brings this testimony. Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. And he said, not to seeds as of many, but as to one, to thy seed, who is Christ. The ultimate fulfillment of the promise to Abraham and Sarah is Jesus. Not Isaac. Jesus. Isaac shares in the same promise, has the same belief. But it is an impossibility, humanly speaking, for God. To raise up seed from a virgin. Or for man to raise up seed from a virgin, excuse me, it is not impossible for God And those who are believers, who understand God's grace, have as a part of their faith the knowledge that God does the impossible. He does nothing contrary to his holy will, but he does do the impossible many, many times. We have seen it We have experienced it. We have seen him answer prayers for those whom we thought might die the next day, and yet they live. And over and over again, too many, just to point out But why does she have to, why does the, what what is God trying also to communicate to us through this concept? Of having these women who are barren, who are old, or who are virgins suddenly have children. What is the point? Well, it's simply that God is the one who does the impossible to save us, redeeming us from our sins and all of its promises Does not ultimately come from human effort. Does not come from our ability, our flesh. It wasn't Abraham's flesh that raised up that child. It was God's promise. Redemption and all of his promises, its promises don't come from man. Grace unto eternal life comes from God. Whether he works through Abraham and Sarah or Mary and Joseph He brings the Redeemer to his people at his time. And why is that important? All because it can be said that you will be one of the innumerable number of Abraham's descendants. Who believe like Abraham that you might be one of the stars in the sky in multitude, the sands in the sea. Which are innumerable. Bringing to you the gospel of the grace and victory over sin in Christ, Abraham's son. I want, if you have a chance, I was going to read Galatians 4, verses 21 through chapter 5, verse 1. But I would challenge you to go back and read it for yourself because he is talking about the differences Of the very differences between raising up a seed by the flesh in Abraham's life, which is Hagar And raising up the seed by God's effort in Abraham's life, which was Isaac slash Christ. So this morning I say to you, rejoice, all of you who are children of faith. God has done the impossible And he has raised up holy seed by his almighty power to save all the sons and daughters of Abraham and Sarah. God has providentially decreed his saving will. And he has superintended everything. To cause the light of the impossible grace of God in Christ to shine upon you. To save you from your sins and make you a part of his family. Believe, brothers and sisters, the impossible has happened. In Jesus. And it is still happening now in every believer's life. Amen.