If you would turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Old Testament, to Psalms, we'll be looking at Psalm 3 this evening. I believe that's on page five hundred and twenty-eight of your pew Bibles. The first psalm with the title Let's give attention now to the very Word of God. A psalm of David when he fled from Absalom, his son. O Lord, how many are my foes? Many are rising against me. Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. I lay down and slept. I woke again, for the Lord sustained me. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. Arise, O Lord. Save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek. You break the teeth of the wicked Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be upon your people. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, as we come now to the preaching of your word, we ask that you would be with your servant. Help me, Lord God, to proclaim your word and nothing else. Guide and direct us as a congregation that as we hear your word preached, Lord God, you would give us understanding by and through your Spirit. And not mere understanding, Lord, but that you would lay this passage, this psalm, up in our hearts. That, Father, we would not only meditate upon it, but it would become part of us. That we would seek to do your will and follow your instructions within this psalm, and we'd be blessed by it. Guide and direct our hearts now, Holy Spirit. We ask this in the name of your Son, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Well, how is your faith moving you? How is your faith moving you tonight? In what direction If we think of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, three Israelite youth that were brought in exile. to serve King Nebuchadnezzar. They were facing the fiery furnace. And if you remember that passage They were called to bow down before a statue made by Nebuchadnezzar and worship it. And and as they are called to do so, they're surrounded by uh basically the entire nation which was doing just that. King Nebuchadnezzar had told folks, if you don't do this, I'm going to toss you into the fiery furnace. That's what was before Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. They were facing the fiery furnace, the threat of being cast into it, and their lives being Eliminated at once. And yet, even as they looked upon the fiery furnace, they trusted in the deliverance of God. From a worldly perspective, they had no choice but to do as everyone else was doing, bow down before the golden statue. But that was not their perspective. That was not how their faith was moving them. That was not what their heart was fixed upon For they knew that their God would deliver them. Well that does bring us to this psalm tonight, Psalm three. Again, uh the first Psalm with a title, Oh, Psalm of David, when he fled from his son Absalom. Now if you remember what was going on in Jerusalem as David flees, he was king. And he had many sons. And Absalom had now returned from his exile, so to speak, after killing his brother And now sought to overthrow the kingdom. Remember, David had sinned grievously against God by taking Bathsheba uh a woman that was not his wife, who was the wife of Uriah the Hittite, and uh took her into his home, uh, and then sent Uriah the Hittite off to battle where he would definitely be killed. David, in this grievous sin, was told by the Lord that he would be forgiven But yet adversary an adversary would be raised up from his own house against him to take the throne, to take his wives. to do what he did with Bathsheba, his adversary would do in plain sight of the entire nation. And so as Absalom fulfills the word of God as Absalom comes into Jerusalem as he now has a conspiracy that had grown strong with many people, he now forces David to flee. And it's in that moment as David is fleeing from Absalom his son, as he knows that he's There's no way that he can fight against this conspiracy that has risen up against him, led by his son. He flees from his throne, he flees from the nation. It's in that moment when he writes this psalm. David is certainly not at peace. He is threatened. His life is being threatened. He knows that Absalom will come after him with an army seeking his life. And it's at that time that David pens this Psalm. Tonight I want us to see that faith in the salvation of God is actively founded in His nature. And is unmoved by the events of the world and rebellion of men. Faith in the salvation of God is actively founded in his nature. And is unmoved by the events of the world and rebellion of men. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, faith is unmoved by the unified rebellion of men. Secondly, faith is moved by the nature of God. And finally, faith is founded in the love of God, demonstrated in his salvation. As we're thinking about salvation tonight, we might think of that which is very misunderstood by this generation. This generation really has no concept. The truth has been so deeply suppressed, but the pressing need for salvation has been cast aside. But When this psalm was written, even the wicked understood the need, but not the basis, for salvation. You should keep that in mind as we go through this Psalm tonight. And be asking yourself that question. How is my faith moving me tonight? Well, first, faith is unmoved by the rising up or the unified rebellion of men. And now we see the adversaries of David have risen up physically. They have joined together in a conspiracy led by his son. And they're pursuing him. I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people who have set themselves against me round about. That's Those are David's words in verse 6. O Lord, how my adversaries have increased. Many are rising up against me. The question is, who's David speaking of and who are these multiple adversaries? And so we know that it is Absalom who's leading an army against David seeking his life They've risen up, and it seems like this is almost a repeat from Psalm 2. Why are the nations in an uproar, the peoples devising a vain thing? The kings of the earth take their stand, and rulers take their counsel against the Lord, against his anointed. As we went through Psalm 2, we recognize that this was all about Jesus Christ. I think tonight we can do the same with this psalm. This is again all about Jesus Christ. Yes, it was a historical event that David was immersed in as he was being pursued by Absalom, his son, and the army that was with him And yet it's all about Christ, as many rose against him, even as we read tonight in Matthew's gospel, the religious leaders Mocking him, those who passed by, not even knowing him, yet wagging their head at Jesus, calling him to come down off of the cross, to save himself. Spitting upon him. Many arose against Jesus Christ And the psalm seems to be giving us a bit more insight into Jesus' experience on the cross. And yet it's actually David's experience as well. And so we have this sense, there's this multiplication of those who oppose David. It started with Absalom, and then after he's killed his brother, who violated his sister, and he's banished from the kingdom and yet brought back, and now he rises up against his Father, to take his throne, prophesied by Nathan, I will raise up evil against you from your own household. But then as Absalom woos the people, lose the nation of Israel, that conspiracy grows and the adversaries against David increase, just like the adversaries against the Lord Jesus Christ. And so David flees. The conspiracy was strong. Go in haste, or he will overtake us quickly. So David takes the entire household with him, remaining with ten concubines to keep the house, which was again fulfillment of the prophecy. But not only did the adversaries of David rise up physically, they also rose up spiritually. Take a look at verse 2. Many are saying of my soul, there is no salvation for him in God. As David is fleeing, he is cursed by Shimei. And behold, you are taken in your own evil, for you are a man of bloodshed. Remember, David's on his way out. He's fleeing from Absalom. And Shimei comes and curses him. Many are saying of my soul there's no deliverance for him and God There's a sense in which one is not truly defeated if he is not defeated in the whole man. Man is body and soul. And so David is feeling this attack both physically and spiritually So they're not merely driving David out physically, but now they're pursuing his very soul. They're attacking the very root of David's eternal standing before God, many are saying, of my soul there is no salvation for him and God Salvation could be translated as deliverance or help. That's the idea. As these are pushing David out, there seems to be calling out to him, there's no possibility of deliverance for you, even by God's hand. This is the proclamation seemingly of those who were pursuing David, and that God did not favor him any longer. Isn't that what Satan does? Isn't that what he does constantly before the Lord, claiming that there should be no salvation for anyone? For we have sinned against God. We have broken his law and we're no good? Then that is true, isn't it? But Satan neglects to consider Jesus Christ. He doesn't consider the salvation that was purchased by Jesus Christ. He doesn't consider that Jesus Christ has stepped into your shoes and taken the punishment you deserve, and so now you're cleansed. It seems to be exactly what's happening to David. As there's this accusation, there's no salvation for you and God. But David's faith is unmoved, even by the physical and the spiritual pursuits Even as the multitudes are moving to surround him, physically and spiritually, bringing him to despair almost, he responds. Does he respond in agreement? Yes, you're right. No. Does he submit to their cumulative voices of godless doom? No. Does he succumb to their vain plans, their wicked counsel against God? No. David reveals that which God has revealed to him. But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. Think of those words. Each one of them are important. A shield used here metaphorically as a as protection, as refuge. Without a shield, without protection from the arrows of the enemy, David would have been pierced through. Nothing to stop the spears of those who were uh pursuing him. No fortification, no defense, no safeguard. But that was not the case for David. He proclaims a defense. He proclaims a fortification, indeed an impenetrable shield. The Lord is my strength and my shield, Psalm 28. My heart trusts in him. Think of Jesus on the cross, as his adversaries surrounded him. He knew that he would be raised from the dead, that he would defeat his enemies in the tomb after he suffered the full and complete wrath of God on the cross. So David does not write that the Lord is a shield But that He is a shield about me. Did you notice that? But you, O Lord, are a shield about me. Meaning all around me. I'm surrounded by your shield. I'm surrounded by your protection. Just as Abraham had nothing to fear. As the Lord speaks to him in a vision, do not fear, Abram. I am a shield to you. Your reward shall be very great. David knew the same. That God's shield was all around him. You think of a shield as just being that was in front. But David's saying, no, no. God's shield, his protection, this refuge surrounds me. There's no way for the enemy to get in. But that's not where David stopped. Oh Lord, you are a shield about me, my glory. How is that? How is it that David is fleeing from Absalom, his son, the army pursuing him? He's running as fast as he can. And he he states that God is his glory. That could be translated splendor, magnificence, or honor Many were trying to remove this from David. Isn't that what the pursuers of David were trying to do? They were trying to strip him of his kingship and thus strip him of his glory in death. And now, as he's running, it is David who recognizes that God's glory has been set upon him. It's not that David exudes glory from himself. He's not saying that. He's not saying that I am glorious. He's saying that God is glorious, and as God is protecting him, He has placed his glory on David. Consider what happens as Jesus Christ takes his last breath on the cross. It's an earthquake. The centurion who's watching all of this said, surely, this is the Son of God. God bestows his glory on his son, as he does exactly that which the Father sent him to do. Even in his weakness, the glory of God shines down upon his son. Just as David recognizes here. The splendor of the Lord becomes David's as the Spirit abides within him. And then the Lord lifts up David's head. Think of that as in the downcast estate that David must have been in, remembering his sin with Bathsheba, remembering his sin, sending Uriah the Hittite off to battle to be killed in battle so that he could hide his sin. And now it's all been revealed. And it's bringing that memory to David and and yet even in the moment that God is executing his temporal judgment upon David. He lifts up David's head But you, O Lord, are a shield about me, my glory, and the lifter of my head. As David is running from his son. He understands within his heart that God is lifting up his head that he may see the way forward that he may say see clearly and rightly, even as the warriors are behind him pursuing him David's head is lifted up. In this affliction, this tribulation, David considers and dwells upon Jehovah, his God, his strength, his character, indeed upon the love of Yahweh. While we've considered the shield, the glory, and the lifting up, we cannot miss that David, as he's pursued, as he's attacked, as he's hated, he dwells upon the nature of God. And how this nature affects even this very moment in his life The powerful protecting the weak against the attacks of the wicked, the splendid one, bestowing his glory upon this one who in his sin had no right. To honor or splendor himself. The Almighty extending his loving hand, lifting up, even exalting this one whom God was afflicting. Do you see? This affliction, these multitudes have descended upon David because of his sin against God, and the God in his mercy and grace even while he is chastising his son David is lifting him up at the same time When affliction comes upon you, are you centered upon the Lord? Upon his nature? Do you meditate upon his character? See, our tendency is to go in the opposite direction, isn't it? Away from God, to ourselves. To focus upon our perceived needs, to seek relief, if pain from pain, if depression happiness, if lack of money, more money. You see, we have a corrupt view of our true needs. But as we are afflicted, as we are chastised, as David was when Absalom took the throne, We seek out all kinds of remedies that provide no real bomb to the wound, don't we? Our affliction chastisements that result from fractured relationship with our Creator. Shouldn't that move us actually closer to him? As we see in this psalm? Should not a response be like that of the psalmist here, to dwell, to meditate upon the nature and character and the attributes of God, particularly those attributes which may be applicable to the type of affliction we are experiencing That's what a sincere faith does as it works in and through you. See, the wicked cannot disturb Or move or even chip away at a sincere faith in the saving work of the Lord Jesus Christ For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come nor powers nor height nor depth nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us. You could separate you there or me from the love of God in Christ Jesus, our Lord. David did just that. His faith moved him. To dwell upon the character and the attributes of God That brings us to our second point. Faith is moved by the nature of God to be alive and active. We see here that David's faith is displayed in action. Look at verse four. I cried aloud to the Lord. David is being pursued. And his faith moves him in this direction to plead with God As he's fleeing Jerusalem, the city of God, the center of worship, we can envision now David in solemn prayer, like Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Here in the midst, in the midst of this tribulation, in the midst of a multitude pursuing him, rising up in opposition, physically and spiritually, being driven from his throne, from the city of David, from the center of the nation whom God had set him over. What does David do? How does he respond? He is moved to action. You may say, yes, of course, he's running. But that's certainly not all that he does. He cries out with my voice. I cried aloud. His faith is not inactive, but active. David is moved to commune, to communicate with his personal God, the one who hears. Because David trusts, because of his faith in God, he comes before him pouring out his heart. Consider those words. I cried aloud. The sense is that the prayer is urgent, it's emphatic, and it's with his voice. There's a sense that the prayer is out loud. It's not silent within his soul. His heart longs to be heard, and there's a pleading, a cry for help for this one who knows that there's no help coming from any other one but God himself. And so now David puts his faith on display That's why this prayer, true prayer, is a unique form of communion between God and his children. It's only in faith that we can truly pray, praying in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, as we're trusting in Him. It can only be done in faith. And so David pours out his heart. He cries out to Jehovah with his voice. He's putting his trust in God on display. He's moved to action, moved to commune with God his Savior. And he knows that God not only hears, but that he also answers. I just read a the first portion of verse four. The second portion is this, and he answered to me from his holy hill. See, there's a certain hope in the salvation that we have in Christ, isn't there? And we have a certain knowledge that our God is a good loving heavenly Father, and that all things you ask in prayer, believing you will receive. And so that's exactly what David does. He's crying to the Lord. Now we don't see exactly what he says. He knows that he's looking for salvation. This psalm is about salvation. It's about deliverance. And he doesn't speak of a particular deliverance, but he speaks of deliverance in general. And he knows that God is pouring out his love upon him. We know that The Lord Jesus Christ has been set on the throne. If we go back to Psalm 2, we we're reading that, as for me I've set my king on Zion, my holy hill, and that's where the Lord answers. David from his holy hill and who is there? Psalm 2 tells us that it's his son And so as David is crying out, there's this link between Jesus Christ being set on the throne, on the holy hill of God, and David looking toward the holy hill, seeking salvation. Salvation from his anointed, his son, our Lord Jesus, even though David didn't know the name of Jesus at the time. But he's got confidence that that the Son has been seated, that the Son exists on the throne and will intercede for the saints. And so he's pleading according to his will and displays as he pours out his heart He displays his faith. Because faith brings about restoration, doesn't it? Great contrast to I was crying now occurs in verse 5, I lay down and slept. There's a reason that David puts those two together. I cried aloud, I lay down and slept. See, what is the result of his prayer? Isn't it rejuvenation? Isn't it transformation? Isn't that what's happening between verses four and five? We don't have anything in between those two, but we can see very clearly that there's been this transformation. David's been running. He's being pursued by his son and an army behind him. And he cries out to God to his holy hill where Jesus Christ has already been seated. And now he knows he's confident in his deliverance. Even though those who are pursuing him are saying there is no salvation for you in God, he now Lays down and sleeps. Faith brings about rejuvenation and restoration, doesn't it? He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside quiet waters, Psalm 23. What turmoil there must have been for David. Enemies conspiring, his son rising up against him, multitudes pursuing him, having to urgently leave. Shut up the house. Let's go. And we need to get some food on the way Emotionally and physically draining, all the while knowing that your sin has brought this upon yourself. And it was your son who was betraying you. And yet with all this, after he cries aloud, he's able to lay down and sleep. It's quite unusual, quite unexpected. But it's a picture of restoration in the Lord, isn't it? After communing with God in prayer, there is rejuvenation, there is restoration, and physical rest, certainly spiritual restoration. Now the chastisement underway, the Lord is restoring. Do you see that? David is in the middle of this temporal judgment or chastisement or discipline that the Lord is is Hefting out on him. And yet the Lord is through that restoring David. He's fleeing for his life along with his household, Absalom on his heels, not knowing when or where he would attack. Running hard, but now laying down and sleeping. That imagery is so powerful. In the midst of the overthrow of the kingdom, the crown, so to speak, being removed from his head. David literally or even figuratively can lay down and sleep because the Lord has sustained him. Isn't that what Jesus does? The exact radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature, he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purifications for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. The Lord had sustained Jesus through his tribulation on our behalf. And after he makes purifications for sins, God the Father brings him in and seats him. David able to sleep. Restored. David did not survive this tribulation because of his intelligence. Battlefield strategy, his physical strength, his will to overcome. No. David persevered as the Lord sustained him. The Lord was his pillar. It's the Lord who is upholding as a foundation, holding the structure above it. The Lord is providing that support and strengthening David that he would stand so strong as this sustaining hand that David is able then to lie down and sleep. See faith. Faith was rejuvenating David. It was restoring David. And was also transforming David. Look at verse six. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people who have set themselves against me all around. This is significant. These multitudes, his very son, would seek to have David's head, a kingdom, rebellion, with the emphasis upon many. It's a picture of the multitude of warriors with swords drawn, coming for one thing, the head of the exiled king, a great army pursuing one person, David. And because of his faith and trust in God, the psalmist David is now able to be courageous and stand in their sight without fear. I will not be afraid of many thousands of people. How is that? It's only because David is fearful of God, isn't it? Even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I fear no evil, for you are with me. That's the idea. There's a transformation. The fear of the Lord is clean. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. David isn't able to sleep in the midst of his enemies, in the midst of his fleeing. He lies down and sleeps because he fears God. He displays his fear as he submits to him, to his will, knowing that his affliction is from the Lord. In 2 Samuel 15, the king said to Zadok, return the ark of God to the city. He's telling them what to do. If I find favor in the sight of the Lord, then he will bring me back again. And so David, even in his affliction, is submitting himself to the will of God. Perhaps the Lord will look on my affliction and return good to me instead of cursing this day. Through this reverential awe of God, this fear of the Lord was constantly transforming David's mind. Does your faith tonight enable you to rest in God during times of great trial and tribulation and affliction? It's easy for us to say, even feel, that I'm resting in the Lord during times of plenty, during times of comfort and peace. But what about when the arrows are flying overhead? When there's conflict within the family, when the boss at work is being overbearing, when health is failing, are you enabled in your trust to lay down and sleep? Do you feel refreshed or are you feeling weary? Why are you weary? David the psalmist let go of these worldly concerns. He had to. If he could write this psalm, he had to let go of the concerns by my crown, my son. My kingdom. It wasn't that David didn't care for the kingdom But that he was enabled by his faith, by the work of the Spirit, to lift up these tribulations to the Lord. David's faith enabled him to rest in God's strength and in his wisdom and goodness and trust. That after David had used those things that God had given to him, that the Lord would bring about his good will. And his good time perfectly. If you're weary tonight, maybe, maybe just maybe, it's because you're not actually resting in the sovereignty of the Lord. We read this this morning. I think it's pertinent for us to read it again tonight. What is faith in Jesus Christ? Faith in Jesus Christ is a saving grace whereby we receive and rest upon him alone for salvation. If you're weary, maybe you're not resting upon Jesus Christ alone for your salvation. That brings us to our third point. The faith is founded in the love of God demonstrated in his salvation. David knows of the present salvation of the Lord. Look at verse 7. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God, for you strike all my enemies on the cheek, you break the teeth of the wicked. David knows of his deliverance. God has already revealed it to him. He knows, he trusts, even as David pleads with God, even as he cries aloud to the Lord. He knows that he's already been delivered. He trusts in the timelessness of God. For you have smitten all my enemies on the cheek. You have shattered the teeth of the wicked It's a bit of a different translation that comes from the New American Standard, but it gives us the sense that it's already happened. That even as David is running, he also knows at the very same time that God has delivered him, that his enemies will not be victorious. That victory, so to speak, of his conspirators or against his conspirators has already been accomplished. Smitten, teeth, broken, shattered. Not able to gain any more nutrition, no more strength when your teeth are shattered, not just chipped. Broken out. Victory. The vengeance of the Lord delivering David. Even though David's enemies are currently in hot pursuit, David is living in that moment as though victory had already occurred over them. David's faith causes him to live in the confidence of what would be future delivery. Think of the scriptures that we have that tell you that you have eternal life today if you're trusting in Jesus Christ. Romans 5. Therefore, having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul doesn't write about a future peace. He speaks of a peace now. Romans 8. There's therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus today. 1 John 5, these things I've written to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. Today. Victory today over sin, over death, over Satan, today. And yet David calls upon the Lord to arise. Arise, O Lord, save me, O my God. Seems a bit backwards. He knows that God will strike down his enemies as he speaks of it in the past tense. We also have those verses in Scripture which speak of salvation as being the future. Again, Romans 5. Much more than, having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1. Wait for his son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, that is Jesus, who rescues us from the wrath to come. And so we have the already and the not yet. We have the truth that you have eternal life now in Jesus Christ. And yet he's still coming back for his bride. He it hasn't been fully and completely accomplished yet until Jesus Christ returns. And that's what we see in this Psalm. The already my enemies have been stricken and the not yet. Arise, O Lord, and save me. Does that cause you to question your own salvation tonight? You get the already part, but maybe the not yet part. Well, David also deals with that in the last verse. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be upon your people. David is answering that question, who owns salvation? Now we might think that's a strange way to think of salvation. Who owns it? But there is this competition going on in Psalm 3. Those who are pursuing David are saying of his soul, There's no salvation for you in God. And it's as if they own salvation. It's as if they get to decide who will be delivered and who won't be delivered. David is saying, no. Saying deliverance is from God alone. Those who were pursuing David was were thinking that their power was so magnificent, so so powerful, their numbers so large that God could not stop. Their plan. But David knows differently. Salvation belongs to the Lord. That's been the real issue throughout the entire psalm, hasn't it? Who can save, who determines salvation who owns salvation, who is able to deliver. And David says at the end of the Psalm, summing everything up, salvation belongs to the Lord. Literally translated from the Hebrew, from the Lord is salvation. He is the owner. Salvation flows out from God, the Lord Jehovah, and from none other. How could it emanate from anyone else? Salvation is not in the hands of wicked men. They they never had a grasp on David. Because God was his God God did and and God does have every man, woman, and child within his grasp, and salvation is only from him He is the judge, and he is the fountain of mercy and grace through his son, Lord Jesus Christ. God determines all things regarding salvation. Who will be saved? Who will be passed over? How his children will be saved, the means, the mode, and for what purpose his children, his people will be saved. And then as God, as the Lord, the owner, the possessor of salvation, as the translation set forth, salvation belongs to Him. If you're trusting in Jesus Christ tonight, you have been saved by the owner. By the one to whom salvation belongs. God, the triune God, has determined to give it to you as a gift. Today, as you trust in Jesus Christ, how are you going to use it? If that describes you tonight as one who is truly and sincerely trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, how are you going to use that faith? How does your faith move you? David used it to live righteously before God. Not perfectly, not sinlessly. Indeed, that's a centerpiece of this psalm, that David was a sinner. But in faith, with the life of faith, with the life of trust that he was given. David did not despair as the multitudes pursued him. He did not fear those who sought his blood, but feared God. And David was not paralyzed by worry, but engaged in fervent prayer, crying out to the Lord, and did not lay awake in toil and tribulation. But lay down and slept, knowing that Jesus Christ had been set upon the holy hill, that his cries would be heard and answered And that salvation belongs to the Lord. And the salvation of God is actively founded in his nature and is unmoved by the events of the world and the rebellion of men. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego knew that. So did David, and certainly so did Jesus Christ. Praise God that He has worked faith in our hearts. We need to ask the Spirit To move us to use that faith for the glory of our triune God. Amen. Father and our God, I thank you and praise you for the Lord Jesus Christ tonight. Even as we read this psalm, Father, we we know that it points us to Christ. We know that it He was the one who full of faith and trust in you went to the cross willingly. He was moved Lord, by his faith, by his knowledge, by his understanding, by his conviction that you were a God of promises and a God who kept his promises and his father who would raise him from the dead. And so, Father, we thank you for Christ. And we thank you for David, who penned this psalm and probably unknowingly was penning it about his Savior. Father, we thank you, we praise you for this psalm tonight and ask that you would bury it deeply within our hearts, and that as we live in this life, That you, Father, would cause us to be moved by our faith, to live in a way that glorifies your name and exalts the name of Jesus. Help us, Lord. We ask all these things in his precious name. Amen.