And now God's word comes to us once again from the book of Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes chapter 2. Ecclesiastes 2, verses 12 through 26. We continue through Ecclesiastes in chapter 2. We see this second half of chapter 2, the remainder of chapter 2 that we cover here. We've seen, you know, Solomon was really struggling with what he perceives to be the vanity of life under the sun. We've seen that he set his heart on trying out different things to see whether these different things were the answer to the vanity of life under the sun. We saw in chapter one he tried wisdom. Can wisdom undo the vanity of life under the sun? And he concluded, no, no, it cannot. What about enjoyment? Can enjoyment and pleasure undo the vanity of life under the sun? In chapter 2, last week's passage, Solomon concluded, no, no, it cannot Well then he turns now to consider something else here in Ecclesiastes 2, verses 12 through 26. Not not something else in place of those things. But he trends consider the question of, is there anything? Is there anything that can answer if not wisdom and not enjoyment cannot undo the vanity of life under the sun? Is there anything at all? And if there's nothing at all, what is the point? What and if wisdom and pleasure can't undo it, what is the point of wisdom and what is the point of pleasure? He begins to consider these questions Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verse 12 through 26. This is God's word. Give your attention to the reading of it Then I turned myself to consider wisdom and madness and folly. For what can the man do who succeeds the king? Only what he has already done. Then I saw that wisdom excels folly as light excels darkness. The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yet, I myself perceived that the same event happens to them all. So I said in my heart, As it happens to the fool, it also happens to me. And why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, This also is vanity. For there is no more remembrance of the wise than of the fool forever. Since all that now is will be forgotten in the days to come. And how does a wise man die? As the fool Therefore, I hated life, because the work that was done under the sun was distressing to me, for all is vanity and grasping for the wind. Then I hated all my labor in which I had toiled under the sun, because I must leave it to the man who will come after me. And who knows whether he will be wise or a fool. Yet he will rule over all my labor. In which I toiled, and in which I have shown myself wise under the sun. This also is vanity Therefore I turned my heart and despaired of all the labor in which I had toiled under the sun. For there is a man whose labor is with wisdom, knowledge, and skill Yes, he must leave his heritage to a man who has not labored for it. This also is vanity and a great evil. For what has man for all his labor and for the striving of his heart, with which he has toiled under the sun? For all his days are sorrowful, and his work burdensome. Even in the night his heart takes no rest. This also is vanity Nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. For who can eat, or who can have enjoyment more than I? For God gives wisdom and knowledge and joy to a man who is good in his sight, but to the sinner he gives the work of gathering and collecting that he may give to him who is good before God. This also is vanity and grasping for the wind. As far as the reading of God's Word, may he add his blessing to it and to its preaching in our midst this morning. So again, we've seen so far in the book of Ecclesiastes how Solomon, the preacher, has been looking for the answer to the brokenness of life under the sun, life in this world, life under the curse of sin. We've seen that he's tried to come up with something that might answer or undo or fix the brokenness or vanity of life under the sun. We've seen that he's tried out, he's gone out of his way to try and see if wisdom could be the answer to the vanity of life. under the sun. He did that at the end of chapter one. He set his heart on considering whether wisdom was the answer to the brokenness of life under the sun. We saw in chapter two earlier on, the first half of this chapter, we saw how he tried to see, well, maybe the answer is pleasure and enjoyment. What if he uses his wisdom to build up for his th himself all kinds of things that bring him pleasure and enjoyment, good things even? And if he should come up with all these things by means of his wisdom, would this be the answer to the vanity of life under the sun that he perceives? The fact that life seems to be broken The fact that life seems to be pointless, worthless, the fact that the things that you built up are soon gone. Swept away as life passes on, as one generation rolls over one to the next. Accomplishments and accumulations don't last because there's this reality of death That prevents you from taking with you the things you have gotten. Solomon tries out wisdom. Solomon tries out enjoyment and pleasure. He finds that neither of these things answers the brokenness or vanity of life under the sun. And the question is. If neither wisdom nor enjoyment nor pleasure answers the brokenness or vanity of life under the sun What's the point of seeking any of those things? Is there any point to either of them? Is there any point to any of it. We see Solomon in our passage in a at a point of despair. You know, that word despair was used there. Um it was used uh there in verse 20 He despaired over his labor. He tried wisdom. He tried to seek enjoyment through wisdom. He sought wisdom and pleasure But because these things did not satisfy, he ended up despairing over both. Yes, what we see in our passage is very much captured by that theme of despair. And now he's uh going deeper into that despair that had begun in earlier sections. And here in our passage, it seems like Solomon is inclined to say that there's no point Well, if wisdom doesn't make life meaningful ultimately, if pleasure and enjoyment doesn't make life meaningful ultimately, is there any point at all? This is the question that Solomon has before his mind in the meditations of our chapter here. And notice one of the reasons why There's a question as to whether there's anything, there's any point to life at all. The great reality that that Solomon brushes up against is the reality of death. And it's death that is the great equalizer. You can seek wisdom. You can seek enjoyment. Death takes it all away from you. No matter how much you come up with, death is the end of the line. Now notice how this is what he gets at in verses fourteen through eighteen especially. In verses fourteen through eighteen He has this meditation on whether it's better to be wise or better to be a fool. And he concludes, yes, wisdom is better. What does he say in verse 14? The wise man's eyes are in his head, but the fool walks in darkness. Yeah, see? It's better to be wise than it is to be a fool. Yes. In conclusion, he perceives, I myself perceived, that the same event happens to them all. In the end, whether you're wise or you're a fool, You end up in the same place. And if that's true, you understand the question he asked next. As it happens to the fool, it also happens to me. So why did I go to all that trouble of being wise? If wisdom and pleasure do not undo the brokenness of life in this world, and if death still looms, cast its shadow over what little enjoyments can be had in this life, Why go after them? It's the same death at the end of the line. This is Solomon's point. It's vanity. Here's part of the vanity. Death itself is part of the vanity. Death casts its shadow backwards onto everything in our lives. Even from the very first moment. Even from the very first moments of birth we are afraid of. the end that is to come. And we see we feel even a sense of futility over that looming end. Even uh you know, we have this concern about children who are born, you know, we we fear that l their life will be cut short. Or those who live well into many decades, late in life, to a ripe old age, still we are afraid. That their lives will be cut short. Death looms over all. And this is the great thing that that uh Solomon points out in this text again. So if death is still the end of the line Why bother being wise? Also, why bother doing the things that Solomon did? Remember the things that he did to build up his kingdom in chapter 2, the earlier part of this chapter Remember, he set himself to make his kingdom a nice kingdom, nice things for himself, houses. Gardens and orchards and vineyards, fruit trees, water pools, singers, musicians, musical instruments, gold, silver. He built up this great and glorious kingdom for himself And yet he also is forced to face that question that when it comes time for him to die, it will no longer be his. And when he gets to that point, he does have to face that question of what was the point? I was building and building and building towards tomorrow. And yet one day I'm going to face death. Isn't this vanity? And in fact, when I face my death, Solomon says, you'll notice everything that I worked up for myself. It's not actually for me, he points out. It's not actually for me. It's for the guy who comes after me And guess what? That guy who comes after me might not even be worthy of it. You you notice some of that language there in uh here verse 18. Um Again, there's this there's this sort of futility to it. Why am I spending my whole life building up these things that are going to just get passed on to a guy who might not even be worthy of it? A guy who might in the end be foolish? He's living off of the wisdom that I came up, that I gained and attained by striving and working hard and exercising. And yet he's going to inherit the fruits of my labors, and he might in the end just be a blundering fool. This is what Solomon is wrestling with. And he's saying, what is what was the point of all that? So again, um, you know, here he is, he's at the end. Um earlier on it he seemed a little bit more hopeful. He seemed like, oh okay, maybe wisdom, maybe pleasure and enjoyment. Now he's reflecting back from the end and saying, no, uh what was the point of all that? What was the point of all that? Again we see um verse 17 and verse 18, very strong language. Having come to the end of all this, he hates life. I hated life, verse seventeen. Verse 18, I hated all my labor. I came to feel how how pointless it was that I'm just Gonna pass it on and not going to get to keep any of it after death. Therefore I hated it. Very strong language. Verse 20, I despaired of it Very strong language. What's the point of it all? If wisdom, if pleasure and enjoyment do not undo or fix the brokenness of life? Well, why even go after them at all? Why even try to be wise? Why even try to build up things? This is the question that Solomon is dealing with. And the great um the thing that forces him to deal with this is the reality of death, that the end of the line is coming. And when the end of the line comes You lose it all. Everything that you came up with, you lose. And so from this perspective, he concludes in verse 23, this is what man's life is like. All his days are sorrowful and his work burdensome, since it doesn't ultimately last to any lasting satisfaction. But at the same time that he's working for all this, even in the night, his heart takes no rest. You think about the things you fret about at night as you're um trying to sleep sometimes. You think about the things you fret about. If you realize from a bigger perspective how small those things are. It's uh you you have to question sometimes, well, what's the point of fretting over these things? Again, if these are things that are going to be gone one day, the things we fret about are so often things that are just temporary. And yet We still have a hard time with this, and our hearts still struggle to find rest in the midst of our labors as we're um struggling with you know, um things that are temporary. Uh it you know, j just pointing that out doesn't make it any easier for us not to fret You know, just because we can point to them and say that they're they're temporary doesn't mean that it's any easier not to fret. We all still fret and worry about these things. And yet, this characterization of life in verse 23 is the way Solomon finds life under the sun for man. And so this is his question: what is the point? What is the point of wisdom? What is the point of seeking enjoyment, even in good things in this life, if in the end it's all going to be get taken away from you by the reality of death Now, there is another way to look at the matters that Solomon is thinking about. And I believe he actually comes to it in verses 24 and 26. in particular. Verses 24 and 26. We see Solomon finally coming to an answer in these verses. And I believe that that's what's taking place here in verses 24 and 26. You can fret about the fact that wisdom and pleasure and enjoyment do nothing to undo the brokenness of life. But another way to look at it is to take things like wisdom and enjoyment for what they are. Yes, things that don't undo the brokenness of life or the vanity of life, but nonetheless, things that can be enjoyed and received as gifts from the Lord. And I believe that's what Solomon is saying here in verse 24 and 26. Notice verse 24. Nothing is better for a man than that he should eat and drink, and that his soul should enjoy good in his labor. This also I saw was from the hand of God. So again, um, yes, if you try to put on pleasure, if you try to pin on it, The burden of fixing everything that's broken about this world, that's a burden that wisdom and pleasure cannot bear. But if you point to pleasure as, well, okay, it's not going to fix the world, but it's something good from God for the short term. If you can approach it with that mindset, then it's okay. It's okay to receive it as a gift from God for what it is And I do believe that that's what Solomon is doing here in verse 24. He is saying, okay, so food and drink, do not undo the vanity of life under the sun, but They are still gifts from God to be enjoyed. Verse 26 mentions wisdom, God giving wisdom and knowledge and joy. To a man who is good in his sight. So a man who serves God and who accepts wisdom from him, it is a gift of God for him to have wisdom. So again, these verses, 24 and 26 especially, point to a turning point in Solomon's thinking. Yes, he realizes wisdom enjoyment, they can't fix life under the sun. But still, they are good gifts from God, and we can take them for what they are. Yes, when you die, you're going to lose all the wisdom that you've gained, you're going to lose all the enjoyment that you've built up and gained But nonetheless, can you still just accept them for what they are and receive them as something good if only for the short term? And if you can do that, then they are And they are God's gift to you. Now, of course, one very significant thing to understand is that the only way that we can receive wisdom and joy for what they are is if that bigger question is answered or settled for us, right? Because if all we see at the end of the line is death robbing us of everything we've gained. Really, what is the point? Yet, if we do have a hope that shines beyond death And if the brokenness of this life has been overturned by Jesus Christ, then we can accept things like wisdom and pleasure as okay in the short term. And this is what Ecclesiastes is pointing us to. How do you receive wisdom and joy as a gift from God? Only if you know that the brokenness of life has been overturned by the work of Jesus Christ. Only if you have your heart set upon a hope that lasts beyond life under the sun Only if you know that you belong to God's new creation, accomplished by Jesus Christ's blood, accomplished by his Holy Spirit, working in us. accomplished by Christ's return on the last day when he brings about that final hope. If your hope is set on that age to come, Then you are able to understand that this life is what it is. Some things will come, some things will go, this life will pass. Wisdom and pleasures, they won't fix what's wrong with the world. They might help to cope in the meantime, but we can accept them for what they are. Gifts from God that comes from his hand and enjoy them for what they are. And this is indeed what Solomon is pointing to in our passage. Again, what is the point of wisdom? What is the point of joy or and enjoyment? Well don't expect that they're gonna fix everything that's wrong with the world. But do receive them as gifts from God for the short term and accept them and thank God for those things as you receive those things But you can only do those things if you know Jesus Christ, and you can only do those things if you have a hope that's set beyond life under the sun. Now, because that's true, beloved, may all these things be true of us. Our calling in this passage is clearly that we should not be in the position that Solomon is in early in the text Verses 12 through 23. This should not be where our heart is. Despairing of the fact that wisdom doesn't solve the world's problems. Despairing of the fact that enjoyment in this life is going to pass. But we should be where Solomon is in verses twenty-four and twenty-six in particular. Receiving from God wisdom and enjoyment as gifts that come to him for the short term, or that come to us for the short term. Well, we wait for the thing that we have our hope set on. And the thing we have our hope set on is God's eternal kingdom. So may we therefore be quick to live in this way? to thank God for what He brings into our life, for the time that He brings it, while also having our ultimate hope and our hearts set upon that which is to come, that which will last forever, that which Jesus Christ has won for us. That which is reserved for us in heaven, that which we will enjoy one day on a day that is coming soon. Amen. Let's pray O Father in heaven, we rejoice that we are your children by grace, that you have purchased us by the work of Jesus Christ. How we rejoice that we have this great hope beyond life under the sun. We thank you that this hope that we have in Christ frees us from the burden. of having to act like our wisdom can fix what's wrong with life under the sun? Frees us from the burden of acting like temporary pleasures and enjoyments are the answer to what's wrong with life under the sun. Thank you that we can accept your solution, the redemption that comes through Christ, and thank you that as we do so, we are also able to receive what wisdom and enjoyment we have in this life as your gifts to us for the short term. Strengthen us in our ability to do so. Strengthen us in our ability to let pass the things that would pass Strengthen us in our ability to recognize the limits of our own wisdom, and help us to bring glory and honor to you, and to give thanks to you for that which you do give, and to receive it from you. And praise and thank you for it. We pray all these things in the name of Christ, our Savior. Amen