The sermon passage for today comes to us from Philippians chapter 3. We continue pressing forward through the book of Philippians, now in chapter 3, verses 7 through 11. And now what you're going to hear in this passage is Paul's discussion of how his values have changed dramatically. Before Paul talked about how he was able to have confidence in his flesh at a prior time in his life Now he talks in such a way as to say that that whole way of thinking has completely flip-flops. Polar opposite of what it was before. What was gained is now loss. Polar opposites that have changed places. What is gained is loss. That means that what is loss is also gain. But you're going to hear the change in how Paul thinks in Philippians 3, verses 7 through 11. And he does this for the instruction of the Philippians that they might understand. Part of what it is to live by faith in Christ. So now the reading of God's Word comes in. Philippians 3, verses 7 through 11. Is the Word of God, so therefore give your attention to its reading in your midst this morning. But what things were gain to me These I have counted loss for Christ. Yet indeed I also count all things loss. For the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things. And count them as rubbish that I may gain Christ and be found in him Not having my own righteousness, which is from the law, but that which is through faith in Christ. The righteousness which is from God by faith, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection. And the fellowship of his sufferings, being conformed to his death, if by any means I may attain to the resurrection from the dead Now, once again, what we see in this text is how Paul's values have changed very dramatically. There are things that he once counted as gain. Credit, good things, positives. Now he considers them the opposite. Liabilities, debts, loss, refuse, rubbish, dung Garbage. Things that he once thought were great and glorious. He now puts it out there as something not worth trampling on under your feet. And this great change that Paul has gone through is descriptive of the transition he's made from being a Pharisee To being a Christian. For here the contrast that we see is between life as a Pharisee and life as a Christian. And it's very significant for us to be aware that to live as a Christian and for Paul to live as a Christian was a lot more than just being a Pharisee who started using the name Jesus Or this is Paul's whole point. He used to count it a positive that he was a Pharisee. Now he counts it a negative that he was a Pharisee. Becoming a Christian, coming to faith in Christ, gave to Paul a radical change in what he counted as of worth. And what he counted to no longer be of worse. And one thing that changes for Paul that we see in our text is his view of righteous status. His view of your status before God, how you have a righteous status before God, and what that has to do with your performance. Or else doesn't have to do with your performance. When Paul was a Pharisee, what determined the status of righteousness before God? Was Performance. The contrary to the righteousness that Paul now claims is that which was his own righteousness. Now he claims a righteousness that is not his own. But that means that before he claimed a righteousness that was his own. A righteousness that was of his own doing. A righteousness that was of his own performance. A righteousness that was of his performance of the law. That's what Paul claimed before. Now Paul doesn't claim that at all. Now he puts it aside. What righteous status does he claim instead in verse 9? In verse 9, it's a righteousness not his own. Not from the law, not through his performance of the law. His righteous status is instead something not that he achieves But something that is given to him. For in verse 9, this righteousness comes from God. It's a righteousness that comes down from God to Paul. It's a righteous status given to Paul rather than accomplished by Paul, attained by Paul. Now what is the righteousness that comes down to him from God? It is nothing other than the very righteousness of Jesus Christ himself. Jesus Christ himself in accomplishing the fullness of righteousness in his own person, that righteousness, that obedience is counted as if it's Paul's. One word that we use to describe this is the language of imputation. Imputation. Imputation is language of crediting or accounting. It means that Paul is no longer judged based on his track record, but Paul is instead judged based on Jesus Christ's track record. Christ's track record is counted as if it is Paul's track record. Paul is viewed before God as if he had done everything. To the full extent that Jesus Christ did. What Jesus Christ did is counted as Paul's record. This is the truth for every single one of us who has true faith in Christ. Our track record is not what determines our status before God or in the church. Christ's track record is what determines our status before God. In ourselves, if we judge our own performance rightly We know that it is lost and dung and rubbish, but in ourselves or in Christ we know Covered with his track record, there is perfect standing, there is perfect uprightness to come before God, and to approach one another as justified saints. Who are equally justified by Christ's performance rather than our own performance Now again, look how drastic a shift this is for Paul. Because as you reflect on the text from last week, you know, Paul spoke about confidence in the flesh. He said, what confidence he was able to have in the flesh, you know, in his Jewishness, in the fact that he was a Hebrew of Hebrews. And the fact that he was zealous for the keeping of the law. This was the way Paul used to live. Every moment he tried to live as though his righteousness depended on How well he kept the law or didn't keep the law. When you view righteous status in that way, what happens to your status if you sin Your status goes down. You're less righteous than you were before. And then what do you have to do to get that status back up? You s try to do good. But moment to moment you become obsessed with depending on Making sure you're doing the right thing at every morning, at every moment. Consumed with caution, consumed with carefulness. To make sure your righteous status does not dip. Trying to avoid the ebbs and flows that come with relative highs, relative lows. If your status depends upon you, it's on you to keep it. But now Paul thinks differently about righteousness. Again, here in chapter 3, verse 9, the righteousness he has is not from the law, is not of Paul's own doing anymore. Now he sees a righteousness that it that stands fast, that doesn't go anywhere, because it's a righteousness already accomplished by Jesus Christ, a righteousness that's been given, not attained. It's a righteousness that's already finished. It's complete. It can't lose anything. Even the sins of believers can do nothing to detract from the righteousness that they have as a status in Jesus Christ. Our ever-shifting performance of sometimes struggling on and off with sin and unbelief, wrestling with how we can be better, trying to be better, which we ought to do. Does not affect our righteous status before God, does not affect our righteous status within God's church. Each and every one of us who is in Christ has a perfect righteousness that can never be taken away. And this is what Paul comes to understand. Paul, as a Christian, comes to understand this. Paul as a Pharisee would not have understood this. Paul as a Pharisee thought very differently. Paul as a Christian understands this. We need to understand this. Righteousness is gained through faith in Christ. Righteous status is something that's a gift from God, something that's received by God. So here's one way that Paul has changed from being a Pharisee. He's become a Christian because he believes that righteousness is from God as a gift, as a status. That is Christ's righteousness imputed or counted to the one who has faith in Jesus Christ Now another way that Paul changes in our text, though, has another thing to do with what he values. Now he values the righteousness that comes through Christ, but through faith alone. Another thing Paul values that he's come to value shows up in verses eight and nine and also verses ten and eleven. What does Paul now value that he formerly did not used to value? That other thing that he values in this passage, which takes up a lot of this passage, is The knowledge of Jesus Christ. Knowing Jesus Christ. Knowing Jesus Christ and being made like him. Now again, you'll recall, Paul is the Pharisee. The last thing Paul wanted to do was to know Jesus Christ And the last thing he wanted to do was to be made like Christ, especially in Christ's suffering. Paul didn't want to know Christ or be like Christ in his suffering. Paul wanted to make those who said they knew Christ suffer for it. And he wanted to make them like Christ by making them suffer. Here Paul has gone through yet another reversal of his values, yet another dramatic change from how he used to think to how he thinks now as a Christian. Now he values the knowing of Christ so much that there's nothing else that compares to knowing Christ. Everything alongside of knowing Christ is loss and rubbish. Again, Paul says this in verse 8. I count all things lost for the excellence of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. To know Christ is of such a value, but is also in such a category that there's nothing you can put alongside of it that adds to it or takes away from it. It's such of such an unsurpassable value, an inexpressible value, that if you have it, then you have something very great, and and nothing that's added to or taken away from it Can touch it or change it. Paul values knowing Christ. Look what else Paul values. He values knowing Christ even to the point of being made like him through suffering. Now, the question is, how would Paul have thought about suffering as a Pharisee? As a Pharisee, Paul would have thought of suffering as something that God gives in response to sin. Suffering is God's curse against sin every time it happens. That would have been Paul's view as a Pharisee. And so when Paul goes and he persecutes the Church of God, As a Pharisee, he thinks that what he's doing is dealing out God's judgment on God's behalf. He finds the church guilty of not keeping the law. And he takes it upon himself to deal out the punishment that they deserve under God's hands. The way that Paul viewed suffering as a Pharisee meant that if you're going through suffering, The question you really ought to ask, the question you ought really ought to deal with is, well, what is the sin you've committed to cause this? The way Paul thought about suffering as a Pharisee was the way that Job's friends thought about suffering. was the way that some others thought about suffering when they approached Jesus and asked him, who sinned to make this man born blind? Was it him or was it his parents? This is the Pharisaic view of suffering. That if you s if you suffer, it's because you've done something to bring God's punishment upon yourself. If you suffer, it's because you are not truly righteous. If you suffer, it's because your status is not righteousness. But look what Paul says now. Now Paul says, wait a minute, suffering happens to people whose status is perfectly righteous? This is a drastic shift. Lots of people ask that question, why do good people suffer bad things? We know that's not true in one sense. We know that all of us are sinners and all of us suffer um things that are in some way related to the curse that was due to sin. But why do people who are perfectly righteous suffer bad things? And this is what Paul is dealing with here. For Paul um insists that his status is perfect righteousness in Christ. And yet with that comes suffering. How can that be? Not just that. Suffering, Paul says Comes to those whose status is perfect righteousness, not to punish their sins, but actually suffering comes to them as a gift that actually gives them something good. This is what Paul says. Suffering for the one who belongs to Christ. It is not God's curse against you, punishing you for your sins. It is God's gift. It is something God uses. What does he use it for? He says to Paul, Paul says, that these sufferings are used to make him more like Christ. Your sufferings come to you in the Christian life, not as God's punishment for your sins, at least not in every case, or at last. And can't all is directly be traced to some sin you committed, no But even when it does come to you in that way, you should accept it as God using your suffering to make you more like Christ. So that is again, that's something that Paul's Paul's getting at. You know, we've seen in Philippians, Paul has been through a lot of suffering. It's alluded to, it's referred to throughout the the earlier chapters that we've been through already. And Paul saw it as a gift that is granted. And he challenged the Philippians to see it in the same light Well now this is what it's it's interesting when you reflect on his Pharisaic background and you you reflect on the su the the Pharisaic view of suffering. And you compare that to his his view of suffering now as a Christian. You know, his attitude about suffering here is, hey, if it makes me more like Christ, Great. And his attitude is also, if it's something that you know God uses to make me know Jesus Christ better, wonderful. Here's what Paul values. He values knowing Christ even to the point that he will suffer for it. So again, you know, those are the main things that Paul is getting at in this text as you kind of Kind of reflect on it. Um an utter utter reversal of what he used to hold to as a Pharisee, a transformation of values. The things that he once valued, he values no longer. And he has a new set of values that is based on Jesus Christ. And that is utterly utterly the opposite and the flip side to his former life As a Pharisee. Now, what are we seeing in this text that relates to us? Paul, as a Christian, is a model to us as Christians. The ways that Paul gets at being a Christian rather than a Pharisee are things that should be reflected in our manner of faith and life as God's people. Paul's Christian life is a glimpse of how our Christian life should be. Okay? When we think about living the Christian life, we need to reflect Paul the Christian. But not Paul the Pharisee. We need to keep in mind that there's a difference between these two. That our lives and faith as Christians should reflect more Paul's attitude as a Christian In verses 7 through eleven, then Paul the Pharisee in verses 4, 5, and 6, when he described himself there. We need to think about righteous status as something that comes from God, not something that we enter, not something that changes and ebbs and flows with our relative ups and downs. We need to remember that righteous status is something given by God through Christ. We need to remember that all God's people who belong to Him Have perfect righteous status, and that is included within the church. That as we deal with one another in the church That we approach one another as people who are perfectly righteous in Christ, and that we treat each other as such. That we are willing to forgive, that we are willing to put aside performance that is less than perfect. You need to realize that our relationship to God And our relationships within the church need to be based on Christ's righteous status. We all have that status if we belong to Jesus Christ, and we need to be true to that. As we think about our own relationship to God, as we also think about our relationships within the church, we need to remember we all have a perfect standing, not of our own doing, but of Christ's doing. We also are challenged by this passage. You know, when Paul was a Pharisee, he called himself a Hebrew of Hebrews. When Paul becomes a Christian, does he ever use such language? Does he ever call himself a Christian of Christians? You can only be a standout among the group of God's people. If you're if you're depending standing uh if you're making standing depend on relative performance. And that's what Paul did. Yet, as a Christian, he never calls himself a standout Christian. The one thing he he he describes himself as standing out for is sin. He calls himself the chief of sinners. As a Pharisee, he calls himself Hebrew of Hebrews. As a Christian, he calls himself chief of all sinners. So this is important for us to remember. In the Christian life, there's no room to boast in our performance. There is room for us to boast in our failure and in our weakness, but only so that we may magnify Christ all the more. So this is important for us to keep in mind. Another thing that is important to remember is to accept the challenge that Paul issues to us again on how we think of our sufferings. Nobody likes to go through suffering. Nobody really enjoys the experience of suffering in and of itself. But are we able to look at it and receive it from God the way that Paul receives it? Are we able to receive it as something valuable that God brings into our lives? Are we able to receive it as something that God uses to make us more like Jesus Christ? Are we able to take it as an opportunity to know Christ better? And partly to know him by becoming more like him. Are we able to look at our sufferings and not jump straight to the conclusion that Job's friends did and say, well, what's the sin that I did? That made this happen. Are we able to approach each other within the church and not jump to that conclusion? Oh, well, such and such over here is sinning or is must have sinned. in order for this to happen to him or her. Can we not approach each other in that way? Can we not jump to that Pharisaic conclusion That every time suffering comes, who sinned this man or his parents? Who sinned this person or someone else related to them? Can we instead have Paul's mindset rejoicing even in suffering, taking it for what it is from the Lord as an opportunity? Yes, an opportunity to bring glory to him Yes, an opportunity to be made more like him. Yes, conform to his deaths. Yes, Paul the Pharisee would have hated that Paul the Pharisee did not want anything to do with being made like Jesus in his death. Paul the Christian glories in it. We as Christians need to glory in it, should glory in it, even should glory in it together with our fellow believers. Should be able to come alongside one another and rejoice together in what we have in Christ. A perfect righteous status. We are all of us Closed with the status that we will have for all eternity in a way that none of us can lose it. Let's live together and treat each other as though that's true. We are all together being made more and more like Jesus Christ, conform to his image. Let's come alongside of each other when they're suffering, when they're struggling. Let's be willing to do that with the attitude of encouragement. And not not judging people for what they suffer thinking that it's because of their sin. Let's be willing to say, well praise God, that at least in this We are all together coming to know Christ better. We are all together being conformed to Christ, even in his death. May we indeed live like Paul lived as a Christian, and may we live less and less the way Paul lived as a Pharisee. And may we do these things for the glory of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. O Lord God, we come before you as people who are all too quick to live like Paul the Pharisee, and we confess this, O Lord. That in ourselves, this is where our hearts go. In ourselves, this is where our minds go. Yet we give praise to you. You have saved us. Help us to recognize how great that is what you have done. And that you have, in saving us, you've opened our eyes to the reality of sin and the reality of grace. Help us to live like Paul the Christian, not like Paul the former Pharisee. Help us to live in uprightness with one another. Help us to live as your people. Thank you, O Lord. None of us has the righteousness that it takes in ourselves. All of us in Christ have the righteousness that it takes. And we'll never lose it. And can never lose it. Thank you, O Lord, that you are at work conforming us to his image. Thank you that you are making us like him. Yes, even in his death. Yes, even in our sufferings. Thank you that you are also making us like him in his resurrection, and that one day we will see the fullness of this. Lord, bless your people, we pray. Anything good we have is from you. Help us to recognize this and to live consistently in this confession. We ask all these things in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen.