Checking up your copy back word now for mastery. You can finally study in the Basketball you're doing Crafty 11 Could be on page 970 within two values. And then in the middle of that property, the context would be done even the 1600 The world is men will be on data twenty twenty two. To the content of the failed, entirely But so what do I compare this generation? Because I said sitting in the marketplaces and tire into their journey, we told the food from you and you did not join it. The sun of the board when you do not know. The brown son, either eat eating or drinking, and both places are a dream. The summer tongue, eating. Wisdom and emotional look at him, a blotten and a blanket, a form that has it and sin it. But reason is justified by the deeds Then he began to demand the city that most of his mighty work had undone. And Cato did not return. Why tea, Kyagi? Why he That's children. But if the money work done in me had been done in power and sharpness, where would it be hunted long ago in transgression? But I tell you, will you be more bearable in a day of judgment to call and find than for you? And you, Captain, will you be exalted to heaven? We have to brought down the Hodi. But if the mighty work done and we've been done in Saturn, we would have been learning and said it's good. Okay. But it will be more powerful in the day of judgment for the name of God. And for me. Amen. Father, my God, we come to a difficult task. Father is how the field Jesus Christ comes in. And so we ask the God by it, indeed. Bally feel it. And how they've seen it is that A laps of repentance principle. Somebody encourage that. Entage the value of feelings and tight Maybe one of the most memorable events in all of Pipster where we see one man And do you record the closing into multiple opportunities? The clean to the path Edom and faith with a speaking master with a god. You may know that I'm speaking of Pharaoh, king of Egypt. And a template that God has sent to clean to deliver his people from the attracted hand of the Egyptians. When they said We read in Exodus chapter 9 of Moses. Just that it starts toward heaven, and the Lord sent thunder and hell, fire and down upon the earth is dancing continues amongst the people. The war was such that Moon and Beast were stuck down. They were square in the field. Only now in the basin where the people of Israel live. There's no hill. If people not feel down. has been done, had been done in the very view, in the very sight of all, and yet he sins again, he hardened his heart against God and against God Don't disturbance and doesn't let the people of Israel do. And what it happened against ten suffix treasons Sitting up to a work of God when they felt in you. You continue to gather in the things. If more than from Matthew's doctor you have something similar, not one of them, but these two different students. He's been calling, he's been preaching his disciples. He's been preaching and teaching the word of God. He's been healing. He's been casting out demons. He's his disciples that the harvest is possible and his friend's remote to perform the word of God. And then he gave that himself and continued is simply some question. Then the battery says The Jesus asked them if he was indeed the one that they could accept as a Messiah, the one who should under his friend In a sense, Jesus has already answered that question, but now I think he continues to answer that question, even though the disciples have left and the continuous case and peace required to divine man. Again, the Lama Pakistan is a gift of repentance as believers Suppose God for the powerful works of Jesus disposed from repentance. The grip of repentance as reason. to pose God to the powerful way to breathe it which expose them extended. You see that in three sense this manifest the reality of Godness Secondly the power of works in final rejects and distinctions. And already join the reality. as brightness. You see here that Jesus is mentioned that I already have said yes. Yay to use as an Yay the studio. To begin to demand as we see in this country the city, the most added mighty work have been gone. He then said not with that word yo means in its unpack. He demands the game of this this Difficult with priest and justifiable fail. and territories. We're very affluent against any different city. We connect with low arm and very study to The city refused to believe upon Jesus as God's very son of Savior and authority accepted once the very custom of John to disciples were asking him to come in the one who then prophesied about to still be passing David's great son which we see him in the past Seems to be refused as a fan. Because they need to admit the paint. Because they're in the world. Because Jesus pronounced his will upon them. Upon the unbelievable, upon the thing, upon the refuse, they receive him as the living God through his friend. that word where use it for example that was very long as well if you find his very upon five complexity With the review. Because poem that they have so to do with the re to do and that is to lead upon him, it's to reduce it to his remainder my sins, the most sinful unbelief. And if you notice that he's not rebuking new individuals. Let's think about that for a minute. Three cities. Horizon. Vascade. Definitely a family. He's not calling that individual moments, individual people, or even individual family. He is calling that entire city. Entire Communities of futures. In a sense, at least there's a literal word day, not making such things for any subgroup, I don't know And then Jesus promises well upon an entire studies. Although again believers within that belief. It it's only so pervasive, the unbelief It's so do all. Everything else is very entirely good. Entire community. Jesus knows and you know. It's just because it said very clearly that a father will not be penis for his son's sin, nor will a son be penis for his father's sin. The sons will not suffer for the iniquity of the Father. But each man is penis for his own sin. We know that that since he's only sin And what we see is terrestrial andasmaking of war and buildings from the entire community, an entire group of species. Nathan starts to appear as a gender and new man, both of whom recognized the things as their fathers and sat for given. Daniel prayed and said to nine, O Lord, to you belongs righteousness, but to us opens things He also led the lands open time to our sins, to our patience, and to our father, because we are sin and don't we We collect to be a sin against you. General sin. Be very good with kings and kings Exercise in questionable judgment and give them a whole land to go to decides to go to Pardon. To use amongst the known for their sleeping nature. Think of that family when you influence the community hard a tiny family. So much private of their business And from the route that is pouring down upon me things, that was down. It seems to put him up upon him Do you do it for so long to long to return? Even if it's been a chance I tell you with the most tired and a day of judgment. It's coming through you to come. Would you be brought into heaven? We'd be brought down to heaven. And judgment It's been four, I tell you that when he's no fire and day of judgment, the one of fighting and team. Greatestly trying to fight him. listening to when he doesn't expense. That way we come into his way. Yes, they didn't repent, but because of this un They're headed to do it. They're headed to judgment. What is it? We don't think of judgment they ask them. It's going to be made Contained about doing wild or doing concerns. They're not the time you don't have enough money to tell the big It comes as good as the mouth of pain pieces. Perfect to think about Think about standing before the sun of die. You tend to believe Satan. If God said that if you deny the good evil, you cannot eat Satan with this. You remember these important for that Matthew 12, I tell you on the day of judgment people will give an account for They only saw us with this peace. Matthew 16. If the Son of Man is going to come to his angels, in the glory of the Father, then he will be taken Take things according to what he has done. having been converted. Why don't we tell you the pastor? But we were all turned into the gods and couldn't agree. We could also get outside of inside Tim. So the one each one will be stand or three when we stand the band and building. Now that may God can throw you. And he calls a can seem to be well. By the games by the way. At the time that these words were taken by Jews, it just didn't try to match them to hear the words of God, to come to the saving beliefs and My dog who's a chance I mean they're telling. Name is a deadly thing. Thanks. Because here this moment you're looking in the name. If you haven't come to consciousness, if you haven't attempted to become listen to consciousness. A few times is woe upon cities and follow through them. Yeah. So everything they want to add in the next thing they don't stand. There's not only an emphasis upon judgment in the passage, but there's also an emphasis Then he didn't want to demise the things where most of his mode work had been down. And this is that word mode work If it's time for the understanding of the way from two pounds, nine weight, nine weight, nine weight. Water. about military speaking about keeping mass for asked for them done in the screen. And those who must Jesus implies it was a direct connection between his mighty was is people in ask for work and believe the world is happening. Why do you like the noise and the code what the m How do we work done when you would have been done with our inside then would have been printed long ago in South California and then it's going to be fast party and out of your friends with an option of sign of the It's a grieving and mourning of a sending a holy god I'll put it unless we look left over. Thanks for easy. Jesus is saying that because of his mighty works, which they had been done telling you read a passage with name from the prophet Ezekiel about fire and Sidon saw how sinful they both were as God pronounced his judgment upon them and Jesus is saying, Look if if my They would come and count it. They would bow down. They would burn down top property and call and ask by the word to keep an answer If you take an option here between uh his work um when it's felt what he would have done if they were performed in other cities. But even those who were in most and sin, such as Kyle and Sagan as we get in Ezekiel, if those works were performed in more pleasant in men Because of their friends, the idea of extra faith which Jesus pretends if this would happen and then the family could be quitting Only fathom. We'll turn the bad away from the thing. That's the problem. Thomas is one of these disciples. He's been following Jesus for years. Brother had told him hey, he seriously after he had been peace to fight and after the team had been emptied by the title of the resurrection. And also I see in his hands the mark of the name I can place my finger in the mark of his and I can place my hand and be said I was never busy. That's why I see it. It's a very smooth tree, it's really it takes time if you tell them to take thunder too. And if we see a creeping last year at What kind of business? The resurrection of common. And the resurrection case is 400,000. I mean When you've been on a task, when you're downward, when you've been bored. And to bear. If you kind of take them from a definition to believe in a kind of thing, that's powerful the way to do this I can tell you to hide. It's news as they started to do. Okay. Not as Jesus. He does tell you to do well, not to be Indeed, he began the sermon on the mount calling his disciples to good works. With a light of the world that could be said in the world cannot be hidden. And the same way, let the light shine before others. So you're delayed and the blow is to get badly. I think the play for play back in it. Balance could play them before each as to begin to lead a reaction. It comes from a thing. Because we are his working tip to lead in Christ Jesus already That's why you've been brought to faith in Christ. For good work which God prepared beforehand, that you should walk in them. God's hand is in the good work but it's good with me. That's kind of things. It's something that is the it is full. And then one patient shows up to another says, you can get it. Because you don't think I work for those kind of effort. And then powerful in us but the powerful and death the powerful because God himself is Before the beginning of the world were used for Rashman and do before others to reach out to season and not to do layers but to God the capacity world. That's what it has. Is that part of the scroll team? Hmm. Something that is whatever way. them in the car. But I'm the find out how to let it and putting that loan around here. Just to close the candle. This time, the wife has to do anything. I think it's our third point to get to the point. The chance is if you haven't noticed it yet is not we might even call add about the content. The temple's beginning continues to have been about his overstand. And the conclude that Jesus described to his mighty work. Conforming that he is the one, he is the ten, he's the Messiah, he's the son of God, he is the son of David, he is the one who's taken and has taken the eternal throng, he's the Messiah. Okay, it's the Messiah. He's now pronouncing woe upon these cities because of their problem. And the problem is that they have refused to replace. That's the common denominator among people in three cities, and articulatory they're occupants, and a boy they occupant are actually a thing, it becomes the reason for the world to come by Jesus Each of them, each city, their occupants, the majority, their occupants, was headed to heart to receive the wrath of God for eternity because they refused to repent That's the way to keep something, take the way it is. Secondly, why doesn't Jesus keep well because they feel where they believe why isn't so and repentance completely with people not so with their powerful. If it was so powerful, then why didn't it depend on the time? Okay to better be tempted. What if it's of these cities were following to be? What is it that the occupants of these cities were refusing to do? And they would have given us doctrine for me from as a content in chapter 18 verse. Therefore, I would judge you if I forgive you everyone according to his roles. says the Lord God. Repent and return from all your transgressions. That's iniquity. Be a weak away from the all the transgressions He committed and most require the Mihad and make it while you die of that. The point of the south acquaintance is a pen. A pen, this is a word. Use for the plastic and can't change that here. But it's not a good time. It's just like that But we say the coming from transgression from sin it's knowing a true is your woman. First of all, why will you die? Knowing a truth The women are not really home, but one from it. That's the word. One from it. And by Not wanting to be clean. Get rid of it. Cast it out. Really cast out things if you don't want. And seeking out the obedience. You see a pain going on, pain away from things, just something pain away from things and for that But as we go to the creator Returning return away from sin, return for God, we're coming for the starting of a new obedience that's the idea that the I think is Jesus keeping us more That it's God's call to appear. Two caring as to that eyes have no pleasure in the death of anyone Instead of girls inside the speaker scan the bad. It's time to rude the bad. I'm finding the fucking way. You will understand the answer. Excellent. Catechism means this way, what if it's coming from the life? It's the savings grace You can't go to the world as Jesus to ask the I forgot you don't say because I was tempted. It's a problem We have about a few out of a few things that we've seen that we can see the next two dieting cells that we used in two to the same thing at the data and double actually. In time to read out the person's apprehension of the mercy of God instead. You might get that idea of pain. Pain from sin, pain away from sin off pain to die. But please get the concept, the idea, the truth of the mercy of God in Christ That's what I want. The mercy of God himself, not the sin. Don't like the underlying. I think this is a second question that why didn't Jesus enterprise? Why didn't he just say a a prayer and fire up for the theater and do And he asked those who it might be to be saved. If I believe in the Lord Jesus and you'll be saved during the heart saved. Jesus is still not saying the faith is not recovered. Jesus is the one who taught you the doing. The Bible said what the word that is David always sent, whether the leading could not pass through the children's life. Jesus spoke Something to Google some page is that the focus isn't accomplished, the company is green. Then we have to use the truth. As Jesus opened the the minds of his apostles and his sisters, he said to them, Thus it is written that Christ could suffer on the third day and rise from the dead and that we can so that's a good look at food could be take remote. It's a little crazy, this is one of the last time to entice it. The cycle is now. And then last type of setting from the commentary didn't matter the wicked cut booths that We play everywhere to the train. If a person has got the baton and ranges of five three or two years, it's things. No. If a person is Theory I can see, you can't see SP die for the five ACM. You get it up? It can't be double. Because Jesus speaks to the tempest, you should understand that papers must be fairly included by interpretation. So well, yeah. Why did Captain map the point? Jesus doesn't say that, well, if I had done this thing with other proofings, they would have returned to if I had done the same thing If I had done the same thing that I didn't use, they would have attempted now, now the family to be the work of the Jesus' work has been already become an ask powerful powerful We also know the money race of Jesus just like the powerful word of God must be taken up by the Spirit. And that's when there's really no difference between the keeping up the work of Jesus and the Word of God. The death must be taken up by the Spirit And laid up in the head and sin. All those of God is saved and to be saved from their sins, the difference between the sin. humans and saved things is the worst of the clear. And see this works in that much territory in the Philippines and save them. Because the Word of God is not no, and here it's dumb from his unseen word is no display. And language and suggest with peace and dance It's a gracious gift of God that only dependence and supernatural work of Jesus Christ. As we connect to all these darts. We're thinking of the supernatural work of Jesus, the demons here than the move. What do you want to feel? And I thought, no, it's a new wave and logic. I didn't think we might be understand, but what did these people think of this? natural work it can get in very fast to see it and clean the place that character and as a result of that creeping natural work and more Now we have recruited the gift of this company to all my three out of the house of David and inhabited a great time, of God Sometimes he would just be a picture. Like from the back. That would be quite I think it looks like Let me just come to people just like this question. Conscious man who had designed an example. What you're talking about. Excellent. Well after the way after I had a moment after a moment even was, no, he always It's helping us to paint our things more and more seeing how we're sending the Holy God and and knowing what He's done for us and what He is put a friend He studied beyond his view. There's something to body bury and listen. There's something to get speaking to. There's something to look at. Time and time and down against coming, turn and time and down and into the point time and time again. That isn't just a really good point to the create And if you go for the company's character, we just explain. But the character works of Jesus is sounding. We didn't give me a good thing today. We play it for Yeah. Yeah, too much. People that could be Oh my god, we love you. The comments are next to the gift of the country. The work of the tool. And so now you're daddy to continue to perfect us. So we would be very he'll be driving us from your business to be very It seems more today than yesterday by the woke of the cure. If the old man would be more of a Well you would have a law to keep this mind by freezing right now. How do they play the pandemic? And the color of the people.