If you send in the diagram to Matthew, made back on page 970. of this two Bible. Matthew chapter eleven. And I began reading there at this chapter five to the end of the practic because these basic and keep quite keep coming by during the thing is not Matthew eleven at verse twenty-five. At that time Jesus declared I thank you, Goddess, a world of heaven and earth. If you have heard of these things from my eyes and understanding and we'll do them to what I Yes, Father, so such as your gracious word. All things have been handed over to me by my father, and no one knows the son. accept the father. And no one knows the father except the son. And anyone within the same pleasure to reveal him. Come from. Ah, see Rabbi and thy heavy laden. Thou will give me that. Put thou yoke upon me and learn from me. Then grant it and low yourself. You will find luck to your story. And the word is easy. And the burden of life. According to God's word. He's concluding. And then my badly come through what may be a difficult pattern to understand the claim. And we are father by your fear if we would lead and gather. If we'd lose your favorite and get rid of So we'll feel if we give us understandable. Compare this to our collection. Last week and do the hidden. part of Matthew's gospel. In chapter seven, you read this and studied this. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord You'll answer the kingdom of heaven. when I tell money would say to him where the demon prophesy in the morning and aside demons in the morning demon might be good. In the moment. And he just described by some another needy. He just tells the In our counsel, there's a sense uh reason being the gate people So to speak Doom of the God, the kingdom of heaven. And the kingdom who is tricked to enter and be is not fit to empty. I know that isn't easy to meet with the fit. In other words, Jesus And he liked and he will be condemned to death. That we have before us today follows really what Jesus has already said in that person of the sin and the man. And see how to say on the mouth, Jesus is preaching and preaching about the kingdom of heaven and there's a sense that he's continuing to do that, even as he tries to doubt it. to a teaching about the kingdom of heaven as he saw and eat with past colus and things. He said that I desire mercy. sacrifice as we feel the woman who is bleeding as we brought fight for the blind and who was Christian and Christian about the kingdom of heaven. As he was sending his disciples out, he was telling them that the harvest was plentiful. That all they needed to do is say telling the truth the dark truth. The fact that the kingdom of heaven is our kingdom unless the truth come upon them It's always a CD in it well. You can all do the continuous as a type of start, system and system. dynam same push recipe action I knew is when I started a leading woman that we will see express Music and the classic we have to do it and question. Lord Jesus Christ reveals his father to all those to see you. The Lord Jesus Christ reveals his father forever. So we can see. That's the war of the Father, secondly the authority of the Son, and then finally the one evaluation of life. The thing is this passage is critical to our kitchen. At least this in course today are a pair a pair. It's mean before we saved it. How is it that God is able to hide and reveal? Look at that verse verse here, verse twenty five. I thank you, Father, Lord of heaven and earth, which he has hidden these affirms from the lies and understanding the legends with a surgeon. We have to understand what I've been saying. That if he had couldn't be soon. Where contact was always important as we reached to him at No less so here. As Jesus is supposed to be twins, we have to go down in chapter eleven and see what was going on. As Jesus is teaching the disciples, go down if he Were these things that Jesus was talking about to them that you know references in verse twenty five? Well, those were these Because John the Baptist feels in hand this entire courtroom. And so the what if we have done about this was criticus as he is the Old Testament prophet of God, the one who just All the way for the Messiah, the one who is indeed Elijah. But one of these things was either hidden or revealed, the identity of giant The doctor. The second one would be the identity, the true identity of believer. That's what some disciples down the asking about. Are you the one? Are you the exception? And either one is just with both of you becoming the true identity of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of God, is either kidding or revealed. It's one of Those things that the father has either couldn't reveal. They review would be the master of the moon. So it's being profound, it's clear and good. And that's the cruise is good. He was using the example of serving some of the marketplace or integrated feminines. We tried the free things and we did not do it. The good news, the news that is proclaimed. Without these foods itself, it is putting from some, it's good into others. do the work of Jesus as it's not real work of God. It's confirmed with identity. And it's confirmed the absolute thinking the ways that we see sound. It's my blind that can hear and see. The blind is see their sight. The line walk, the upper science, the death feel, the dead it wake up I do not come back. I'll confirm and achieve the word you do the evil. In finding the system, the ability to recognize and confess and mourn of a sin. marketplace pair marketplace ten minutes they not only pair them to dinner but you found a big and you didn't know Recognize them, confess them, known or they came. It's either hidden or review. Five times, at least five times that Jesus teaches us. doing these things that you either couldn't or reveal. But this is the problem, these things were done in the open, all of them. This is the customer is who Anyone can feel there's a thought around him. How is it that God was able to endure hiding things from someone given to air? not openly revealed to anybody. It's in the truth again. That God's will is open. It's revealed to all, it's in the truth The implication is that not everyone has ears to ears Well here you some would not understand. That takes it back to Isaiah, doesn't it? As Isaiah isn't our God. He tells us that a dog Keep on doing but do not understand. Keep on seeing but do not stay But even more taken, even where Olium can take this book and read it. I think that's a pleasure to start with the question how is it that God hides and reveals? I can't be father worried at having an earth We are trying to go to the colors in these things because the colors are live. And Jesus is saying, as he refers to his father as Lord of heaven and earth, heaven and earth describes what creates us. It describes the one who made our kings It's an important title. It's God here is the power of God. It's an effort to overlook it. Heaven and earth. That's a big theological world. It's looted, the perceptor, the unit of our attendance that exists. In fact, Jesus is wrapping up his truth. As he sent his decision down the Baptist decision comes to him and asking about his identity and now he's revealing it too ugly. That's who he's made all things and thus who knows our things, he's the original admirage The kids have got a library and I studied where mind originates with him It emanates from him. It comes from him. And that's because that's it, but he is in the same mind. And it's able to give it to heaven and faith. What is heaven with? Now it doesn't understand the faith. It's a life It is hence. That's the first part. The second part is the word lay. It means he has someone, who sinned, who controls it, who makes that angry, not just exactly just to control it. And overseas it. That's what we could tell a word's cover. The one who preserves and use and governs all things and and men, women and children and in the wind. All millions. And so that's why this worship, through the Holy Spirit, God the Father, opens evil to human eyes and who is who that if he is able to indicate this. The master person is not But he's not able to understand them because they are still trying to find. with God through his creatures welcome in someone's heart to allow them to create For this is how the works of the creative God opens Please inspect you. In fact you can do a whole exception. Why did God have you thing conf Why would God not want all to come and truly know God? Why would God not want all to repent of their sins? Why would God Dependent with code the Saturn connection. That's difficult. Why would God choose to review all these things to any sinner? And all sinner even by But you must be appeared to be caught up on the words to make it easier to describe the two groups. The group is the eyes and mouth intelligent versus little children. If we are wise and intelligent, a colors given to very In the world, we don't use one side produce wise and intelligence. But we know where we loosened and where the intelligence will have becomes not fitness to the God of heaven in earth They have the rest of the Lord's will and government. Even though they have the law of God written upon their health, even though they know the peace of God and his attributes we Like Pharaoh, they were called in their own health, wise and important health upon the years, upon themselves in like the thirties In the wisdom and intelligence, he said, He's watched the peace, God's peace, his absolute truth. And it is stands for the collapse and December become a year from that in the life the tension for the week And bad test is back for the things. For that reason, the garden use world Be wise and intelligent, listen to the lies of Satan, rejecting the truth of God's teachings, which we believe to be better than the will of the Lord of heaven mercy For the wise and the wise and others. And since the wise and intelligent have rebelled themselves wisely approached against God and that from judgment, that is idol deep thing. Sunday. Women cut the women just as they did not see quick mad and rang it by breathing over to He has mercy and he made every word. In contrast, we read about the recording. revealing these things to the chosen. The idea there is just the opposite of AFR worldly wise and intelligent AFR sides The sense in which the description is oh infants they have no knowledge. They have no wisdom, they both have knowledge. And so they're in a sense they When God takes their heart and life and a blank place, they're ready, they're waiting, they're anticipating the will of God to be revealed to them as the things of The world fired. I'm not sure for it. The world is for the point of view. And it's coming ahead from one that is wise and intelligent. When it's a little tired We wouldn't interpret some of that. They are seems to be quite a mask, doesn't it? Jesus today, a son of God, sent to Christ ran out for something wonderful signs, marvelous signs, concerning the words that he thought were God's graces, but never enough to Many were the death and exclusive and teach them anyway with death and does it. And what There is a big thing. I think there's a kind of fire, then at that time who's a call of fine screen fire. What if heaven is if he had hidden these things from the large and your things and the real done in reality father to expect it? I think we're all ready to understand and compare with Jesus' statements that the battery could be glory for We'll do a new time together program. What we have considered how do we consider the week of the telephone And the world is provided that we will be closer. Yes. But also applies to Because how does these things climb the rise and tell again? Because grace is clear. You might be asking yourself this morning, how is it grace? They would hold it, a closer veil over eyes and ears that some would never see why the sea. will be in vain. And God's will and grace they they go together. God's will and mercy they go together. They cannot be separated. You see why it may be difficult for us to blast that answer, blank that truth. It is truth. It is a good thing. But the kingdom of God Because that's what Jesus is teaching about. That's what he's been preaching about. God is assembling his Jesus. He's working in in the heart that teach people to conform them more and more into the image of Christ Jesus and bringing them into the kingdom and also with you to be confirmed with Christ will not And that's a good thing. That is going to be an appearance to be I think it's where a second point the authority of the time. And again, we've been noticing that the back lap for this in color section It begins with John the Baptist and continues with John the Baptist. But the first up is clean about the authority of Jesus. It's just them by going to fight it. Time. Are you going to file? I've been special men. Because a grown a glass and a grown code, how they can start an eagle with sinus and You're not letting the game where the stuff is submissive. Jesus is one who deserves both the wisdom and feeling. And I give this theory or the identification. You see it there. It's a big time. All things have been home over 201 and the body. And no one measures can And then we just say it was closed to a fine. look while not as darker it could be red one blue could be red blue red and the authority, the inconstitution. All things are hindered over. Now Jesus did not just make this right. It's not from Daniel and topic Daniel and topic setting as Daniel has a vision of the ancient of days and decides the ancient days in in a vivid And he continued. I saw in the night vision and behold the clouds of heaven that came again like a son of man, and this turned to the answer of days and it presented before him and through him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peace of nations and languages could save him. About grievous. The enemy would come and be given an everlasting Which I might pass away, this kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed all in given to the Son authority becomes with our gun control. What is it that wouldn't be doing us if you appear to All things about humanity. There's no thing with the son that the Lord Jesus Christ has not heard. All reason, every thought, every son, every spirit. Every cloud, every mountain, every ocean, every internet, every stage, every human being belongs to an enhole God's expense. Nothing is outside of a book. Or you don't have to be called all of it. And the authority of doing that thing. Everything is concerned the daily gathering. authority of American is given to us and all kind of the authorities are doing the things. Are things again within bias. Jesus is very much in this case. And Mary made his son accepted. You see, Jesus has already identified the Father as the one who's Lord of Covenant Earth as the Lord of God, the Father made of all. And if you remember, this entire It begins with the question. I usually accepted one, and I do this what? With the Son of God, there is no division, there is no separation, they are one in the same. Jesus must feel Father is laid of heaven and earth. And he is the head. Again, because the what is In Second Samuel as God is speaking to David the king who made him the prophet God says when you raise up before you and when David dies, I will raise up your offering after you. He shall come from your body and I will establish his kingdom He shall be the heart for my name and I will establish the thorn of his kingdom for ever. I will be peace to me. This recent identified himself in one G as a result of doing the song, the Lord of Heavenly has been given the lines of the apology See the connection between father and son? It's even more significant than the throne as well as girls like the one who's inherited all is the authority which arises from the relationship of being the only externally degarten stand. Reach through the other stuff. And finally, if you appear with an iron side. More noise is going to stop the fabric, and more you know the fabric accept this thing. Alright. He was the young he has a pre married to be that. No one knows their father accept the sex. It's a truth. And I don't think he The son of God has a creature alone who knows the Father because the Son One is divine and this one is infinite. If you try for the same interest, if you type for equal empire and glory, if you try, oh, there's one God, and there are two persons and that one God is That the thumb noise somebody complains If you went back to cotton, we would see it there as well. uh Solomon, the writer of father's writing of wisdom, says, The Lord has asked me before the beginning of the earth, when he established the heavens, I was there, when he a circle on the face of the beach and he made a foot on the sides above when he thought it's the clean point of the beef is that I will condwell with prudence at thy knowledge and the testing that he of the Lord is hostile of evil. I had fancy and findings and I'd inhabit our change again. It's the free three to declining. Like he was asking. What we are declaring the Father, he is Lord. Spiritual. All days we're listening out of the woman, and all days we're listening to this. And so I thought it's my generation of life. And this time to this end of this end seven we read this, no one may the body except the son, and only one to whom the sun pleases please reveal time. That's amazing. That is an amazing feed. These are the authorities given to Jesus Christ. They're going to think all that power and appear common authorities. in comparison to that the Jesus has the power to reveal their father to anyone who truly think of them The defense of colour, the omnipotent, the advocacy and we are considered a deal But living with together. Living. Doing perfection. One is a nice fake way. Without battery play, I think one is Unchangeable, unmutable. He's almost he's eternal, he's incomprehensible. He's almighty, he's mighty eyes, my telling, my things, my absolute That's the evidence. Most of the merciful one seven abundance and goodness and peace for given iniquity transgression and single and say that again for given iniquity This is some justice and fool, and it was a very good motion. So the man and still begin. So that what the Lord Jesus It's always a good thing. I can only blame you, you know, and it's a nice. Without that dream, they know to do small light and read it. Make light. Abundant light. The project is a weird we can I mean might have been out anyway. I don't see that way he act. Mainly the data is to become an element of human standard to do it Huh? How many do we know this moment that don't know the father? How many relatives, how many neighbors, how many acquaintances do we know that do not know the Father and why he comes in the Father with Lord? God that we know who the father is anymore. They who have not tasted and known that the Lord is dead. They who if they don't know the father certainly don't know And my guess is that if you think in three way memory, it's good. If we know a lot of people who don't know the father, and that's we might know the thing. And if I don't have a sign, I don't know the other side of time. We don't know if it's CLC, we don't know the students, they don't know the DLS. If you see new life, if you hear the known and custom alone to the cloud, you have been given admired by the body. He has admin. Yeah, and giving how to see me very curious, it's giving you people master things that we're able to understand these things so that This morning, the question for you is what are you doing with that revelation? He revealed it to you. He's been in that credible now of this persongen. The father has revealed it to you, the son has chosen you. What are you doing with it? And you may be thinking to yourself, right now, I'm working, I am talking to my relatives and I'm hearing out political communities and my urgents, I'm giving out thoughts, I begin with my workmates on theological schmatics, I defended things, I'm being nice to calm and quiet and nice All of this is getting out. But if you like the way to Jesus. And anyone can see See here. How do we understand the My only one. They have no written. They have no written. And when we use that business, when we use that view of the news that we are just connected. Because we lose what Jesus said anyone to claim this one season. Maybe things would be a certain but the father's already chosen. The number of names that we're chosen is set if they're trying to begin. Why should I suppose if somebody was chosen by Jesus? What good would that be? Why would I spend my time and effort on that today? You just said you can use nine things. Yeah, those like a dream of natural things. And you think of this mountain moves from here to here and move. Mountain would be impactful to me. Then correction of truth they trust the function is truth that both in the very will of God, even as he chose As reason before the foundation of the word is reasonable to chapter line. Because again, it seems very chosen. who is your view. Well noticed. We said before coming to be done. Yes, it's true. But what play is it for God today. In other words, are the son and the father limited in any way by what we know as time? And what can be? We can move on, we can move up all the time. I think they call don't like this thing. I'm going to wear them. And that has Jesus Christ pregnant to other. And this That's why he was teaching his disciples that you can move my pen. If it weren't so, why would you have pen? How did you take this? It was hard to tell us here that Jesus will be If you want to put it in Hughes and James Clay, if you have statements, I believe that he's the way to do it. And it's it's still work, it's still doing this kind of man. The thing would reveal the character for those who know a lot of people. To those who know who are black Yeah, I will tell me now I have lost this thing. Are you playing for the time? The dealer accounts are the most important thing. What the Lord Jesus Christ was healed, his father to all very. The real life is never really felt in the real world that we could Well we can know that we don't know. I thought if I did a find here noted something My only part that we don't believe that our prayers have done is values. I don't know if we know that we do. We know that he is usually, we know that Jesus is prayer and we may be positive and we will receive and we don't have because we don't have God I can I pray type of But the five for the law and basis has not yet we see the evaluation of the body from the stem. Perfectly. I think the night. Supposedly, especially neighbors about front news is because of things Those who asked us who don't know the father who play with them more for them. And the simple heart given hours to feel, ear to feel. That is that you will be greater and the time would be greater than extremely different. That can be something to do with me.