And now here we come to the sermon passage for this morning, Ecclesiastes 9, verses 11 through 18, the second half of Ecclesiastes chapter 9. Ecclesiastes chapter 9, 11 through 18. You know, just like is true of so much of Ecclesiastes, you know, Solomon Um observing the way things are in the world and you know that is instruction for us as we live in a world where there's the curse of sin still has its effect. And so there's instruction there for us to understand how the world works. There's instruction there that points us to the hope we have in Christ and to hope for what is beyond this world. But there's also instruction here for us to learn how to deal with living in a sin-cursed world. And so here again in Ecclesiastes 9, verses 11 through 18 some ways that the world just doesn't work the way that it should, that it feels like it should and the way that it really should, because God made it to be a good world, and yet it does not work the way it should Ecclesiastes 9, verses 11 through 18. This is the very word of God, therefore listen to it and give your attention to it for what it is. I returned and saw under the sun that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong. Nor bread to the wise, nor riches to men of understanding, nor favor to men of skill, but Time and chance happen to them all. For man also does not know his time. Like fish taken in a cruel net. Like birds caught in a snare, so the sons of man are snared in an evil time, when it falls suddenly upon them. This wisdom I have also seen under the sun, and it seemed great to me. There was a little city with few men in it. And a great king came against it, besieged it, and built great snares around it Now there was found in it a poor, wise man, and he, by his wisdom, delivered the city Yet no one remembered that same poor man. Then I said, Wisdom is better than strength Nevertheless, the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard. Words of the wise, spoken quietly, should be heard. Rather than the shout of a ruler of fools. Wisdom is better than the weapons of war. But one sinner destroys much good. That's part of the reading of God's word. May he add his blessing to it and to its preaching in our midst So once again, some of the hard, difficult realities of living life in a fallen world that are spoken as God's word here in Ecclesiastes chapter nine. Observations made by King Solomon Ways that life is just hard and hard to deal with. Verses eleven and twelve is one thing, and that one thing that's expressed there seems to be that He's pointing out how problems and troubles can hit you no matter who you are. And no matter what expectation you have that those problems and troubles should not be able to hit you or that you have Exempted yourself from those problems. Perhaps you've tried to exempt yourself from troubles and problems by making yourself strong, by putting in effort. By putting in work. By putting in work and effort to be swift at running races, by being strong to win the battle. By being wise to gain bread, by being understanding to gain and hold on to riches, by having skill in order to gain the favor of people. But even if you put in all that effort to make your life free from trouble, guess what happens Solomon observes how difficult it is and it difficult to wrap your mind around it is that nonetheless, even if you try to prepare yourself so that you won't have to face trouble There still is this reality in life in a sin-cursed world at the end of verse 11, and he describes it in this way, but and yet. Time and chance still happen to them all. So again, you can do everything that you um could. To try to make yourself so strong and so able that troubles and problems won't hit you But there's still that reality, time and chance. Time and chance still comes, and it comes to them all. Time and chance Funny expression, right? Funny expression. We believe that God's sovereign, right? What is chance? What is chance in the sovereignty of God? And yet? Solomon believes in the sovereignty of God, and he has room to speak of chance. What does he mean by that? Time and chance. He's really pointing to the seeming randomness of it all sometimes. Sometimes the mysteriousness with which problems and difficulties hit us. Again, things that are difficult come to us. We don't understand why. It seems so random. I mean, even if we know that God is sovereign, even if we trust that God is sovereign, It still sometimes seems so random, so mysterious. And again, this is what Solomon points out. Now, again, this is really only true because of life in a sin-cursed world. Because of the curse of sin Life has become something in which you can't always make sense of suffering and prosperity. You can't always make sense of of uh suffering and prosperity by Correlating them to righteousness and wickedness, a theme that Solomon has meditated upon in many c uh in many parts of this book before this And yet here's the reality he puts before us. Time and chance happens to us all. Again, you can do everything you can to try to prevent problems from coming to you by being strong, by being wise By being capable. Yet sometimes even still after you've done the best you can do, time and chance comes and seems to destroy all that you have tried to build up, all that you have tried to work for. And again, there's a there's a sense in which he sees it in a very it's very cruel. There's a very cruel aspect of what he sees, like fist taken in a cruel net Like birds caught in a snare. We all understand sometimes this is how problems come upon us. This is sometimes how trials and troubles come upon us. They come upon us in a way that is it seems sudden and there's no understanding why did this happen. It's hard to wrap your mind around it. When you're trying to serve God, when you're trying to do the right thing And when you're working hard to that end, even still, sometimes, time and chance falls upon you. Again, yes, all within the s the sovereignty of God all under the ability of God to um to overrule all that happens in this world and to see that his will is done And yet nonetheless when it comes to us, doesn't it often feel that way? Like j it's just time and chance hitting us And yet, this is a difficult reality of living in a sin-cursed world. This is something that Solomon puts before us. This is something that God's Word wants us to think upon, to be aware of. To know that this is how life is sometimes? To be prepared even for some of these eventualities of sudden unexpected problems hitting us? Time and chance? This is what life is like in a sin-cursed world. One other thing that life is like in a sin-cursed world, notice verses thirteen to fifteen. This is kind of a funny circumstance, kind of a funny incident here, funny situation. You know, Solomon sees this desperate situation. It seems desperate. In verse 14, there's a little city. It's a little city with walls around it. They only have a few men in that city, he says in verse 14. And this little city with only a few men has become the target of a great king in verse fourteen. This king with troops at his disposal, this king comes and besieges the little city. Now, to besiege a city is to build up these platforms. these siegework kinds of platforms around the walls of the city. It's a way to get over the walls of the city and basically to send all your troops straight into the city. In an ancient Near Eastern city, the walls are going to be the main um source of protection against outside invaders and outside forces. And yet siege works are the way to get past that uh defense. You know, you build up these platforms around the walls of the city You send your people up those platforms, your people can still get into the city, and there's almost no city that can stand um against that kind of a s of an attack when the the siege It's built. And yet here's what happens. Again, a great king, he must have great forces at his disposal. He must have some uh uh great force at his disposal if he's able to build siege works And he has decided to target a small city, a city with few people. Now it seems hopeless But on the other hand, there's reason for hope here. For in verse 15, we see one man. One man in the city. This one man in the city, he's wise. And that's about it. Not only is he wise, he's also poor. Now the fact that he's poor means that nobody is looking to him to save the city. The fact that he's poor means that nobody expects him to save the city. But somehow, somehow, by his wisdom, he's the one who saves the city. Now, we don't really know anything about this man. So these verses don't seem to be based on a historical account. They don't seem to be based on something that actually happened as or that that we're aware of. But we know that somehow one man using wisdom saves a city. How exactly does he save the city using wisdom? We have no idea. We have no idea. Is this some kind of feat of engineering? Is this some way in which he's able to undo the siegeworks that have been built by some marvel of engineering Is it some use of negotiation? Is he doing some kind of behind the scenes negotiation with people in charge of the siege works? We have no idea. All that we know is that he was wise and he saved the city from this attack. But in the process of saving this city from attack, what happens? Look at what happens at the end of for verse fifteen. Yet no one remembered that same poor man. Isn't that just the way things are? Again, he goes through all this trouble. He saves the city through wisdom, a very unlikely thing, one poor man saving the whole city from an invading force. He saves the city, and yet what does he get in the end? He gets no remembrance, which means he gets no thanks, which means he gets no commendation. Which means he can get no praise. Now again, um, you know, Solomon's main point here is here's something that is ugly about the world. The fact that sometimes the people who are doing the most to save others get no recognition. This is what Solomon is pointing out here. At the same time, you know what an encouragement this is to us. What an encouragement this is to each of us to consider how we might be like that one man. What are the ways that we can actually be effective in saving the city and using wisdom to do so? You know? Um even if we get no recognition for it. Are there ways that we can be wise and we can have such a great effect by using wisdom? That it can be greater than the forces of a great king who has an invading army at his disposal. You know, this is encouragement to the lowliest of us, that if we would but use wisdom We can possibly undo the worst effects of the power of those in power who are unable to act in the right ways and fail to act in the right ways. This is encouragement to the very lowliest of us, even if we're poor, even if we're unnoticed, even if nobody cares if we live or die. If we u have wisdom and if we use it, sometimes using that wisdom can save the city. We have to think about that. Here's some wisdom here. And yet at the same time, again, the the larger point that Solomon makes, um, the the ugliness of the fact that this is the way the world works You know, isn't this the way the world works? It's pushed pushed along in the direction of righteousness by a few people. Who are being under recognized and still having to do um the bulk of the work in pushing things in that direction And still going unrecognized for what they're doing? Yet, in the end, the effect they're having is saving the city. Um, you know, again, you know, very natural connection here to the the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, uh I mentioned it earlier when I read from Mark 6. Um Jesus does these amazing works. He is the one wise man, the one poor man who saved the city. That's who Jesus Christ is. He's the man in verse 15. He's the one wise man who was also a poor man, and yet who by his wisdom saved the city, even though no one remembered him for his wisdom. And again, if that's what our Savior was like, a truly wise, truly doing the things that would lead to salvation, even though unrecognized, it should come as no surprise to us if we take on the same role in this world, right? We are God's people. We are being formed to the image of Jesus Christ. Even if we should use the wisdom that He has given us and do so in ways that lead to salvation You know, and we hope that that that's what we're doing. We hope that that's how we're living. Yet even if we do, we should be willing to do so, knowing that our Savior has already done this first. Knowing that we are being m formed to his image and being willing to be formed to his image. Now again, there's this question. We face the ugliness of life in a sin-cursed world. We see that life seems to be random. It seems to fall into the hands of something that we would call chance. We see that so often those who are really holding the world together and who are doing the things that lead to righteousness often go unrecognized. There's nobody out there throwing a parade for those people. There's nobody out there putting their name in lights or putting their names in the headlines of magazines and newspapers What do we do with this these realities? What do we do with these realities as Christian people? How do we deal with the world in this way What is the faith-based response to all of this in the world? How do we deal with these realities about the world in this way? Well, here we ought to see that the true faith-based response that's rooted in faith in Jesus Christ, that answers to the things that Solomon mentions here. We ought to see that the right response we ought to have is nonetheless to take up these realities and to still live in the ways that God would have us live in the face of what these things are. So what should we do? What should we do about the fact that nobody remembers the poor wise man who saves the city? Should we go out and make sure that we throw a parade for every poor wise man who who saves the city? Should we try to go and find those poor wise men who are out there saving the city and make sure we throw a parade for them? And make sure we write newspaper articles about them. Is that what we should do? Do we need to change the world? Do we need to make it so that it is a place where those poor wise men are getting the recognition they deserve? Are getting the recognition they are worthy of? Is that what we should do? Is that what we need to do? What do we need to do as Christian people? What we need to do is we need to be willing to be that poor, wise man. We need to be willing to take the actions by which the city might be saved, even if nobody remembers us as those poor wise men. Isn't that really the response? Again, I've hinted at it already. I've pointed us to Jesus Christ. We've seen that nobody remembered Christ for the things he did at some level. The unbelieving world did not recognize his wisdom. Even though he took the wise action that saved the city. Shouldn't we be willing to be the same? Shouldn't we be willing to act in the same way? Shouldn't we be willing to pursue wisdom and to act with wisdom even if we're not recognized for it? Even if our wisdom is despised, shouldn't we still say, with verse 16, that wisdom is still better than strength? Isn't that the response we should have through Jesus Christ? At the same time, also that other reality that we saw in our text, verses 11 and 12, time and chance happening to us all. We all face it. We all face trials, we all face difficulties, and yes, they do come upon us at a time when we're not ready for them or we feel completely unready for them. And this is true. But how do we answer this reality? Well, one thing we do is we accept how sad it is that this is how life works. We mourn the things that are true in this world because of sin. We mourn the fact that time and chance comes upon us seemingly in cruel ways, and we accept that. Yet else yet what else do we do with it? We also accept that it comes from the hand of God. Yes, that's hard to do. But we do accept that it comes from the hand of God, and we nonetheless look to Him for how He was using it in our lives. How He is using it to mold and shape us, how He is using it to lead us to Himself. How he is using it to lead us to glory, which is where he is leading us. And this is the response that we give out of faith in Jesus Christ. Now again, um We have to respond out of faith in Christ, because if we don't, there's no hope for us. But only those who have faith in Jesus Christ can respond from hope If you don't have faith in Jesus Christ, then you can't give these responses. You can't respond to your trials in hope. You can't look at the ugliness of a sin-cursed world and still find hope. Because if you don't have faith in Jesus Christ, then you only live for what's present in this life. You only live for what's present in this world. And the fact that this world and this life are messed up Means that you have nothing to live for. But if you have faith in Jesus Christ and you understand that what is messed up about this world is used by God for our good, And it is used by God to lead us closer to Himself, closer to glory. He is using these things in our lives. So again, it's because of the hope that we have in Christ that we're able to join with Solomon. We're able to join in his response at the end of this text. We're able to say that it's still better to be wise, even though wisdom is despised and overlooked. We're able to recognize that it is good To be the poor wise man if you save the city, even if no one remembers you for it. We're able to have that mindset only through Christ, only through what God has done in Christ to make us his own. Well, in answer to that, let's again remember the things that Solomon points us to here. But let's also remember that he's pushing us to find hope. In the Lord Jesus Christ, and therefore to be able to respond to this world out of the hope that we have in Christ. And let's then be careful to have that response, to make that response ours. Because of what God has done in Christ to make us His. Amen. Oh Father, we do uh share with the writer of Ecclesiastes the things that He has observed we share his perspective in so many ways in that we are mournful over what is wrong with this world, this good world that you made. How things went so wrong on the day when Adam took of the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And O Lord, we are mournful. And we are broken when we look upon the brokenness that came into the world and the curse of your wrath that came upon this world owing to that sin. Yet, O Lord, it uh it's something that we uh struggle to understand when it seems like time and chance are coming upon us like a snare with cruelty. It is something that is hard for us to stomach when we see that those who are doing the most to do good in this world are sometimes overlooked, underrecognized. um undercompensated. O Lord, we um we know that's true, O Lord. We know that that's often true in this world, and we mourn these things. And yet, O Lord, give us the faith we pray in Christ to Nonetheless, still look to you, still look to what you are doing through these things, still trust in you that you are even using the brokenness of this fallen world to lead us closer to yourself, and hopefully not just us. But hopefully many others besides. Help us to be your witnesses. Help us to reflect your grace. Help us to reflect your glory by the speech that we speak. But also by the ways that we live our lives. We pray that our lives would be a testimony to those around us We pray that others would see that we're able to face the brokenness of life in this world with hope. And that it's because of Jesus Christ. And that others would therefore be inclined to ask us what is the reason for the hope that is in us. We pray that you would make this true of us more and more by the working of your Spirit. O Lord, in ourselves we have nothing to offer you, but use us as your instruments and make us fit for your use. We ask all these things in the name of Jesus, our Savior. Amen.