And now the sermon passage for this morning, Philippians chapter 1, verses 19 through 26. We've already alluded in the past week to the fact that the Apostle Paul, when he writes in Philippians, he's under house arrest. He's waiting for his case to be heard by the emperor. He has appealed to the emperor, the Caesar. He has appealed to the Caesar that his case should be heard. The Jews were seeking to have him put to death. And yet, in order to save himself, he appealed to the emperor. So he's headed to the emperor or in he's in Rome when he writes Philippians. He's waiting to be heard by the Caesar. And because the case is one in which his death has been sought after, therefore the outcome of the case could be that he gets put to death And yet, well this is the outcome that is possible in Philippians chapter 1. What does Paul say here about his own situation? Well, listen to what he says in Philippians chapter 1, 19 through 26. This is God's word, and he is again he is commenting on his situation and what the outcome of this case could be. And he's talking about his own preferences here. But listen to Philippians chapter 1, 19 through 26. This is God's word For I know that this will turn out for my deliverance through your prayer and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. According to my earnest expectation and hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed. But with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ will be magnified in my body, whether by life or by death. For to me, to live is Christ, and to die is gain. But if I live on in the flesh, this will mean fruit for my labor. Yet what I shall choose, I cannot tell. For I am hard-pressed between the two, having a desire to depart and be with Christ, which is far better. Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy of faith. That your rejoicing for me may be more abundant in Jesus Christ by my coming to you again. That's part of the reading of God's word. May He add His blessing to it And did you notice what is it that Paul actually prefers out of the two outcomes? There's life and there's death. And he says that one of them is actually far better, but it's not the one that most people would probably say. Again, the moment when Paul writes this part of his letter, he's waiting for his case to be heard by the Caesar. He's made this appeal that he should be heard by the Caesar. And so here he is as he writes this letter waiting for that appeal to happen. But again, what's the outcome that he might possibly face as a result of this appeal he has made in this case that has been brought against him? What might happen if some if for some reason the appeal does not go his way? Well again you see throughout this passage one possible outcome of his case is death The Jews were seeking that he would be put to death, and they really had no reason to, but nonetheless, he made the appeal to Caesar. And since he's waiting on that appeal to be heard, when that appeal is heard, one possible outcome is death. Now again, notice how Paul makes that clear in this passage that he might die. He alludes to it in verse 20 of the passage saying how he wants to make he he simply desires that Christ would be magnified whether by life or by death. But what this does is this re- alludes to the fact that the possibility is there, it's a very real prospect, that Paul might die. Another place you see that in the passage in verse 21 comes up in how is Paul thinking about life and death here? The fact that he's even taken stock of what he might gain from his death, notice that that's the language he uses in verse 21. He says, to die is gain. He's thinking ahead to what might he gain by the fact of dying? The fact that he's weighed this And considered this means that he's very aware, very conscious, that one outcome of what might happen could be that he ends up being put to death So again, death is a real prospect here in this passage. Death is a real prospect for Paul as he awaits the appeal that he has made before Caesar as he waits for that appeal to actually be heard by the Caesar, as he waits to come before the Caesar. There's a real prospect that he's facing death as the outcome of this case. And yet at the same time Even though things might result in his death, there also is indication that Paul does not expect that that is what's going to happen. So it's possible he might die. But what does Paul expect at the same time? Well, he also expects that he's actually going to go on living. And we see that in a few ways. First of all, in the text, first of all In verse 24. Verse 24, Paul says, he knows that it's more needful that he will go on living. He knows that it's needful for the sake of his readers. Why does he think he will go on living? Well, one reason is because the Philippians have need of his labors in their midst And because he knows that this is what they need, he expects that God will keep him alive and will rescue him in this situation so that he will not be put to death at this point. In time, at this point in his life. Paul thinks that since there's more work to be done, there's more benefit to be gained for his readers, and he expects that God will do this. Because of that, he expects that God will in fact keep him alive. And so again, what Paul is facing right now, there's a real prospect of death. But there's also a con pretty confident expectation that he'll live. Not only that, there's another reason why Paul should expect to live in this case And the the other reason for that is the history of his case. The fact that has this case been heard by anyone else prior to it coming before the Caesar? Well, if you read in those late chapters in Acts, near the end of Acts in the late 20s, and you know about 23 to 28, the very end of Acts. You see that the fact that Paul is in chains and the fact that his death has been pursued, this case has come before the ears of other Roman officials. It's come before at least three or four of them. And each time his case has been heard by these other Roman officials, how have they responded to Paul's case? Well, in each and every case, the Roman officials who have looked at the charges against Paul and looked at the fact that he's being put up to be put to death. They have concluded in each and every case, Paul should not be put to death. He does not deserve to be put to death. These charges against him are wrong. And it has been included in each and every case, the man should not even be kept in chains. Those who are seeking his death, those who are charging him with wrongdoing, they don't have a case against him. He should not be in chains And again, this has been the consistent conclusion made by Roman officials, each one along the way, who has looked at Paul's case and looked at the charges against him. Each and every time, this sentence of death is not just, they have said. This man should not even be kept in chains. He should be let to go free. And so what expectation does that set up? Again, in the case of Paul, it means he has a good reason to think he's going to live as a result of this appeal. If every other Roman official has said the man should not be put to death, the man should not be kept in chains. Don't we expect the Caesar is going to see reason and he's going to conclude the same way these other officials have concluded? It's been a consensus so far. The man does not deserve death. Don't we expect the Caesar will understand these things? And yet, at the same time, who is the Caesar at this time? And will he be a Caesar who listens to reason and upholds uprightness? Or might the Caesar himself actually be an obstacle to justice? The Caesar who is going to hear Paul's case at this time is the man Nero. And if you know anything about the history of Rome at this time and the history of the man Nero, he's a guy who tended to be a little bit unsteady and unstable in his thinking. He tended to do some things where he was acting a little bit out of some paranoia at times. There are examples of this in the history of Nero. But the fact that this is who the Caesar is. You know, even if other Roman officials have seen reason, and even if it's reasonable that Paul needs to be let off, let out of his chains, set free, no fear of or no threat of death needs to be brought against him. What about Nero? Is Nero going to see things the same way? A guy who's a little bit unsteady, a little bit unstable, tends to react out of fear. And this is the guy who's going to decide Paul's fate. This is where Paul's headed. His fate is to be decided by the the Emperor, uh the Roman Emperor the Caesar, who is Nero. Which way is this going to go? You have indication, again, in the text, some from the history in Acts, and some, you know, some of that Roman history behind it as well. You have indication that it might go either way. And we see that reflected in Paul's words. We see that reflected in some of the backgrounds. Which way is this going to go? Is it going to go in the direction of life Will Paul get set free from his chains? Is it going to go in the direction of death? Will Nero perhaps erratically uphold the strange charges against Paul and and uh Push things in such a way that Paul ends up being put to death. So Paul has good reasons to think he won't be put to death But there's also the possibility that he could be put to death. What is the outcome going to be? Now, when the outcome is in question, as it is here, seemingly in our passage, It's interesting to notice which outcome does Paul actually prefer? Which outcome does he prefer? He says pretty clearly that one is far better. And the outcome he prefers is death. Is that a little bit crazy? Paul could live, Paul could die We don't know. There are a lot of things that are contingent, or at least from Paul's perspective, it there were things that seemed contingent. Which one does he say is better, though? He doesn't seem afraid of dying. And in fact what he says is he prefers death. Is Paul crazy? Look what he says in verse twenty-one. He says, for me to live is Christ and to die is gain. What is gain? He's going to gain. when he dies. He's gonna be better off when he dies. He does say in verse 23, I'm hard pressed between the two. You know, he does want to have a beneficial labor in their presence. He wants to labor fruitfully in the midst of the Philippians. But what is far better for him personally? Verse 23. To depart and be with Christ. Paul says that death is b is better. Now most people are afraid of death, and in fact are deathly afraid of it. Most people think that death is the worst thing that could ever happen. What does Paul say here? Death is far better. Why? Why is that far better? Because where he goes when he dies, in verse 23, is to be with Christ. And to be with Christ in heaven right now is the very best place you could ever be right now. There's no one nowhere on earth that is better than going to be with Christ in person. And so that's why Paul says, death is better. We're reminded of those words of the psalmist back in Psalm 16 that in God's presence, at his right hand, are pleasures. In his presence is the fullness of joy. This is what Paul sees ahead of his road if this incident ends in his death. He sees the fullness of joy that he'll have in the presence of God. He sees the the glory that he'll have being with Christ. So Paul desires that uh uh he says that death would be far better because it would bring him to be with Christ. To be with Christ is the best place to be. And yet at the same time, notice what else he says. Why is he convinced that he's not going to die? Why is he convinced that he's not going to die? The reason is because of the needs of the saints. The reason is because of the needs of the church. As he says in verse 24: Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. And being confident of this, I know that I shall remain and continue with you all for your progress and joy in the faith. So again, get this. He would rather die. But he's convinced that he's not going to because of what? Because of the needs of the saints. Where is his focus in life directed? His focus in life is directed towards the glory of Christ and the good of the people of Christ. He would rather die, but he doesn't do what he would rather do. He's willing to take what is less than what he would rather see happen He's willing to take less than the best outcome. Why? For the benefit of the people who belong to Jesus Christ. And so in this, we really see an example here. You know, in Philippians, many people who turn to Philippians, think of chapter 2. We think of how Paul actually instructs Christians to think of others ahead of themselves. We think of that language in chapter 2 about putting other Christians ahead of yourself. Well, Paul doesn't just say that in chapter 2. He's also modeling it here in chapter 1, isn't he? He's modeling it by saying, I'm laying aside my preference, death. For the sake of living in your midst in order to serve and benefit you. Did you notice that that's what Paul is saying here in chapter 1? So again, he's you know the we think of Philippians 2 um in terms of you know the that the instruction to put others before yourself. Well Paul shows But he's putting others before himself. And he is modeling for them what that looks like. And in doing this, he is reflecting Christ. And reflecting Christ so as that they too will come to reflect Christ. As they come to reflect his mindset. Paul's priorities here, they seem kind of upside down, don't they? Next to the way that most people tend to think. Most people live for themselves and thus fear death, but Paul prefers death and thus lives for others. It's surprising. Now what Paul says here, is this not a challenge to us in our thinking about what this life is for? This text challenges us in a number of ways. So one thing that is worth thinking about Is whether our faith in Christ seems so real to us that we can say, just as the Apostle Paul says here, that it would be gain to die with Christ. Do we live with such awareness of what is the glory and blessedness that is waiting for us in Christ's presence? That we could say with the Apostle Paul, to die is gain. Do we have that mindset in the lives we lead day to day? It's worth thinking about. Based on what Paul's doing here, that really is how we always should think, isn't it? We always should be mindful that because of who our Savior is and because of how great are the things that are stored up for us in His presence, we really would be better off dying today. It's important that, out of true faith, that we consider that question and that we be aware of that and that we think through it. And we should agree with Paul. We should agree with Paul's words that everything in this life that we live for, or that we think is worth living for, is nothing next to what we will have in Christ's presence. We should think that way. We should think the way that Paul thinks here. To die is gain. But that should also cause us to think about How we approach life. Because that's what it does for Paul. The way he approaches life, he approaches it out of the mindset that he'd be better. If death were the outcome, but how does that enable him to approach life? How does that enable us to approach the things that we lose in this life? If we realize what's actually ours in Christ when we die in his presence, then that helps us to deal with loss in this life, does it not? Is there anything that you can lose in this life that can cause you to lose what you have in Christ when you die? There's not. Even if we end up losing everything in this life, to the point of losing life itself, and then we die, we have nothing but gain in Jesus Christ. And this is something we should think about. When we lose things in this life, and we all lose many things in this life, don't we? But out of everything we lose, we haven't lost Christ. And if we lose life itself, we have Christ. We have gain. So again, this is something we should think about. This is the way Paul thinks as his life hangs in the balance, it seems. He prefers to be with Christ. And if this is true, we can be assured that we don't have to waste our lives pursuing things that in the end are worthless. Things that in the end don't satisfy, what can we spend our lives on? If we realize what we actually have in Christ waiting for us in heaven, what can we spend our lives on? Rather than endlessly seeking gain in terms of worthless pursuits here in this life on the earth, knowing that we already have gain in Christ, enables us to spend our lives the way that Paul was intent on spending his life. For the benefit of Christ and his people. And that's why he says, to live is Christ. Everything I have is waiting for me when I die. Everything that I need is waiting for me when I die. So what can I spend life on now? How can I make the best use of time? Honor Christ. Live for Christ. Pursue fruitful labor in the midst of God's people. Live for others. Live for your fellow brothers and sisters in Christ. Because everything that you need is already there for you when you die. Quit using your life for things that don't satisfy in the end. Use it for the things that are eternal in their value. Your fellow brothers and sisters in the Lord This is how Paul thought. If I die, I have everything I need in Christ. So I don't have to spend my life wasting it on things that won't satisfy in the end. I can spend my life freely, because Christ spent his life freely for me. And again, Paul not only says that, he also models it here in his thinking about life and death. Our lives are for us to bring glory to God right now. Paul's upside-down thinking on life and death is a challenge for us to adopt the same mindset. And to remember that the way that we are able to adopt this mindset is by looking to how our Savior adopted this mindset when coming to die for our sins. Now, beloved people, it does need to be said that this mindset concerning life and death is not a mindset that you can have unless God gives it to you as a matter of grace alone This mindset is not something that we can work up within ourselves or that we can artificially make our mindset. If we are left to ourselves, we stick to the natural mindset. The natural mindset of hoarding things in this life out of the fear of losing. The natural mindset of counting death as loss rather than as gain. The natural mindset of fighting against death at all costs in this life. But through the gospel we can come to understand what is ours in Christ. Perfect eternal gain. And in coming to that, we can then begin to let go of the things that we were afraid to lose in this life. God is able to give us the eyes to see the way Paul sees in our passage. God is able to give us the eyes to see that our death is gain, such that our life is lived for the glory of Jesus Christ. God is able to do these things, and He's able to do it through the gospel. So only through the good news of what Christ has done for the sins of his people Only in that way, or only through coming to understand that, are we able to come to see that our death is gained. And therefore are we able to live for Christ. What else can be said, but may the Lord grant this to us. May He grant to us that we might grow more and more in the mindset that Paul has here. That we might be brought to see how our death is gained and the far better option And yet therefore out of such um out of such an understanding be brought to grow in our ability to serve one another. To love one another the way Christ has loved us. May the Lord grant this to us. May He grow us in this. May He grow all of us in this together as His church. May we grow together in these things by His grace and by His Spirit. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, what are we and who are we before you? You are the God of all grace, and we recognize and praise you for it, O Lord. How can we uh have the mindset that Paul has here? How can we see death as gain, oh God? Um we know that every fiber of our being by nature revolts against that idea that We actually uh you know think that death i in our heart of hearts so often we think that our death is the worst thing that could ever happen. And yet we know that because of what's waiting for us in heaven, in your presence, with Christ, the fullness of joy and the pleasures that are at your right hand, we know that because of because of this, our debts truly is gain. Help us to see this, O God. Help us in our hearts to understand the glory of who you are and who our Savior is, so that we desire it above all that is here on this earth O Lord, also open our hearts to serve one another, much in the way that the Apostle Paul was willing to do what was needful for his readers. Even though his desire was to depart and be with Christ, nonetheless he knew it was needful for them to remain in their midst, to pursue fruitful labor for their benefit. Help us to have the same heart towards one another. Help us to have the same heart here at Trinity Reformed as a church. Well Lord, we come to you knowing that these things can only be given to you by your Spirit as a gift of your grace, and so we ask you for these things. In Jesus' name, amen.