Amen. Isaiah We'll be in chapter nine this morning. I think that's on page six hundred and eighty of your Pew Bibles Our focus this morning will be on verses six and seven, but for context we'll begin reading at verse one. Once again, let's give attention to the very Word of God, Isaiah chapter 9, beginning at verse 1. But there will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulon and the land of Nephtali. But in the latter time, he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walked in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in a land of deep darkness, on them has light shone. You have multiplied the nation, you have increased its joy. They rejoice before you as with joy at the harvest, as they are glad when they divide the spoil. For the yoke of his burden and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, you have broken, as on the day of Midian For every boot of the tramping warrior in battle tumult and every garment rolled in blood will be burned as fuel for the fire. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government Shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. On the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it, and to uphold it with justice and with righteousness, from this time forth and for evermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father in heaven, as we have Now read your word once again. We ask for your blessing to be added to it. We pray that the Spirit, Holy Spirit, that you would move powerfully in us now. That you'd teach us all that you'd have for us this morning. Convict us of the truth of your word, of the power of the resurrection. And of the reality of our Savior, of his incarnation, and of his return. We ask all these things in Jesus' name Amen. Well, what are you celebrating? It's that time of year for celebrations, and the question is, what are you celebrating? The angels, as they came to the shepherds, were celebrating. They came with good news, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior. Multitude praising God. What were the shepherds celebrating as they saw Jesus the baby, as they returned, glorifying and praising God for all they heard and seen as it had been told them? What were the magi or the wise men celebrating as they saw the star and rejoiced as it had come to rest over the place where the child was? They knew that they were about to enter And see the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And they were exceedingly rejoicing with great joy. And what are you celebrating? If you type into ChatGPT, what are people celebrating on Christmas, you come up with an answer here which would include this. From many others, Christmas is a cultural holiday. Rather than a religious one. Family gatherings, gift giving, decorating Christmas trees, Santa Claus festive foods, traditions, with an emphasis on generosity, kindness, and togetherness. Some of those are very good things. But the question for us this morning stands, what are you celebrating? As we open up this passage of Scripture in the prophet Isaiah, we see that he was Commissioned by God to proclaim his word to Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jatham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, the kings of Judah. There's encouragement that has come forth in this prophet already. Come now, let us reason together, says the Lord, though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be white as snow. There's truth that he's already set forth. The haughtiness of man shall be humbled, the lofty pride of men shall be brought low. The Lord alone will be exalted in that day And Isaiah's been called. He has entered into the throne room to cast his eyes upon Jesus Christ, the Pre-incarnate Jesus Christ on his throne. And he's been atoned for that coal's been touched to his lips and the sin has been taken away as guilt. It's been taken away and then he's been called to proclaim the very Word of God, and that's exactly what he's done And as we have the beneficiary or we are beneficiaries of what he's done, we see it this morning in this chapter nine. He begins by telling us that the people who walk in darkness have seen a great light. He's referring ultimately to Jesus Christ. ultimately to the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he gets down to our text this morning, verses six and seven, concerning the child that's been born, the son that's been given. This morning, as we look at those two verses, Isaiah 9, 6, and 7, I'd like us to see that Jesus Christ is given to sinners to govern their hearts by the zeal Of the Lord. And Jesus Christ is given to sinners to govern their hearts by the zeal of the Lord. We'll see that in three points this morning or three truths. First, the Son is given to needy sinners. Secondly, the Son is given to govern crooked hearts. And finally, the Son is given by the zeal of the Lord of hosts. Again, as we're going through these passages, these two verses, I'd like you to be asking yourself, what am I celebrating? Well, first, the Son is given to needy sinners. Look at verse 6. Very simply, Isaiah writes, for to us the child is born, to us the son is given. Did you notice those words? They're important words to us. A child is born to us. A son is given. The Lord must have known that the people to whom Isaiah was writing needed to receive or be given a particular son to us. A particular people were to receive this son, this child. Not to everyone, not to all people, no to us. It's as if the Lord was saying, I need for this particular people to receive as a gift this child, this son from me, the Lord. So let's consider a couple of things. It was a particular people that the son was given, and secondly that this idea of a gift, this precious gift. of a son. Well first a particular people. The people to whom Isaiah was writing was a needy people. As he begins his prophecy, he writes this, hear, O heavens, and give ear. These are God's words now, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. Children I have reared and brought up, but they have rebelled against me. That's the second verse of Isaiah's prophecy. Children I've reared. Meaning the particular people whom he has drawn out of Egypt, the Israelites, the Jews, children I have reared and brought up have rebelled against me. Verse 4, a sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity. Offspring of evildoers, children who deal corruptly, they have forsaken the Lord. It's not a wonderful description of the people to whom Isaiah was writing. And then the question in verse 5 of the first chapter: why will you still be struck down? Why will you continue to rebel? The whole head is sick, the whole heart faint. It's not all bad. This is the context in which the child is to be given. This is the needs of the people. And so in verse 16 of chapter 1, there's this call: wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes, cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice, correct oppression. Well, how would the people who are described there in the first opening verses, uh those who have rebelled against God, those who Or rebelling against God whose whole head is sick, how would they then wash themselves, cease to do evil, learn to do good, seek justice? How? Well the first chapter describes a needy people, doesn't it? People who are sinful, people who had tran transgressed the law of God, people who were headed to an eternal death. that they deserved because of their transgressions, because they had neglected the God who had made them, the Lord, who had brought them out of Egypt, who had brought them to themselves as in through the covenant Does that describe you this morning? Needy, sinful, transgressing the law of God, a covenant people And yet needing the favor of God, the one who's made you, the one who's brought you to Himself. And I think we can all answer that question and say, yes. That describes me well. I'm needy. There's another aspect to this though. And that in these particular people, in this particular group of people, this was a desirous people. You may be thinking, well Hmm. How is that when we have this description of rebellious people, transgressing people, people who had neglected God, how do we see them as desirous? Well, think about our practice in giving gifts Even especially during this time of year. As we give gifts, as one gives gifts, it's more likely than not we know that the one to whom we're giving a gift actually wants it, desires it, is looking for it in some cases. That seems to be our practice. It would seem to be the same case here. That God was giving a son, a child, to those that not only needed the child, the son, but also to those who desired the child, the son Knowing that this particular people would be a people who would well receive such a precious gift and recognize him, the childless son, as such. Now, don't mistake what I'm saying. I'm not saying that all of the Israelites fell into this category But I'm saying that this passage applies to more than the people to whom first read this book, this prophetic book This passage applies to all those to whom this child has been given. It applies to you this morning, if you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ. a needy people and a desirous people. And there's the question for us even now. Do you desire Jesus? It's one thing to acknowledge your need for salvation. It's one thing to feel the guilt of the sin that you've committed. It's one thing to desire to be saved from your sins, to be saved from the eternal wrath of God. It's quite another to desire Jesus. You see, Jesus said to his disciples, if anyone would come after me, let him deny himself, take up his cross, and follow me. You see, that was the problem with the rich young ruler, wasn't it? He desired salvation. He came to Jesus and asked him, What must I do to have eternal life? He wanted life. He wanted to be saved. And Jesus told them, if you be perfect, go sell what you possess, give it to the poor, you'll have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. Exactly what he told his disciples. We think the root of the rich young ruler's problem was his great wealth and his desire to keep it. But the real, the deep-seated issue. was his lack of desire for Christ. That's the critical question. Do you desire Jesus? To desire Jesus is first to deny yourself. To desire Jesus is to suffer like Jesus suffered, not on the cross. And finally, to desire Jesus is to long after the things that Jesus longs after. The will of his Father. So do you desire to pursue the will of God the Father? You see, that that was and is the desire. That's the longing of Jesus Christ to this day. To the day when he returns, that desire will never change. So to desire Jesus is to desire and to celebrate that which God the Father wills. It's part of what we're to celebrate as we meditate upon the birth, the first advent of the Lord Jesus Christ. His desire was to completely fulfill the will of his father. That's why he was sent. That's why he was born. What a joy to celebrate the ones. whose his stated and worked out desire was to fulfill the holy will of the God of creation And that then leads us to our second point, doesn't it? The Son is given to govern crooked hearts. This is the second aspect of of this child, this son. He's given to us, but there's a reason. Look at verse six again. And the government shall be upon his shoulder. Well, that's important for us to understand this morning. He's not only given as a gift to a particular, a needy, a desirous people, he is the foundation of the government. Well, what do you think of when you think of government? Whatever's coming to mind right now is probably not what Isaiah was referring to. in this passage. As Americans, we we think of government, we think probably of the president, vice president, Congress, the federal government, the word might bring to our mind the governor of the state The state legislators, the the city, the county councils, the mayors, maybe the police officers, maybe the fire department may enter into your thinking But as Isaiah refers to the government, you must understand the context in which he writes about it. Did you notice the other descriptors? This is what this verse is probably most famous for. His name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father. Prince of peace. These are obviously not descriptors that would fit our worldly thoughts of government No, this is a a divine government. This is a a government of cosmic proportions. So if you think of this divine or cosmic government, now we need to break it up into at least two separate but related governorships. First would be the governorship of the nations, of the world, of the universe. And then secondly, the governorship that exists over you individually. This one, this child, this son, was given to us to be the foundation of each of these governorships. So let's take up these two different but related governorships to understand really what Isaiah is speaking of. Well, first, governor of the universe. The foundation. The government shall be on his shoulders. The government of the universe. As wonderful counselor, mighty God, everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. This one's been given to you, if you're trusting the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, as the ruler of all things, he's the governor of every nation, every tribe, every tongue, every country, every event. Of all the natural creation. The sun, the moon, the stars, the seas, the harvest, the beast of the earth, the fish of the sea, the birds of the air. In short, this one, this sun. As spoken of in Scripture as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords is king over everything that exists. Everything you can see and everything you can't see. He governs as the foundation of the government, the government that is upon his shoulders. It's he, the Lord Jesus Christ. The one who determines what will come to pass, when it will come to pass, and how it will come to pass from eternity until now and forever. He's the one who determines whether nations will rise up or nations will fall. He's the one who causes the sun to rise in the morning and the moon At night, he's the one who gives light and heat. He's the one who governs all things, who created all things, who sustains all things, who determines all things, who disposes and directs all things and governs all things and people Nothing happens outside of his will. Indeed, he's the one who directs things globally, universally. To happen according to his will. And this is the Son who's been given to you. Do you see that blessing? Can you comprehend that? I can't. Think of the President of the United States. Has he been given to you as a gift? Well, you don't have to answer that question. But it's so different. Do you see the magnitude of the difference? The one who governs all things has been given to you For your blessing. He's working out your salvation even today as he directs and controls and sustains and upholds all things. It's mind boggling. It's awesome. But it doesn't stop there. Not only is he governing the universe, he's governing your heart individually. That's the second aspect. We've spoken of the global aspect, but now we need to touch upon the individual aspect governing your heart this morning. And now as the world celebrates this time of the year, this birth of Jesus Christ, I doubt that many are contemplating his birth, his coming in connection with their heart. And in particular in the governance of their heart. But that's exactly what we need to be thinking about, meditating upon this morning. The God, the creator of all things, including you, has given you his son, has sent his son to govern your heart. Now, we have to understand what that means. You see, if you're trusting in Christ this morning, you were at one point in time a straying sheep If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ this morning, it's only because He's governing your heart. You were lost, you were in darkness, you loved your sins so much that you ran away from Jesus Christ. You did exactly what your heart desired to do. You enjoyed your lies. You coveted with a deceitful tongue. You took pleasure in your lusting after the material world you hated with joy, and most especially you wanted nothing to do with the Savior of the world This is the darkness that you lived in and that you relished. You sought to do everything you could to shield yourself from the light of Christ. And most particularly from his purity and from his righteousness. But this is what you should be celebrating As you think upon the birth of the Lord Jesus, this is what you should be rejoicing in as you consider, as you meditate upon his first advent that he was given to govern your crooked heart. He was sent to draw you savingly to himself. Through that new birth, that new birth that Nicodemus was told about that he couldn't believe as Jesus was talking to him, and you must be born again. That's the governance of Jesus Christ. That's what he does, he sits upon his throne, high and exalted above the heavens. As he's been given all authority. Remember, that's what we read in Matthew chapter 28. All authority has been given to me over your heart. That's how he governs your heart. That's how he leads you out of darkness and into his light such that you actually desire light. You see, without the governance of Jesus, you would have no desire for the light, you'd have no desire for his righteousness. But because he does govern with a strong hand of the Almighty God, The wonderful counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father Because he governs in that way with those names. He so changed your your corrupted and rotten heart into that which is tender and fleshly and now willing and able to desire not only being with him but being like him Isn't that something to celebrate? That's the joy of the incarnation The government being set upon his shoulders, such that your heart will be led to him in all his glory, that you might gaze upon his beauty and splendor forever. You see, sometimes we think we miss the opportunity. We would have liked to be there with the shepherds as the angels come down and they're they're singing glory and they say, go over here. And they go and they see the Lord Jesus. Sometimes we think we miss that. Or we miss the opportunity with the Magi to bring gifts to the Lord Jesus Christ and worship him in person. But the truth is you haven't missed anything. You've been drawn to see his glory this morning. But more than that, you're looking forward to the day when you'll bathe in the splendor and glory and the majesty of this Son who's been given to you. Who's been governing your heart all the way to sit at his feet in eternal bliss? You've missed nothing. We're looking forward to the blessing of the governing Son, to be in his presence forever. That brings us to our third point. The sun is given by the zeal of the Lord of hosts. And we don't read this kind of verse often. I think it appears maybe two or three times in all of Scripture, the zeal of the Lord of hosts. We'll do this. That's the end of verse seven. So we have to continue asking ourselves that question, what am I Celebrating. Have you ever considered that aspect, this truth of the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ? The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. Now, certainly there's there's more in this passage. The increase of his government and of peace there'll be no end, the throne of David over his kingdom, to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from this time forth to evermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. All of that. But this morning we're we're just fixed and focused upon the Son to be given to you. Now obviously those who received this prophetic book to begin with were waiting for this to happen. the Son to be given. He'd not yet come, and he would not come in their lifetimes, because Isaiah wrote this about seven hundred years before Jesus was actually born. And so the question is what stood behind this promise for the one to come, and it was the zeal of the Lord of hosts. who would accomplish that, the birth of this son to be given. And we have to ask ourselves, is that something we're celebrating this morning? What is it for God to be zealous? What does that mean, the zeal of Lord of hosts? What is it for God to be zealous to bring something about, to bring something to pass, to be zealous, to fulfill his promise of a son to be given? Well, we know a little bit about the word zeal or zealous, but it's used in the scripture. As I said, it's used in Isaiah several times. Isaiah 37. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. That's a second time it's used in this prophetic book. In Isaiah 42, the Lord goes out like a mighty man, like a man of war. He stirs up his zeal. And cries out. There it's in the context of God being a warrior. And he stirs himself up by and through his Zeal. In Isaiah 59, where we're reading about salvation, the Lord's hand is not shortened, it cannot save, that it cannot save, or is ear dull that it cannot hear. In verse 17, we read this: He put on righteousness as a breastplate and a helmet of salvation on his head. He put on garments of vengeance for clothing and wrapped himself in zeal as a cloak. I think it's speaking of Jesus Christ. He will accomplish salvation because of his zeal. And we can be zealous for something or some event to come to pass. We can really desire it. We can be jealous for it and yet have no power to bring it about. Consider for a moment the war going on between Ukraine and Russia. There are many people who have a zeal to bring about peace, but they have no power to do so. The Hebrew lexicon defines this word used, this word that's translated zeal It could mean anger. Don't think that's what it means in this case. But I think it means something along these lines, that God is striving to achieve his goal. God is jealous. He's jealous for his son's glory. Do you see that in this passage? He's giving a son. He's giving his son this government. He's described this government in such a way that it's filled with justice and righteousness. He's jealous for the glory of his son to be seen. I think that's the way we might understand this. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will do this. God is zealous to bring about his glory through your salvation. To the governance of his son. You see, it's not a mere wish. That's what we might think of when we think of our zeal. We really want this to happen. We wish that it would happen. It's not an an an occasional desire that God sometimes thinks about or is concerned will not come to pass. Now the zeal of the Lord of hosts is that which guarantees that his promise will come to pass and it has. Jesus Christ, the Son of God, was given to you Those reading the prophecy for the first time were looking forward to it. You can look backward and see, yes, the birth did happen, and he has been given to me. Some of you may might be thinking this morning, well so what? A historical event. It did happen. He brought it about by his heel But if the living God has brought about the birth of his son, if he's given his son to all of his particular people, To bring them, to govern their hearts, to bring them to glory, would he not also finish the work of salvation? Would he not bring him back? to gather his bride so his son would be wed for eternity with his particular needy and desirous people. Isn't that what you're celebrating this morning? The zeal of God for you, for your salvation, for your entry into glory For your purification in his son as he returns to wed you, this one that's been given to you? Are you celebrating his zeal for your presence, your fellowship, your communion with him, the living God? for eternity. I think that's what this verse should speak to us this morning. Yes, the Father is zealous for the glory of his son. And he's zealous for his own glory. But he's also zealous for you. To come into his presence as a purified bride of his son and to live with him, to commune with him forever. Praise be to God. Yes, Jesus Christ is given to sinners to govern their hearts by the zeal of the Lord. The angels, the shepherds, the magi were celebrating Christ. Is that who you're celebrating this morning? The one who's governed your heart such that you're here worshiping him and looking forward with certain hope to his return. Knowing that the zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish that. Praise be to God. Amen. Father. We are such a blessed people. Oh, to think that you have given us your son of this one The second person of the eternity coming to take on human flesh that we might be saved, that he would govern our crooked hearts and bring us into the light. Oh Father, we are such a blessed people. Help us. To celebrate. To celebrate Christ. To celebrate this one who governs our hearts. This one who's been given to us an unworthy and undeserving and yet a particular people. Father, help us to meditate throughout this week upon your zeal. The zeal for your son's glory, the zeal for your own glory, and the zeal for us. To be united to you forever. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.