If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Matthew's gospel, we'll continue our study there in chapter 27. I think that's on page 992 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll start reading there at verse 50. Let's give attention to the very word of God. And Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. And behold, the curtain of the temple was torn in two. From top to bottom. And the earth shook. And the rocks were split. The tomb also were opened. And many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. And coming out of the tombs after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake And what took place, they were filled with awe and said, Truly, this was the Son of God. Amen. Praise be to God. Peace be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, not God Help us. We're weak, we're failed. Sinners saved only by grace. We need your spirit this morning. Father, without your spirit we cannot understand. We cannot grasp the depth of this passage. Help me. But God speak through me. Weak as I am. Help me to decrease and help Christ to increase. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What are you doing with the door that's been opened to heaven? What are you doing with it The same question could be asked of car owners in big cities. When they're considering the street that's been plowed in their car that's now encased in snow We've experienced a significant amount of snow and ice here in the mid-Atlantic in the northeast during the past two weeks, and if you've seen the news, you've seen cars that have been just buried in streets that have been plowed and they haven't been moved and so they're encased in mountains of snow Owners would have to come out and shovel around their vehicle in order to create a path to get to the street that's been plowed. And then Then they need to get into the car, which was encased in snow. Actually two separate but very related actions in order to get their buried car End of the street. First, an opening had to be shoveled to get to the plowed street. And then secondly, you had to get inside the car that was encased in snow It's a bit of what we have for our passage this morning. Jesus Christ has been betrayed. He's been arrested. He's been tried, so to speak, he's been denied by his disciples. He's been sent to Pilate. Barabbas has been released and Jesus has been judged a sinner. The soldiers have scourged Jesus. They have mocked Jesus. They have placed a crown of thorns upon his head. He has been crucified. In the midst of his suffering, he cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? Even then, even then, Jesus was still not known as the Son of God, as those bystanders around him say this man is calling Elijah. That brings us to our passage this morning. Jesus has died, truly. His spirit has been yielded up. And we have a straightforward record by Matthew of those events that immediately follow the last breath of Jesus. The curtain of the temple is torn in two from top to bottom. That which separated the holy place from the most holy place in the temple. The earth shook, an earthquake occurs, such that rocks are split open. And seemingly as a result, tombs are opened, burial places. Saints are raised from the dead. And after the resurrection of Jesus Christ, they actually enter Jerusalem. And then finally, Gentiles, the centurion with his soldiers, those who were keeping watch over Jesus, those who had mocked and scourged Jesus, those who hung Jesus on the cross. are filled with awe and exclaim, truly this was the Son of God That's the passage. We might sum up this teaching here this morning this way, and this comes really directly from Hebrews chapter 10. On the cross Jesus opened a new and living way to God through his flesh. On the cross, Jesus opened a new and living way to God through his flesh. We'll see it on three points or three truths this morning. First, paradise was shuttered. Secondly, heaven was reopened. And then thirdly, hard hearts are ruptured. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to be continuing to ask yourself that question, what am I doing with the door that's been opened to heaven? Well, first paradise was shuttered. The backdrop to this passage is absolutely critical. For us to understand what's happening here. And we actually have to go all the way back to Genesis chapter 3 to understand this passage. There, as we read, as Adam and Eve sin against God, they are removed from the garden. Moses records this, therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man. The garden was that dwelling place of of God with men on earth. And he's been driven out. And he, meaning God, placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. Actually that stands behind our passage this morning. There's only one way into the garden, that dwelling place of God with men. And here we read that it was shut tightly. The tenants, Adam and Eve, were driven out, and the door was shut. The cherubim, the flaming sword, guarding the only entrance back to the tree of life. And you have to ask that question, why was the door shut? Why why was the Garden of Eden closed? Why was it shuttered? Vacated? Why were all the tenants forcefully driven out? Why was this place of paradise, the place that was very good, this place of perfection vacated? Well, I think you know it was because of Adam's disobedience. God had told Adam, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it, you shall surely die. And that's exactly what Adam did. He ate. It was the sin of Adam that shut the door. It was Adam's disobedience. His sin that killed him that day that he spiritually died and was separated from God. It was the sin of Adam that closed the door tightly. It was the sin of Adam which brought about the placement of the cherubim and the flaming sword to the entrance of the Garden of Eden where the tree of life was planted. And so Adam was cut off, completely separated, closed out from access to the tree of life, which actually represented God Himself. There was no possible entry, no possible access for Adam back into the garden, to the tree of life, no way to return back to that intimate communion and union with God, life itself. In his own strength, in his own power. Adam had broken the covenant of works, and he had broken that sweet, that eternal, communicative, that familiar, that loving relationship. That he had enjoyed with the Lord, all as a result of his sin, of his disobedience, shut out, completely, closed off. Well what does Adam's sin have to do with with this curtain of the temple being torn in two? Well that's why we read from Exodus 26 this morning. It's a description of that veil or that curtain. Now this curtain was constructed and placed inside the tabernacle. And you remember the tabernacle had two, basically two areas within it. The holy place and the most holy place. And the veil or the curtain separated those two areas. And it was only the high priest that could get into the most holy place once a year when he brought blood with him on the Day of Atonement. And what was behind the veil was the Ark of the Covenant. That piece of furniture, so to speak, that represented God's very dwelling with his people. So you see that access to God behind that veil. It wasn't available. It was only available to the high priest once a year, and only with blood. The veil separated the holy place. From the most holy. And what was in the veil? Well, it had cherubim skillfully worked into it. And it was it was made of blue and purple and scarlet yarns. What are those colors for? What do they represent? Seems to me that they represent fire. And what was it that guarded the way back to the tree of life? Cherubim and flaming swords. And so the veil, veil was causing that high priest once a year, every year, even the priests who went into the holy place to look upon it, they saw that that represented the way back to the tree of life, to God, and that they were separated from it. So we should see a connection now. Between the Vale, the garden, and God. So to understand this passage, we must begin with the effect of our sin, the effect that our sin has on our access to heaven. You see, as we remain in our sin, we have no access to heaven. As the Israelites remained in their sin, they had no access behind the veil, only once a year. When they were atoned for, did one of them have access Similarly, in our sin, we have no access to heaven, no access to God, like Adam, like The wilderness camping Israelites, we have no personal access. In other words, no communion with the God of creation outside of Jesus Christ. We've been cut off from the one that we desperately need to commune with. We've been cut off by our sin. You see, that's exactly what the criminal on the cross next to Jesus Christ was experiencing. He'd been cut off from communion with God by his sin. Indeed, the criminal knew that he was not in paradise. And so he calls out to Jesus and he asks to be remembered as he comes into his kingdom and Jesus tells him, truly, today you will be with me in paradise because he wasn't in paradise yet. But Jesus was about to reopen the door. And that brings us to our second point. Heaven was reopened. Paradise was shuttered, but now heaven itself was reopened. So with that background, we can now ask uh how and and why was the curtain torn in two? What was happening? How is this connected to the death of Jesus Christ? It happens immediately upon his giving up of his spirit. What was the connection? So Jesus cried out again with a loud voice and yielded up his spirit. What had he done? What had Jesus accomplished? Jesus did that which Adam failed and refused to do in the garden. Jesus kept the commands of God perfectly Isaiah 53, they made his grave with the wicked and with the rich man in his death, although he had done no violence. Second Corinthians chapter 5. We read it this morning. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin. Peter Comments upon this as well. He committed no sin, neither was the seat found in his mouth. Jesus was sinless. His propationary period, so to speak, came to an end, came to a close upon the cross as he breathed his last and yielded up his spirit, having accomplished all that the Father had sent him to do. I glorified you on earth, having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And in John's Gospel he records that which we just sang, it is finished. Meaning that he had accomplished everything that his father sent him to do The inspired apostle Paul puts it this way. And being found in a human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. You see, that's what was happening at the moment that Jesus yielded up his spirit. He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. You see, communion with God demands obedience. There can be no communion with the holy God of creation without obedience. Indeed, communion is predicated or founded upon obedience and the yielding up of his spirit was that final and complete act of obedience of Jesus, the giving up of his very life was asked of him, not taken from him. If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself. That's exactly what Jesus was doing on the cross. So Jesus accomplished perfect, complete, loving, submissive obedience. That which was necessary to re-establish communion with the living God There was another thing that was happening in addition to his obedience. And it's related, it's the suffering of Jesus, isn't it? Communion demanded obedience, but communion also demanded satisfaction of the wrath of God and that's what Jesus was doing on the cross as he yields up his spirit, as he suffered the eternal wrath of God, as he cried out to God, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? His last breath comes as a result of his suffering. Suffering the eternal wrath of the living God for the sins of the world. He breathes out his last. He finished the work of satisfying the justice of God for sins committed by God's children Heaven could not be opened without this satisfaction. And so the curtain, the veil which was hanging at that very moment in the temple. It supernaturally tears from top to bottom, signifying, representing, symbolizing the unspeakable pleasure, the happiness, the blessedness. of the God of creation. So pleased with his son's obedience. Knowing that his eternal justice had been satisfied. God, in a sense, basks in the obedience of his Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. As a result, he reopens the door. The veil is torn in two Communion with God results from obedience. Do you consider obedience to be powerful? As Christians mature, some may gain an appreciation, a better appreciation for the wretchedness of their sins. I think we do. Not fully, not as the Lord views sin, but closer, day by day. Yet I doubt, I doubt that many Christians, even mature Christians, consider the power of obedience. Disobedience is admired in our culture. Obedience is understood as weakness. To be contrary to a master or to a superior is to be strong in this culture. Peter speaks of it in his letter to the saints in Rome. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. But here in this passage we see just the opposite. We see the power of obedience. Do you understand obedience that way? Do you approach obedience with that attitude, meaning that your obedience is powerful, not like Jesus's Now I'm not saying that your obedience is powerful in terms of earning salvation. It's not. Your obedience is not that. Jesus' obedience is. But your obedience makes a statement, doesn't it? It makes a powerful statement before others. Jesus says so very clearly, let your light shine before others. So that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who's in heaven. What are good works? But obedience. Obedience to Jesus. See, sometimes I think we need to ask ourselves the question, why why aren't our lights shining brighter? Maybe it's because we we don't believe that our obedience is powerful. You see, the call this morning, I think, is to let your obedience shine Not so that attention can be drawn to you, not for self-recognition, not to not to seek praise for yourself, but to point to Jesus. You see, every time, every time you you let your obedience shine forth, your good works show forth, what are you doing? You're radiating the obedience of Christ. You're pointing to the cross. You're pointing to the powerful obedience of Jesus Christ. That brings us to our third point. Hard hearts are ruptured. I've seen the door to paradise has been opened as as Jesus, Jesus' last breath, is giving up of his spirit, tears the veil in two from top to bottom, opening the door. to heaven, so to speak. And you may be thinking that this picture, this image, this imagery, this symbolism really only applies at death That as one is ushered up into heaven, that the door has been opened by Jesus, and therefore it's not shut, and so it applies to death. But make no mistake, there is an application of this to us today Here, before Jesus returns, before you die First, have you considered that the tearing and two of the veil also represents access to the heart of every single child of God. You see the tearing in two of the veil of the curtain means nothing. It represents nothing if no one actually walks through it. The tearing is purposeless unless the opening is used. See, it's one thing to have the door opened, it's quite another to walk through it. As we think of the veil being torn into our immediate access Our immediate thoughts go to access, access to the throne, access to God through Christ, access to eternal life, access to glory or heaven. We know that a new birth must be given in order for one to actually walk through that torn veil, so to speak, in order to access heaven. But before a new heart is given, the old heart must be removed. Doesn't that make sense? Think of a surgeon today, a heart surgeon. Who's putting a new heart in someone, what must happen first? Now I'm not a surgeon, but I would think that this does happen first. That that sick heart, that defective heart, the old heart that will certainly bring about death must first be removed before the new, the healthy heart can be put in place. That's exactly the picture we're given. Here in this passage, as Jesus takes his last breath. As he gives up his spirit, he's not only tearing the veil in two, he's not only opening the door to heaven, But he's also breaking apart the hardness of surrounding hardened hearts. He's beginning that process of removing the old heart to make way for the new. He's breaking through that shell, that outer shell, so to speak, that unbreakable shell. Set on sinning against the holy God. He's breaking it down. He's breaking through. He's breaking in. He's rupturing the outer darkness. The outer hardness. Look at verse 51. The curtain of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earth shook. And rocks were split. The veil wasn't the only thing that suffered as a result of Jesus' death There's an earthquake. Rocks are split open. Tombs were opened. And sleepers arise. Many bodies of the saints who had fallen asleep were raised. Their graves were opened. And they come to life. They're raised. Jesus Christ is breaking in, breaking into the graves to release them. Then consider verse 54. When the centurion and those who were with him, keeping watch over Jesus, saw the earthquake and what took place, they were filled with awe. Think of that. These were the men who were a few hours ago mocking Jesus. Those who did not believe in his true identity, they were laughing at him, they were placing a crown of thorn upon his head, and now they're filled with awe. They stand in awe of this one, the one whom they had mocked, who were they bowed down before in mockery and hatred. And now they were in awe. This represents a rupture of the hard shell of the soldiers' heart, a complete 180-degree change of heart to the point that they can confess this truly was the Son of God. You can tell me that I'm wrong, but I think that's the first confession that we read in Matthew's Gospel. You are the Son of God. Hearts were broken into the moment Jesus gave up his spirit and died for the sins of the world. Let me speak to those who have yet to profess faith this morning. Let me speak to those who are actually may also be running from Christ this morning. The door is open. Jesus Christ has opened the door to heaven. He's made a way through his flesh and blood for you to receive forgiveness of your sins. And to have eternal life. Adam and Eve shut the door in their sin. Jesus Christ has opened it in his obedience. And the only question this morning for you is, will you enter? It's like the car owner who has that cars parked in a big city and he's asking that question, will I enter into the street? You may answer this morning, look, I can't see it. I can't see the door. I can't see heaven. My response to you this morning will be, you're right. You can't. You can't see the veil, which was torn from top to bottom by the death of Jesus Christ, supernaturally. You can't see into heaven. You can't see the king's table. You can't see forgiveness. But you can and do experience guilt. Even now Even as you love your sin. Even as you enjoy those sins that you lust after in this world, you know that with that enjoyment comes a heavy, unbearable guilt. You know that you've sinned against the holy God. And I know that you seek cleansing. And a renewed relationship with your Creator, we all do. Nothing else satisfies. And nothing else ever will. And so while you can't see the door to heaven opened, you can't see the veil torn in two, you do have a glimpse Just a small part of what it would mean if the door is eternally shut. For this guilt that you know of today, this weighs upon your heart, and so you know a glimpse of what will be weighing upon your physicality in hell As the wrath of God will be pouring out upon you constantly and consistently, and that is the guilt of your sins without any forgiveness. You'll live in the torment of your sins forever. And so you know that at least a taste of that today. But the door is open. Today the door to forgiveness and life in Jesus Christ is open. The door to communion and fellowship With the triune, God is open. The door to eternal life is open. The door to eternal bliss and perfection and sinless and pure obedience is open. Will you plead with the Lord of hosts, the King of Kings, who died so that sinners might be free? Will you plead with him to change your heart? Even this morning. Let me now speak to those who are sincerely trusting in Jesus this morning. See, as a result of Jesus tearing the veil in two There's peace, isn't there? You're able to come out without fear. Just like those saints on the day, on the hour, on the moment that Jesus died, tombs are open. In a sense, the tombs were shielding them from the wrath of God. But as Jesus had taken it, as he has reconciled it, tombs are open. There's no more need for them to hide from the wrath of God. The war was over. The battle with God was over in Christ's blood. There's therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. And so these sayings, these sinners, these believers who are asleep are dead. Have their encasements, their tombs opened, no longer enclosing them within, no longer shielding them from the wrath of God. I could come out in peace. And so as the door has been opened, are you using it? Are you entering through it and feasting at the king's table? Isn't that the picture we have? You might think, well, that's just for when I die. That's just for when Jesus returns. No, no, no. It's for today. The door's been opened today, such that you're invited to sit at the king's table and feast on delicious food. On the bread of life. On Jesus Himself. See, as Nicodemus came to Jesus that night. It was closed off to him, wasn't it? The kingdom was shut. He couldn't even see it. But you've been born again. And so as a result of Jesus' death on the cross, he has given you access to the King's table, his word. Are you feasting upon it? Are you being fed by it? Are you growing through it? What about prayer? As Adam and Eve sinned against God, their communion line was cut off, there was no intimacy any longer. uh the ones that they n had been accustomed to in the garden. It's like a a telephone line being cut. Now, some of you may not know that, but it used to be that our telephones were connected by copper wires. uh and that's the only way we can actually speak to one another is through these wires. But if the wire was severed you no longer could make that call and that's what And uh that's what Adam and Eve did. They severed our our communion with God but Christ's death He's reconnected that line of communication, hasn't he? So now you can talk with God because the curtain has been torn in two, heaven has been opened. In Christ you can truly speak to your heavenly father in intimate and personal prayer. Are you doing that? Are you availing yourself of that open door? And then think of worship. You see that torn veil represents the ability to come here in this place and actually commune corporately with God in worship. And the only way we can do that is through Christ, is through that through his death, through his tearing the veil in two, through uh g granting us that access into the throne room through his flesh. Are you actually using it? Because we can come here and sit here and not really engage in worship, can't we? Are you engaged? Are you really worshiping in spirit and in truth? Have you prepared yourself to come here and do just that? Oh, what a blessing we have! That the way has been opened. Brothers and sisters, the only way we can use any of these things is by and through the work of the Spirit. So let us be in prayer. Let us be pleading with God. That He would grant us the desire and the longing, the time to be in His Word, to be in prayer. to come here and truly engage in worship because Jesus Christ has opened the door. He's opened the door. Yes, on the cross Jesus opened a new and living way to God through his flesh. Like those snow-covered colors. You may not think so today, but the snow will melt. Just as Jesus melts away the hardness of hearts. So that all the children of God will access the throne of grace We'll access his word. We'll access him through worship, through the flesh of Jesus. Amen. Our Father, our God, we thank you for this passage. We thank you for Christ's death. We thank you, Lord God, for the tearing of the veil in two. Thank you for the earthquake, the splitting of the rocks, the tombs that were opened, the Gentiles who cried out, who confessed to Jesus as the Son of God, who was struck with awe. Father, we are struck with awe for Christ. Help us. Help us, Lord, to use this open door now, today. To commune with you. We praise you. We thank you. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.