Redirect your attention to God's Word, Hebrews chapter six, uh nine, and verse six through ten. Hebrews chapter nine verses six Let us now hear the word of the Lord. Now when these things Had been prepared, the priests always went into the first part of the tabernacle, performing the services. But unto the second part the high priest went alone, once a year, not without blood. Which he offered for himself and for the people's sins, committed in ignorance. The Holy Spirit indicating this, that the way into the holiest of all Was not yet made manifest while the first tabernacle was still standing. It was symbolic for the priest's time, in which both gifts and sacrifices are offered, which cannot make him who performed the service perfect. In regard to the conscience, concerned only with foods and drinks Various washings and fleshly ordinances imposed until the time of Reformation. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And I invite you to please be seated. We're going to look at this passage under the title Transcending the High Priest's Weakness. Transcending the high priest's weaknesses. Last week we looked at chapter 9, verses 1 through 5. The title of that sermon was Christ in the Shadows. Christ to the details. And we noted that the ministries performed by the priests in the tabernacle and later in the temple. were symbols, they were symbolic that pointed forward to the work of Jesus Christ as the Savior of His people. Looking back, with the aid of having God's progressive revelation in Christ, and with the help of God's Holy Spirit, we can see more clearly. How Christ completes the picture of God with us in the temple as our great high priest. He saves us from sins, and he unites himself to us, his people, through faith in his name. Our thoughts today are focused on Hebrews, on the author of Hebrews, on the high priest's ministry in the Old Testament temple And before the Holy of Holies. How is it that understanding the high priest's labors And the temple can assist us as Christians to better understand the redemptive work of Christ. In order to answer this question, we as Christians must accept the fact That God has revealed truth to us from Genesis 1 through Revelation 22. We must also accept the fact that God revealed this revelation and his redemptive truth In a beginning fashion or in a seed stage first, and then he builds upon that revelation For example, Genesis chapter 3, verses 14 through 15, we read: The Lord God said to the serpent, Because thou hast done this Thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field. Upon thy belly thou shalt go. And thus shalt thou eat all the days of the life, of thy life. And I will put enmity between me. And thee, and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed It shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise thy heel. Friends, we believe that that is the gospel. In a seed form, in an initial form, even as John 3. 16 is also the gospel. In a more expanded form. It's just that the ultimate expression of the gospel of Jesus Christ is in John 3. 16. And other related passages in the New Testament. God, for his own reasons, chose to reveal revelation to men in stages. In stages until we reach the New Testament, where God reveals the fullest and the completeness of his written Redemptive activity in the person and work of Christ. Is everybody hearing what I'm saying? Fundamentally, I'm saying we got one Bible, not two. There's no division. And it's God's intention to reveal to us in the Old Testament about his redemptive ways in a beginning fashion, but then to reveal it in stages with more and more precision until we finally get to Christ. And that really, if you understand that, that really begins to open up our understanding of the Bible. It really begins to say to you and to me That God's Old Testament is just as much the Word of God as the new. And we can learn from the Old Testament, even though at times there are things that we have difficulty relating to Because they're outside of our cultural experience. But that doesn't mean they're no less the gospel. Now, if you ask me why, did God choose to reveal things in this fashion? Why didn't He just Give the full blown picture from the very beginning. I would say I think he did, but obviously it's in a shadow form. And I think the answer to the question why is related to Jesus' answer to the question, why did you teach in parables? You remember, the disciples wanted to know, and Christ's response was to those given by God to see. They will see, they will understand. And those to whom it was not given to believe will not understand. So you can really say that the giving, the way in which God chose to reveal, was deliberate. It opened the word to those to whom it's given to believe, and it shut the word to those to whom it's not. Even in one of the greatest of all ironies in the Bible is the fact that not even Caiaphas As he took his yearly journey into the Holy of Holies as Israel's high priest at the time of Christ. Not even Caiaphas would believe in Christ, the final Redeemer. Even though in the Holy of Holies Caiaphas got closer to seeing the actual picture of God's redemptive work than anyone else in all of history up until the point of the birth of Christ. Isn't that stunning? You can see it. And and and he's the only one who could see it But even seeing it convicted him. It didn't save him. It didn't bring him to know Christ. It brought antagonism between and Christ, to the point where he was a critical part of Christ's death So, having said all this, let's look at these few verses together and see how these verses. Point to Christ while at the same time showing us the weaknesses of the Old Testament high priests And how Christ transcends those weaknesses Verse 6. Now when these things were thus prepared, the priest went always into the first tabernacle, accompanying the service of God. Well what that passage is referring to is the work of all priests Levites in general, in Israel, in the court of the temple, which is separated from the people, but also separated from the Holy of Holies. Into that court the Levites were active ministry. They were the priests for Israel And they were, as the text says, they were thus prepared, or they were made ready, or they were ordained to this task. Their activities were revealed for us last week in chapter 9, verse 2. They did such things as, let's look at verse 2 and then I'll comment. For there was a tabernacle made. The first wherein was the candlestick, the table, the showbread, which is called the sanctuary. If you go back, you find out, check other references, you find out on a weekly basis The Levites were responsible for the exchange of the showbread once a week. You find out that they were involved in maintaining the levels of oil in the lampstand and the and the lamps that floodlighted uh the lampstand. You find that they were involved in a number of other actions Even outside the temple that dealt with maintaining the temple as a building and the offering of the sacrifices. All these things the Levites did. And as we read in He uh in uh In Numbers chapter 18, you can see a fuller description of what they did. But now verse 7 says, into the second Into the second part of the table, a tabernacle, or the temple, which got the name of the Holy of Holies, the high priest alone Once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself and for the errors of the people. In contrast to the Levite service, there was the high priest, first with Aaron, and then with others that descended from his line. Only the high priest, only the high priest could go into the Holy of Holies. And you please must note: any outsider who goes there, goes there under penalty of death. Only the high priest could go. Now he couldn't go whenever he wanted, and he couldn't go in however he wanted to go. There were stipulations upon him He had to go, as the text says, not without blood. In other words, he had to bring A blood offering, because Hebrews chapter 9, verse 22 reminds us that in God's economy of doing things, almost all things are by law purged with blood. And without the shedding of blood, there is no remission. Now, the interesting thing about the shedding of blood In this case, in the case of the high priest, is the text reminds us that it was offered first for himself. And it was offered, you see, first for himself, because the high priest Is also guilty before God. He sins too. All men fell in Adam. All men sinned. Every high priest with the blood offering is saying Whether he acknowledges this or not, he is saying, I am like Adam. I sin. And I am subject to God's penalty for my sin. I need blood to atone for my sin And the blood, as you go back and you research it, you'll find it has to be the blood of a spotless animal, a perfect animal, and mostly the firstborn. We learn from Exodus chapter 29 that the high priest could go in with carrying this blood in some sort of vessel. For his own sins and then for the sins of the people, he could only go there after being ritually cleansed. The outer garments, he must be washed and anointed. The outer garments of the high priest must be ritually cleansed. Which I think probably means they had to be as near spotless as possible. He offers up a sacrifice for what is called errors, or some of you may have translated unknown, or sins committed in ignorance. Sins committed in ignorance, which is something we should at least understand and appreciate That even sins, even our sins committed in ignorance, must be atoned for. It's not just the sins that we do deliberately, it's the ones we don't even know about. And why is that the case? Can't you give us a pass, God? No. No He must not give us a pass, for such is the holiness of God, whom we must answer. for our sins. The entire activity of the high priest and the Holy of Holies, that inner area where we find the mercy seat. of God. We find the Ark of the Covenant of God. We find the Ark the rod that budded. We find the bread of manna We talked about all of that last week. The entire activity The author of Hebrews explains in chapter 9, verse 8, a little bit outside of this text, he says, the Holy Ghost, this signifying That the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest while the first temple was standing. So the the whole picture of the priest going into the temple once a year with ritual cleansing, once a year with blood, to offer up atonement for the sins of the people in ignorance for himself and then for the people, that the scripture says, was not yet made. The way there into the temple was not yet made manifest. It was a figure for that for the time then present. It was a figure for that time. Whenever the high priest went into the Holy of Holies once a year to do what he was prescribed to do, it was a figure for that time. That era, that era before the coming of Christ. He was a figure in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices That could not make him that did the service perfect. Even though he made the appropriate offerings even though he was dressed in the appropriate way, even though blood he took into the tabernacle, probably to sprinkle upon the Ark of the Covenant and the mercy seat That could not make him perfect. You see his deficiency And he also is not, his efforts also, even the best of intentions, did not make the way for others To go into the Holy of Holies, into the presence of God. That's what the Holy of Holies symbolized. He could not bring anybody else along with him. His efforts did nothing to make the way any easier or more open. But it was a symbol. It was a sign Something better is coming. The high priest's actions and his offerings were figures Wherein the Holy Spirit says that the way to the holiest of all was not yet made manifest during the first temple. No way for everybody to go into God's holy of holies while there was an earthly temple. Only one of God's choosing, with ritual cleansing, and with spotless garments, and with offerings, blood offerings, could he atone first for himself. the sins committed in ignorance and then for others. As such, he represented the people. of God. A system is in force as long as the first temple stands. But it's no longer standing now. When I say praise to God. It means, you see, that in the old covenant, in the high priest's activity It means that he represents a time when access to God is strictly limited. Even though God promised his people something greater, what did he promise? I will be your God, and you will be my people. He promised something called Emmanuel, which is God with us. And your God is Christ. And he is with you all the time. And he can be with you all the time. Because of his death and resurrection, and the unleashing of his Holy Spirit at that resurrection. A Holy Spirit who now dwells in your heart and through faith cleanses. You from sin. Makes you perfect in the sight of God. The blood sacrifice has been given, and it's been given in Christ once for all. Once, he needs not daily to offer up sins for himself or for the sins of the people, for those committed in ignorance, or those committed Deliberately. The high priest's order represents a time when access to God Oh, excuse me, I already said that. The high priest represents all that was uh uh uh prevalent during the era of Adam And the era of Adam is falling away, and indeed it is replaced by the era of the second Adam. The second Adam The era of the first Adamic high priest would have An era of sin, an era of separation, an era where there is no reconciliation between God and man. An era where there was no fullness of God with us. An era when there was no propitiation of God's wrath. An era when sin was not removed as far as East is from the West In this sense, understanding the high priest, you must understand him as an antity of Christ. And this reveals his great weakness, his human limitations. He has no power nor merit To bring the rest of us sinners along with him. In small ways The high priest and his activity in the Holy of Holies is yearly Even though it's an anti-type, it's also a type of Christ. It's both. The blood sacrifice for the remission of sins is still needed, but it is done by a better high priest. With a better sacrifice. And it's a superior high priest, and the outlines of his superiority are seen. That we in Jesus Christ have a priest that is perfectly holy, one who in God's sight is without sin One who cannot be only man, for all men have sinned, but he must be a better sacrifice. You see, a spotless Lamb of God is needed. One without sin, one who is blameless, one who is no less than God with us. As John remarked, upon first sight of Jesus, John the Baptist proclaimed the Lamb of God, which takes away the sin of the world. the world. He must come, and he has. Only in this great high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ, with his sacrifice has access to God in the heavenly of heavenlies been affected so that you, God's people, can come before your God. Anytime. Jesus takes his people with him into the tabernacle. Not one day of the year, but every day. Every day. He takes his people with us because we, his people, are in spiritual union with him. in his death and resurrection. He is the Emmanuel that God had promised. The Emmanuel who saves us from our sins, whose name is Jesus You will call him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. He is Emmanuel. He saves us from our sins. He removes sins as far as East is From Wetz, one who offers himself as sacrifice The better blood, the mediator of the new covenant, the God man, Jesus Christ No longer are Christ's people just outwardly clean in the sight of God, but now inwardly clean. With a new heart and a new mind, which longs to do God's law, and has the Holy Spirit's assistance enabling us to have a better conscience in matters of things before God No longer is the need to be doing priestly activities, as verse 10 points out. Which stood only in meats, drinks, and diverse watchings and carnal ordinances imposed upon them until the time of Reformation. The reformation has come. The renewal has come. The Adamic order of the past has been superseded by the second Adam's order. External um external things that accoutrements to our worship are not needed What God is interested in is the internal renewal of our hearts and our minds, which is done through God's gift to us of Jesus Christ. And he gives you a new heart. And he gives you the Holy Spirit. He who sprinkles our heart clean with the blood of the Savior, Jesus Christ. Christ, the perfect Son of God that accomplishes eternal redemption once for all, never needs repeated, perfect the first time. Let us take our place alongside our great high priest, Jesus Christ, knowing that by faith in him we can, as Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16 proclaims. Come boldly into the throne of grace that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Because, brothers and sisters, Hebrews 10 verse 21 declares that we have a high priest over the house of God. And therefore let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil consciousness and our bodies washed with pure water. Amen. Amen. Glory. Hallelujah. Amen. Let us pray. Beloved God, we ask that you will uh your unspirit your spirit, the Holy Spirit would be unleashed in the hearts of your people, and that, Lord, as we have heard your word, that an endless pouring of thanksgiving will proceed From our minds and our hearts to the God who has died for us, who has loved us with an everlasting love, and has given us a multitude of spiritual gifts That transcend anything we could find in the world. He has given us of himself. To die for our sins. What can we do, O Lord, but echo the thoughts of Apostle Paul Where he says that we have been bought with a price. Therefore, let us give glory to our God. Assist us. So Lord, in the glory giving. Amen.