And let's remain standing now for the reading from the Old Testament. This is the passage for the message this morning, Psalm 121. Psalm 121, a rather familiar psalm, a psalm that uh I have found from experience can be very useful, like when you're doing visits at the hospital, even Psalm 121, this is the word of God, a song of ascents. I will lift up my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come from? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. Please be seated. Let's look to the Lord in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, these are really marvelous words that we've read just now. But now we pray, Father, that uh your Holy Spirit would Take up this word which you've caused to be written for us and use it in our lives. And we pray that you would stir our hearts We pray that you would awaken our souls, open our eyes, unstop the ears of our heart, and warm our hearts and open our lips in praise to declare the marvelous praises of a God who acts in such a gracious and wonderful way. And so we pray, Lord, that you, the living God, would meet us in your word this morning, this word that is living and active. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 121. When I get in the car to travel somewhere, I almost always turn on some music. And if I'm alone in the car, I might even sing. Music just makes the miles go by faster. And we call it traveling music. It's a wonderful thing. Psalm 121 is traveling music. You may have noticed the heading of the psalm, A Song of Ascents. So this psalm is a song. And it was to be sung by Jewish pilgrims as they journeyed to Jerusalem to celebrate some of the great annual religious feasts. And in fact, there's a group of these psalms. They're all called Song of Ascents. It starts with Psalm 120, and it goes through Psalm 134. This wonderful group of Psalms. Jesus at age 12 traveled to Jerusalem with Joseph and Mary, with relatives and acquaintances. to celebrate the Passover. And as they were traveling, they would have sung Psalm 121. And all of these other Song of Ascent Psalms as well. And in the Bible, when people traveled to Jerusalem, it always says they traveled up to Jerusalem because Jerusalem was on a high elevation, up in the mountains of the Judean hill country. It's a very short psalm, just eight verses. It is a very familiar psalm. It is a Much beloved sound because over and over this psalm tells us that the Lord is always with us. The Lord helps us. The Lord keeps us. And that's a real assurance to the Jewish pilgrims back in the biblical days. But for us today, we too are pilgrims. We are on the road to heavenly Jerusalem. And this is a wonderful psalm for us. So let's look at this psalm in terms of the journey, then the destination, and then the fulfillment. So first of all, the journey. The psalm begins with a question. Where does my help come from? And this is a fair question for a Jewish pilgrim on the road to Jerusalem to be asking because there were no paved roads in Palestine. And the roads they have were rocky and stony and a bit treacherous. And so they had to be a little careful. Going from Nazareth to Jerusalem, which is what Jesus did, that was about 75 miles And everybody walked. And so on foot that would take about five days. That's a a bit of a trek. And along the way they had to be careful. Because the terrain was rocky and rough and rugged and you could easily slip and have an accident. There were hills, there were ravines. And also along the way there were some wild animals, lions, bears, poisonous snakes, nasty insects like scorpions and and wasps. And Palestine was a hot place. So travelers had to be careful not to suffer from heat exhaustion and a sunstroke or just dehydration. And There could be robbers. Remember the parable of the Good Samaritan, man traveling from Jerusalem to Jericho, just 15 miles. And in the parable he's attacked, he's robbed, he's beaten badly, left on the roadside for dead. So all of these things Kind of risky to travel, and they had to be careful. But the psalm assures the traveler, the pilgrim, that there is help. And it comes from God. My help comes from the Lord who made heaven and earth. This is a beautiful confession. And there's another one just like it. At the end of Psalm 124, which is another one of these Song of Ascents, this one of David, verse 8, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. And a beautiful confession. In fact, it so resonated with the New Testament Christians that it became a standard declaration at the beginning of worship services. And then much later in the 16th century, John Calvin revived that practice for the Reformed churches, and it's been used ever since in many churches. It's used here at Trinity Reform on a very regular basis. Now, did you notice in this psalm as we were reading it that the operative pronoun changes? The first two verses, it's the first person singular, I. I lift up my heels. Where does my help come from? My help. But then in verses 3 through 8, it changes to you. So this psalm was structured in a responsive arrangement. First, a pilgrim recites or sings verses one and two and asks the question, where does my health come from? And then another pilgrim Pilgrim A, Pilgrim B responds with verses 3 through 8 to U, the I, and then to U. So they take turns back and forth. Two pronouns. We also see in this psalm there are two names for the Lord. The Lord is characterized in two ways. The first singer says that the Lord is my helper. And the second singer says, the Lord is my keeper. Now, helper. God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Psalm 46, Martin Luther wrote a fantastic him based on that. And the Hebrew word for help is Ezer. And the only reason I mention that is because I think you know the name Ebenezer. Ebenezer, which means stone of Easer, stone of health. So back in, I think it's 1 Samuel 7, The Philistines were oppressing the Israelites, and Samuel the priest prayed for the Lord's help. And what happened was the Lord Thundered with a mighty sound that day against the Philistines, and threw them into mass confusion, and they were routed before Israel. And so Samuel took a big stone and set it up. And gave it a name, Ebenezer. Hitherto hath the Lord helped us. And maybe even engraved on that stone the name Ebenezer. So it became a monument for remembrance. We have plenty of those downtown in Washington, D. C. Ebenezer. And I think uh not only do you know the name Ebenezer, I think you know this hymn, very familiar hymn, Abide with Me. Fast falls the even tide, the darkness deepens, Lord with me abide, when other helpers fail, and comforts flee, help of the helpless Oh, abide with me. God is the help of the helpless. I'm the helpless. God is the great help. This hymn was written by Mr. Henry Light. in his final days of life. He knew he was dying of tuberculosis and he wrote this wonderful hymn. God is our helper. God is also our keeper And the psalmist who wrote this wants to emphasize this so strongly that in the last six verses, three through eight, This truth is declared six times, six times in six verses. Sometimes the noun, keeper, sometimes the verb, keep. Now Depending on the version that you have of the Bible, that word the verb may be translated differently. Keep, yes. Preserve, watch over, protect, guard. But it's all the same Hebrew word. It's all the same. The Lord is the one who protects, preserves, and safeguards us from all evil. Two pronouns, two names, and now two reasons why to trust the Lord as our help and our keeper on our journey. Reason number one, his Almighty power as the creator of heaven and earth. And certainly the God who made all things governs all things, controls all things for our protection and our safeguarding. And the reason number two, his unceasing vigilance He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps you will neither slumber nor sleep. Now, slumber is sleeping. So three times it's said here to really get our attention about this. Remember Elijah on Mount Carmel, big confrontation. One of him, 450 priests of Baal. And they get the first chance, and they are praying and dancing around their altar for hours and hours, and to get Baal's attention, they're cutting themselves, the blood is flowing. And no answer yet. And so Elijah kind of sarcastically suggests, well, maybe Baal's not answering because he's slumbering. He's taking a nap, he's asleep on the job. But of course, Baal never answered them because Baal isn't nothing. He is not a God. But when Jehovah God answered Elijah's prayer, he sent this unbelievably tremendous thunderbolt. that burned up the soaking wet animal sacrifice on Elijah's altar, and furthermore totally consumed even the stones for which the altar was made The Lord is vigilant all the time. And then there's two examples of how God helps us and keeps us. Two pronouns, two names, two reasons, two examples. Example number one, he will not let your foot be moved. And for the pilgrims traveling to Jerusalem, this was a comfort because the path was stony and rocky. There were hills, there were ravines. It was a little risky, these roads. They weren't very nice roads. But for us more broadly, this means that the Lord will not let us slip into sinful temptation. Slip and lose our spiritual footing. He will not. And furthermore, the Lord is the shade on your right hand. This is a lovely picture of protection, because the sun in Palestine was scorching hot. Remember Jonah, who enjoyed sitting under this little bush. And then the bush withered. And then what happened was a scorching east wind and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah so that he he almost fainted He almost passed out. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. Well, what about your left hand? Well, the right hand in the Bible just is a figure of speech for meaning. Whatever you do, whatever you put your hand to, the Lord is there protecting you. And in fact, one of the commentaries even says That as a person's shadow is always with him, so is God always with his people. My shadow is right here, I can't get away from it. The Lord is always with us. And then finally, to conclude our discussion of the journey, the extent of the Lord's keeping and helping us. He keeps us From all evil. Verse 7. All evil, all harm, both in this life and in the next. Natural evil, calamity, disaster, trouble, illness. Sin, moral evil, all evil. Furthermore, the Lord will keep your going out and your coming in. This is a prayer that sometimes when we're getting ready to travel to Presbytery and we have to drive on the beltway and so forth, we we pray Psalm 121, our going out and our coming in. But the pilgrims This was an assurance that the Lord was with them as they went out from home and went to Jerusalem and then as they came back on their trip as well. But this is i really it's a Hebrew idiom going out coming in. It's a Hebrew idiom that means everything, every circumstance of life. Because the Hebrews like to say, well, here's a pair of opposites, like A and Z. And what they really meant was then also everything in between, every circumstance in life. You're going out in the morning to work or to school or to visit or to do whatever. And then you're coming back home. But also in the sense that we go out in life in our youth And we come back in our older years at the end of life as well. The Lord also will keep us. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. And the point of that is our God is a 24-7 God. He doesn't close shop over the evening. He doesn't go on vacation. He's always there for us. He is a 24-7-365 God, always for us. And finally The Lord will keep us from this time forth and forevermore. In other words, for now and eternity. And this goes directly to the biblical doctrine of what's called the perseverance of the saints. or perhaps called the preservation of the saints, because we persevere in life not by our own strength. But because the Lord preserves us. The Lord is our help. The Lord is our keeper. The Lord is our shade. The Lord will keep us from all evil. The Lord will keep our going out and our coming in. In perpetuity. It is the Lord. Now, let's look at the destination. So the pilgrim is traveling, journeying toward Jerusalem. And we know that because he says, I lift up my eyes to the hills, and Jerusalem was up there on those hills. So Psalm 121 was sung by these pilgrims as they were approaching Jerusalem, the holy city, where the temple is. Psalm 122, if you look at that, verse 2, our feet have been standing within your gate. So this is sung after arrival. And you can tell from Psalm 121, the pilgrim singing the song is excited. We're almost there. We're nearly arrived at the Holy City. The temple. This special dwelling place of God with men. We want to be there. The sacrifices are offered there. The festivals are sacr are are celebrated there. There were these three great annual festivals That the Jewish men were supposed to attend. In the spring, the feast of unleavened bread and Passover That's the one Jesus went to when he was twelve. Then fifty days later, the Feast of Harvest, also called the Feast of Weeks, also called Pentecost. And then in the fall, the feast of booze or tabernacles, they lived outside in a little mu hut for about a week. So I lift up my eyes to the hills. This can be translated next to I lift up my eyes to the mountains. And Jerusalem, in fact, was built on mountains and surrounded by mountains. So there was this chain of mountains running north-south through Palestine. And Jerusalem was built on the crest, the high point of the mountains, in fact the very highest. location of that crest of this mountain chain two thousand five hundred seventy seven feet above sea level if you'd like the details. Jerusalem was a very ancient city. We encounter it with a slightly truncated name, Salem, not Jerusalem, but only Salem. Salem from the Hebrew word shalom, peace. In Genesis 14, and the king of Salem is a very mysterious character named Melchizedek. Because he was both the king, but he was also a priest of the Most High God, Jehovah God. A king and a priest, which is very, very unusual. It's explained in the book of Hebrews. And then much, much later, the Israelites come out of Egypt through the Exodus, 40 years in the desert. They come into the Promised Land. And now the city is named Jebus because it's controlled by the Jebusites. And the Jebusite king comes out from Jebus and he's going to fight with Joshua. And they have a big battle, and miraculously the Lord makes the sun stand still. So the Israelites have more hours to get the victory. Quite amazing. And then, later still, when David becomes king, he chooses this city to be his capital. So it becomes the political and religious center of the nation of Israel. So let's briefly try to picture the geography. the topography of the hills and the mountains around and within the city of Jerusalem. And uh you have, I think, a both an insert with a little map. Sorry, it's not in color. There are three principal mountains within the city of Jerusalem, Mount Zion, Mount Moriah, and the Mount of Olives. So you see Mount Zion is down here on the left bottom, that's the southwest corner. And I think you can tell from the map, sort of the structure of Jerusalem, it was on a promontory that jutted out from the mountain. And on three sides, east, west, and south, there were deep valleys. So this promontory, it's like a peninsula, sort of stuck out, and it was a natural fortress, very strong, and maybe that's why David picked it as his capital city. Mount Zion Down here in this corner, this is where David built his palace, his kingly palace. And in fact, the city of Jerusalem became so identified with Mount Zion that eventually Zion became shorthand for Jerusalem And 152 times in the Bible, Zion is used to mean the city of Jerusalem. Half of those times are in Psalms and Isaiah. Here's one of them, Psalm 48, his holy mountain, beautiful in elevation, is the joy of all the earth, Mount Zion, in the far north, the city of the great king. Walk about Zion, go around her, number her towers. Consider well her ramparts go through her citadels. Zion often meant just Jerusalem. And David had his palace here, and David was buried here. So Peter in his Pentecost sermon, Acts chapter 2, says, look, his tomb is with us to this day. And what Peter meant by that was Psalm 16 that David wrote in which he says, you will not let your holy one see corruption. was not a reference to himself, David, but a prophecy about the coming Messiah. That's Mount Zion. Then Mount Moriah is kind of in the middle Right here. This is Mount Moriah. And that's where Solomon built the temple. Now, Mariah, Mariah, you're thinking, I I know, I know I've heard that. Okay, go way back to Genesis chapter 22. This is when God tested Abraham's faith. And God said to him, Take your son, your only son, Isaac, whom you love. And go to the land of Moriah and offer him there as a bird offering on one of the mountains, of which I shall tell you. Wow. Abraham obeys. And as they were traveling, I'm sure he had a heavy heart. And they get On the third day, Abraham lifted up his eyes, just like here in Psalm 121, lift up your eyes, and saw the place from afar. The boy Isaac said, Father, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for the burnt offering? And Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering Well, they go up the mountain, the two of them. Abraham builds a stone altar, puts the wood on the altar, binds his son, places his son, his young son, on this altar, raises the knife. And the Lord stops it and says, Now I know that you love me. And in Isaac's place there's a ram stuck in the thicket right here. Sacrifice that ram. And so Abraham called the name of that place, the Lord will provide. This is Mount Moriah. The Lord will provide. As it is said to this day, on the mount of the Lord, it shall be provided. This is the gospel in a nutshell right here in Genesis chapter 22. Genesis 22 is a big arrow pointing to the New Testament, where we learn about the substitutionary atonement. It's a big mouthful. Jesus died in our place for our sin. Mount Moriah. One other mention about Mount Moriah toward the end of King David's rule He ordered that a census be taken. He wanted to know how many soldiers he would have in his army. And the Lord was greatly displeased. Because now David was trusting in his military might and not in the Lord. And the Lord sent this destroying angel. People died. David repented. And he saw above Mount Moriah this destroying angel hand stopped. And David, as part of his repentance, bought a big piece of property on Mount Moriah. And built an altar there. And that piece of property, owned by David, was then destined to become the site for the temple to be built by his son Solomon. So Mount Zion, Mount Moriah. The Mount of Olives, also called Olivet, you see both names. So named because it had groves of olive trees on its slopes. To the east, and it's over here on this side of the city of Jerusalem. Very, very pleasant place, a lot of greenery. Olive trees, fig trees, pine trees, cypress trees. The residents of Jerusalem would go out there just to relax. It was like a big city park and to meditate. And Jesus was there often with his disciples teaching. The Mount of Allah also occurs in Ezekiel and in Zechariah in visions. Let's not go into that. Well, Ezekiel sees the Shekinah glory cloud of the divine presence leave the temple and go over Mount Moriah and then come back. And Zechariah, it's a eschatological vision of the end of time. He sees the Lord standing on Mount Moriah fighting for the nation of Israel. Jesus was often here. He taught his disciples here. Matthew 24 and 25 is called the Olivet Discourse, where Jesus talked about the end of the world and the signs of the times. Luke tells us that Jesus would often go into the city, teach at the temple, and then return and lodge at night on the mountain called Olivet. Foxes have holes, birds have nests, but the Son of Man had nowhere to lay his head except on the ground. And that is what he did. Now, if we were describing the geography and topography of Jerusalem in a video documentary. we would have some background music. And for Mount Zion it would be royal background music. And for Mount Moriah it would be religious music. And for Mount of Olives it would be country music. But there's another hill that we need to talk about with Jerusalem. And for that hill The background music would be dark and very somber. And I'm referring to this small hill just outside the city gates called the hill of Golgotha. Golgotha, that's an Aramaic name. It means the place of the skull. And sometimes we refer to this also as Mount Calvary. Calvary is just comes from the Latin word for skull. Why was it called that? Well, one theory is that when you looked at this hill, it had kind of the shape of a skull, maybe. A better explanation is that this was the place for public executions and also burials nearby. This is where Jesus was crucified. And Jesus was buried nearby in a garden that had tombs. Joseph Arimathea provided a brand new, never used tomb built into the rock for the burial of Jesus' body. We don't know where Gogotha is today. Its location is unknown. We have two clues. Hebrews 13, 12 says it was outside the city gate. But which gate? And Matthew 27, 39 says, those who passed by derided him, wagging their heads. Jesus hung on the cross. It must have been near a a major road that people walked by on And we know that the Romans like to execute people on a little elevated spot near a major pathway, so the passers by would look and be warned. Do not challenge the authority of the Roman Empire. That's all we know about the hill of Golgotha. So the pilgrims traveling to Jerusalem, they're on a journey toward their destination, the holy city, the city of peace, and finally they arrive. And then the fulfillment This is the fulfillment of their journey. They gather at the temple and say they're celebrating the Passover. There's music. There's singing. There's sacrifices. There's feasting among the families. There's praise given to God for his great acts of deliverance. That was the fulfillment of coming to Jerusalem as a Jewish pilgrim. But a much greater fulfillment was coming along and it would be enacted on these very same hills and mountains of Jerusalem to begin with. Just six miles away from Jerusalem in a little town called Bethlehem A very unusual baby boy would be born. Unusual because his birth was predicted in the Old Testament. Unusual because his birth mother was still a virgin. Unusual because the angels announced the birth, and shepherds and wise men from the east came to worship this baby boy. And then after a detour through Egypt, this boy grew up in the backwater town of Nazareth. At age 12, we've already mentioned he came to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. And this is the age at which he would have gone through what even today the Jews called Bar Mistvah. You become a son of the commandment. And at this point, you are now an adult member of the Jewish religious community. And Jesus also took the opportunity of being there to go to the temple, spend time in the temple, which he referred to as my father's house. and learn from the religious teachers. Then at about age 30 or so, he initiated his earthly ministry. He called twelve disciples. very humble l lifestyle, did great signs and wonders. And after about three years A climax occurred. So now Jesus is coming with his disciples to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover for the last time. And they're coming on the road that goes from Jericho through Bethany, up over the Mount of Olives, down into Jerusalem. And after they passed the crest of Mount Olive, Mount of Olives, they could see the city laid out before them. They see it from above. The grand, glorious city of Jerusalem. When Jesus drew near and saw the city, he wept over it. saying, would that you, even you had known this day the things that make for peace. And this is kind of a pun on the name of the city, Jerusalem, the city of Peace. Here, peace is standing before you. So Jesus and his disciples, they celebrated the Passover in a large upper room. probably in the old city neighborhood on Mount Zion. And we know that Peter and John were sent ahead to make all the preparations for the meal. So they would have taken a Passover lamb Brought it to the temple. Priests would be standing there in two rows, carrying basins of gold and silver to catch the blood of the lamb. as it was slain, and that basin would be given to the high priest who would then splash it at the base of the altar. And then the carcass of the land would be hung up and skinned and the entrails and fat taken out and before it was then roasted for the meal, no bones broken at all. Now this whole ceremony that they did for Passover, which all the people in Jerusalem were doing for Passover, this was but a shadow of the heavenly things. Jesus Came to accomplish his death. He was the real and the ultimate Passover lamb No other Passover lambs need to be sacrificed after him, because he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. So they celebrate the Passover. He institutes the Lord's Supper. They leave, they go to the Mount of Olives, and Jesus prays in the Garden of Gethsemane, and there, in the dark of night, he is arrested. And he is taken before the Sanhedrin, that would have been at the temple on Mount Moriah, interrogated, and at some point brought over to Mount Zion, the palace of the high priest. And then to the palace of King Herod, also on Mount Zion. And then in the morning, early morning, to the praetorium of the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, also on Mount Zion. And from there, led, and by this time he's been suffering horribly, he's led to the hill of Golgotha. He's crucified, and then his dead body is buried. Now at this point, if there were background music, it would turn off. There would be silence. But praise God, we know that three days later Jesus rose from the dead. Up from the grave he arose with a mighty triumph over his foes. So dear friends, we are pilgrims going through life on the road to the heavenly Jerusalem that we read about in Revelation 21. There's a a very well-known book, I think it's dear to most of us, Pilgrim's Progress by John Bunyan. It's an allegory. But it tells the story of all the challenges and the dangers that we face as we go through life on the road to Jerusalem. And Jesus is with us all the way. He safeguards us. And he keeps us. He said, of those whom you gave me, I have lost not one. I keep them. He never leaves us. He never forsakes us. So I urge you, as we go through our journey in life to our destination, which is heaven, the heavenly Jerusalem. Let's remember, let's look up to the hills and remember the fulfillment of the redemption that Jesus accomplished. On a hill far away stood an old rugged cross. The emblem of suffering and shame. And I love that old cross where the dearest and best for a world of lost sinners was slain, the cross of Jesus Christ The cross of Jesus Christ assures us that the Lord will keep us from all evil. The Lord will keep our life from this time forth and forevermore. And dear friends, that is blessed traveling music to our ears. Let's pray. Dear Father, we thank you for being our help and our keeper. We thank you for giving us peace that passes understanding, because we have been reconciled to Almighty God. And all this because you paid the penalty for our sin by your sacrifice on the cross at Calvary. So we thank you, our risen ascended Lord. For your high priestly prayer now in heaven at the right hand of the Father, where you are ever interceding for us. And we thank you that we have this great comfort. Our comfort is not that we belong to ourselves, but that we belong, body and soul, in life and in death, to our faithful Savior. who loved us and gave himself for us and who is with us from this time forth and forevermore. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen.