Then our New Testament reading, which will also be our text, Luke two, verses forty-one through fifty-two. Luke two, I begin reading at verse forty-one. His parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the Passover. And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem according to the custom of the feast. When they had finished the days, as they returned, the boy Jesus lingered behind in Jerusalem, and Joseph and his mother did not know it. But supposing him to have been in the company, they went a day's journey and sought him among their relatives and acquaintances. So when they did not find him, they returned to Jerusalem seeking him. Now so it was that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the teachers, both listening to the them and asking them questions. And all who heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers So when they saw him they were amazed, and his mother said to him, Son, why have you done this to us? Look, your father and I have sought you anxiously. And he said to them, Why did you seek me? Did you not know that I must be about my father's business? But they did not understand the statement which he spoke to them. Then he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject to them, but his mother kept all these things in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God. Amen. Lord, we pray your blessing now upon what is said, let it be honoring to you as we look to you, Lord. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we're looking at a text that tells us about one of the earliest actions of the man Jesus and what it says about his understanding of himself. And uh preachers are sometimes fond of giving three P's or something like that to give you an outline. So here it is, the Passover, the parents, and the primary parent. So you have Passover, repairs, and the primary pair. The Passover, that's the context of this particular passage. And we're given to understand That Jesus' parents had been observing the Passover before this event. The Passover was one of the three great pilgrim feasts. And there was an expectation that God's people would go to Jerusalem on pilgrimage and they would uh celebrate that feast and it was uh pretty much a required thing so being good Jewish parents. That's what Jesus' parents did. Uh It is not absolutely clear that the women and children had to go. It seems, as you read other places, I think in Exodus twelve, but Go back and study this more if you want to. That it was particularly the men who were expected to go, and yet the Passover was a kind of feast that uh naturally lent itself to the education of the children. So uh there would be families on a pilgrimage. They would probably I think some of that would have been just the natural joy of doing something together. But I suspect that there was a safety issue too. Uh crime is not a new thing in our day and age. There were highway robbers back in those days. And so when you have a group of people traveling together, you have a And so it was one of the three great pilgrimage beasts. And we might ask ourselves, why is it That God specified so many things that should be done in the Old Testament And when you get into the details of the Passover, there are details about how it was to be observed I still remember as a young person determined to read my Bible from Genesis to Revelation. And I had started out, yeah, Genesis Since that went fairly smoothly. About the time I hit Leviticus or Deuteronomy is like This is hard. I'm confused. What is all of this stuff in there for? I'm not going to claim that I can give you all the answers here this morning either. why all that stuff is in there. But I think we can say that there are several answers as to why God gave Detailed instructions about the Passover. The first is a really simple one, because God's sake. You know, as a kid didn't you hate it when passed the Because I said. But there is an element of that that we have to begin with with God. It is not necessarily a deeply satisfying answer, and sometimes God gives us more information for why he says things so that we'll understand and see the wisdom. of why he is saying those things. But we have to start with, because God said it. That's where we start. That's part of faith. We don't have to understand everything before we trust God. That wouldn't be safe. Faith is knowing enough about God's goodness that he is trustworthy, and that sometime we may see more clearly later why he wants a certain thing to be done. So because God said it There's also something about the ways in which we are created. That we have seasons of our life. My wife and I enjoyed going on a trip up to Lewis, Delaware and on the way there is uh a wildlife refuge called Bombay Book. And there were these birds. I I wasn't as excited about birds when I was young. I I I I enjoyed them. We had red headed woodpeckers and the effect on the wall and trees and on the arms. And that was kind of interesting to watch. But as I've gotten older I think I I can take a little more pleasure in some of these so-called quiet, more simple things. And uh uh one of the the kinds of birds which I didn't know anything about that were at this refuge was A tundra swan. They're not there year-round. They're up at the North Pole in the tundra. uh at other times. But there's a certain time and a season in which they come down to places like Bombay Hook in Delaware. There's a certain time and a season when birds go certain places, uh when people go certain places, I guess. And uh those seasons uh often need to be paid attention to just in terms of the way we're made and the natural world. There was a season for traveling the sea in the m ancient uh near east. if you could avoid it, you didn't go by boat in the winter. You waited till a more favorable season. Now we kind of uh do things year round because of our technology, but there are seasons and God has made us a certain way And then we learn often just naturally by experience what is a a good season, and then we find certain seasons uh brighten our eyes a little bit You know, as you get here into the spring and you see more light. And uh sometimes that's a season of romance coming alive again. And so God has ordained things to put things together in a certain way. But when it came to the Passover There were historical events that God wanted to be remembered. He wanted them to be remembered because they were his mighty acts. His mighty acts, which saved his people, saved them from slavery in Egypt And so he ordained that there would be a regular remembrance of his deliverance of his people out of Egypt, out of the house of bondage, out from Pharaoh's oppression. And he specified certain details such as You're not going to eat the Passover just anywhere. You're going to eat it in the place where I appoint. God had not yet appointed it, had he, back in Deuteronomy, where we read, or in Exodus 12 But he eventually did appoint a place, and that was in Jerusalem, because that's where the temple would be built, and that's where the Passover lamb would be sacrificed. And uh you have to wonder, that must have been chaos. We see chaos at our nation's airport now. But imagine all these pilgrims come coming to Jerusalem and maybe one lamb would be enough for ten people. But you couldn't just cook it on your own or slaughter it on your own. You had to take it to the temple and As I've read about this evidently there would be three tranches and three installments to of people coming and bringing them. And people have tried to figure out How big was the crowd in Jerusalem in the days of Jesus? Um some, such as the historian Josephus, said the crowd was three million. Most people say not. That's an exaggeration of the that wouldn't have worked. Others a million, but that also seemed like Maybe it was an exaggeration. A German scholar named Joachim Yarmius did these calculations of the size of the temple and the different courts and where these sacrifices could have been brought and done and uh he came up with something like uh hundred and eighty thousand estimated of people. Uh many times over the population of Jerusalem itself, which roughly thirty thousand people say. This is all inexact Because you're relying upon historical sources that you're sometimes calling into question whether there's an exaggeration and you're talking about uh measuring the capacity of middle children's But it was quite a thing. It was quite a thing. Because the Passover lamb Would be a sacrifice. We know that Jesus is our Passover He is the one who sacrificed himself. His blood, not just the blood over the rental of somebody's house in Egypt. But his blood, which takes away our sin. It's a sacrifice. That's one of the dilemmas I guess, I suppose, the modern Jewish celebration of the Passover don't have a a temple and a priesthood that's actively able to uh And act that sacrifice, I don't know. Maybe the rabbis have some kind of workaround and they do. I don't know how they handle that. You have a Jewish friend asking that sometimes. But uh the Passover. Now as Christians we don't have to observe the Passover. We don't have to observe Christmas. Do we have to observe Easter? Well, yeah, fifty-two days a year. The Lord's Day is called the Lord's Day because it's It's the first day of the week today on which Jesus arose again from the grave. But it's a lot simpler, isn't it? It's a lot simpler because that is the real life-giving moment when Jesus emerged from the grave. with a life that will never die. So that He can give us a life that will never die. So God wants us To remember those things. And that's why he gives us 52 days a year It's not because it's just resurrection day, those 52 days. Every day's a resurrection day for a Christian, but he wants an assembly to reinforce that memory and that understanding and that identity that we have as God's people. That's what he was doing in the Old Testament with the Passover reinforcing an identity and the memories of the salvation that he brought. A salvation that was a type. a shadow, a picture of the great salvation to come. And so it's not a matter of indifference whether we attend church or not. Now, there are some churches that maybe you'd be better off not attending, but that's another story. We ought to attend for God's people. so that we can regularly be reminded of the mighty acts of God. Not that we shouldn't do that daily, but as we come together as a people, as we identify as God's people. So is it possible that Joseph sometimes just went up to the Passover alone. It seems to me, again, there's something about the Passover, even though it meant more pilgrims and a more crowded Jerusalem. And more management of the children. You know how hard it is to manage, especially large families when you come to church. I have sympathy for some of you mothers that have been through that experience because 'Cause my wife still remembers one of 'em crawling under the trees and doing that. Much better that they'd be there though with Much better than if they'd be there. And it was anticipated in Exodus that the children Might ask why do we do this ritual? Why is this night different from the other nights of the year? Why do we eat this particular food? And out of those questions, then would come a rehearsal of the mighty acts of God This night is different because this is the night we remember that God saved us. This night is different and we eat unleavened bread because We were getting out of town quit. We were making a hasty escape. Not time to let And so that would reinforce in the consciousness. of people. A consciousness that is still among the Jewish people to this day, but sadly for many it's just a consciousness of freedom. And not the kind of freedom from sin that Jesus brings. Freedom To do anything we want is not freedom when what we want is destructive Freedom is to do what we want when God changes our water so that we want to do his will. And that's real freedom. Well now we have the rest of the passage something curious here. Jesus has not joined the caravan on its homeward journey. He's still at the temple. Now if I understand the situation correctly, the Passover was observed, I think they say the 14th, 15th of Nicen. Habib is uh what I think we've read there in Deuteronomy But uh is based on a lunar calendar and it was the beginning of everything. And then for seven days you continued on and you ate unleavened bread. It's a little different than the way we think of Holy Work Week as sometimes we talk about it, you know. beginning with Palm Sunday and ending with Jesus' death and resurrection at about the time of the Passover. So it says they finished their days. In other words, they finished the week that began with the Passover lamb and the meal. And they finished eating their unleavened bread and they're taking off. But there's still three more days. And know Jesus. And they naturally have to wonder, what is this all about? Jesus has never done this before. Where could he be? Did somebody take him? You know, at twelve years of age, I'm not sure sure whether this was bar mitzvah or whether that would have been a year later. But he's at the time when in Jewish tradition it's very close to when you say, Today I am a But we have two children and w they're in their forties now and they're still our children. Once you're a parent, you're always a parent. And once you're a parent, you're always concerned about your kids if it's a normal situation. And even if it's not an entirely normal situation. Once you're a parent, you're always a parent. So even if Jesus theoretically was ready for a little bit more self-determination and autonomy in his life. You could understand Mary's question. Just basic consideration, you know, if you were gonna stay behind three days, why didn't you tell us? That might have been The kind of thing I mean, that would have been interesting to explain, but uh that's no explanation. And then Jesus questioned. Now some versions say did you not know I should be in my father's house? Uh I think most translations have that I must be about my father's business. It doesn't matter too much to a little bit of ambiguity there in the Greek and uh it could go either way, but I I I tend to favor uh that I must be about my father's business. Um That's an interesting question. Why would Jesus expect Mary to understand that? I mean, this has never happened before. So why would she guess that that's what Jesus was doing? I'm not sure that it's so much the case that Jesus is saying you should have guessed exactly what I was doing but that Jesus is resurrecting a memory. That was unforgettable. And what was that memory? I don't think there's anybody here who's had a virgin birth. Only one that I know of. That's Mary. What questions does she have? How can this be? Since I'm a virgin and I'm gonna have a child. Well Joseph's going to have nothing to do with it. God is going to overshadow him. And therefore we will be called What? The Son of the Most High. That's kind of unforgettable. There were strange birth that happened in the Old Testament. There were strange circumstances around some of those births. Not the least of which is Abraham and Sarah in old age having a miracle child. But it wasn't a virgin or a virgin conception. It wasn't that. And there is the curious experience of Samuel and his mother Hannah. Hannah, who kind of Takes second place in her role as a mother. When Samuel is consigned to service in what was not a temple yet, but a shrine, a place of worship and honoring God at Shiloh. He served the man who was there, and as he was apprenticed, you might say, to go on to greater things as one who would anoint future kings of Israel. So there were strange things that happened, but as Jesus asks that question, I think it points it in this direction, a trajectory. You know, you remember that there was something special about my birth and that I would be called the son of the Most High. And so When is the unusualness of that calling going to take place? It could happen perhaps any time. So when it happens at this time. Oh, I think we can sympathize with Mary and say it's still a surprise. It overtakes her by a surprise, but it's not unusual what and God who does the unusual does the unusual. God is doing something special here. And one of the things he is doing is he's showing us something of what Jesus understood about himself. Jesus understands himself to be the Son of God. This amazing consciousness of who he is comes between verses that say he grew in wisdom. Back in verse forty and at the end of our chapter in verse fifty. Jesus And his human nature grows in his understanding. Jesus in his consciousness of who he is He's way ahead of anybody who can help teach him in his growth. It inverts, it turns upside down. The whole ordinary way we think of spiritual formation. We think of spiritual formation as this growth. Like we would see in verse forty or verse fifty-two. But here Jesus He's instructing rabbis in the temple. And in his own way, he's instructing his mother. It was a mighty act that was sending a message. Jesus wasn't being purposefully hurtful, I think. But sometimes to send a message There is a little bit of pain connected with it. Yes. You're my mother, but I have a primary parent, a father in heaven, father in heaven to whom I owe primary allegiance. Now other human beings have sometimes in the name of duty and devotion to God neglected the responsibility to different. Really they're acting willfully. I don't see that until Jesus is doing the but here we see in this passage the great mystery. of who Jesus is. God and man. Truly God and truly man. Dream that period of revival. So many years ago when I was at the end of my teens and beginning of twenties, there was the Jesus movement and whenever there's a revival there's often some parasitic group that wants to lead some of the people who are being saved into a cult. And there were cults that developed at that time as well. And I remember telling a young girl, Jesus is a hundred percent God and a hundred percent man. And her response was, That's two hundred percent. My response is God's mathematics is different than ours. Now, that might seem like a cop out to some people, but The message behind that statement is that there is a mystery. There's a mystery. We can understand up to a point. And that point is the point as far God reveals it. But we can't go beyond what God has revealed Because our minds always tend to go to some earthly solution. And God And his ways are above our ways. His thoughts are not our thoughts. Truly God and truly man. was coming to struggle with some questions. It was a question of consciousness, because I was very interested in the phenomenon we all have a consciousness. Did Jesus have one or two consciousness? So I asked somebody good theologian in our Presbytery. He quoted John Murray, who for all I know is quoting somebody else, but maybe it was John Murray. Jesus had One self-consciousness and two other sources of consciousness. That's about as far as I think we can go. He had to have a human consciousness because he felt pain as a human being as he hung on the cross. But he also had to have that divine nature that kept his human nature from collapsing under the weight. Of that awful torment of being forsaken of God for our sins. Only God and only man can save us. Not an angel, not a very Very good man, God and man. Because our condition is just that needy and desperate. A lot of questions you can ask about this. Like I said, I can't answer more. One of the mundane questions that popped into my head was, where did Jesus stay during those three days? I don't know. Just what I know. It's not an entirely unique situation. Have you always known everything about how God would provide for you? God provided for him. And God will provide for you. But not just in that mundane way. God has provided Jesus to be the one. who will take away your sin, who will give you new light, and who will walk with you daily to help you with whatever problem you have, whether it's A serious spiritual problem in your life is seeing you struggling with a doubt, a depression, or a mundane question like, Where am I gonna stay tonight now that I'm stuck in this airport? For some reason we get all more anxious about them. Get the gods in control. He's in control of all of those things. He's in control of it all because he controlled the most important thing. Our salvation through Jesus Christ. Our Savior. The one whose consciousness of his deity broke out in a surprise moment that Mary didn't fully understand. at the moment. But she treasured it up in her heart. She held it in her memory. And I think she probably directly or indirectly told Luke about it. Because Luke made Well, again God could have revealed it in a dream, but I think it's one of those memories That was inscribed because God wants us to remember his mighty acts. And it goes all the way back to the Passover, and Mary wants you to remember. Daily that you have a savior. Lord, we thank you. That Jesus paid it all for our sins, that He is God and man. We have creeds and confessions that give voice to that truth But we thank you that it's because it's in the Bible that we can trust in you and trust in Who he is. Grant, O Lord, that we may submit to you and believe that you provided it all and will provide as we stand in need. And if anyone here has not yet discovered the reality that you can live in our hearts and guide us And forgive us. We pray that you bring them to that. Even now, if you would. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.