Let us uh turn to our uh scripture reading for the night, the sermon text taken from 1 Timothy chapter 4, verses 6 through 11. Focus will be on verses 9 and 10. uh mostly on ten. Uh so let's uh let's turn to that passage and hear the Lord's word First Timothy four, six through eleven If you, Timothy, instruct the brethren in these things, you will be a good minister of Jesus Christ. Nourished in the words of faith and of the good doctrine which you have carefully followed. But reject profane and old wives' fables An exercise toward uh your to exercise yourself toward godliness For bodily exercise profits a little, but godliness is profitable for all things. Having promise of the life that now is and of that which is to come. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptance For to this end we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. Who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe? These things command and teach. And the Apostle Paul, as he has been doing throughout the book of Timothy, is instructing Timothy on the the the work of a minister that Timothy is engaging in uh in uh in Ephesus As Paul has left the church at Ephesus on his way to Rome, and he has left behind Timothy to set the church in good order uh and part of that charge uh to Timothy you you might remember is that he's to protect the flock from the uh deceivers, uh from those who teach false doctrine. And uh and he's to uh uh be very zealous in uh in uh trying to correct uh the church and the people of the church. Again, not to allow false doctrine to permeate through uh the the the the church uh he's to not allow people to listen to what he calls old wives tales or Christian so-called religious fables And in the process, the Apostle Paul here in our verse today, particularly in verse 9, verse 10. He tells Timothy why it is that he and Timothy and other ministers are engaged in this ministry. And why they suffer, why they labor in this ministry, and why they suffer reproach oftentimes for it. And uh so uh it's that it's it's that uh discovering and appreciating what it is that we uh labor for, and what it is that ministers suffer reproach for, that is the focus of uh of uh of my remarks. And uh the apostle Paul makes it very clear that he is engaging in this kind of what we would call Christian pastoral ministry. Just as Timothy does, he says, I'm doing this because I trust in the living God. I trust in the living God. And we we I think we want to look at a little bit tonight and try to discover how does that trust in the living God encourage Paul and also Timothy to continue their labor and to continue suffering whatever reproach comes as a result of their work. So let's look now at verse 10. Therefore, we both labor, or to this end, we both labor and suffer reproach. Because we trust in the living God who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. We all would probably say that the Apostle Paul conducted a very careful ministry wherever he went. He was dedicated. To the Lord. He was dedicated to the Lord's word, to the truth and the preciseness of God's word. uh desiring that uh the the Lord's people uh would uh would be uh uh blessed uh by hearing good and faithful teaching and by witnessing the Lord at work in the life even of Paul and Timothy and others. So the Apostle Paul engaged in his work, and he is describing here also for Timothy what it is that motivates him. What it is that kind of makes him go? What is it that animates him in life? And I I think we would probably all be able to say what that is But it's it it is what it it is his uh it is his uh commitment to the living God that is what mana uh motivates Paul to minister. And he says, not only minister, but notice, he says, we will labor and suffer reproach. We will labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. He is uh laboring uh to bring glory to God and to bless God's people, even willing to expend effort and energy. And be willing to be ridiculed for that, because he trusts in God. And he further identifies the God that he trusts in. sin as the Savior of all men. He uses two words here to describe the depth of his commitment to the people and how he lives among the people. Number one, he says we will labor, and number two, he says we will suffer reproach. When he says we will labor, um He uh it's uh it's a present tense of the verb, uh which means that that labor is kind of ongoing. And uh translating that word uh is uh It's it's it it is the idea that not only do you labor that but that you work hard at it. And uh you uh and you get tired. You get physically tired uh in this in in this labor I remember hearing a story. There's a man in the OPC who's now long dead, but he was one of the first graduates of Westminster Seminary. And he had a he had a church out in the Pittsburgh area. And this man was beloved and renowned because of his Tireless efforts to care for God's people. And they appreciated him. And one day he gets this young guy coming in to his church to learn. He's a seminary student who uh who want who is kind of like on an internship or a mentorship. And he's kind of, as some recent graduates of seminary students do, tend to pop off a lot of academic Stuff that they have learned which nobody can understand. And uh uh and uh the seminary is a different world, believe me. Uh But uh so he's he's going on talking about things that he really does he really thinks he understands, but it's all kind of book learning and it's not here in the heart And uh this this elderly minister at the time looked at him and said to him, he said, I have one question for you. And of course, the guy's sitting there wondering What what is this minister going to ask me? And he simply looked at him and he said, Do you like to work That's all he said. And I believe that that's the spirit of what the Apostle Paul, in the spirit of what the Apostle Paul says. There's going to be a lot of work involved in the labor of uh of serving the Lord and his people. And when you look back over the Apostle Paul's letters, you see various places in which he also talks about the amount of work that he has been involved in. One such example is 1 Corinthians 15 verse 10. Where Paul says, by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed on me was not in vain. But I labored more abundantly than everyone. Yet not I, but the grace of God that was within me. Nevertheless, it sounds a little bit like bragging before the Apostle Paul adds that last statement, yet not I, but the grace of God that's in me But uh but I do suspect, having read uh so much of the epistles, that the Apostle Paul was one of these guys who didn't get a lot of sleep. Maybe he could get along with like two to three hours at night because it seems like night and day he was involved in the life of the church, in the life of ministry to his people In 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 9 through 16, there's a more extended statement From the Apostle Paul about the amount of labor that he engaged in. Beginning at verse 9 For I think that God hath set forth us apostles last, as it were appointed, to death. For we are made a spectacle of in this world, and to angels and to men. We are fools for Christ's sake. But you are wise. We are weak, but you are strong. You are honorable, but we are despised. Even to this present hour, both hunger and thirst are naked and buffeted. We have no certain dwelling place. And we labor, working with our own hands. Being reviled, we bless. Being persecuted, we suffer it. Being defamed, we entreat. We are made as the filth of the world, and are as the off-scouring of all things unto this day I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons, I warn you. For though though you have 10,000 instructors in Christ, Yet you have not many fathers. For in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel, whereof I beseech you, be followers of me. Now clearly as you hear that, can you imagine that becoming a job description for the work of a minister? How well do you think that would go over if the church was suddenly looking for a pastor and they used this passage, this is our job description for the pastor? I I'm sorry to say, but I don't think you get many people who would answer it. Because this is uh, you know, this is uh incredible. We are made the filth of the world So, on the one hand, there is this aspect that Paul is so committed to the spiritual welfare of God's people that he says that He is laboring. He feels tired. He works hard. And then there is this other aspect of it. He says, we also suffer reproach. We also suffer reproach. Now it's clear through many places, even the text I just got done reading, when you talk about being reviled, we are reviled, and he says we bless. We are persecuted and we suffer it. Obviously, that's one type of suffering that's going on Um there's um there's something though about this word that's a little little strange. Um It's translated suffering, but the actual Greek meaning of the word is the word to engage in a struggle, to fight, as it were. And to do so with great passion. The Greek word, listen, the Greek word is agonizo. What does that sound like? Agony. Agony. There's a kind of agony that goes along with the ministry, kind of suffering, agony from suffering reproach, but agony from just engaging in uh the work of the ministry. This comes, this word is used uh frequently by Paul and uh We can look at a couple of other verses to get a more expansive flavor of the word. In Colossians 1, verse 28, Paul is writing, he says, Whom we preach, and we think that probably links back to 27, where Christ is the one whom they preach. warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus, whereunto I also labor Striving according to his working. And that word striving is the word suffering, reproach, or agonize. To agonize, according to his working which worketh in me mightily. Then in Colossians 4, verse 2, he mentions a fellow named Epaphorus. who is one of Paul's right-hand men. He says, Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, salutes you, always laboring fervently for you. It's always la laboring fervently is the same word for that Paul uses in 1 Timothy 4. 10 to suffer reproach or however or agonize or however you wish to translate it. Second Corinthians 4, 8 through 10, Paul writes We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed. We are perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken. cast down but not destroyed, always bearing about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life also of Jesus might be made manifest in our body. I'm not I forget which word there was the word that is used. However, it's a very it's a very uh eye-opening text that helps illuminate this this text that we're looking at 2 Corinthians 6 verses 3 through 10. Giving no offense in anything that the ministry be not blamed. Interesting, giving no offense in anything, that the ministry be not blamed. But in all things, approving ourselves as the ministers of God, in much patience and affliction, and necessities and distresses. in stripes, in imprisonments, in tumults, in labors, in watchings, in fastings, by pureness, by knowledge, by long suffering, by kindness, by the Holy Ghost, by love unfained. By the word of truth, by the power of God, by the armor of righteousness on the right hand and on the left, by honor and dishonor, by evil report and good report as deceivers and yet true, as unknown and yet well known as dying, and behold we live as chastened and not killed as sorrowful yet sorrowful, yet always rejoicing as poor, yet making many rich, as having nothing, yet possessing all things. You read that. That's very comprehensive. A very comprehensive description of the kind of things that Paul is laboring. uh uh descriptive of his labor and uh what even though uh the the Holy Spirit gave Paul these words to say You you do get the sense that there's uh personal input going on here. That this isn't difficult for the Apostle Paul to say because he's lived it. He's done it Now, it is evident that the Apostle Paul has conducted a faithful Ministry and that he considers faithful ministry a tough job, and that anyone who is called to it will have much work to do. And they will get tired, they will suffer mentally, they will suffer physically, and they will always be engaged in spiritual war. And so we might legitimately ask: why does Paul and why do other ministers put themselves through this? labor and the suffering of reproach. And the answer is found in the second part of verse 10. Because he trusts in the living God. Because he trusts in the living God. who is the Savior of all men, especially the ones who are believing. This why Paul goes through uh the kinds of trials the why he works himself to death as we might say um is uh because of his view of God Paul trusts in the living God, he says. The second part of verse ten. Then he uses a word that most usually is translated hope. He has, as it were, if you could think of it this way, he has a trust slash hope in the living God. His trust Helps him to hope. Or you could do the other way around. His hope leads him to trust in the living God. And you well, you see, uh there's so much in that those few words that that is that is really spectacular. Um He trusts in his God, but his God he describes as living, the living God. If God is depicted, or since God is depicted as living, that means that there is An opportunity for human beings to know him and to have a relationship with him. even as the Apostle Paul first experienced that relationship on the road to Damascus. You see, it our God lives as opposed to All other idols. Our God lives. And that's really of think about it this way That's really at the very heart of what God meant when he told Moses, I am who I am. I alone am. O Lord of hosts, Psalm eighty-four, verse ten twelve says, O Lord of hosts, blessed is the man. who trusts in you. Psalm one hundred and eighteen eight that we read just previously Records that it is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. Isaiah 12, 2 says Behold, God is my salvation. I will trust And not be afraid, for the Lord Jehovah is my strength and my song. He also has become my salvation. And he you see, you hear that from Isaiah, and then you look at 1 Timothy 4 verse 10 and the latter part of it where Paul says he trusts in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those who believe. And you hear parallel thoughts. You have same words being used in both that Old Testament passage and now in the New. Isaiah, the writer, understood, or it was communicated to him that God is the living God. And we can trust in him, we hope in him, because also he is our Savior. In Isaiah chapter twenty forty five, verses twenty-one and twenty-two, uh you have another statement that very closely parallels what Paul has said here in 1 Timothy 4 verse 10 and the latter part. In 21 and 22 of Isaiah 45 we read Who hath declared this from ancient time? Who hath told it from that time? Have not I the Lord? And there is no God else beside me. How much more do we need to hear? There is no God else but me, a just God and a savior. This is God's self-identification. There is none beside me. Look unto me and be saved, all the ends of the earth. Even that phrase you hear echoed in Paul's writings. He trusts in the living God who is the Savior of all men. And I think uh we would uh be wise to take that all men to mean um As Paul then later describes it in verse 10, especially those who believe. Or actually, it's especially those who are believing, continuing to believe God is the Savior of all men in a special way for those who keep on believing. And you see, this is it is that understanding of who God is. It is that understanding that He is uh One that we trust, one that we put our hope in. He is living. He's the only living God. He is our Savior. He's the Savior of all men. Who believe, who continue to believe. You see, it is that for Paul that is so It's at the very foundation, the very core of his being and of his understanding. And that is why He endures the reproach, the agony, and he labors on with for God's people. In many ways, you see, The Apostle Paul is expressing in that in verse 10, he's expressing on the one hand not only his understanding of who God is, but also his love for God. And what God has done for him. But his love for God, you see, doesn't turn itself inward on himself. It goes outward to others who need to know more about the same Savior who saved Paul and who is still saving. men and women today. The only Savior, the living God, the only name given under heaven and earth whereby men might be saved. Which is Jesus, the Savior. Amen. Let us pray. Oh most merciful God, we we thank you for um giving us this insight from the Apostle Paul into his into his thought process, into his labors And uh also, but ultimately and surely into his understanding of who you are We thank you, Lord, that you have raised up not just Paul, but many others throughout history who would be faithful. And it would have the same kind of dynamic at work in their life because you save them, and because you are who you are. that they could trust in you, they could hope in you, and they could go about expending their life's energy, knowing that you are a just and faithful God, and that their labor was not in vain. And that in the end they would they would take on the same mantle as the Lord Jesus Christ. As they would give their life for the benefit of God's people, not physically. as he alone did. But but surely, Lord, giving of themselves so much for the edification of others And for the ultimate glory of your name as an expression of their love for you and for others. We thank you, Lord, that you're not done raising up men Of such caliber. We pray, Father, that you will continue to bless your church with faithful men. Who will be very zealous to preserve the Word of God once delivered And we'll feed the flock of the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll love your people. And like Peter was told three times, to feed The Lord's lambs and his sheep as an expression of his love for the Lord Jesus We ask all these things now in our Savior's name. Amen.