We have the opportunity again to consider God's Word. Our sermon text this morning comes from Psalm 20. If you have a copy of the scriptures, please turn with me to Psalm 20 as we consider God's word together. Before we read it, let us again go to the Lord in prayer, asking for the Lord's blessing. That the Holy Spirit open up our eyes that we might see and understand and that we might be able to look out this morning as a church to see what the Lord is going to say to us this morning. So let's pray. Our Lord, we thank you that you are not a silent God, but that you speak to us, that you've given us your word, and that it is living and active. It is not a dead book, but that you speak And not only do you speak, that you change lives through the ordinary and regular preaching of your word, the reading, but especially the preaching, Lord. And I pray that as your people hear, and as they hear the word preached, that you would convict and convert That you would humble us, that you might give comfort to those who need comfort. Lord, we pray that you would indeed unstop our deaf ears that we might hear of Jesus Christ crucified for sinners, that we might have open eyes to behold the glory of the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. And would you give us now a taste for those spiritual, eternal things? that this world might indeed grow strangely dim in the light and glory of the grace of Jesus Christ. So bless your people as we consider your word now. In Christ's name. Amen. People of God here, the word of God from Psalm 20. May the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob protect you. May He send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion. May He remember all your offerings and regard with favor your burnt sacrifices. May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. May we shout for joy over your salvation and in the name of the God, of our God, set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven. With the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright. O Lord, save the King. May He answer us when we call May God bless the reading of His word. He who has ears, let him hear the word of God. Please be seated. One of Israel's many troubles that Israel had was one of war. Israel was constantly at war um countries, people who didn't like them, even as the psalm as we read is written by King David. And we read a little bit about King David. David has been at war since he was a youth, at war with the Philistines, and as he becomes king uh uh still warring with the Philistines to the west, Assyrians to the north, Edomites, Ammonites, Moabites to the east, and the list goes on of those with whom Israel is at war. David is continually fighting. War is a constant way of life for Israel. In fact, if you remember the story of David. And even David's fall into sin and his adultery with Bathsheba and his murder of Uriah. That whole text starts out with the saying the time when kings would go out to war, right? And David stays behind, right? Gets himself into trouble. But even in the text it says when the kings would go out to war. It was like there was a holiday, if you will, but this holiday during the year well this is the time when kings go out to war. It's not dinner time It's the time when kings go out to war, and as you see, war was a way of life for Israel. A constantly in war. Constantly in war Because Satan and his armies are always attacking the Lord's people. It is a non-stop barrage. It is no relief, not this side of heaven. And so the church remains this target of the evil one who we're told is roaming around like a roaring lion seeking those he may devour. The church remains a target. of uh uh of of the evil one and though we aren't fighting a physical battle there is a war still waging every single day. The Christian life is one of war It is a constant war, and so we too need to be on guard. We too need to be uh fighting the good fight because the church is always at war against our own sin Uh in in the sin and in the devil's pressure and from the world around us. We've been in this war since the very beginning. All the way back to Genesis, where we're told it in Genesis 3 that the seed of the woman will be at war with the seed of the serpent. So this isn't a new war. This has been a war from the very beginning. But this psalm encourages the church. It encourages Christians to put their faith in the King. Who will have victory over themselves and over their sin and over the things of this world and over the devil and death itself. This Psalm tells us to stop putting our own faith or our own leanings on the wisdoms of this world. This psalm told it tells us to stop putting our hopes in the things of this world, such as chariots and horses, or whatever that will look like for us in this day and age. But to put our trust in the King, in Jesus. There are three sections to this psalm, and that's kind of how we'll consider the psalm in these three sections. The first section is verses 1 through 5, and it's the voice of the congregation, the voice of Israel, and this is a prayer. Verses 1 through 5 is a prayer of Israel for the king as the king launches into battle. The prayer is for his victory. The prayer that is that as Israel comes together is that, Lord, make the king victorious. Give him the desire of his heart. The second voice is the voice of the king. And uh that is in verses six through eight. And as you can almost picture it, Israel prays and they sing and they pray and then the king comes and he addresses the people and he gives assurance to the people that he will have victory. He is the anointed man And then verse 9 is a final rallying cry of the united voices of the people for the king as he's about to launch into battle. Well what's interesting Psalm 20 and Psalm 21 actually go together. We're not considering Psalm 21 today, but Psalm 20 is the Psalm before the battle. And then maybe another Sunday we can consider Psalm 21, but that's after the battle and the victory has won And so somewhere in between Psalm 20 and Psalm 21, the battle occurs. But Psalm 20 is as we're about to prepare, we're about to launch, O church, O Israel, into battle. So let's consider the text. Let's look at the prayer that's offered by the congregation for the king in verses 1 through 5. As we already said, David's the king. Not only is David the king, David is the author of this psalm. You can look kind of back even before verse 1. It says a psalm of David. um a psalm of David written by David. And so uh we have a prayer written by David for David. And so that's kind of an interesting thing. David is saying to the Israel, Israel, I want you to pray for me, and this is how I want you to do it. And so he and then he writes the psalm. And you pr uh pray for me essentially what this section is saying in verses 1 through 5. Pray that God would give me success as we go into battle Pray that God would be kind to me. I pray that God would give us the victory. And for Israel, why is it important that they pray for the king? Uh why is it important? What's Israel's concern with King David, whether he wins or not? Well, it's very important for Israel, as it would be for any king. If the king loses in battle, Israel loses. Right? The king represents the people. And so if the king wins, the people win. If the king is defeated The people lose. The people are defeated. And so it's very important. So Israel, uh they have every interest that the king wins. They have every interest uh that the king is victorious because uh their future, uh their lives are wrapped up in the king's So they want David's success. They don't want his failure. So verse 1 says, if you look at verse 1, may the Lord answer you in the day of trouble. May the name of the God of Jacob protect you. And this is, may God hear your prayers. May He answer you. May He protect you. May He encourage you. May He give you the victory. And David is saying, please pray for me. Pray this, right? But if you look there in verse 1, he also says something interesting. He says, May the name of the God of Jacob protect you. Why does David say, pray to the God of Jacob? Why doesn't he say, well, what about Abraham? Or Moses? Or why not simply, may the God of our fathers protect you? May the God of our fathers be with you. Why Is Jacob specifically mentioned that we should be praying to the God of Jacob? Well, that's an interesting phrase, isn't it? And some of you might be familiar with the story of Jacob. If you recall there in Genesis, what's occurred To Jacob and who was Jacob. And if you read the story about Jacob and if you're not that familiar with it, um There are some things that we read about him, and it seems that time and time again, Jacob is deceitful. Jacob is fearful. Jacob is a thief. Jacob is a schemer most of his life. If you read the story of Jacob, there really isn't a whole lot to like about Jacob. He's not that nice of a guy. Right? It's really har if you read the story, it's hard to like Jacob. Um he's a little schemer, liar, deceitful person for pretty much most of his life And his life is filled with marital issues, his life is filled with family crisis, and essentially it's all his fault. He's at the heart of it. He's the reason his family's falling apart. He's the reason that his family is warring and angry with each other. But is God merciful to Jacob? Yeah. God shows mercy to a guy like Jacob, even though it's very clear that Jacob does not deserve mercy. God is faithful to his covenant and shows uh uh mercy and grace even to a guy like Jacob In Genesis 35, um Jacob is making his way back home because he's he's fled. He he he was fleeing for his life. from his brother Esau, who he thought was going to kill him. And now he's making his way back home because God has humbled him. God has given Jacob a repentant heart. And Jacob says this. So Jacob said to his household and to all who were with him, put away the foreign gods that are among you, and purify yourself and change your garments. Then let us arise and go up to Bethel, that I may make there an altar to God, the God who answers me in the day of my distress, and has been with me wherever I have gone So Jacob is saying, God answered me in the day of my distress. God is the one who answers and shows mercy even to a guy like me. That's what Jacob is saying. And I I think this is important not only for Israel but also for the church because even though we might look at Jacob and say, Jacob, you are such a messed up guy. We are like Jacob. How much most of our lives have we have been making mistakes and turning from God And having hard hearts and deceitful hearts and many of our marital issues and some of our family issues, we're at the very center of it because we're stubborn and we're hard-hearted. We're stiff-necked. And why should God rescue or have mercy on me? Why should God help me? And the congregation and the people of God are told to pray to the God of Jacob. Because the God of Jacob blesses and grants mercy even to the most undeserving. He gives mercy and grace to those like you and like me, to those who would repent and believe. Even those like Jacob, if they turn to God, will find mercy in the day of trouble. So they are told to pray to the God of Jacob, because the God of Jacob is merciful. The sinners when they repent and turn. And look at the type of help that God is willing to offer To his people. Verse 2 says, May he send you help from the sanctuary and give you support from Zion. Sanctuary help. And if you recall, the sanctuary was the very presence of God. And what better help is there than sanctuary help? There isn't any better help. This is as powerful help as anyone can get, is sanctuary help, because this is God Himself. The very presence and power and might of God, the sanctuary help, the help from on Zion, God's very presence to come and give you aid. There's another story that in this sermon I'm re I'm going to be referencing just little different stories I think give uh that help fill out this psalm. There's another story in 2 Kings where you see some very vivid sanctuary help occur. 2 Kings chapter 6. the king of Syria, he sends his horses and chariots and great uh his great armies to go and seize the one prophet Elisha A whole army, a whole army surrounds Elisha in this one town. And The servant said, Alas, my master, what shall we do? And he said, do not be afraid, for those who are with us are more than those who are with them. Then Elisha prayed and said, O Lord, please open his eyes that he may see. So the Lord opened his eyes of the young man, and he saw and behold, the mountains were full of horses and chariots of fire all around Elisha. Do you need to be afraid when you know that you have sanctuary help on your side? Do you need to be afraid of your life or what's going to occur? if you know that not only do you have legions and legions of angels on your side, but not only that, you have the one, Jesus Christ. who spoke all of them into existence and who could do it again and he is on your side. Do you need to be afraid? No. You don't need to be afraid. You have the sanctuary help, O people of God, those who believe in King Jesus And then we see in verses 3 through 4 the people's prayer, they continue for another request. And it says, May he remember all your offerings and regard you with favor your burnt sacrifices. May he grant you your heart's desire and fulfill all your plans. I think they can be easily used, they can be construed to say that God was going to give you whatever you want as long as you do the right thing. As long as you've made the right sacrifices, then God's going to give you whatever you want, give you your heart's desire. But that's not what the text is saying. It's not saying, Lord, see all the good things that I've done, and surely you want to give me whatever I want now. Our sacrifices aren't worthy to come to God. As Isaiah 64 says, our righteous acts are like filthy rags because apart from God's grace, we aren't living our lives for His glory alone. We need God's grace to even do what is good. God owes us nothing because we are dead in our sins. Just because we make some sort of sacrifice doesn't mean that God needs to accept it or even honor it. So, what is the request then that's being made here? Well, what's the request that the king, then the desire of his heart, be given to him? Well, what is the king's desire? What is the desire of King David? What's the desire of his heart? And we read it actually in 1 Samuel chapter 17. We read what David's heart and what his desire is for Israel as he goes before Israel and represents them as he faces Goliath. He said, This day the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your h your off your head, and I will give the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines to stay to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth. That all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel, and that all this assembly may know that the Lord saves, not with sword and spear, for the battle is the Lord's. David's desire, the king's desire that they're praying, that the psalm is requesting, is that the the nations would know that there's a God in Israel. That you would know that there is a true God, that there is one God. And his passion is that God be glorified. And so that's what the congregation is praying. That's what they're asking. Lord, bring glory to yourself. That's the king's desire. That's our desire. Bring glory to yourself. That's what's being requested. And in verse 5, as the congregation wraps up, says, May we shout then for joy over your salvation, and in the name of our God set up our banners. May the Lord fulfill all your petitions. Lord, you are the one that gives salvation. It's only you that we can trust. You are our deliverer. We will then celebrate. We will then have joy as you give salvation to us. So that's the prayer of the people. That's the congregation's prayer. The congregation, they assemble together and they pray in one voice what David has essentially requested them to do. And now you can almost picture it. The people have prayed this, and now the king approaches. The king comes up. And I love the speech here. You can picture it. It's almost very cinematic. It's a great rallying cry. It's a great speech for the king. And listen to the king's speech. It's it's it's a moving. Uh you ca as as a as the people of Israel, you can see you get them like, yes, David Now I know that the Lord saves his anointed. He will answer him from his holy heaven with the saving might of his right hand. Some trust in chariots and some in horses, but we trust in the name of the Lord our God. They collapse and fall, but we rise and stand upright. Right? And then they go, you know, they as we'll we'll get to the last verse, but you can see them like, you know, this is a very moving speech. You know, they're Rallying the troops, David is giving them assurance of the victory, and the victory hasn't even begun yet. He speaks to them with confidence, assuring them that they're going to win. The battle occurs, as I said, somewhere after 20 and between 21. But David has confidence because he's the anointed man and that he's going to have victory. Unbelief despairs even before the difficult difficulties come, but David is showing us that faith can rejoice even before the victory comes in full. Not counting armies, he's not counting men. Horses stumble and chariots break, weapons will fail. Another example in scriptures of weapons being of no use in armies or horiates or chariots is uh another story in 2 Kings with King Hezekiah. And uh there's an army of the Assyrians, an army of 185,000 Assyrian men. And how many people did it take For the army of Assyria to be wiped out, of 185,000 soldiers of Assyria, how many men did it take? That's right. Zero. The angel of the Lord came down and wiped them all out. Not a single man of Israel was used. Who needs chariots? Who needs horses? Who needs weapons? Again, when you have sanctuary help Sometimes we think if a certain candidate doesn't win, we're in trouble. Or if a certain piece of legislation is uh ruled incorrectly. Uh in the courts, what are we going to do? But we must remember that our hope is not in the things of this world. Our hope is in the king. Our hope is in the Lord. And just like this psalm and other psalms, we remember that King David is only but a type, he's only but a shadow of the true King, of King Jesus. David was only a man, a frail, fragile man, who needed faith in the true king, the one who would come after him, the true ruler. And so if we again kind of take a look at this psalm, but keeping in mind Jesus as the true King, what do we learn? What was Jesus' heart's desire? The people were to ask, what's Jesus' heart's desire? What we learn in John chapter 17, it's to glorify his Father. Glorify your name, even if it means death, he prays in his priestly prayer. The king in our text doesn't trust in horses and in chariots, and what does King Jesus trust in? Well in John chapter 4, he says, It is my food to do my Father's will. I trust whatever my Father wills. It's it's even my food. I get all my substance. This is what I will do And in Matthew 26, he reminds us: do you not think that I can appeal to my Father and he will at once send me more than twelve legions of angels? But how should the scriptures be fulfilled that it must be so? Remember he's talking to Pilate. Jesus could bring the whole legions of angels if he wanted, till he created them. Well he doesn't because he's proceeding to the cross because that is the Father's will for him. He would come and die for sinners Just like Israel's life was tied to the life of King, so much more is the church tied to the success of Jesus and his work. David was fighting Hittites, Gergeshites, Amorites, Philistines, and other nations, but what was Jesus fighting? His fight was to accept the wrath of God His fight was to accept the wrath of God for sinners. His fight was to accept the wrath of God when he was the first man to ever earn blessing. He prays, My Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, but your will be done. He was to accept the cross when he had only received praise from his Father. He was the one man who did not earn the wages of sin. But he would go through hell for his people. The king would come and go through hell for his people. Jesus is the king who just doesn't make sacrifices. Jesus is the sacrifice. As we consider on Palm Sunday in the Passover. Jesus is the Passover Lamb. As John the Baptist says, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. King Jesus goes to war not only to give you a dying land on this earth. He isn't doing that He's going to war to give you a plot in heaven that will neither fade nor perish. He's going to war so that he might bring you to himself For all of eternity. He's going to war so that your sins might be forgiven, that you might be washed, that you might be robed in his perfect righteousness. He's going to war so you don't go to hell for what your sins deserve. This psalm, remember, the whole first part of this psalm is with the people of Israel. And they come together and they're cheering. And they're praying for the king. They're praying for the victory of the king, aren't they? But who was cheering for Jesus? Who was cheering for Jesus? Who was praying for the success of Jesus the King? Who was supporting Jesus in the midst of his fight? In fact, when he asked those who were close to him to pray, what did they do? They slept. What did his friends do when he would go into the heart of the battle as he's making his way to the cross? When the soldiers would arrest him? What would his friends do? Would they support him? Would they have his back? Would they say, Jesus, you're going to the cross because it's the Father's will, go. They don't say that at all. They run, they scatter, they flee. They don't tell him, you will have victory over the grave, you will stand upright victorious. They run and they flee. But the Father answers this psalm for his anointed king, and he gives the king the victory, even despite the people. Why? Because he's the God of Jacob, who would send his son to die while we were yet sinners. Why we aren't praying for the king? Why we're not supporting the king? And not only are we not supporting the king, why we rebel against the king? The Son of God would die for sinners like you and me, but he will have the victory. Jesus would rise again from the dead. As we celebrate every Sunday, and especially the Sun the Sunday to come, he rises from the dead to have the victory. He is the King of Kings, He is the Lord of Lords, and He always will be. Nothing can dethrone Jesus. Nothing can unseat him. The ha the gates of hell cannot prevail against him. Empires will rise and fall. There will be revolutions and counter-revolutions. But there is one figure that stands over all the earth and over all things and over all times. It is the one from whom and by whom and through whom we will live The King Jesus Christ. So as followers of King Jesus, we know how the battle of history ends. And so we can live today without fear by faith in it. We don't have to fear because he has the victory. He's a much greater king than King David could ever and would ever be Our King accomplished a greater victory than David ever could or would. Our King has freed us from the guilt of sin. Our King has freed us from the condemning wrath of God. He has delivered us from the bondage of Satan and the dominion of sin. He's given us victory over the grave. He's given us full and free access to God. He's adopted us into his own family. He's given us his spirit. And given us a heavenly home. So when we face the battles of this world, when we face battles no less of sickness and pain. And death itself, where will you find peace? Where can you find joy? Will you find contentment in the size of our military or how many guns you own? Will you find peace in the politics or your own beauty, your work ethic, your family No, verse 8 reminds you, these things will collapse, these things will fall. But in Jesus, we can stand upright and have the victory. In Jesus, you will not be crushed. You will shout for joy, for the salvation that He has won for you. And know that these light and momentary afflictions that we are currently facing, they're preparing for us An eternal weight of glory that is beyond all comparison, as we look to nothing that we see, but only to the things that are unseen. And so verse nine is this final uh rally victory cry. You can uh just imagine it once again. the uh the voice and unison of the people and they shout, O Lord, save the King, and may He answer us when we call. The king fought the greatest battle there ever was, and he said, It is finished. He has the victory. The king was victorious so we might know God and know that he will answer us when we call Because there was a time that he was not heard on the cross, that we might now and forever be heard. He will answer us when we call. And so we can now pray as a church. We continue to pray that God's kingdom, that the kingdom of Christ continue to proceed. That he has victories still continuing around the world, not only in this church that we pray in our community and here in Lanham and Bowie, but around the world, that the King continue to have victory over souls and bring them to himself. We pray and we're reminded as a church, we pray to the God of Jacob, who is merciful to sinners like us. We learn to not place our hope in anything but the glorious name of Jesus. We don't place our hope in the things of this world. We place our hope in Christ. We rest on thee, our shield and our defender. We go not forth alone against the foe. Strong in thy strength, safe in thy keeping tender, we rest on thee, and in thy name we go. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you for giving us a king that would go before us. We thank you that You've given us Jesus, O God of Jacob, who would rescue rebellious sinners, who would flee from the king We thank you for your mercy. We thank you that you would secure and give us a victory that we could never even imagine or comprehend. And in many ways, we still don't know what awaits for us. We still don't know what joys and glorious things are ours in Christ. But we long for them and we wait for them with patience. Lord, help us to be on guard. Help us to fight the good fight each and every day. Lord, let uh let your king prevail over our souls, let your spirit have its way with us, that we might not uh listen to the lies of our flesh or the lies of Satan or of this world. Protect your church and keeper. Keep us till the end, when we will shout for joy from now through all of eternity. We thank you, O Jesus, our King. That in your name we pray, Amen