If you will now turn to our text this evening or this afternoon from uh Amos, the book of Amos, the second chapter, and uh verses uh Verses uh six uh through uh sixteen. We have already had uh two messages on uh sections of this uh passage. And today we'll be looking at verses 13 through 16. So let's hear the word of the Lord Thus says the Lord, for three transgressions of Israel and for four, I will not turn away its punishment, because they sell the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of sandals. They pant after the dust of the earth, which is on the head of the poor. They pervert the way of the humble A man and his father go into the same girl to defile my holy name. They lie down by every altar on clothes taken in pledge. and drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their God. Yet it was I who destroyed the Amorites before them, whose height was like the height of the Cedars And he was as strong as the oaks. Yet I destroyed his fruit above and his roots beneath. Also, it was I who brought you up from the land of Egypt and led you forty years through the wilderness. To possess the land of the Amorite, I raised up some of your sons as prophets, and some of your young men as Nazarites. Is it not so, O you children of Israel, says the Lord? But you gave the Nazarites wine to drink, and commanded the prophets, saying, Do not prophesy Behold, I am weighed down by you, as a cart full of sheaves is weighed down Therefore, flight shall perish from the swift. The strong shall not strengthen his power, nor shall the mighty deliver himself. He shall not stand who handles the bow. The swift of foot shall not escape, nor shall he who rides a horse deliver himself The most courageous men of might shall flee naked in that day, says the Lord. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. And uh I'm glad we have those who are visiting with us today, but I'm sad to say that uh to appreciate the fullness of this Passage, you have to understand the historical context in which this message was given. And so, by way of a brief uh reminder of that context, I know the rest of you have heard this already a couple of times. But what you need to understand is that Amos is preaching a message of destruction to the northern kingdom of the Jews called Israel. This is the time of around 750, 780 to 750 BC That kingdom is a wicked kingdom. Its kings, not one of them are ever commended for doing anything right. This is the the kings of Israel in which Ahab was one, maybe the most wicked of all of the kings. of the Jews, but every one of them was perverse in the eyes of the Lord. And not and And they were also the people, beginning from their first king, Jeroboam I, who prevented the Israelites from going down During Passover to worship God at Jerusalem. Instead, he set up golden calf altars in both Dan and Bethel, which was idolatry. And he made the people go there. This is the land of which Elijah also prophesied. You remember the famous conflict between Elijah and the 400 prophets of Baal on Mount Carmel. And after that conflict Elijah is forced to flee from his life as Jezebel, King Ahab's wife, had put a contract out on him. It was open season on Elijah. And Elijah, in the midst of finding a place to hide, cries out, O God, am I the only one? Who believes and God graciously said, No, there are seven hundred, seven thousand yet in Israel who have not bowed thee. need to bail. It's that same Israel that we're talking about here that God is talking about here in this text. The book of Amos starts off with a series of six judgments against the surrounding peoples of Israel. Six judgments coming to those peoples by God for their breaking of God's law. Now they were all unbelieving people, they were all pagans And so you might say, well, why was God upset with them? Well, the fact of the matter is, is even though if we don't have the written law of God, every man has the law of God written on his heart Genesis uh Romans chapter two verse fourteen and following. And you would think, after seeing uh your your neighbors one by one experience God's judgment for their sinfulness and their disobedience And sometimes for the very things that the nation of Israel is doing itself, you would think that they might learn, that they might get the message. But no, they don't. And God sends one prophet after another. And what we're seeing here in Amos is God's had enough. God's had enough of the northern kingdom called Israel and its people. And if you were to catalog The offenses against God that are mentioned early in chapter 2, they would read like the list of crimes that a criminal on the FBI's most wanted sheet would do. You would find it says, for example, some of their things that God has against them They sold the righteous for silver and the poor for a pair of shoes. Verse 6. They were engaged in the slavery. of those who were unable to protect themselves. They pan after the dust on the head of the poor and turn aside the way of meek. Verse 7. They abuse the helpless, and they reject the way of God's humility. A man and his father would go into the same name to profane my holy name. Do I have to tell you what that is? No, I hope not. You understand what sin is going on there. They lay themselves down upon the clothes to take a pledge by every altar. The basic thought I think here is is that there was a prohibition. I d I didn't look it up, but there is a prohibition that if you take a guy's clothes or his cloak uh in in in a as of interest for or or a or a down payment on a pledge, that has to go back to him at night. You can't And it appears that that's what what this is addressing. They drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their God. They they find no difficulty worshiping other gods and to and uh and and and get themselves drunk in that sort of situation. Which probably is an allusion to the fact that oftentimes the worship of pagan gods was accompanied by drunken revelies and all kinds of sexual Practices, wrong sexual practices. They were also guilty of ingratitude In gratitude to God for his displays, his many displays of mercy to them. And that's what Verses 9 and following are all about when he says, I destroyed the Amorites before you And uh when I brought you out of the land of Egypt, I led you forty years through the wilderness, and eventually you did possess the land of the Amorite. They not only were in ungrateful, but they immediately began to demonstrate their ingratitude by worshiping other gods. They uh verses eleven and twelve, continuing in the vein of the things these people had done, they reject God's attempt. Um uh they reject God's attempts to demonstrate what holiness looks like in the personage of the Nazarite vow They reject the model that the Nazarite has of being a servant unto God of obedience and faithfulness. They don't want that kind of image in their presence. And verse uh excuse me, verses 11 and 12 not only say they don't want to reject the model of holiness or faithfulness. in the Nazarite, but they don't want to hear God's prophets either. They hated the prophets who brought the word of God. You gave the Nazarites, verse 12, wine to drink. You compromised them. And you commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not. Didn't want to hear the word of God. And so God says, for three transgressions and four, in other words, for multiple transgressions. God is bringing judgment and destruction to that northern kingdom. Remember, 780 to 750 BC, 722, these people are gone. They're destroyed by the Assyrian Empire. Chapter two is a clear, unambiguous warning from God to the northern kingdom of Israel, and it's in advance. And we see that God pictures himself in verse 13 as being, has reaching, his tolerance has reached an end. And when I say tolerance, it's not that God is permitting all of this to occur. It's that he can't stand it. anymore. He describes himself He describes himself as being pressed under you as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaths. If you can imagine a cart after harvest that has all these uh uh sheaves of uh grain and wheat and somebody being under it and somebody being pressed down from it If you were under a cart of a big cart of sheaves of grain, the first thing you would want to do is to break out from it. And it seems that that's the image that's being portrayed here. You see, sin of God that's being portrayed here. Sin in your life may enjoy a temporary reprieve from God's judgment, but it will not be forever ignored. This is especially true if you claim that you're a follower of God. As these people did. They were Ready to say that God was their God, but they'll say it, but they won't do it. They'll worship him with their w with as another comment is made, they worship me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. Imagine that you were living in that time And you were living in Israel. And Amos, Amos's words came to you. You heard them. And the question I want you to think about is what would your reaction be? And I think that in general, most people would have one of three reactions, or maybe a combination of two of them. You would take the road that most of your neighbors are doing and you would ignore it. Or You might conclude that things are so bad that there's no hope. There's no hope for you. So you give up. You say to yourself, I'm so bad that God can never forgive me. Maybe you have that kind of a temporary pricking of the heart. I'm such a b evil person. You ever known anybody who says that? Something like that? I'm such a sinner. God God God there's no way he could ever forgive you You ever heard that? You talk to people? That's out there. I suspect that it was out there then. Because that's just another way of getting around avoiding coming to God and letting God be merciful. Because you see, deep down in our heart, unless we've really been changed by the Holy Spirit, we will always think That God is demanding too much, and we can satisfy him with doing a little bit. That looks good. Isn't that right? Isn't that what people do? So you could ignore it, you could conclude there's no help, and you give up. And say to yourself, I don't have a prayer But then the third choice is you could plea for God's mercy. Plea for Him to help. And I firmly believe that anyone caught in this kind of situation where there's so much wickedness and they plead for God's help For them personally, if they're involved in such wickedness, I believe God would help and will help. It doesn't mean that you won't be around to experience the consequences Of your sin when God helps. But it does mean that you can be forgiven by the blood of God God's Son, Jesus Christ. And when that happens, you're secure forever. Ezekiel, as I read earlier, one of my favorite passages in the 33rd chapter. Or Ezekiel, the prophet, to show you how bad the situation is Ezekiel is not proclaiming, excuse me, that's not the right way. Ezekiel is proclaiming the Word of God, but he He is not talking to Israel, the northern kingdom, before its fall, or and neither is he talking to Judah, the southern kingdom, before its fall He is talking to the exiles of the southern kingdom, Judah, who've been taken away into captivity into Babylon. It's important that you understand that when you read such verses as Ezekiel 33, verse 10. Therefore, O Son of Man, speak unto the house of Israel. Thus speak, saying, If our transgression and our sins be upon us and we pine away in them, how should we then live? Say unto them, As I live, says the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked But that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. O why will you die, House of Israel? See, that message is addressed to some who are in captivity, who've already suffered destruction, and they're still wicked. And what God is doing through Ezekiel to those who are still up there in the Babylon area before they come back into Israel. What he's doing is he's pleading with them. And what does he say? What word does he say three times? Turn, turn, turn. The what is turn? It's whether it's Hebrew or whether it's Greek, it's repent. And why is repentance a turning? True godly repentance is a turning. First of all, it's a gift of God But it manifests itself in your life by you turning away from sin. It's a turn away and it's a turn towards. You're turning also to God. It's a definitive change of mind, a definitive change of heart. No longer to want sin to rule and control your life and instead want God The control. Turn ye, turn ye, O house of Israel, why will you die? And even though this is directed at the house of Israel And even though the words here are directed at the house of Israel, this is always the message of the gospel. It is always God's call to turn us away from our sin and to live for Him, to repent of our sins. with his help and the spirit's help and to live. Isn't it interesting? They didn't deserve that. You know very well what you would do if you were God and hit his shoes with these people. You would wipe them all out. But he doesn't do that. That isn't our God. And he doesn't do that to us. He doesn't do that to you. He didn't do that to you. But he doesn't do it to the to any sinner He offers the gospel And then the what they do with it is the question. Are they going to repent and are they going to believe? Are they going to turn and are they going to have faith This is the same message. This same message of the gospel is so wonderfully captured in the parable. of the prodigal son in Luke chapter fifteen. When the son comes to his senses, he returns to his father. And then verse 20, 21, we read, When he was yet a great way off, his father saw him And had compassion and ran and fell upon his neck and kissed him And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven in their sight. You notice there's no There's a real admission of sin on that son's part. I've sinned against you. I've sinned against heaven. And the son said, I've sinned against heaven and in thy sight. I am no more worthy to be called your son The father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, put it on him, put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet. And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it. Let us eat and be merry. For my son was dead. But he's alive again. He was lost and he is found. And they began to be merry. What a great, wonderful picture that is. of that parable being uh likened unto our Father, our Heavenly Father, preceding us. upon repentance and faith. The father's reaction is there. Let's kill the fatted calf. Let's have a feast. Let's eat. Let's drink. Let's be glad. The son's reaction is there. The first son. His reaction is I ain't worthy. I sinned against you. But notice he says I sinned against heaven also. What I did was wrong. It was wrong in God's eyes, and I wronged you I'm not worthy. And none of us are. And then you have the response of his brother. The older brother. That uh That is to the grace of the Father upon his son. The Father, he says, the brother comes And is told, thy father has killed the fatted calf, because he has received him safe and sound. He was angry And he was angry and wouldn't go in. Therefore, his father came out and entreated him, pleaded with him. And answering he said to his father, Lo, these many years I do serve thee. Neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment, yet thou never gave me a kid. That I might make merry with my friends. But as soon as the sun came He who has devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fetted calf, and said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me. And he said unto his son, Thou art ever with me, and all that I have is yours. It was right, it was meet that we should make merry. And be glad. For thy brother was dead, and this alive again was lost and is found. In Amos chapter 5, verse 4, and following, the Lord continues to make another plea to is to Israel. There he says, Thus says the Lord to the house of Israel, seek me, and you shall live. But seek not Bethel. Remember I told you Bethel was one of the places where the false god was Seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not into Bersheba, for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to naught. But seek the Lord and you shall live. That's what the message of Amos is to uh in this section to Israel. That's the message we bring To the unbelieving world as well. Seek the Lord, and you shall live. Amen Let us close with a word of prayer. Lord our God, we thank you for your faithfulness. The faithfulness, great is your faithfulness, it's new and refreshing every morning. It's a wonder to wake up and behold and to know that we are your people, that you love us in Christ Jesus, that we're ever in your presence. Let us not take your grace ever for granted. But let us seek, Lord, your face, and let us live in the light of your countenance. We pray, Lord, that even as we've heard this word today, that if there are any among us or any who will hear it, Who are thinking, well, God isn't serious about sin, God isn't serious about punishment and justice and judgment And or they're thinking, and or they're thinking, I am just so rotten, he could never forgive me Um let let that thought be countered by the grace of God displayed in the love of God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Draw your people to yourself. May they turn and live. Amen