If you turn to the Word of God now, once again to Matthew's gospel. I believe you'll find chapter 19 on page 979 of your Pew Bibles. And we'll be reading there the first 15 verses. Let's give attention now to the Holy Word of God. Now, when Jesus had finished these sayings, he went away from Galilee and entered the region of Judea beyond the Jordan. And large crowds followed him, and he healed them there. And Pharisees came up to him and tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? He answered, have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? It said, therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God is joined together, let not man separate. They said to him, why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery. The disciples said to him, If such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to them, Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. But there are eunuchs who have been made so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the Take of the kingdom of heaven But the one who is able to receive this, receive it. Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people. But Jesus said, Let the little children come to me, and do not hinder them, for to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. And he laid his hands on them and went away. As far in the reading of God's word, Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father and our God, that having now read your word, we ask that you would add your blessing to it. Holy Spirit, we ask that you would help us as we come to what we might consider to be a difficult passage. We ask for your blessing. We ask for understanding. We ask for edification. But most of all, Lord, we ask that you would use this. To draw us closer to Christ and even to change hearts from stone to flesh. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. How much do you trust that the Word of God is good for you? I think that's a question that Hosea might have been asking himself. As the prophet was called to go and take a wife of Hordom and have children of whoredom. The land commits great whoredom by forsaking the Lord. Hosea was called to take a wife who was in sin. And bring her into his household and have a family with her. And if you know the account of the prophet Hosea, this wife of his leaves him. And continues her life of adultery. And even at that point, the Lord called Hosea once again to go. And bring her back. He takes fifteen shekels of silver and a homer and a lech of barley and brings her back into his household according to To the word of God. I wonder if Hosea was asking himself, how much do I trust? that the word of God is good for me. In a sense, that brings us to our passage this morning in Matthew's gospel. Jesus Christ has been teaching about the kingdom of heaven. He continues to do that even in this passage, which seems to be very earth-centered. The Lord gives us a very full passage this morning in this first portion of Matthew chapter 19. We're not going to be able to cover everything that's included in this passage this morning. We know that some of these doctrines have been controversial in the church. And it's not our purpose this morning to dig into those controversies, but to dig out of this text some clear doctrines, the clear word of God. And so we'll try to make it as straightforward as possible as we pull away these significant teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ, these significant doctrines regarding the institution of marriage First, as Jesus is questioned about divorce, he responds quickly and clearly that God is the one who has established and ordained, if we can say, the institution of marriage. Jesus begins with an unequivocal reminder to those who challenged him that there are only two genders, male and female. And that of these two they become one flesh, as God joins them in wedlock. One man, one woman, to become one flesh. That seems to be the significant point of Jesus' teaching, of this doctrine, which we'll open up later. And so then there is this Response to the Pharisees' question in this very broad brush fashion. God has joined one man and one woman together in the bondage of marriage forever. And man is not to break that marital bond. And then the Pharisees asked, well then why did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? Pharisees now question Jesus' response to a forever marriage, a forever bond. In other words, Jesus, if you're correct, then why would Moses contradict God by permitting a severance of this bond? By divorce. And Jesus responds that Moses was not contradicting the Word of God, that Moses did not command divorce, but permitted or allowed divorce only because men's hearts were hard. Jesus is constantly going back to the Word of God as he is engaging with the Pharisees Moses permitted this because of your hardness. Men were hardened against loving, truly, sacrificially loving their wives, to the point that they rejected the Word of God in their hardness, and they rejected their wives in their hardness So Jesus was not saying that Moses bent the law or changed the law or that men were not sinning as they sent their wives away. But Jesus seems to be saying that Moses created a means of protection for the unwanted wives that they might be sent away and now cared for by another. You might sum up the teaching here in these first 15 verses in this way, that God ordained marriage as a creation blessing. Pointing to the ultimate and eternal marriage of the church to the Lamb of God. God ordained marriage as a creation blessing. Pointing to the ultimate and eternal marriage of the church to the Lamb of God. We'll see that in three doctrines. Well we'll see three doctrines within this passage. First, marriage is ordained by God. Secondly, marriage is to the Lamb, and finally, marriage is related to faith. Again, as we're going through this passage, I'd like to be asking yourself, how much do I trust that the Word of God is good for me? Well, first, marriage is ordained by God. We see here as Jesus goes away from Galilee and he enters Judea, beyond the Jordan. Large crowds followed him. He heals them and as Mark's gospel records, he also teaches them. Now what happens? The Pharisees come and test. We have to understand that this exchange between Jesus and the Pharisees was was not a a moment for teaching that the Pharisees were seeking. It seems that they come as a result of the large crowds. And they're not seeking to unfold perceived conflicts within the Word of God They were not scratching their heads, they were not confused, they were not desiring wisdom from the one who has now been identified as the Christ, as the very Son of God. No, they're looking to test It seems that the Pharisees understood this situation, these large crowds that have been gathered, as an opportunity for them to press Jesus to trap him. And as we've seen before, and we'll see again the Pharisees desire to bring Jesus down, down in the eyes of the people, that they might regain and or retain their spiritual or religious positions. And Jesus and the Word of God were threats to the very existence of the Pharisees. And so they come testing in front of these people, these large crowds, that they might bring Jesus down. They sought to trap him. It's an interesting question. It's cause for curiosity curiosity as to why they asked this question. Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? Why this question? We're not really told what the Pharisees were thinking, but consider. Consider the critical nature of the ordinance of marriage, how our very and continued existence is linked to it. Consider all that marriage effects. The fact that this ordinance is addressed in the second chapter of all Scripture But the ordinance of marriage is foundational to so many aspects of our lives. That it was critical to these large crowds that the Pharisees were testing in Jesus in front of. You see, they had likely been practicing man-made divorce for many, many, many years. Given the disciples' response to Jesus' teaching, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it's better not to marry. Thus making Jesus' reference and teaching difficult for them to hear. In a sense, exactly what the Pharisees wanted. Think of it. What topic would bring the most controversy if you just began to open it up in a crowded public place? Our cultural our culture has difficulty even defining the word woman. How much more difficult How much more controversial is the biblical ordinance of marriage? The Pharisees were likely moved to ask this question. Which they considered would be that impossible question for Jesus to answer without some fallout amongst the popularity, his popularity in the crowd. You see, there are only three creation ordinances: worship, work, and wedding. These three were established by God, the creator of all things, as Moses records them in Genesis chapter 1 and 2. And so consider this. The Pharisees were challenging one of the three creation ordinances marriage. And they come to test Jesus with regard to One of the first words from the Lord our God concerning the lives of men and women that He created to populate the entire earth. Make no mistake, the Pharisees were testing Jesus. They were rebelling against the ordinance of marriage and thus the very word of God. So notice Jesus' answer. But he does not initially answer, at least on his face, the question that's asked. He doesn't begin with divorce. He begins with the premise upon which the question will be answered. Jesus understood that he must start with the foundation, and so he immediately goes to the Word of God that the Pharisees were ultimately in opposition to. Ultimately the Pharisees' problem was not with Jesus, it was with the Word of God. And so Jesus takes the Pharisees to the root of their problem. He actually quotes from Genesis chapter 2. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one. Flesh. Jesus is the first to actually reference Moses Not by name, but by what he wrote as an inspired author of God. Jesus states clearly, God has spoken. God has ordained, God has joined, the creator of man has set forth his perfect will. And as we've already noted, Jesus answers, there's no such thing as man-ordained divorce or separation. And so in this sense, Jesus does answer the question. Pharisees, you have it all wrong as you have forgotten or overlooked. Or just denied the fact that the living God has declared what is and what is not when it comes to marriage. You see, it's the bond that Jesus is emphasizing, isn't it? As God acts to join together one man and one woman. He does so in such a way, in a unique joining, that has no other counterpart in the lives of men and women on the face of this earth. It's the act of God that Jesus emphasizes. And calls attention to as these Pharisees seek to reverse or supplant the very word of the Creator, the maker of all things. The doctrine of marriage or the ordinance of marriage is that which is established and prescribed by God, the sovereign ruler of all things. So that so is this that which is fought against by corrupt men who seek to be autonomous or free from his rule And thus Jesus brings these back, brings these Pharisees back to the timeless, the eternal Word of God, and calls them to be joyful in submission to it. See, nothing has changed from Matthew's account here. This event which occurs some 2,000 years ago, nothing has changed. Our culture today remains in rebellion against God and His Word, and thus against the marriage ordinance. It's all around us. Civil divorce has been made so simple that one only needs to go to the courthouse and merely proclaim, I want to be separated forever from my forever spouse. Usually no reason needs to be given, no cause needs to be stated, no history needs to be recounted, no evidence needs to be presented No, merely stating that it's one's desire to break the bond is all that's necessary in most states. In all 50 states, there is some form of no-fault divorce. Like it or not, this is rebellion against God and against his word. It is a rejection of God's word. All of this is merely to say that the rebellion, the corruption of the hearts of men is so great There's nothing so basic and fundamental in the Word of God and the plan of God for the good of his creation that men would not reject and challenge it to their destruction. Consider all the sins that are caught up in denying and rejecting God's ordinance of marriage. Adultery, fornication, harlotry or prostitution, homosexuality, and today what might be referred to as transgenderism. All of these At their root are a rejection of the marriage ordinance, and all are fraught with danger and destruction of body and soul He who commits adultery lacks sense. He who does it destroys himself. Proverbs chapter 6 In Ezekiel, as he writes about adultery, he links it to other sins. For they have committed adultery, and blood is on their hands. With their idols, they have committed adultery. They have even offered up to them for food the children whom they had borne to me. He's speaking now of the waywardness of the people of God who strayed from worshiping him to in adultery worshiping other gods. Against that, I would urge you to remember this. God has given the ordinance of marriage to all mankind for our good. God has blessed his human creation by establishing the institution of marriage for one of the greatest blessings that mankind can and has received. Without marriage there would be an end to our race and to our existence. And certainly the blessing of marriage does not stop with procreation. God told Adam that it was not good for him to be alone. And thus he raised up and created a helpmeet, a companion, a forever wife, which was the blessing of the first man. And as we read in Ephesians, marriage is a blessing for women. The husband is to love his wife, sacrificially caring for her, lifting her up, her needs beyond his own. What a joy, what a blessing the Lord has granted to all mankind. It is only in our corruption in Adam that we strive against it. So brothers and sisters, let us pray. Let us pray a praying church. That we would be an example to our community, to the culture around us of the great blessing of the marriage ordinance. Brings us to our second point, our second doctrine, that marriage is to the lamb. Now you may have thought that this passage was only for those who are married or those who are contemplating marriage. Hopefully, as we considered the goodness of God, that thought was dispelled. But if not, this doctrine, this truth, clearly has application to those who are married? And who are contemplating marriage? But also the import and application of this doctrine goes far beyond our married brothers and sisters. This passage is for everyone today. Make no mistake, whether you're a covenant child not yet having publicly professed faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, whether you're an adult who's never been married and never contemplated marriage, whether you've been married for the last 40 years, or whether you're widowed or remarried, the application of the truths of this ordinance are for all. You may be asking that question, how Well, first, earthly marriage points towards a type of union with Christ Union with Christ occurs amongst all those who've been married. It occurs amongst those who've been blessed with singleness. Make no mistake, this passage certainly has practical applications for earthly marriage, but it also points to the current and future union with Jesus Christ. Well, where where do we see that in the text? Well, it certainly comes from the Bible. Consider our passage this morning. They are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God is joined together, let not man separate. It's God. who creates one flesh. Jesus speaks of God bringing two separate individual sinners together as one flesh. It's God that creates this bond. It's God who does the impossible from our finite human perspective, and bringing one out of two and creating this inseparable bond It's a unique and exclusive relationship that only God can bring about. And it's that and it's that for that reason we read that God What God has joined, let man not separate. It's only God who can join in this way. And that should point us to the ultimate joining, our ultimate bond of a sinner with the Lord Jesus Christ. It's only God who can bring that about. The oneness of an earthly marriage, as we understand it, is a supernatural event. And this bonding, this joining together of two by the hand of God points to that exclusive and eternal joining or union with the Lord Jesus Christ. Only God can bring about that union We may think that it's our faith that brings about that union. It's our doing which constitutes and creates this union with Christ. But remember that faith is a gift from God, brought about by the powerful and supernatural work of the Holy Spirit, in granting new hearts to sinners who were once enemies of God. Faith is that instrument which brings about justification. But faith is also that instrument which brings about that union with Christ. And the ordinance marriage gives us a picture. Of that ultimate and eternal binding, that union, that oneness with Christ. It's exactly what Jesus prayed for in his high-priestly prayer in John chapter 17. I do not ask for these only, but for also those who will believe in me through their word, that they may all be one. Just as you, Father, are in me and I in you, that they may also be in us. That the glory you've given me, I've given to them that they may be one Even as we are one, I in them, you in me, because that they may become perfectly one. Jesus Christ referring to one at least three times in his high priestly prayer. Do you see? Do you see that marriage points to this oneness with Jesus Christ? Think of other scripture passages that are throughout. Think of Isaiah. You shall no more be termed forsaken, for your land shall be no more termed desolate. But you shall be called by my delight is in her, your land married. For that the Lord delights in you. For as a young man marries a young woman, so shall your sons marry you, and as the bridegroom rejoices over the bride, so shall your God rejoice over you. Clearly a reference to the Lord marrying his bride in church. Think of Prophet Isaiah. We've gone over the prophet Isaiah this morning. Don't forget the prophet Isaiah, who is called by God to be a husband to a wayward wife, and constantly calls her back to himself, just as God calls his wayward wife the church. Back to himself. Think of John the Baptist as he spoke of Jesus as the bridegroom. Think of the Apostle Paul. As he writes about husbands loving their wives, but what he was actually writing about was Christ loving the church and giving himself up for her. That he would return for her unspotted, unblemished. This mystery is profound, and I am saying that it refers to Christ. And the church. Think of the Apostle John in the last book of the Bible. Let us rejoice and exult and give him the glory, for the marriage of the Lamb has come, and his bride has made herself ready. Scripture is full of the imagery of the marriage of the Lamb to his bride church. And so as you consider this passage today, you must understand that marriage, earthly marriage, ordained and established by God, the Creator God, ultimately points to your union with Christ Jesus A union which can never be broken. A union that's made in heaven by divine hands. A union which is the will of your heavenly Father. A union which certainly is different than an earthly marriage. But a union which will even be much sweeter. Think of your present union. If you're trusting in Christ this morning, think of your present union with Christ Even now, even today, consider the benefits. But you're kept by Jesus, your bridegroom All that the Father gives to me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. I should not lose anything that He has given to me. He keeps you as a good Divine husband. He sanctifies you. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. He so loves you that he's given himself up. That he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. That's what your union does. with Christ today. But then think about your future union The marriage to the Lamb, the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, will be a perfect marriage John records this in Revelation 21. Then came one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls full of the seven last plagues and spoke to me, saying, Come, I will show you the bride, the wife of the Lamb. What a beautiful, happy relation. The union and eternity will not only be a forever union, an unbreakable union, but it will be the most blessed relationship. One which we cannot even contemplate fully on this side of glory. The marriage or the union will be perfect because our Savior, Jesus Christ, our bridegroom, was and is and always will be perfect. Perfect. And the marriage will be perfect because we will be made perfect, sinless, holy in our bridegroom. In other words, in glory, the saints will be made like him. As the Apostle John states that again in his first epistle, beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears we shall be like him. You see a perfect marriage. There will be no sin, no tears, no grieving, no offenses, no defilement, just pure and perfect love, a union truly made in heaven. It's difficult to describe the extent of that beauty as we know not of it today. It's likely easier to understand this as we put it into negative terms. There will be no ugly discourse. No coarse words. No angry words. No raising of the voice. No unpleasant argumentation. No foul language, no harsh words, only kindness. Being expressed in thought, word, and deed. There will be no disagreement, no offenses made or received. There will be no misunderstandings, only pure, clear, pleasant communion. And that's the union, the forever union with Jesus Christ. If you're trusting in him today, that's what you are looking forward to. That's what our earthly marriages are pointing to. It's all consummated in Christ, isn't it? Brings us to our third point. Our third doctrine, marriage is related to faith. Think of the disciples' question to Jesus as he takes them back to the Word of God as he refers to that important binding that Joining together. The disciples said to him, if such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. Don't miss the import of those words. In essence, the disciples were saying, if this is in fact God's will, his word, the ordinance of marriage We cannot divorce a wife if we're not happy with her. Then it would be better not to submit ourselves to the Word of God and to His ordinance of marriage. In other words, this is not a good ordinance. We can't accept it. So Jesus ends his teaching in a bit of a curious way. Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those to whom it is given. For there are eunuchs who have been so from birth, there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and and this is his point, there are eunuchs who have been made who have made themsel Elves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven A eunuch, according to Webster's, is a male of the human species who've been castrated in a physical sense. The first two cases of eunuchs had no choice. They were not illustrations of willing acceptance. But the third case, those who have made themselves eunuchs for the sake of the kingdom of heaven. Have made themselves submissive to the Word of God. I think that's what Jesus is saying They've devoted themselves to the Word of God. They understand the Word of God as being good and a blessing and thus willingly and joyfully accept it. Like a child. And I believe that's why Matthew has this these verses here at the end of this event. Then children were brought to him that he might lay his hands on them and pray. The disciples rebuked the people and said, But Jesus said, Let the little children come to me, do not hinder them, for such belongs, to such belongs the kingdom of heaven. You have to see the connection now between the rejection of God's word, the rebellion, and the desire not to submit to it. The eunuch who would submit himself to it, and now these little children. See, one has to be like a child in order to accept and receive and rejoice. In the Word of God. Men have their own thoughts, their own reason, but they're not God's. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. Isaiah 55. And in our corruption, we tend to reason ourselves into accepting and promoting divorce and marriage and remarriage. You see, Jesus is saying, like a child, you need to accept and submit yourselves to this good ordinance of marriage. Indeed, marriage is a call to be faithful. Let us just consider that for a moment, that marriage is clearly a call, even a command to be faithful to your spouse, the coming together, the joining as one flesh by the hand of God. is certainly a supernatural act by the divine, but it is simultaneously a commitment. It's a covenant. It's a dedication to bind yourself to another until death. Unless marriage is this wonderful and blessed example and picture of faith, isn't it? The opposite of that is hardness of heart. And that was going on at this point in time in the Pharisees' heart and in the disciples' heart as they say it's better in the case that this is the case, it's better not to get married But this was their practice. The Pharisees considered additions or modifications to the law to be quite normal or appropriate And that is what man-made divorce is. It's a modification or a corruption of the beauty of a marriage ordinance. And the disciples were having such difficulty accepting as their faith was small. Jesus was calling for submissiveness. He was calling for a childlike submissiveness, a submissiveness to the Word of God, and there was much unsubmissiveness going on that day. You see, it requires faith to keep this ordinance. It requires faith to keep the law. These children are a picture of those who would accept the ordinances of the law just as God had ordained it. No additions, no modifications. No, they would receive it as that which was good for them. Even in what one might consider to be a difficult marriage, or even when one might say, I've fallen out of love, the ordinance is yet good. And good for all mankind, because God established it And so it requires faith to be in union with just one, to trust the Savior, to trust the living God who knows what he is doing. And that it is his desire to bless, even though what one might consider to be a difficult marital bond. Brothers consider what difficult what difficulty Jesus Christ had with the covenant that he was called to fulfill. To go to the cross and to suffer his father's eternal wrath for your bride who's gone after another man. You see that marriage ordinance is a picture. Of the bond that the Savior had and has with the wayward people of God Even when we were his enemies, the Lord Jesus Christ went to the cross. And kept his promise. I should lose nothing of all that he's given me, but raise it up on the last day. God ordained marriage is a creation blessing, and it points to the ultimate and eternal marriage of the church to the Lamb of God. Consider the difficult bond God had made between Himself and His covenant people Expressed so powerfully in the prophet Hosea. And remember Jesus, who loved the bride so much. That he'd die for him. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we ask that you'd help us to trust even more that your word is good for us. Even when we experience difficulties, our God, we know that your word is good for us. And so help us. Grant us submissive hearts, Lord. Draw us even closer to yourself. And help us, Lord God, to cherish the union that we have with Christ today and look forward to that perfect union. That we will have in glory with Christ