Let us turn now to the sermon text for this evening from 1 Timothy 6. We'll read the first ten verses, and the focus will be verse six, especially now, well, now godliness with contentment is great gain. Let's uh hear God's word. Let as many bondservants as are under the yoke Count their own masters worthy of all honor, so that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blasphemed Those who have believing masters, let them not despise them because they are brethren. But rather serve them because those who are benefited are believers and beloved. Teach and exhort these things. If anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words Even the words of our Lord Jesus, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing. But is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words, from which come envy, strife, revilings, evil suspicions. Useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth, who suppose that godliness is a means of gain From such, withdraw yourself. Now godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness. And pierce themselves through with many sorrows. And thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Now for a while in Timothy, after Timothy begins the discussion of his book, uh uh excuse me, after Paul begins the discussion of this word with Timothy on the issue of uh protecting the flock from false teachers. For a while, Timothy the the the 1 Timothy goes away from false teachers And we have that section in the middle of 1 Timothy that talks about life within the church, how the how to treat widows, how to treat uh young widows as opposed to old widows, how old older people are to be examples to the younger, both men and women. And uh how uh uh we are to uh God's people are to respect those who are in authority, whether they be the elders of the church or whether they be their own masters or employers. Now with verse 3 of chapter 6, Paul goes back to the question of false teachers and hits it from a different perspective. uh than he has previously. Uh he is giving us uh part of a profile of false teachers. But he is also telling God's people what motivates them to be false teachers. And tonight we find in our verses tonight, verse six and especially also verse five. Two different uh kinds of contentment are revealed. Um and uh that it's that that I I want to talk about Because it's the desire for contentment, whether it be false understanding of what that is, or the correct understanding of what that is. It's that desire that is very different between the false teachers and the true teachers of God's Word. So we look at verses 3 through 5, and we see the Apostle Paul telling the people, be careful about other teachers. He starts off in verse 3 by saying, if anyone teach otherwise. Now, contextually that would refer to his most uh most recent argument about how believers are to relate to their masters And he says, give them respect, uh treat them with all honor, and uh Do not despise them. And he says, teach and exhort these things. And then he says, if anyone teaches otherwise. and does not consent to wholesome words. So the first subject that's in view here is someone coming along and teaching some other view about how the masters are to be treated. But but it can't be just limited to that. It has to be when he says, if anyone teaches, does not consent to wholesome words. He adds, he goes further than that and says, even the words of our Lord Jesus, so he's bringing into the discussion Anyone who teaches contrary to what the Lord Jesus teaches, or anyone who teaches even contrary to what Paul, the Lord's servant, is teaching. So it's i i uh again prime you know the the the m the most clearest antecedent of Paul's conversation is this discussion about how Christians are to view their masters, but he broadens it from what he says in verse 3 and following. He says, if anyone teach otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus, And then he adds, and to the doctrine, which is according to godliness. Anyone Who would teach any doctrine which conflicts with God's understanding of what is godly, what is holy, what is righteous. And he sums that person up. He sums those people up by saying he is proud. He is proud. He knows nothing. But he he says he dotes on, and that's not a word we use a lot, but I think we know the idea. He dotes on questions and stripes of words. These are part of his teaching mentality. He's very he's very attuned to talking about uh Questions that bring up strife and questions which provoke envy within the body of Christ, evil surmisings. These are things that are are really something that turns him on, uh, so to speak. Um calls them further. Perverse disputings, verse five, of men with corrupt minds. destitute, wholly absent of the truth. And then he adds, supposing that gain is godliness from such men, withdraw yourself. We said previously that Paul and Peter Both have strong convictions that whatever they are teaching is the Word of God, that it's not their ideas. They, because it is the Word of God, they expect their readers, their audience, the ones in Ephesus, in this case, to which this letter is written, To Timothy, Paul would expect them to listen to what is being said and to treat what is being said as if it were God himself speaking to them. Look at how he puts this in 2 Thessalonians 3:4. If any man obey not our word by this epistle Note that man and have no company with him, that he might be ashamed. Also in 2 Timothy, excuse me, 2 Thessalonians 3, 6. We command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that you withdraw yourself from every brother that walks disorderly. And so nobody misunderstands what walking disorderly is. He further adds, he further explains it, and not under the tradition, not after the tradition which you have heard from us. That's a really bold statement on Paul's part to proclaim that what he is saying is of the same weight and caliber as the Lord's words. And that's because Paul understood that he was the Lord's messenger, that he was the Lord's servant, and that he was speaking God's words. In Romans chapter, it wasn't just Here in Timothy that he says that. It's not just here in Thessalonica that he said that, but he also said it in 2 Timothy in Romans chapter 16, verse 17. I beseech you, brethren, mark them down which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which you have learned, and avoid them. The strong conviction that these men, Paul, particularly Paul But also Peter, the strong conviction that they display about their words being God's words is clear. We see it, and it's based on the fact that they have a certain view of God's Word. They have a certain view of what we call inspiration of God's Word. Paul articulates his view of God's word in 2 Timothy 3, verses 15 through 17. where he is actually speaking about Timothy, and he says that from a child you've known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith, which is in Christ Jesus, all Scripture is given by inspiration of God. All Scripture. is given by inspiration of God. And it is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. All scripture is inspired by God. Paul, when he says If someone doesn't listen to what I'm saying or to the doctrine which you have heard from me or the doctrine which you have read in the scriptures, If someone doesn't listen, mark that word. Mark that man. Do not have fellowship with that man. Avoid them, he says in Romans. And this, of course, would be someone who is following a different doctrinal teaching And it's not as if that different doctrinal teaching is, in Paul's mind, it's not as if that different doctrine of teaching is just one of many different doctrinal teachings. It's that this different teaching is obviously not God's word. And Peter will go on and he will say in 2 Peter 1, verses 19 through 21, something also very significant. When Peter says we have a more sure word of prophecy. Wherefore you do well to pay attention or to take heed to it. As unto the light that shines in a dark place until the day dawn and the day star rises in your heart. Know this verse No prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of men, By holy men of God as they were moved by the Holy Spirit. And so when you factor those thoughts into what Paul is saying in 1 Timothy chapter 6 verses 3 through 5, both Paul and Timothy would see another A person who doesn't consent to their wholesome words as being a person who isn't listening to God You know, there's there's no other way to say that except to boldly say it. And he goes on to talk about these people as uh as people who uh God's people are to withdraw from, and He calls them proud, He calls them knowing nothing He says they are arguers about minor things. They cause division and strife within the body. They're not really concerned to teach Others to love God and to love one another. They are men of corrupt mind and they have no truth. Avoid them. They suppose that gain is godliness. Now This is another issue that he's introducing into the profile of these false teachers who won't consent to godly words. He's hitting the idea that behind it all, behind their pride, behind their unwillingness to listen to God, behind their efforts, To provoke arguments, divisions, frustrations within the body of Christ is some type of Brings some sort of contentment to them. As he says, they suppose that gain is godliness For some people, and it's clear that the Apostle Paul moves on in this text in verses 6 to describe that gain. That is godliness as having to do with material wealth. For he says, It's certain we brought nothing into this world, we can't carry anything out. Having food and clothing, these things we shall be with be content. But those who desire to be rich, where did that come from? Well, it it it comes from this whole statement of godliness with content excuse me supposing that gain is godliness some type of material gain They're not fully satisfied with what they have. They think that riches provide contentment Or gain. And it is a truly sad situation when you come across the person Who is has that orientation that riches will make you happy. Now it's not just Riches that will create contentment. It's also a more subtle idea that By having the position and the acknowledgement as someone who is great Or a great teacher, or a Simon Magus, uh someone who uh desired to be well known in the community, that enhancing one's reputation or status among men is often another thing that motivates people and brings to their thought the idea that they are content to be uh uh that that that that gain the gaining of either riches or the gaining of fame from uh from from preaching or teaching, a doctrine of scripture is a is a is a is a is a is a wonderful thing for that person to do But you all understand, you all know that there are those people out there in the Christian community. And they were there with Paul and Peter. It's not new. It's not anything new. They're out there. And the motive is is is ver variously said. It's because they're pride, it's because It's because they won't bow to what the Lord says in His Word. It's because they're seeking contentment through They're seeking contently contentment through worldly values. However, it's all kind of a complex that's that's that's part of this. That is not ultimately true contentment, neither is it gain For as Paul will contrast them, he will go on to say, but godliness with contentment is great gain. And the whole the whole question of trying to um To feather one's reputation, or to improve one's reputation with others, or to gain all the money, to gain, to use religion in order to benefit yourself It's obviously proud. It's obviously arrogant. It's done all the time. And um and yet It will never, it will never provide true contentment. And it will never Result in godliness. Either for those who believe they will benefit those who are teaching, or for those who are listening. and get sucked up and caught up into this kind of false teaching, this other doctrine, this otherwise stuff. It is no secret, brothers and sisters, that in our own county That many of the churches are in pursuit of what we call the health and wealth, prosperity gospel. Because they've been misled by false teachers. And that will only provide ruin. It will not lead, it will not lead to godliness. In fact, godliness is not really all that important in that kind of situation The pursuit of wealth and the acquisition of wealth or power or fame is what is now the new standard of godliness. How much you got. And as the as Paul makes clear He says, whatever you got, you can't take with you when you die. And as Jesus made clear, do not lay up for yourself treasures on earth, where thieves break in, where moths destroy, where rust corrodes, etc. , etc. Lay up instead for yourself treasures in heaven. Um When we read about Simon Magus, he may be a New Testament example, a very clear New Testament example of one of these guys. who was seeking to teach otherwise than w what he had heard. He was amazed at what he saw when the Holy Spirit descended upon the people in Samaria, in Samaria of all places. Hope you caught that. And I I I just would have loved to have been there with with uh with Peter and John who go I think it's John who goes up with him to Samaria from Jerusalem. to see what really is going on up there. And they see Philip's work and they see all these people who are coming to to to faith. Christ and being baptized. And then there's this one little fly in the ointment called Simon. And and and he Yeah. You know, he uh there there it it doesn't quite come out and say that when Simon asked for this to buy the Holy Spirit that That he was in it for the money. But given the time that the text takes to talk about his previous background, and his sorcery. You see that Simon hadn't yet it says he believed and was baptized, but I think you see that that didn't really have much effect. on his heart. His heart wasn't changed. He was he was hanging around trying to work the angle Trying to figure out how he could once again be called the great power from God. But That was his perspective. That's what he was interested in. That's what that kind of seeking after worldly godliness Supposing that godliness will help you reap gain is a false premise. It's a false godliness Will not work. Godliness can only come in one way. And that's when the Holy Spirit comes into the heart of God's people. And provides Christian contentment Every it's interesting that of the significant New Testament chapters that talk about Qualifications for elders or pastors in the church. Talking about Titus. 1-7. I'm talking about 1 Timothy 3-3. I'm talking about Titus 1. 11 and 1 Peter 5. 2 All of them mention that one of the qualifications for leadership is not given to filthy lucre. Not Thinking, as it were, that gain is the same thing as godliness. That gain from the things of the world, the riches of the world, is godliness. Godliness with contentment is great gain. And what That's a wonderful statement. Paul tells the audience that this is what they should hope to have for themselves and this is what they should hope to see in their teachers Profile before them that they're interested not in worldly gain, but they're interested in godliness with content. In the flock's life. True Christian godliness is the only thing that will result in a state of contentment. What is contentment? I think it is what um I think it is is simply this That we are content with whatever God gives. Or with whatever God doesn't give We're not on the quest to attain worldly wealth or even to enhance our reputations That point, you see, is really brought out by verse 7. We brought nothing into this world. It is certain we can take nothing out. Other i passages of God's Word also speak to this view of contentment 2 Corinthians 9, verses 6 through 8. But I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap sparingly, he which sows bountifully shall reap bountifully Every man according to he purposes in his heart, let him give not grudgingly, or of necessity, for God loves a cheerful giver God is able to make all grace abound to you. That you Always having all contentment in all things. It's usually translated sufficiently, but that's the word that's used For contentment, that you having all sufficiency or contentment in all things may abound to every good work. The Apostle Paul also says in this famous passage in Philippians 4. Verse 10, I rejoice in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me has flourished again. Wherein you were also careful but lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want. For I have learned in whatever state I am therewith to be content. I know how to be abased. I know how to be how to abound. Everywhere in all things I am instructed. both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need, I can do all things through Christ, which straight See, it is that perspective that is godliness with contentment that is great gain. Trusting in God, knowing He will take care of you, whether in riches or in want. Whether in much or in many, being happy with what he has provided. It's a contentment that is not focused on acquiring the things of the world or trying to please or aggrandize yourself But it is a contentment that is focused on God's kingdom, on knowing God and serving him with a certain trust that he will provide. We brought nothing into the world. It is certain we can carry nothing out. And having food and raiment, let us therefore be content. That's the perspective of the believing person And you see, it has nothing to do with what we acquire from this world, but it has everything to do with what God gives us. in Christ. Amen. Let us pray. O Most Merciful God, we we do ask that You will help us to always keep this thought in mind and to see the matter of worldly contentment as opposed to godly contentment. Because, Lord, it is not just a theoretical exercise to understand the difference. It is at the very heart of what of something that false teachers will use To try to deceive those within the body to value worldly contentment over godly contentment. There can be no contentment from the acquisition and accumulation and the incessant drive For the treasures of this world. There can only be contentment with great gain when God's people Fully are trusting in God for all things. We pray, Lord, that You will protect us from following after uh a false teacher who is teaching That godliness comes through gain from the treasures of the world. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.