Well now here we are in the sermon text, Ecclesiastes chapter four, verses nine through sixteen, the second half of Ecclesiastes chapter four. Now this section in Ecclesiastes will stand out in some ways. Now the first four verses, verses nine through twelve, are significant because So much of this section in Ecclesiastes, what Solomon is reflecting on, he often concludes his reflections by saying, and this also was vanity. Well, this section stands out because he does not say that at the end of verses 9 through 12. So verses 9 through 12 takes up a topic. And at the end of his observations on that topic, he does not say this is vanity. That should stand out here. Verses 9 through 12 is is very significant now that way. And yet, you know, in verse 16 it will end by saying, and this also is vanity, and grasping for the wind. So much of what Solomon is thinking about here is vanity. And yet we come across something that, somewhat uniquely, is not vanity in verses 9 through 12. So with that in mind, now give your attention to Ecclesiastes 4, verses 9 through 16, the reading of it. This is God's own word. May he add his blessing to it. Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their labor. For if they fall, one will lift up his companion. But woe to him who is alone when he falls, for he has no one to help him up. Again, if two lie down together, they will keep warm. But how can one be warm alone? Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him. And a threefold cord is not quickly broken. Better a poor and wise youth than an old and foolish king who will be admonished no more. For he comes out of prison to be king, although he was born poor in his kingdom. I saw all the living who walk under the sun. They were with the second youth who stands in his place. There was no end of all the people over whom he was made king. Yet those who come afterward will not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and grasping for the wind Thus far, the reading of God's Word. May He add His blessing to it, and may He add His blessing to the preaching of it in our midst this day. Well once again, as I mentioned a short while ago, these beginning verses, verses 9 through 12, Solomon dwells upon a topic. And he does not say, this topic, this observation, this thing is vanity. Now that's a little bit surprising and amazing because in so much of this whole section, he's dwelling upon things Where he concludes, this is vanity. Some of the places you see that is before in chapter 4, the earlier part of chapter 4. Remember the beginning of chapter 4, he's dwelling on a lot of things that are vanity. Verse 8, just before this, mentions something that is vanity and a grave misfortune. Verse 4 of chapter 4 also mentions something that is vanity. and grasping for the wind. Coming up after this section, verse 16 of chapter 4, mentions something that is vanity and grasping for the wind. Chapter 5, verse 7 mentions something that is vanity. Something that is vanity. There's so much vanity going on in this section, and yet, in verses 9 through 12, something that is not vanity. What is that thing? What could it be in the midst of meditating on the vanity of a broken sin-cursed world? What could be the thing that breaks the reality of vanity? And yet is not vanity. Well notice what it is. In verses 9 through 12. The heading on my Bible says the value of a friend. Now that's a good way of capturing Overall, what the theme is here. The theme of this section is very much the blessing of friendship or companionship or fellowship. The blessing of togetherness, the blessing of being bound in unity, in the unity of life shared together. That is very much the thing that is here. That is not vanity. That is not vanity. In fact, the thing that's mentioned here, unity of togetherness, unity of life shared together between human beings That is a great blessing that actually makes it easier to deal with some of the other parts of life that are vanity. Notice how this is Solomon's reflection here. His observations here are all about how having friendship, having the blessing of togetherness and unity with other human beings is something that actually makes the rest of the vanity of life easier to deal with. Two are better than one because they have a good reward for their labor, Solomon says. Now what is the reward for the labor of two? Well you could think about it. When you're working together with someone, you have someone who is there to help you? But at the same time, you also have the reward of simply having that other person. Togetherness itself can be a form of reward. Togetherness itself can be something rewarding, something enjoyable. Yes, so often we undertake um uh tasks and goals in this life, we seek some outcome. And it sometimes goes right and it sometimes goes wrong. Yet, isn't it so much better if you're working on something and you have somebody working with you? So that when you do that, whether or not things turn out the way that you think it should, you still in the end reap the benefit of enjoying life with that person working by your side. This is what Solomon is reflecting on. There is greater reward working together with someone. There is greater reward in two working together rather than one. Two are better than one for this reason. They have good reward for their labor. One reason that's true is because of what we see in verse 10. Two working side by side, two working together on something. If they fall or uh one can lift up the other. You have support. You have help. Having partnership, having friendship, having fellowship in life means That you have someone by your side who can help when things go wrong. If you don't have that, woe to you, as Solomon says, for woe to him who is alone when he falls. For he has no one to help him up. So much better to be prepared for that in advance by having that togetherness by having that fellowship and that friendship and that companionship so that you have the support already in place before you fall. The picture that's painted is that the the whole of two working together is so much more than just the sum of the parts. When you have two people working together, united in purpose and united in the life they share, one plus one equals far more than just two. And that is what Solomon is reflecting on here. He also illustrates this in verse 11, in terms of the experience of warmth, warmth in bed, lying down, and keeping warm together. It's so much easier to do when there are two people rather than warm than one person. Body heat is easily shared between two who are lying side by side, keeping warm together rather than trying to keep warm by yourself. We probably know this from experience. Some of us do, probably, hopefully. Some of us understand this. Okay, and yet he also ref uh reflects on this also in verse 12 in one other way, in terms of the blessing of when you have somebody trying to overpower you, someone perhaps trying to attack or take you down, you're better off if you have someone by your side than if you are by yourself. So in verse 12 he describes it this way. Though one may be overpowered by another, two can withstand him. So again, overall the reflection is on the togetherness of two, the partnership of two. Two when they are together, they are more than just two. They are better than one. But there's also something about two that is even better than just two as individuals. And Solomon is reflecting on these kinds of considerations here in this section. He has observed this in life. And of course he is correct. But not just two. Then he goes one step further at the end of verse twelve. A threefold cord is not quickly broken. You think about a rope or a cord that is made up of three separate cords woven together or wrapped together and how hard it is to try to cut through that or to try to break through that. If having one person by your side, if having two is better than one, It's much better to have three who are united in togetherness, three who are sharing together life and purpose. And friendship and fellowship. And so this is a good thing. So again, notice what we have. Solomon is extolling the blessing of togetherness in this life. The blessing of fellowship among human beings. Human beings sharing in a united purpose, sharing in a common life What a good thing this is. If you lack it, it's a bad thing. But when you have it, it's a good thing. And it's a good thing that can help you deal with some of the difficulties of living in a world that is vain. A world that is broken, a world that is sin-cursed. Now here's the thing that Solomon is mentioning. Again, notice what he said. He said all this about the the blessing of the togetherness of human beings. And yet what was his point there? He did not say that this is vain. This is something that is not vain. This is actually something that's really good in the midst of a of a vain and broken world. And yet one thing we ought to observe. Is that even though togetherness and unity is not vain in a sin-cursed world, is not something that adds to the vanity of a sin-cursed world, The way that Solomon talks about it here still shows us that this world is far less than what it should be. It still ends up being a reflection on how vain this world actually is. The way that Solomon talks about togetherness between two, between three As we know from experience, we know sometimes how rare it is to have a great friend, how rare it is to have someone who really sticks by your side through thick and thin. But to have that as something that is extremely rare shows us what's wrong with this world and shows us why this world is a world of vanity. After all, what was this world meant to be in the beginning? What would this world have been like if sin had never entered the picture? If Adam had never fallen into sin? What was the prospective future that God placed before Adam in the garden, in the promises that he gave and in the commands that he gave? What was the future that Adam was to look forward to? And notice how different that is from what Solomon describes here. The prospective future that God had in store for Adam was the whole human race standing together in perfect unity. Perfect togetherness. Notice Not just two better than one, not just a threefold cord quickly broken. When you look at that picture of the whole human race gathered together as worshippers of the one true God, United in worship in Him, united in their faith in Him and in their love for Him and for one another. Two or three seems like a very pale shadow of what life was supposed to be So again, Solomon shows us something that is not vanity. And yet, even though the friendship uh of two or three is not vanity, In a way, he's still kind of reflecting on how far short this world falls of what it should be, and how far short our lives are of what they could have been, should have been under Atom. And so he is still reflecting on the vanity of a sin cursed world. But still, it's a good thing, and we ought to remember that. We ought to keep in mind. Um not just a few Not just the unity of a few and the fellowship of a few, but we ought to seek out and look for a larger unity, a greater unity. Yes, of course we see this, and we should see this in the midst of the church God is at work working out his new creation through Christ in us, beginning to reconcile people who were once divided and once living in hostility against each other, once hating one another and being hated by one another, are drawn together into a fellowship of reconciliation Within the church. This is hinting at the reality of the church. It is hinting at the redeemed multitude that will gather on the last day, those who have been purchased by the blood of Christ. Those who will indeed enjoy unity at a level that is not yet enjoyed here on this earth. And all that is hinted at here in these verses. And yet it is good for us to remember, it is good for us to be reminded, the the blessing of togetherness, so that we seek it out, so that we go after it, and so that we seek to develop it even this day Well, if that's what Solomon reflects on in those verses, we'll now notice what he gets to in these next verses. Verses 13 through 16, he will reflect on another aspect of life in a broken, sin-cursed world. And you will notice that at the end of this section he will say something is vanity. You know, he didn't say that about, you know, the blessing of human fellowship or friendship, but he will say that about this situation that takes place. In verses 13 through 16. Now the situation that you see in verse 13 to 16 is basically this. There's basically this king. There's this king who became king in not the easiest of circumstances. In verse 14, it's referred to that this king grew up born poor in the kingdom that he would rule. So in verse 14, it's we're talking about the old king, but when he first started out, he grew up, he was born poor in the kingdom that he would one day come to rule. And somehow he came out of this to come to the throne, to come to be king. Now surely being born poor in your own king the kingdom that you one day would inherit Can have its benefits. There are things to learn. There may be difficulties, there may be tribulations that come with that, and yet at the end of the day, there may be valuable lessons that are learned by means of that. And yet, for all that's true of this king, even though he comes about, comes into his kingdom in this way, starting out poor, and yet growing up to receive the throne. How does he end up? How do things end up with his kingship? Well in verse 13 we see this king ends up old and foolish. Even still, having gone through the things he went through, he ends up old and foolish. He ends up reaching a point where he won't listen to admonishment or correction anymore. Described in verse 13. We also understand that even though he went through all of this, ends up old and foolish, unwilling to stand corrected or to listen to correction. He also ends up in verse 1516 with the people whom he rules over ready to move on from him. Maybe they even loved the king at one point, but eventually a time comes when they are ready to go with another king, another king who is younger. Perhaps more promising to stand in his place. They're ready to move on, to move out with him who is old, and to move forward with him who is young. They begin to think this this second younger guy, he's going to be more promising than the king who is currently our king. And as that happens Guess what happens as soon as that king is done, or as soon as they have moved on from him in their hearts? There is no rejoicing in him. There is no remembrance of him whatsoever. Now it may be, again, that that king was actually used by God to bless the people. It may be that this king was used as a leader and actually was used to bless But do the people remember it? Well in this section they don't. Isn't that so often true about leadership in this world? You could apply it to kingship. You could apply it to to uh views about leadership in other sectors of life, but isn't that so often true? A leader stands in the position and yet um Short time after, uh people k people's opinions can become fickle, even if they chose the leader to begin with and wanted the leader Their opinions can be fickle and they can quick just as quickly move on from that leader and be ready to embrace a new leader in place of that first leader And they can be um also ready to um to forget about the previous leader and completely forget what he was used for. Well this is what Solomon reflects on. He reflects on the fact that this is often how things go with kings. Kings often grow old and then sometimes they come to a point of foolishness And as they come to this point, um so often, um this is what happened there, just quickly forgotten, moved on from. The hearts of the people move on to someone else. And this old old king is forgotten and left by the wayside. Who is Solomon talking about here? Solomon was a king. Is it possible that he is thinking, at least in some respects, of his own situation to some degree? The literal details do not exactly fit Solomon's life Um there does not seem to be any reason to believe that Solomon was born poor and or was or came out of prison to be king, like verse 14 describes. But in some ways the life that Solomon lived, um, he came into the kingship in a way that was not easy. And he did come to a point late in life. Where the Lord took the kingdom from him and the people were ready to go with somebody younger. So whether or not um he's has himself in mind, you know, it's hard not to think that He at least has himself in mind to some degree, as the overall the overall express does sort of at least fit the pattern of his life in some ways. And yet here again he reflects on this reality. He's reflecting on the brokenness of the world. He sees the fact that leaders often don't get their due, aren't recognized for what they're truly used for. And yet, um, you know, the the fickleness of popularity, the fickleness of the people's desire for that leader, um often happens, quickly happens. We know this is reality in life. There was a time, Solomon said in verse 16, where there was no end of all the people over whom he was made king He ruled over vast numbers of people, yet those who came afterward will not rejoice in him. Surely this is also vanity and grasping at the wind. So we're seeing another way that the world is broken, another way that um the curse is real, and another way that we all have to live with that. And And ugly realities of life in a fallen world. So surely the world is broken. The world is vain. Vanity is the way of life. Solomon is correct Everything that he observes here, we can observe in our lives today. And yet, in every way that this section points us to the vanity of the world, It also points us towards what God has done in Christ to make a way to solve the problems of a sin-cursed world. We're pointed also by this text to the solution that comes through the redeeming work of Jesus Christ. And so again, we are reminded in verses 9 through 12 the value of human companionship, the value of human fellowship. Well, where do we see that? More than in the work that Christ did to purchase for himself a great throng of people, a multitude that is uncountable in number. A people who are united by their allegiance to the true and living God, a people who are united in faith and in love. It's expressed today in the church. You know, there's a day coming when we will see it in full. There's a day coming when we we will see the blessing of the unity of fellowship and companionship that's reflected in these verses. But it's reflected today in the church. That's where we are. That's what we're doing right now. That's what we're here for. We're here because we belong to one another. through belonging to Jesus Christ, and God has given us one to each other, so that we should live in this blessing, not just two, not just three, but a great multitude We see the beginning of beginnings of it now, the beginnings of it in the church gathered for worship in particular. Christ has come to bring about that new creation. And that new creation involves a multitude from every tongue, every tribe, every nation, coming together, one in Christ, even though in themselves they would be divided from each other And perhaps at odds with each other, perhaps hateful towards one another, despising one another over their differences. Yet they're brought together through the blood of Christ, and they are reconciled to one another As they're reconciled to God through Christ. Well, another thing that we're shown as we look to verses 13 through 16, we see the fickleness of popularity and rulership in this world. Well we see how Jesus Christ is the answer to this. Because the problem is that kings are overlooked after they're go they're dead and gone. People forget about what they have done, and they don't recognize or rejoice in them or what they have done. We see how Christ is the one king. Who was able to do the one work that will never be forgotten, and the one work that makes sure that he will be acclaimed for all eternity. Because here again we saw um you know kings do their work for a time, then their name is forgotten. We know that Christ did the one work, which will never be forgotten, because Christ purchases for himself people and people who will recognize him forever. Because their hearts have been changed and because they have been moved from death to life, they have been brought into the light To recognize Christ forever. And so this too is fulfilled in the day of the new creation. When God brings us to Himself. When He brings us to our promised inheritance And he gathers us to where we are destined for, in God's presence, where we will worship Christ forever. Well, this text again shows us the good news of what God has done in Christ by way of reflection. It shows us how Christ overturns the vanity that our passage points to. Our passage shows us the vanity of this world. And yet the vanity of this world causes us to long for the next world and to long for the things of God and of Christ. Well let's be careful to do just that. to frame our lives according to what Christ has done for us. He has made us his. He has made us the people who recognize him as as our King. And he has made us people who live together in that blessing and are called to live together in that blessing. So let's be careful to do that and be careful to live in these ways so as to honor him and to praise him. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we do come before you, giving praise to you that you have given us a way of salvation, a way of redemption in Christ. Lord, in ourselves we are in the dark, we are blind. We are those who are left, you know, if we're left to ourselves, we are helpless. And so we need the blessing of togetherness and fellowship and friendship. We need that blessing. We recognize it. You have created us for that. You have created us for such community, to live together and to live in the blessing of enjoying one another's fellowship and friendship. You have made us to live so that two are better than one, and so that even three is better than two. Yet, O Lord, you have also made us so that living as a multitude is even better, as a great and glorious gathering of people. who are united in living together in some common purpose and that great purpose is the glory of God. Oh Lord. Yes, that you would uh uh strengthen us in this here at Trinity Reform, that you would strengthen your people to enjoy the benefits that we have in Christ. of belonging to one another, that you would strengthen us in this, and that you would be pleased to bring many others into this same fellowship. Oh Lord, we also rejoice that we have a Savior whose name will be known forever. A Savior who has done the great work that we will rejoice in forever. And that is Jesus Christ. We bless your name. We give praise to you. We ask you, O Lord, to grow us in your grace and to continue to strengthen us as people who are made in the image of Christ. Lord, we pray that you would steal these things upon our hearts and that you would confirm and establish us as your people as you work these graces in us. We ask these things in the name of Christ our Savior. Amen.