Amen. If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Daniel, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 11. I think you'll find that on page 889 of your few Bibles. This is a long passage. Please feel free to sit if you need to. Daniel chapter eleven, beginning at verse one. Let's give attention now to God's holy word. And as for me, in the first year of Darius the Mead, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him. And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of Greece. Then a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion and do as he wills. And as soon as he has risen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven. But not to his posterity, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be plucked up and go to others besides these Then the king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall rule, and his authority shall be a great authority. After some years they shall make an alliance, and the daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north to make an agreement, but she shall not retain the strength of her arm. And he and his arm shall not endure, but she shall be given up, and her attendants, he who fathered her, and he who supported her in those times. And from a branch from her roots one shall arise in his place. He shall come against the army and enter the fortress of the king of the north, and he shall deal with them, and shall prevail He shall also carry off to Egypt their gods with their metal images and their precious vessels of silver and gold, and for some years he shall refrain from attacking the king of the north. Then the latter shall come into the realm of the king of the south, and but shall return to his own land. His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall keep coming and overflow and pass through, and again shall carry the war as far as his fortress. Then the King of the South, moved with rage, shall come out and fight against the King of the North And he shall raise a great multitude, but it shall be given into his hand. And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of thousands But he shall not prevail. For the king of the north shall again raise a multitude greater than the first, and after some years he shall come on with a great army and abundant supplies. In those times many shall rise against the King of the South. And the violent among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the vision. But they shall fall, fail. Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siege works and take a well fortified city, and the forces of the south shall not stand, or even his best troops, for there shall be no strength to stand. But he who comes against him shall do as he wills, and none shall stand before him. And he shall stand in the glorious land with destruction in his hand. He shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and he shall bring terms of an agreement and perform them. He shall give him the daughter of women to destroy the kingdom, but it shall not stand or be to his advantage. Afterward, he shall turn his face to the coastlands and shall capture many of them, but a commander shall put an end to his insolence. Indeed, he shall turn from his insolence, turn his insolence back upon him Then he shall turn his face back toward the fortresses of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall and shall not be found Then shall arise in his place one who shall send an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom. But within a few days he shall be broken. Neither in anger nor in battle. In his place shall arise a contemptible person to whom Royal Majesty has not been given You shall come in without warning and obtain the kingdom by flatteries. Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken, even the Prince of the Covenant. And from the time that an alliance is made with him he shall act deceitfully. And he shall become strong with a small people. Without warning he shall come into the richest parts of the province And he shall do what neither his fathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoil, and goods. He shall devise plans against strongholds. But only for a time. And he shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. And the king of the south shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army But he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him. Even those who eat his food shall break him. His army shall be swept away, and many shall fall down slain. As for the two kings, their hearts shall be bent on doing evil. They shall speak lies at the same table, but to no avail For the end is yet to be at the appointed, at the time appointed. And he shall return to his land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant, and he shall work his will and return to his own land At time appointed he shall return and come into the south, but it shall not be this time as it was before For ships of Kitam shall come against him, and he shall be afraid and withdraw and shall turn back and be enraged and take action against the Holy Covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who forsake the Holy Covenant Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and fortress and shall take away the regular burnt offering. And they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action And the wise among the people shall make many understand, though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame, by captivity and plunder. When they stumble, they shall receive a little help, and many shall join themselves to them with flattery. And some of the wise shall stumble, so that they may be refined, purified, and made white until the time of the end. For it still awaits the appointed time. And the king shall do as he wills. He shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every God, and shall speak astonishing things against the God of gods. He shall prosper till the indignation is accomplished. For what is decreed shall be done. He shall pay no attention to the gods of his fathers or to the one beloved by women He shall not pay attention to any other god, for he shall magnify himself above all. He shall honor the God of fortresses instead of these. A god whom his fathers did not know, he shall honor with gold and silver, with precious stone and costly gifts. He shall deal with the strongest forces with the help of a foreign god. Those who acknowledge him shall load with honor. He shall load with honor. He shall make them rulers over many, and shall divide the land for a price. At the time of the end the king of the south shall attack him, but the king of the north shall rush upon him like a whirlwind with chariots and horsemen, with many ships. He shall come into the countries and shall come into the glorious land and tens of thousands shall fall, but these shall be delivered out of his hand, Edom and Moab, and the main parts of the Ammonites. He shall stretch out his hand against the countries, and the land of Egypt shall not escape. He shall become ruler of the treasuries of gold and of silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and the Libyans and the Kushites shall follow in his train. But news from the east and the north shall alarm him, and he shall go out with great fury to destroy and devote many to destruction. And he shall pitch his palatial tents between the sea and the glorious holy mountain, yet he shall come to his end with none to help him At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince, who has charge of your people, and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never has been since there was a nation till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered, every one whose name shall be found written in the book. And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. And those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above, and those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars for ever and ever. That's far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Father, we come now to a passage which is long and There's many details. It's difficult for us to grasp. And so we pray, Father, by your Spirit, that you would lead and guide us tonight. That you would be glorified, that Christ would be exalted, the Spirit would be praised. Work in us now. Help us, Lord, to understand We ask this in Jesus' precious name. Amen. In the book of Acts, there is an account of Stephen, one of the first deacons. And if you remember the account, Stephen was not just a deacon, if we can put it that way, and I don't like to He was a man filled with the Spirit. And he was preaching, and people didn't like it. And as a result, the crowd had gathered, and they were listening to him. As he exhorted, as he went through the history of redemption But then he got to a part where he referred to the crowd as you stiff-necked people. You always resist the Holy Spirit as your fathers did, so do you That wasn't what enraged the crowd. What enraged the crowd was when Stephen saw the heavens opened. He was full of the Holy Spirit, and he gazed up and he saw Jesus standing next to the glory of God. Stephen cried out, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God, and that's when the people cried out and stopped their ears and rushed at him and stoned him. Even while he was being stoned, Stephen called out, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. Have you ever wondered what was happening in Stephen's heart? That at that point in time, he was able even to call out to Jesus. Even as he was being stoned, receive my spirit Now you might say, what does that have to do with Daniel tonight? I think it has everything to do With what Daniel is recording for us tonight. We're getting close to the end of this apocalyptic literature. It began in chapter seven, and there's a a certain sense in which We've got chapter 7 and chapter 8 and now this chapters 10, 11, and 12, and they all go together. They're all really about the same events of history. These visions, now this third vision, this revelation that Daniel is now receiving, as we're looking at chapter eleven Are all really about the same points in time in the history of redemption Chapter seven we read of the four beasts representing four kings and kingdoms. And we saw in the middle of the Vision of the beast and the explanation of the vision, Daniel saw the ancient of days And then in chapter 8, as Daniel received that second vision of the ram and the goat, and we see this battle between two of these kings set forth this combatant Combatants engaging before Daniel and the revelation that this was all about that which was to come. Again A repeat of what was given to Daniel in chapter 7. But the same result. And he shall even rise up against the prince of princes, and he shall be broken, but by no human hand. But Daniel didn't understand And Daniel prayed, and he receives another revelation within his prayer. Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city. And now, on this third and final revelation, Daniel is hungering for understanding. We saw that last week as this introduction to this final revelation for Daniel. He spent time and as he fasted, he spent time seeking the face of God, and now that revelation, that one That pre-incarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ comes to Daniel, and tonight, tonight we see The understanding has been given to Daniel. Tonight We need to see that the Lord Jesus Christ gives his people undeniable truth about the beginning and the end. We'll see that in three points tonight. The truth, the vanity, and the end. We have to be careful tonight. It's possible that this sermon could turn into a history lecture. We don't want that. This chapter 11 is full. Full of historical events. And it's good and right for us as Christians to know and understand them. But what we want to be asking ourselves tonight is what does this mean for me as a follower of Christ tonight? Well, first the truth. We all know how significant truth is. As we open up our newspapers, if you even get one anymore, or the internet, or watch the news at night. We are bombarded with what is called fake news at times. Allegations of fake news are common. Deception permeates the internet and social media, our schools, our public schools. incorporate untruths into their curriculum concerning the origin of all things, including men, women, and children. Truth is so important. It's critical to our existence. And the question being posed tonight in Daniel chapter 11 is where can we find true truth? That's a title or a phrase coined by Francis Schaefer. True truth. He by it I believe he meant absolute truth. Where can we find absolute, pure, undefiled, absolute truth? And as this chapter 11 unfolds in Daniel, it seems that all agree, even unbelieving historians agree that this portion of Daniel contains historical truth. Some, as they read through Daniel 11, believe that it is so accurate with regard to historical events that it could not have been written in the 500 BC. But only after the events had taken place. But as we understand this, we understand this to be the Word of God. And we understand it to be written in the 500 B. C. before these events took place. We understand this to be a revelation of this certain man clothed in linen, and now it begins, and he says to Daniel And now I will show you the truth Matthew Henry writes that what is meant by this is he's about to show Daniel the meaning of all these visions, the great image, the four beasts, the ram and the goat. But I want us to focus our minds just a moment upon that statement. And now I will show you the truth. Now, this is not the first time that this word has been used in Daniel. There are other instances. In fact, there's a theme throughout Daniel about truth. Especially in these visions. In chapter 8, we have the visions of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true. As chapter 10 opens, we read in the third year of Cyrus, the king of Persia, a word was revealed to Daniel, and the word was true. Later on in chapter 10, Daniel is told, I will tell you what is inscribed in the book of truth. Even as Daniel prayed in chapter 9, as he was confessing sin, says it is written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us, yet we have not entreated the favor of the Lord, our God. Turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth. Indeed, there's a battle over truth There are those who are seeking to destroy it. It's also referred to in Daniel chapter 8. Now again, we don't want this sermon to become a history lecture, but we do want to start to connect some of the dots. I believe that's one reason why this has been given to us. Ian Dugood writes, and this is interesting, the precision of the predictions in this chapter, meaning chapter 11, is truly astonishing. I'm a little surprised that he wrote that. Because he's writing about God's word. Why is he astonished that God's word is actually true and accurate? But that's the point. What's set forth here in Daniel chapter 11 can be tied directly to the history books, which are not inspired. Indeed, Dugod takes a look at verses six through eight of chapter eleven. And then he writes, these predictions were fulfilled to the letter. In 250, but Ptolemy II, the king of the South Attempted to make peace with Antiochus II, King of the North. Now you get it, the South and the North are battling one another. And the king of the south is attempting to engage with the king of the north by sending his daughter, Bernice, to marry him. The plan was that Antiochus would divorce his first wife and disinherit her sons, but the first wife discovered the plot. She poisons her husband and Bernice, along with her young son. In the same year, Bernice's father, the one who had sent her to the north, now dies, and her brother now is raised up as king, who invades the north and conquers its capital. Everything set forth there in verses six through eight happened. And Dugod writes, this is just one example. We could spend the rest of the night going through this, tying it back. We're not going to. Indeed, another author writes that it was historically identifiable to pick out thirteen of the sixteen rulers between these two kingdoms between 322 and 163 B. C. All set forth here in Daniel eleven. Thirteen of the sixteen rulers This passage then becomes this golden shining example of the exacting detailed truth of God's word. There's nothing like it on the face of this earth. This passage is just one slice, one small portion of the entire scripture, which is in its entirety absolute truth. Now what do we mean when we use that word absolute? If you just type that into Google, you find that absolute means it's not relative, it's not comparative. You're not comparing it to something else. You're not trying to see, is this really true? It stands on its own. It exists independently. That's absolute truth. And that's what we're talking about. And that's the principle we can see which underlines that which is being given to us here in Daniel 11. Again, Daniel wasn't writing or receiving something new Right, these kings, these kingdoms were already set forth in his first vision, his second vision, at least in part But what we do receive here, what Daniel did receive, was this exacting detail about what was going to happen. Now, we might say that, well, that was helpful for Daniel and for the people who were living during that time period, but we might say to ourselves, well Why, Lord, are you giving us this today? Why is this significant for me? These things happened thousands of years ago And the answer must be in part that the Lord Jesus Christ is confirming the veracity, the accuracy of every single part of God's Word for all of His children. Throughout generations, we can look at this and say, Oh, do you see You see God's word, how true it is. Not because we can compare it to something But because we see it's infallible, it's inerrant, it's absolute, there's nothing else that can claim this description nowhere on this planet. It's a revelation to his church about himself and about his creation, about our fall, about his plan for redemption, about the true history of redemption. And if his word is not absolute truth, brothers and sisters, which means it cannot be tested by anything outside of it. Then each of us are lost in our sins tonight. If the gospel is false, Jesus Christ did not die for your sins, and there is no good news. Isn't that exactly what Paul was saying when he wrote his first letter to the Corinthians? If Christ didn't rise from the dead, we are lost in our sins. But praise God it is true. Praise God, this is from God. He's the only one who can not only tell us what's going to happen in the future But cause it to come to pass. Because he's a sovereign creator, God. So, what's the significance for you tonight? This is just one more example, one clear example of the power of God's word. Brothers and sisters, this was written in the 550s or so BC, 400 years or so before all of these events occurred. Just one more example of the power of God's word, of his sovereignty, of his truth. It's one more way in which we should be praising God. I hope you're seeing that tonight. I hope you're saying, wow, this is a lot of information, but it's true It happened. God was sovereign over it. He caused it to happen. This is part of his providential plan, and we can't say for sure how this has worked out or how this has worked in me even to bring me to salvation. But we know that it has. And so tonight our hearts should be filled with praise. That brings us to our second point, the vanity. As we think through this passage, as we think through all the details, all the fighting, all the warring, what does it tell us? Dell Ralph David divides up Daniel eleven in this way In verses 2 through 4, that's only three verses, he deals with the Persian kingdom and the Greek kingdom in three verses. That's a lot. But he only spends three verses on it It's from 556 or so around that time when the vision, the revelation is given to Daniel, when the Persian kings were in place, Cyrus was ruling at that point in time to 323 BC, 230 years, covered in three verses. The next section from Daniel 5 to 20. This time period is about in a I should have said this earlier. Much of what I'm relying upon tonight are from two commentaries, Dale Ralph Davis and Ian Dugood. They've been very helpful. And much of their material is here tonight set be forth before you The second period from 11 verse 5 to 20 covers 322, that time when Alexander the Great had died in 323, had conquered all. And now to 175 BC, before Antiochus IV comes to power. That's nearly 150 years. Three verses covering about two hundred and thirty years, now about fifteen verses covering a hundred and fifty years. Now, we might be asking the question, why? Alexander the Great was a great king. He amassed a great kingdom. And now we have one verse given to him, or two verses. The focus, at least a substantial portion of the focus, is between these battles between the North and South. Davis writes this: the reason for the zoom lens and the kings of the south and north is because the people of God will be back in the land of Israel. Remember, Daniel's in exile. Cyrus has just issued the call to go back and rebuild the temple. He's only in his third year. He issued that proclamation in his first year. Well the people are going back. The temple's not built yet. The people have not occupied Jerusalem yet, most likely They will, though, when the events described here take place. And so Israel is kind of in the middle of all these warring countries, the north and the south. They're in they're squished, as David says. Between all of this. And so that seems to be the reason why there's so much information contained on the battles between the North and the South. They're in the middle of it. They're receiving the brunt of these kings going back and forth, these armies trudging over their land, and they're in the middle of it. And then the third section, verses 21 through 35, seemingly all focused upon Antiochus IV. Again, we've already read about Antiochus IV in the prior visions. The history now, which is only about twelve or thirteen years of his rule, from 175 B. C. to 163 B. C. It covers 15 verses. Do you see? See how significant this period of time is to the people of God? There's a narrowing. The time period comes smaller, but then the information given to the people of God becomes more. All these verses, 21 through 35, focus on Antiochus. Some of them, he shall return to the land with his great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant. Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and fortress, and shall take away the regular burnt offering. He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant. The wise among the people shall make many understand. Though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame. The Lord was telling the people what to expect. We've seen that. But what does it tell us about what these kings were striving after? What did any of these kings, these rulers, these kingdoms, what did they accomplish? Again, as the commentators have noted very clearly, first the kingship is not eternal. Look at verse 2. And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than all of them. No one sits on a throne very long. Not on an earthly throne. Earthly power doesn't last, and it's not given according to the will of men. Think of Alexander the Great conquering all these nations. And as soon as he is risen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided, but not to his posterity. What did he really accomplish? And the failures abound. If we think of Antiochus III, the one who precedes Antiochus IV, and as we read verses 5 through 20, much of it is about him. We see failure after failure. Verse 14, but they shall fail. Verse 15, and the forces of the south shall not stand. Verse 18, a commander shall be put, shall put an end to his insolence. Verse 19, but he shall stumble and fall and shall not be found. He apparently ruled from 223 BC to 187 B. C. And what did he accomplish? Indeed, as we even consider Antiochus IV and his terror, For all of his accomplishments, all of his crushing victories set forth in seemingly excruciating detail from verses 21 to 35. It appears that one single sentence describes his downfall. Look at verse 45. Lots of detail about what he does, about a terror he exacts. Yet he shall come to his end with none to help. What were they seeking? What were these kings, these rulers striving after? What were they longing for? Why did they continue fighting and warring? We have to think about what we had this morning in Matthew. Do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy, where thieves break in and steal. Isn't that what's set forth before us? If they're striving after earthly treasures, they're all escaping them. They're slipping away from their hands. As Solomon puts it, even as these kings become great, it was all a striving after the wind. It was all vanity. There was nothing to be gained by them under the sun. They were always subject to the sovereign hand of God. They were never accomplishing the end of their wicked desires. Indeed, verse 36 seems to sum everything up. He shall prosper till the indignation is accomplished. What does that mean? It means according to God's will, he shall prosper until God determines that that's enough. That he's accomplished God's will. For what is decreed shall be done. And brothers and sisters, sometimes we tend to focus on the end. That God will judge in the end. Jesus will return and judge the wicked, and that is absolutely true and correct. But sometimes we just tend to focus on that. But the Lord is working throughout all time. He's working in the interim Even as we read this passage and we see these kings have plans and they're putting their plans into play, and yet God disrupts and disturbs and ensures that his will is being done even in the midst of their plans. Not just ultimate plans, they're intermediate plans. They're battle plans for each day. They're planning to take this city, this town, this country, before the next. The day-to-day plans are overseen by the God of creation. Such that even one would poison her husband and his illegitimate wife and son, so that God's will would be done. Dugod puts it this way, whether far in the future or far in the past, meaning these events, they tell us something about God's sovereign control of history that is profoundly relevant to the For our journey of faith. But that really doesn't even put it in the right way. The Lord was and always will be accomplished accomplishing his will. Our God is in the heavens, he does all that he pleases. Just as King Nebuchadnezzar confessed in In chapter four of Daniel, all the inhabitants of the earth are counted as nothing, and he, meaning God, does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth. It's good and right for us to think about the return of Christ. But, brothers and sisters, we should also be thinking that God is working daily. Daily in our lives, daily in the lives of others. He's accomplishing his most holy will in the mundane details. These are big details that we see in Daniel 11. But it tells us that God has not closed his eyes. To what's happening in our lives today. He's overseeing them. And he's working everything out for our salvation. That brings us to our third point, the end. Now a certain hope is once again revealed to Daniel. He was revealed to him back in chapter seven of Daniel As we get to the end of that vision, to the end of that revelation, Daniel is told the court shall sit in judgment and his dominion, meaning the dominion of of the one who would oppose God shall be taken away, to be consumed and destroyed, and the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom unto the whole heavens shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. But it's clear that Daniel didn't understand. But now, now Daniel has been given understanding, and now we've got an exposition of the good news. Look at chapter 12. At that time shall arise Michael, the great prince, who has charge of your people. Right there. Daniel is given understanding. The prince, Michael, this angel, he has charge of your people. He's watching over them. And there shall be a time of trouble, such as never been since a nation was till that time. But at that time your people shall be delivered. Think of that. Now it's your people. It's not the saints of the Most High, the people of the saints. It's your people. Daniel was wanting to know what's going to happen to us. And now it's been revealed to him that your people will be delivered. And he didn't stop there. Many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, some to shame and everlasting contempt. Now Daniel understands that there will be a resurrection. That those who have suffered and died in the Lord will rise again. Those who have opposed the living God will be resurrected to shame and everlasting contempt. There will be justice. The end will be righteous. The end will be full of good news for those who love the Lord. There is a book being kept, there is life, eternal suffering will come to an end, and the righteousness of God will prevail. As we consider this chapter As we consider Stephen the martyr, we might be asking ourselves that question: how did the martyrs go to the stake without recanting? How are they able to suffer in such a way without just saying, I give up? How are they to cling to their faith? How about those in prison today? Prison for their faith. How do they remain faithful and not recant? How was Daniel able to keep serving Cyrus as an exile, separated from temple worship? And now you might want to ask yourself, how do I get through each day? We're not living in Ukraine today where bombs rain down and destruction is all around. We're not living in Germany during the Holocaust. We're not living in North Korea or China being imprisoned for our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're not living in Israel when the kings of the north and the kings of the south were constantly battling and we're in the middle. We're not living in Jerusalem. during a reign of terror by Antiochus IV. But we do live in a world, in a country, in a culture, which is hostile. to the things of the Lord. We do live in a world which is full of sin. We live in a world which is cursed by our sin. We are afflicted with disease and and pestilence. We are mocked and striven against by those who oppose faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So how do you live as Christians today from day to day? How do you continue to press on? How do you continue to radiate the peace and the mercy and the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ? Well, there are several answers to that question. But the one I want us to consider tonight Is given to us here in Daniel Eleven And it is that the believer, the Christian, the follower of Christ has been given God's special revelation in which he tells us the beginning and the end. Isn't that what we have represented before us tonight? You've been gifted by the Spirit of God with understanding. That's what Daniel was praying for. That's what he was fasting for. And that's what he received. And that's what you've been given if you're trusting in Jesus Christ tonight. You've been given understanding by and through the Spirit. You know the beginning. You know why you've been afflicted with pains and aches in your joints. You know Why you're suffering the heartache of the death of a loved one. Because you know the death is the result of our sin. You know that if you're suffering with cancer tonight, you know that it is a result of sin. If you're listening to this message and you live in Ukraine or you live in a country where you're being persecuted By those who hate God, you know that Jesus said to expect that kind of suffering. You know the beginning. But you also know the end. Daniel even received that revelation, and it is that revelation, that certain hope, that you're able to cling to tonight. You know the words of Christ You know the words of Christ are coming for you. His master said to him, Well done, good and faithful servant. You've been faithful over a little. I'll set you over much. Enter into the joy of your master. You know that in Christ there is therefore now no condemnation for you You know that if you've died with Christ, that you believe that you'll also live with Christ. For Christ has been raised from the dead and will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him And thus over you. And you know, you know that he will wipe away every tear from your eyes, and death shall be no more. And neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain, for the former things have passed away as you enter into glory. Do you see? Do you see how this gives you the encouragement, the motivation, indeed the very ability to press on I'm not suggesting that your ability to press on is separate and apart from the work of the Spirit. No, of course not. But the certain hope of life with your Savior, it's the certainty that He's coming back for His bride, the church, and that you are part of that. It's the reality that He's gone to prepare a place for you to live with Him forever with a triune God. It's a certainty and certain knowledge that sin will be done away with. And there will be a day of no more tears when you'll be able to ascend the holy hill and dwell with the triune God. That's what allows you to press on every single day. Yes, brothers and sisters, Stephen was able to look up because he knew the end. He knew that Christ was holding him and would not let go, and thus as the stones rained down upon him, he yet cast his eyes upon Christ Jesus. Brothers and sisters, we need to do the same. That we would keep our eyes fixed upon our Savior and Lord, knowing Knowing that he's coming for us. He's taking us to be with him. To see his glory. Amen. Our Lord and our God, we ask that you'd help us. We're weak, we're frail. Father, we have a tendency to look at the world and think that Your plans might not come to pass. Father, help us cast off those doubts. Help us, Father, by your work of your Spirit to crush them. And to be reminded, and not only reminded, Lord God, but to rehearse all of your promises, which are yes and amen in Christ. And to know that he is coming back for his bride. And that by and through the work of your spirit, Lord God, you'd help us to press on. For we do know the beginning from the end. We thank you, we praise you. We ask all this in Jesus' name.