Hear God's word. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem Vanity of vanities, says the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? A generation goes and a generation comes, but the earth remains forever. The sun rises and the sun goes down and hastens. Or anticipates greatly to the place where it rises. The wind blows to the south and goes around to the north Around and around goes the wind, and on its circuits the wind returns. All streams run to the sea. But the sea is not full. To the place where the streams flow, and there they flow again. All things are full of weariness. A man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. What has been is what will be, and what has been done. is what will be done. And there is nothing new under the sun. Is there a thing of which it is said, see, this is new? It has been already in the ages before us. There's no remembrance of the former things or literally former people, nor will there be any remembrance of later things yet to be among those who come after. I, the preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem, and I applied my heart to seek and search out by wisdom all that's done under heaven. It is an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with. I have seen everything that is done under the sun, and behold, all is vanity. And striving after the wind, or feeding on the wind, literally. What is crooked cannot be made straight, and what is lacking cannot be counted. I said in my heart, I have acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me, and my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And I applied my heart to no wisdom and to no madness and folly. I perceive that this also is but a striving after when, for in much wisdom. Is much vexation. And he who increases knowledge increases sorrow. And then looking at the end of this inspired book in chapter twelve. Listen to the last verses eleven through fourteen. The words of the wise are like goads, and like nails firmly fixed are the collected sayings. They're given by one shepherd. My son, beware of anything beyond these. Of making many books there is no end, and much study is a weariness of the flesh. The end of the matter, all this been heard. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. Beloved, at first glance, this book may surprise you In what it says to us, especially knowing that all scripture is God-breathed And it's useful for teaching, for admonishing, for training in righteousness, that the man of God might be thoroughly equipped for every good work. We might be surprised when we see this inspired text, this inspired scripture to us this morning. But I think if we're honest, many of us who have lived in this life for a certain amount of time This speaks directly to our hearts. And it reveals that our God, the true and living God, the God of Holy Scripture, truly knows our thoughts. And he knows precisely what we're tempted to think, even on our best days, especially on our worst days. Is that we look around us and we see our lives in a very limited perspective. We see ourselves in this way under the sun. This is language under the sun that's being used for living in this created world as finite, limited beings. Who are trying to make sense of why we're here? What is our purpose? Why do these difficult things happen in our lives? And ultimately, why is death constantly looming large over our lives? And so we want to look at this passage with three points. The first point is that the shepherd king Looks at life under the sun. The second point is that the shepherd king evaluates Life under the sun. And then the third point is the shepherd king humbles himself to join us under the sun. The first thing we want to note is the shepherd king who looks and studies the things under the sun. Look at the first verse, the words of the preacher. This is the word in Hebrew that is kohelet. It is kohelet. And it means One who preaches like I am or teaches to a gathered assembly. It comes from the Hebrew word kahal Which was the word in the Old Testament for the assembly of God's people. They were called, they were called to God to gather as his visible people. And they had a coholet. given to them. So this is not some private thoughts merely. This is a public reading that this shepherd king, this Kohelet is giving to the gathered people. Further, he's very specifically the son of David, king in Jerusalem. And verse 12, I, Kohelet or the preacher, have been king over Israel in Jerusalem. This is Not just any king. This is the glorious King Solomon This is the glorious king who was David's son, who lived at the height of Israel, Mount Zion's Jerusalem's glory days. When he could say in the old covenant that this was a time when all of God's enemies were beneath the king's feet. And he calls himself a shepherd king at the end of this scripture He calls himself a shepherd king, for this what a king was for Israel. God gathered his people and gave them a chosen king to shepherd them. to walk with them, to guide them, to guard them, to teach them. And so this glorious King who wore the beautiful crown, the King Solomon, the Kohelet preacher, teacher of God's assembly, the shepherd king. What does he do? It's as if in this book, under the inspiration of God, he puts on, as it were, not the crown of glory, but a crown of thorns. A crown of humiliation. And he takes the people by the hand and he says, I want to lead you through the valley of the shadow of death. And I want to assure you that there's meaning. In fact, I have done The work that is needed, he says in verse 12 or verse 13, that he applied his heart To seek and search out by wisdom all that's done under the sun, or all that's done under heaven, all that man can see, all that man that can experience. Walking by sight. And he says, as he's applied his heart, as he's sought out and searching out wisdom under the sun or under heaven. He comes to this conclusion, it's an unhappy business that God has given to the children of man to be busy with He says, I have seen everything that's done under the sun, and behold, it is vanity. It is meaningless It is fleeting. It is vexing. It is futile. And a striving after a wind or a feeding on wind. He says again in verse 16, I said in my heart, I have acquired great wisdom. If you remember, Solomon was the one that when he was at his glory, in exalted glory As the king of Israel, he asked for wisdom and God gave it to him. And he says here verse 16, I said in my heart, I've aggr acquired great wisdom, surpassing all who were over Jerusalem before me, and my heart has had great experience of wisdom and knowledge. And here again, verse 17, he applies his heart, that is the core of his being, that's the center of who he is. He applies this to know wisdom. But also to know madness and folly. And he perceives that this also is a striving after when This is an inspired text. We as people can be sentimental about the past and about our lives when things are going well. We can be tempted to be very cynical about the past and about our lives when things are not going so well Sometimes we can be optimistic and sometimes very pessimistic. But beloved, what we're getting in this is spired. Scripture this morning is that God is neither desiring us to be merely sentimental nor cynical Neither optimistic nor pessimistic. He's wanting us to be real about the fact that we were made for him. That we, as God's image bearers, were put on this earth with a purpose and with a plan, with a destiny. And that life was only meant to make sense with God and never apart from God. In other words, our lives were never meant to be finitely limited to this perspective of seeing what's under the sun. But, beloved, it in a strange way it should warm your heart that your God knows how you feel at times. And He's given you an inspired book. In fact This inspired book makes up a kind of three-paneled inspired work of wisdom in the Old Testament. A three-paneled called a triptych. Three-paneled. It's like on your grandmother's uh table that has the picture in the middle and then two other pictures on each side. This is a three-paneled picture of wisdom that we're given. On one side is Proverbs, the wisdom of Proverbs that tells us the principles of living in this world For God's glory. And then there's on the other side Job, a book that says we must be wise when suffering. That God has granted that his people would suffer at times, even those most blameless. But in the middle is Ecclesiastes. It's to help us, in between the principles we're learning of wisdom and the reality of suffering, to understand that our lives under the sun have a purpose. They have meaning. They have significance. This is how we feel East of Eden. This is how someone who is being honest with themselves will feel about life. When I was very young, I was about six or seven years old, it was a beautiful spring day in Smyrna, Georgia. And the dogwoods were all blossoming and beautiful. And there was a nice breeze. It was an ideal 72 degrees Fahrenheit. And I was on my stomach, on my tar swing that my daddy had made in my clubhouse on this big oak tree And everything seemed to be right with the world. My little dog Butch was running around. I just played with him, and I was on my tar swing just playing, and I said I wish this moment could last forever. But suddenly it dawned on me. I'm going to die. This will not last. Beloved, I had gone to church now and then to worship with my Aunt Mildred, but I was not raised in a Christian home. I was not exposed to these truths. But something within me, what I found out later, was called a kind of signal of transcendence by the Holy Spirit. Some signal from God Himself. That was reminding me that I'm not to find my ultimate purpose and meaning here That have been made for somewhere else. Now, I didn't fully understand that at the time. In fact, I ran in and I said, Mama, mama, I'm gonna die. And she said, You think too much boy. Go back and play. Go out and play. But it never left my memory That what I was seeing around me was something like this, that while this is a nice moment, this is beautiful, it's not gonna last. And that seems so futile. It seemed so vexing. It seemed so fleeting. It seemed so sad. Beloved, we've all been made in God's image. And this book is a kind of defense of truth in that it is an apologetic for those who are saying these same things That yes, they see clearly that God has revealed himself in creation, and yes, they know him In their heart of hearts, to some degree, at least they know his requirements and the works of his law. But they refuse to acknowledge him. They refuse. To worship him. They refuse to serve him. But every single human being is searching for significance. Does my life matter? They're trying to find meaning in their work because we were made for work. We were made from the very beginning, before the fall, before thorns and thistles, before we sinned against our kind Creator and Heavenly Father, before we were sent east of Eden, we were made for work Work is fulfilling. Work is a place where we use our gifts and the strength that God has given us. But work becomes an end. And work now It's tedious. It's tiresome. We hear people just saying, I'm working for the weekend. Is it Friday yet? So, our significance, we can't seem to find it. The meaningful work that we were made for We make work an end, or we don't like work at all. We're those Who even in times of pleasure, when we raise the toast and it's that special moment, we know that it's not going to last. We know that death is coming to each one of us. It's built in. And we cannot, cannot, Settle with death in peace. As the Bible tells us in Hebrews 2, that Christ Took on the flesh and blood of his brothers and sisters in order to redeem us and free us from the tyranny of Death, the tyranny of the fear of death And so this passage, this chapter tells us that the shepherd king Looks around under the sun and evaluates as we do as image bearers when we are most honest before God The second thing you'll notice is that the shepherd king then evaluates, he evaluates life under the sun or under heaven as Verse two, Vanity of vanities, says the preacher, Vanity of vanity That's what he evaluates what we can just see or experience apart from a saving knowledge of God. You see, look at verse 3. What does man gain by all the toil at which he toils under the sun? What does he gain? He works hard. He grows old working hard. And then what is to show for it? I remember my father after many years of working in one place very faithfully. was quickly really forgotten, but they gave him a gold watch. And you've heard the story many times how someone will, if they get a gold watch at all, They say, is this what I worked for? It seems vanity of vanities. And so there are three ways where he particularly evaluates what feels or seems like vanity, and vanity can be translated as a Hebrew word heble. Hebrew word hevil sounds heavy. Heavel is heavy, it's burdensome. It's when life seems to be fleeting, when life seems to be vexing. When life seems to be futile, and when the fallenness of life is particularly poignant And he says in verse fifteen, if you will notice, how he says, what is crooked cannot be made straight. What is lacking cannot be counted. Another way of saying that is that we are powerless To straighten that which is bent because of sin and because of corruption, because of the fall. We have no power to unbend it and get it back straight. And we have no power. To fill that which is lacking or empty, especially our own souls. Only our God can do that. The three ways he shows this vanity or this vexation or this futileness very particularly is with the indifference of the natural world or creation. The indifference of the natural world of creation. Look at how he says in verse five the sun rises, the sun goes down, everything Goes on as it has from the beginning and it hastens. The sun is thrilled, the sun with great energy, the sun personified, with great fervor, rises each day. But then the wind blows. From south to north, east and west, it blows and the weather patterns continue on and on. Verse 7, all streams run to the sea, but the sea is not full, to the place where the streams flow, where there they flow again. And then he says, All things are full of weariness. A man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. There's nothing in creation. We we can go out and take that drive as a family all the way west to see the beautiful mountains, to see the Grand Canyon, and that's not enough beauty to fill our emptiness As many pictures as we see by Angela Adams and other photographers who goes to these beautiful national parks and takes pictures of mountains and streams, there's not enough to fill us. There's still emptiness. There's not enough to hear. We just keep downloading music. Hearing, hearing, there's not enough beautiful sounds, there's not enough symphonies, cantatas. You don't satisfy And it seems that as we're going in this world in this way, feeling all alone, that the creation itself is indifferent to us. That it keeps going on and on. And what the shepherd king has in mind is this, we were made to rule and reign over the creation. The creation was to be subdued by us. And there's this kind of separation now from our God because of sin, and us from the creation itself. We go back to dust because from dust we came. But there's an indifference to creation. I want to be, without being overly graphic, it's like If we were dying of thirst in a desert, what would the Christian do to help us? If there's nothing around us, we will die. We will die of a terrible hunger and thirst. And then the animals we were meant to rule over will eat us. The ground will open its mouth to receive us, and the sun will continue. Continue to rise, and the sun will set all this time over this horrible sight of death The animals will continue, the streams will continue to flow. There's an indifference to creation. That's how the author says it's just part of the vexing nature and indifference There's a vanity or vexation of memory. Look at verse 11. Memory is most important. If there's one thing that we desire, And we articulate it at our best. It's that we'd be remembered somehow. But verse 11 says, there's no remembrance. of former things or former people, nor will there be any remembrance of later things yet to be among those who come after. I've been in my home thankfully for over twenty years now And when we moved there, there was a man named Teedle, who lived in the corner property, and a man named Melbourne. And Melvin walked every day. For the first ten years that I was there, he walked every day. And they both lived in that property. They were on that property since as early as the 1930s. In fact, Melvin still lived in his family's home. Now there's two, three new homes. over where Melvin was, where Titel lived, because they've died And if you ask the majority now in my neighborhood about Melvin, they'll say Melvin who? Me and my neighbor have been there a long time, my neighbor across the street. If you ask us, we'll say Melvin was a very kind man, and we can describe him, we could say his family was here in this area. Long before we were. But there's no memory of Melvin. Not really. Very limited is what the Shepherd King is saying. That Memory that's vexing that someone so vital, so important, so significant, as an image-bearer of God Himself would be forgotten. And it happens all the time. New homes, progress, neighbors, but no community. No rootedness in the past, no remembrance of what was there before. It happens all the time And that's the vexation. That's the fleeting nature. That's the futility. That's the vanity of vanities he's speaking to about the memory. And I don't have to remind you, some of us. Who you've studied something really well for long periods of time, and then the moment comes for you to use that knowledge and your own memory. Doesn't call it to mind. It's uh it's very humbling It's very, very hard to deal with. There's also the reality in verse 18. Of even with the gaining of wisdom, there's much vexation. He who increases knowledge increases sorrow. All I have to do to remind you of that is in the technological age in which we live, where we see a lot more of the deplorable depravity of mankind. It's always been there, but there's been a sense in which it was hidden to some degree We knew it was in our hearts. We knew it was in some degree in others' hearts, but this increase of knowledge Increases our sorrow. This increase of ability, of technological ability, without the restraint Of saying, just because we can doesn't mean we should. Just because we can doesn't mean we should. The increase of knowledge produces Increase of sorrow. The more we learn about ourselves, the more we learn about the history of mankind. The more we are sorrowful. And so, beloved the shepherd king, who is glorious Takes that crown of humiliation, that crown of thorns, that crown of suffering, and he leads us on this path east of Eden. And he says, I'm with you to guide you through this. But I want you to take a real look at the way that image bears Who have built into them significance, who have built into them meaning in work, who have built into them A desire for pleasure and delight, and who have built into them life itself with permanence. I want you to see firsthand. How at the end of the day, if they're honest, if we're honest, we're all going to say this. Vanity, vanity! Oh, it's vanity! But there's what's so glorious and beautiful about this passage. See the king, the shepherd king. He humbles himself to come to be near us under the sun, to help push us Through the darkness into the light. To push us through the pain into His presence. This inspired book is a book that is crying out for a true perfect shepherd king of glory, who will humiliate himself, humble himself, take upon himself our humanity, and come to live among us. To die in our place, the suffering and death that we deserve, that we feel so strongly To be raised on the third day and seated at God's right hand, above the heavens, above the sun, as the true risen, ascended, enthroned. King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the true Shepherd King, who has sympathized with us not merely as God, but as man. Who himself has been tempted to feel this same way too. Did you know that? One of the servant songs in Isaiah 49. Listen to what's in the mouth of the servant who is the Messiah, who is ultimately Jesus Christ. Listen to what Isaiah 49 says. The Lord called me from the womb. From the body of my mother, he named my name. He made my mouth like a sharp sword. In the shadow of his hand he hid me. He made me a polished arrow. In his quiver he hid me away. And he said to me, You are my servant Israel in whom I will be glorified. But I said, I have labored in vain. I've labored in hell. I have spent my strength for nothing and vanity. Yet surely my right is with the Lord and my recompense with God. Beloved, the true shepherd king, the greater son of Solomon, the Lord Jesus Christ. He took off his crown of glory to assume our humanity in perfect, permanent union with our humanity, to come under the sun. To redeem his people from this vanity of vanities, to give our lives significance Because he came to reveal the Father's purpose and plan, to give all of our lives, to make our work Worthwhile because we're not ultimately working for ourselves or for someone else. We're ultimately working for him. To come and to show us that true pleasure and true delight, everlasting joy, everlasting pleasure, everlasting delight is found in Him. And to know that he's the life everlasting that brings permanence through his spirit into our lives, who brings hope You see, this is what the Apostle Paul has in mind. Is he thinking about the shepherd king who was Solomon in the way he's saying vanity of vanities, vexing, fleeting, futile, when he says in Romans 8, as we read earlier, that the creation was subjected to futility By God Himself, so that our hope would be found in the Son of Man in the Savior, in Jesus Christ. And then he goes on to say that all of us have been saying this to some degree. Because even we who have the first fruits of the Holy Spirit, we are groaning inwardly as we await eagerly the revealing of the sons of God. We want to see. Him face to face. But now we're called to walk by faith and not by sight. That hope that is seen is no hope at all. For who hopes for what he sees But if we hope for what we do not see, which is that restoration, that complete new heavens and new earth. That full freedom from sin and misery and corruption, that full freedom to be in the children of God in his presence for all eternity. This is our life still under the sun until we rise with him and see him face to face. But beloved, this is why Paul says to his people, to us today. Stand firm. Let nothing move you. Be steadfast, abounding in the work of the Lord. For you know your labor in the Lord is never healthy. It's never ultimately futile. It's never ultimately vexing. For Jesus says to us, I love you. I am with you always, even to the end of the age. I have already said to you and will say on that day, well done, my good and faithful servants, enter into the joy of your master, into my heavenly Father's kingdom. That he has prepared for you before the foundation of the world a perfect kingdom, an everlasting kingdom. A kingdom without corruption and sin, a kingdom of peace, a kingdom with no death or sorrow or suffering or temptations to vanity and vexation A kingdom of permanence. We were made for God You have friends and neighbors. You have loved ones who when they're at their most honest, they're saying, I don't understand my life. This life is hard. It doesn't seem like there's any purpose or meaning. This is a good book to start with them. Take them to the Gospel of John Take them to John 3:16 and 17th, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believes in him would never perish but have everlasting life. God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. But that the world might be saved through him, saved from the futility, saved from the vexation, because he would be a savior from sin, to reconcile us through his precious blood to the Father and the power of the Holy Spirit. But take your family members, take your friends to this passage And show them that this is what we're thinking deep inside about life that we can only narrowly, finitely see under the sun as creatures And then tell them the good news that the sum, the end of the matter has been made clear to us all. How are we to live in light of this wonderful And beloved shepherd king, the Lord Jesus. We're too in reliance upon his spirit fear God, that is, be in awe of God Be in wonder of God. Remember, God's telling your story, and He's telling all of our stories better than we could ever tell it. And there's not one hair that will fall from your head without the will of your Heavenly Father. Beloved, it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. So fear him, not being afraid of wrath, not being afraid of condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. But to know that he's full of mercy, full of grace, full of kindness, full of patience, full of compassion for us under the sun. And that he teaches us to be in wonder and awe and worship of him, to be obedient to him, because we're so grateful for all that he's done. Fear God and keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. No matter how sickle things seem, we seem, no matter how fallen the world seems. And we in it. No matter how fallen even the best of churches feels. No matter how fleeting our lives seem. And you who've lived a few years, you know what I'm talking about. We can look back and go, where'd that time go? It's fast. It's a vapor. It's a mist. We are like the flower of the field. It grows and flourishes, it blossoms, the wind blows over it, and it is gone. And its place is remembered no more. But the steadfast love of the Lord in Christ is from everlasting to everlasting. everlasting on those who fear him, on those who know him through the Lord Jesus. So beloved, that's our hope today. Let us be encouraged. Your Savior loves you and He's with you. And he is the King with you by His Holy Spirit, who says Even though you walk through the valley of the shadow of death very poignantly sometimes in your losses. He says, I am with you. I will never leave you nor forsake you. He says, My rod and my staff are with you. That I'll set a table for you in the presence of your enemies. I'll anoint your head with oil and give you the health and strength you need. And surely, goodness and mercy will follow you all the days of your life. And you will dwell above the sun. In the kingdom above the sun that comes down under the sun and is united the invisible realm with the visible realm, a new heavens, a new earth, a new creation. And we will dwell with the Lord for always. Let God's people all say, Amen. And let us