Please continue to stand. Turn to the scripture reading upon which the sermon comes. First Corinthians chapter 2 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 through 16. But my remarks will be centered on verses 9 through 12. Let us hear God's word. However, we speak wisdom among those who mature Yet not the wisdom of this age, nor of the rulers of this age, who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the ages for our glory. Which none of the rulers of this age knew. For if they had known, they would have not crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those. Who love him. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit For the Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of a man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God. That we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God These things we also speak, not in words which man's wisdoms teaches, but which the Holy Spirit teaches, comparing Excuse me. Spiritual things with spiritual. But the natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness to him, nor can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he who is spiritual judges all things. Yet he himself is rightly judged by no one. For who has known the mind of the Lord that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of the Lord. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Today's message is entitled, Unknown to Most, but Revealed to You. And uh we have been uh working through 1 Corinthians in our morning worship service And you might recall from last week's message that was centered on verses 6 through 8. That Paul was telling the Corinthian Christians that God had revealed to them a mystery. A mystery which had long ago been hidden, but that in Christ, they are now given by God to know this mystery. And to have a wisdom. A wisdom which those who don't know Christ can never have. When you take both of these factors together, that God has enabled us to have a mystery and God has given us a wisdom That isn't available to the rest of the world, it becomes apparent that we have unbelievable treasure With God, because of God. As Peter put it in 1 Peter 1, verse 4, that this treasure involves an inheritance which is incorruptible, undefiled, and doesn't fade away, and is reserved in heaven for you. Needless to say, this wisdom and treasure do not come from the wisdom of this world. God's wisdom, you see, is transcendent. That means it's above this world. It's above even the realms of glory. This transcendent wisdom is far greater than is available through the collection of the wisest princes who ever lived on earth. It is ordained of God. It is eternal. It was ordained of God from beginning, from before the foundation of the world. This wisdom is focused, of course, in the work of Jesus Christ. This mystery, this treasure, this wisdom Has long been hidden by God, but he gives understanding. And he gives even more than understanding to those he has foreordained to believe. Such as you. If you've been saved, if you've been enabled by God to embrace the truth that Jesus Christ saved sinners. You might be getting to get you might be beginning to get an unexpected and wonderful sense of how great your blessings in Christ are But just when you begin to think, there can't be any more. There isn't any more. We find a text like the one we have today. And see that God adds even more to our understanding, to our knowledge, to our treasure, to our wisdom that we have in Christ. Now, where does Paul get the idea that we have this kind of wisdom and treasure? Well notice, verse 9. Of chapter two of First Corinthians, he says, but as it is written But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the mind of men the things which God has prepared for those who love Him. In other words, Paul bases his argument that God's people have this incredible treasure and wisdom and knowledge in Christ He bases it upon the Word of God. He appeals to an Old Testament passage here to support to support to support the point that uh we have this incredible treasure. That passage is uh found in uh Psalm, or excuse me, Isaiah 64. And you might want to turn there. And while you're turning there, let's remember, let's remember how important the scriptures are. in revealing to you, in revealing to you as a child of God how important they are for your life. Because, you see, as Matthew says in chapter 4, where it records Jesus' statement to the devil, man doesn't live by bread alone. But by every word that proceeds from the mouth of God It's not simply a treasure. It's not simply something that's been hidden from the beginning of the Word. It's not even simply a mystery in Christ. It is It is your very existence that's involved in the reading and meditating and focusing on God's Word. It's life. Now in Isaiah sixty four, where Paul has quoted this passage, we read Verse 4, for since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen. O God, beside thee. What he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him. Isaiah says, Isaiah 64 says, that from the beginning From the creation. That's when things began. From the creation, as we as human beings Count time. But it maybe even goes be before that. But nevertheless, from the beginning of our existence Man has not heard, not understood, not perceived, or not seen what God has prepared for those who wait upon him. Believers are being told in chapter two of verse nine, we who wait on the Lord Who follow and serve and obey, we still don't Realize or comprehend the total wonder of what God has in store for us. Oh, we may think we do. We may think that one day we're going to be in heaven and uh We may think erroneously that we'll be turned into angels or something like that. And we may think that it is incredibly beautiful there Beyond our wows, I I'm here to tell you it's beyond what you can see, think, or imagine. You cannot Imagine what it's going we cannot imagine here on earth what it will be like in glory And to some degree, we can't even understand what God is doing, the great things that God is doing now. in our lives, as we're preparing for eternal glory. We take it At his word, that God is going to be doing these things. But It's not something anybody can write a book about and be a hundred percent accurate As to what's going on. We may get some of the details, some of the points, but far transcends. What the greatest of our Christian minds can put together and believe. In verse 9, it also says that. The things which God has prepared for those who love Him We can't understand all these things. They're beyond us. But God's busy preparing them. For who? For those who love Him. For those who love him in Christ. It's beyond our ability to comprehend. It's beyond our ability to see or hear or think or know or how amazing. How great God is, and how great He is for His people. This doesn't negate the fact that we know That God's covenant promises are real and true. But I guess what I'm trying to point out is never in our wildest dreams Can we imagine the enormous scope and magnitude of God's blessings to us in Christ? We begin to experience it. But it's just I don't mean to denigrate this, but it's just the tip of the iceberg. But it is the case that We could never on our own imagine or understand these amazing things The question arises, how could we ever begin to get the tip of the iceberg? And and then get war. How could how could we ever know that these things are there? Well The next verse, verse 10, provides an answer. But God has revealed them unto us by his Spirit. God has revealed them unto you by His Spirit The Spirit searches all things, yes, the deep things of God. On our own, there's no way we can know these blessings. We can't receive or process the reality or the meaning of these blessings, or the meaning of this mystery, this treasure, this wisdom of God. And that might be, and that would be very bad news, since there's something out there that God has promised and He's provide He says He's going to provide it, but on our own we can't get it We can't know it. It's beyond our finite minds to think of these things or be or to understand. But the good news is, God has not left you to guess at what some of the things are. God has not left you to guess. What some of these treasures are. He's not left you to your own devices to form your own opinions. Instead, God has revealed these things to you, not simply will reveal, but He has revealed eras tense, accomplished fact. God has revealed these things unto you by the Spirit, to those who love Him. Elihu, one of Job's erstwell friends, declared in Job chapter 32, verse 8. There is a spirit in man, and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. Well my huge didn't get a whole lot of things right, but he got that one right. There is a spirit in man, but the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding. God gives to believers this understanding by what we call revelation. By revelation and inspiration. And that revelation is aided by his Spirit working unto us, in reality, working in us. No one is better to reveal the wisdom of God or this treasure or this mystery. No one is better to reveal this than the Spirit. For what does the Spirit know? He knows the deep things of God. He knows the deep things of God. You and I as uh we as human beings, we might have a very deep or inner thought And that thought cannot be known by anybody else unless we choose to share it with someone else. So to our God his deep thoughts Can be known only by God. And we find out that God shares his deep thoughts. With who? The Holy Spirit. He shares those deep thoughts with the Holy Spirit, and what does the Holy Spirit do? He shares them with you. He shares them with you. This text is one text that strongly implies that the Holy Spirit is God. You, as a believer, receive the Holy Spirit Upon profession of faith. He comes and he dwells in your heart. And he does many things. That helps us to continue to grow in our understanding. And one of the things he does, he helps us to understand God's revelation. He does so many things it's hard to pick one thing out. But one thing he does do is help us to understand God's word. God's revelation, you see, is not like God is sitting up there in heaven and he gets his revelation ready and he puts it in a lightning bolt and he zaps you with it. God, in his infinite mercy and wisdom, has put his revelation In the Bible, in his word, it is God's Word It does not simply contain his word. You are not the arbiter of what is God's word. It is God's word. And the Spirit, as Jesus prayed for his disciples, before he went to heaven, he prayed. For them. Sanctify them, Father, in thy word. For thy word is truth. Well, who does the sanctifying in your life It's the Holy Spirit. The Spirit, in conjunction with the Word, brings to you this treasure this mystery in all of its multiple forms, this understanding of God's revealed will Who helps you to know? Who helps you to grow? Who helps you to apply this word to your life? Who helps you? It's the Spirit, you see. And by the way, what he's telling you are the deep things of God. And he takes us as little babes, where we get milk of the word, but he also gives us the meat. When we're ready. He takes the basic things, and as we grow When we're ready and God says, yes, my child is ready to hear this, he gives us some of the meat. You know, we're not ready sometimes in our life. Now, God knows who is and who is not ready. But some of us, you know, are not ready to hear about predestination. We're not ready to hear about infra and super lapsarianism. God bless the theologians. But then others are. And when they're ready, God reveals these things in his time. And these things are some of the deep things of God. And yet And yet, there's a whole lot more deeper stuff that God has in store for you as his child. Some of it is so simple on the surface, but the reality of it is much deeper When Jesus was asked, what's the greatest commandment? He said, very directly. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength. The second is like unto it. Love your neighbor as yourself. Simple to say. Hard to do. Some deep things can be simple to say. In Ephesians chapter three, verses three through five, Paul writes A verse that I think is kind of a couple of verses that are kind of uh corollary to this uh idea of the work of the Spirit And the and the uh how the Spirit takes the Word of God and reveals the wisdom, mystery, treasure, knowledge. Notice in Ephesians uh three Paul talks about the mystery again. He comes up with the mystery word again. He talks about that the Gentiles shall also be believers along with the Jews. as part of the mystery hidden from the beginning of the world. So this mystery has a lot of facets to it. Okay? But look at what he says in Ephesians 3, 3 through 5. How that by revelation He made known unto thee the mystery, as I wrote afore in a few words, whereby When ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in ages was not made known to the sons of man. As it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. Yeah, there's a lot of meat there. Well, the holy apostles and the prophets are said to be in Ephesians 2, verse 20, along with Christ. The foundation and cornerstone of the church, the people. All the people of God are being instructed through the holy apostles and prophets. aided by the Spirit and the revelation comes to God's people. That's how it works. And you see, God is not giving to the Christian community. He's not giving to the Christian community the the deep things. He's not giving it just to some and then hiding it from other Christians. As I said before, he gives it when each individual is ready. But when I say he's not hiding it, I mean it's not in some kind of secret code. A code that you or somebody has to break, and then everybody can hop on board so that we can all understand it. It is mystery, yes, but it's the mystery of the plain and simple teaching of the Word of God, aided by the Holy Spirit. I said before, what are the two great commands? Love the Lord your God. With all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, love your neighbor as yourself. Right? That's pretty straightforward. But it takes the Spirit of God for it to make an impact. in your life. It takes the Spirit of God to make that applicable in your life so that you will do them. And you will do them not because you're seeking to earn your salvation by doing them, but you will do them simply out of gratitude and thanksgiving and worshiping God. By doing so. And you're being conformed to the image of his Son, Jesus Christ, who truly loved the Lord his God with all his heart, mind, soul, and strength, and loved his neighbor. You don't have to make two a two-step approach Get the secret code, and then you can understand the scriptures. God is revealing through his spirit the deep things to his people The only ones God is not revealing the deep things to are those who do not believe. We should all rejoice in God's extravagant blessings to us in Christ. Be thankful for His Holy Spirit. The good things that God gives to us are more than we can imagine, more than we can ever fully know. Today I was reading in the somewhere on the internet That in California, Northern California, they're predicting a second gold rush Because they've had these in in Northern California apparently, but all throughout California, they've had tremendous rains And they're saying that these rains have caused flooding and it's going to expose the gold. And you can imagine People who are going there to California to get these nuggets of gold to dig dirt and wash it just so that they can get a little nugget of gold and be enriched And they're actually predicting a a mini gold rush over this. And you can see where where people's hearts are All you have to do is open the Word of God and let Him drop the nuggets of gold into your heart. And you'll begin to understand more and more the deep things of God. Amen. Let's pray. Holy Spirit, help us. Holy Spirit, change our hearts Help us to crave your treasures And Lord, encourage us with the realization Those treasures are there. And on the other hand, as great as they are, there's simply a drop in the bucket of what weights For God's people in glory. Oh Lord, that we would have such love for you That our service to you, Lord, would be with our heart, mind, soul, and strength. May God be glorified, we pray, in all things, in us and through us, unto the honor of Jesus' name.