If you would turn in your copy of God's word now to Joshua, we'll be in chapter four this evening. I believe that's on page two hundred and twelve of your pew Bibles. The Israelites are on their way into the Promised Land. And they are in the midst of crossing over the Jordan. And that's where we find them tonight. Let's give attention to the very Word of God. Joshua chapter 4, beginning at verse 1 When all the nation had finished passing over the Jordan, the Lord said to Joshua, Take twelve men from the people. From each tribe a man, and command them, saying, Take twelve stones from here, out of the midst of the Jordan, from the very place where the priest's feet stood firmly. And bring them over with you and lay them down in the place where you lodge tonight. And Joshua called the twelve men from the people of Israel, whom he had appointed, a man from each tribe. And Joshua said to them, Pass on before the ark of the Lord your God into the midst of the Jordan. And take up each of you a stone upon his shoulder, according to the number of tribes of the people of Israel, that this may be a sign among you. When your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean to you? Then you shall tell them that the waters of the Jordan were cut off before the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord. When it passed over the Jordan, the waters of the Jordan were cut off. So these stones shall be to the people of Israel a memorial forever. And all the people of Israel did just as Joshua commanded and took up twelve stones out of the midst of the Jordan, according to the number of the tribes of the people of Israel, just as the Lord told Joshua. And they carried them over with them to the place where they lodged, and laid them down there, and Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of the Jordan, and the place where the feet of the priests bearing the Ark of the Covenant had stood. and they are there to this day. For the priest, bearing the ark, stood in the midst of the Jordan until everything was finished that the Lord commanded Joshua to tell the people. according to all that Moses had commanded Joshua. The people passed over in haste. And when all the people finished passing over, the ark of the Lord and the priest passed over before the people The sons of Reuben and the sons of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh passed over armed before the people of Israel, as Moses had told them. About 40,000, ready for war, passed over before the Lord for battle to the plains of Jericho. On that day the Lord exalted Joshua in the sight of all Israel, and they stood in awe of him, just as they had stood in awe of Moses all the days of his life. And the Lord said to Joshua, command the priests bearing the ark of the testimony to come up out of the Jordan. So Joshua commanded the priests, come up out of the Jordan. And when the priest, bearing the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord, came up from the midst of the Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up on dry ground, the waters of the Jordan returned to their place and overflowed all its banks. As before. The people came up out of the Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and they encamped at Gilgal on the east border of the Jericho. And those twelve stones, which they took out of the Jordan, Joshua set up at Gilgal. And he said to the people of Israel, When your children ask their fathers in times to come, what do these stones mean? Then you shall tell your children, No, Israel passed over this Jordan on dry ground. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over. As the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us until we passed over, so that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty. That you may fear the Lord your God forever. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Our Father and our God, we come once again to an old text, an event which occurred so many years ago And so we ask, Lord God, not only give us understanding tonight by your Spirit, but Father, take this text and apply it to our hearts. That this seed would be planted deeply within us and you would grow through it a great crop And we would know, Lord God, even tonight, we would know by your Spirit how to respond, how to act, how to live in light of your word. We ask for this tonight, in the precious name of Jesus. Amen. Do you meditate upon the work of Jesus? Do you remember the work of Jesus? Dementia is a terrible condition for those who are afflicted with it. Some lose the ability at times to remember. And as a result, relations, family relations, friendships can be broken. It can be severed as the condition progresses, as the memory fades. Those relationships never to be the same. ASAF, a psalmist. Finds in Psalm 77 that remembering is a solution, a fix for the trouble that he found himself in. He begins his psalm by saying, I cry aloud to the Lord to God in the day of my trouble. My soul refuses to be comforted. Asaph was experiencing so much trouble that his soul would not be comforted. He refused the comfort. But as the Psalm goes on He cries out, let me meditate in my heart. And as he continues, I will remember the deeds of the Lord. I will remember your wonders of old. I will ponder all your work, meditate on your mighty deeds. Because you are the God who works wonders. You've made known your might among the peoples. You see what Asaph was saying? The inspired psalmist was saying, I'm in trouble, but that can be fixed as I remember the works of God. In a sense, that brings us to our text tonight. Joshua has now been commanded to arise and go over the Jordan. If you remember, the first attempt by the Israelites to enter the promised land was a failed attempt because of their sin. And now as Joshua sent spies into the promised land and they've come back with a good report Saying that the hearts of the people there have melted because they know God has given them the land. God was already working. And the spies were able to report that. And as we opened up Joshua last time, we saw that forty years of wilderness wandering had come to an end. Their years of setting up and tearing down the tabernacle were over. They were now poised to enter into the promised land to take the first steps on the land that God had promised to give them. The Ark of the Covenant was that which went before them in the midst of the Jordan and God pushed back the waters of the Jordan so that the people could cross through on dry ground That's where we find ourselves tonight in Joshua chapter 4. The nation had finished passing over the Jordan. That's the first verse It was done. Every one, all the Israelites, except those who remained on the other side because they had already found their homes there. But 40,000 ready for war, passing over, all the Israelites together in a group, passing over, they had finished passing over. Five times Joshua, if he's the author, writes that the people passed over, they had passed over in accordance with God's covenant, in accordance with God's promise, in accordance with God's plan. It was realized. All of it came to pass as they're crossing over and now have entered into the promised land. And this passage is all about setting up this memorial, these twelve stones. And Joshua said to the men that he had selected, one from each tribe, Go back into the midst of the Jordan and pull out a stone, put it on your shoulder and bring it back here on this side of the Jordan to be a sign And so Joshua takes those twelve stones and he sets them up as a memorial. And as the writer of this book writes, he says, They are here to this day, they remain. And Jordan returned to its place and overflowed its banks. And so the the call, the account here was an account of remembering That this may be a sign among you, a memorial forever. And let your children know when they ask. This is what happened. This is what God did. He might sum up this passage before us tonight this way. Christians are called to remember and speak of the work of Jesus Christ. To draw closer to their Savior. Christians are called to remember and speak of the work of Jesus Christ to draw closer to their Savior. We'll see that in two simple points tonight. Called to remember the work of Jesus, and secondly called to communicate or speak of the work of Jesus. If we go through this passage tonight, I again want you to be asking yourself that question, do I meditate upon the work of Jesus? Well, first, called to remember the work of Jesus Here we know the Israelites were called to remember what had happened in that event of crossing over the Jordan on dry ground. As the ark goes before them and God, their Lord, pushes back the waters of the Jordan. Take twelve men from the people, each from each tribe, a man. And command them, saying, Take twelve stones from here out of the midst of the Jordan, lay them down at the place where you lodge tonight. Twelve Representing those who crossed, one from each tribe, the entire nation, all the people of God, sat down on the other side of the Jordan. That this may be a sign among you. A sign is representative. A sign is not the thing, but it points to either the event or the person or whatever it is it's pointing to. It points to something else. In this case, it pointed to an event that the Israelites had participated in, had been Members of the event, so to speak, as God acted upon them and demonstrated his presence among them. Pointing to the event of crossing the Jordan by the hand of God as he was present, piling up the waters of the Jordan on each side, enabling them to pass over on dry ground. Symbolizing their passage from the wilderness to the promised land, to the permanent dwelling place of God, so to speak, and to a land flowing with milk and honey. Without getting wet, without spoiling their food, with the warriors being ready to engage the enemy in battle, all because God was with them. As the priest carried the ark of the covenant, representing the presence of God, so that they could cross through on dry ground. The stones represented that event. The stones truly represented the presence of God with his people. They represented the preservation of the people by God's hand. It represented the reality of the promise that the living God would dwell with his people and keep them so that they could worship him. The first purpose of those stones, they were called to remember, to be reminded, and to know the presence of God. That this may be a sign among you. That's the first purpose. That those who actually participated in crossing over and and seeing the walls of water and seeing the priest stand there with the ark on their shoulders. That they would remember that event that they participated in. That they would know that the living God is among us. That's the idea. Think of those who did walk across the Jordan that day. As they looked upon those twelve stones piled up, recounting, rehearsing what happened. the account that happened to them as a result of the presence of God. The Israelites who crossed over the Red Sea had a constant reminder before them. Remember the pillar of cloud and fire. It was constantly leading the Israelites not only across the Red Sea but through their wilderness wandering for 40 years. But the pillar was movable. It actually led them. Now these twelve stones were a permanent, if I can use that word, a permanent fixture, fixed, immovable. A memorial, an immovable sign, symbolizing the permanence of the promised land, God's presence with them, which would not change. It wasn't a dream. It was real. Each time they looked on the stones, they'd be remembering the God, the living God, the active, the powerful, the almighty, the compassionate, the caring God was with them. And he had brought them home. Any doubts that this didn't happen, that he wasn't with them, would fade as they looked upon the twelve stones. What stones have been placed before you that you can look upon and remember the work of the Lord Jesus Christ? How do you remember and keep before you the presence of Christ, the person, the work of your Savior? For is that not what was happening to the Israelites? Is that not what God was saying that they needed to remember that their God was with them? As they were heading into battle, as they had many battles to be fought, many battles ahead of them before peace finally came through King Solomon. And so they're given twelve stones piled up next to the place which they had crossed, and they needed to be reminded that they were secure in the hand of God. What about you? Let's think about that tonight a bit. First, think of the stone of worship. The desire of your heart has been transformed. One of the stones that you can think of with regard to Christ's work is your presence here tonight in the service of worship. It's an event, it's a happening in your life that the Lord has caused to bring about. You see, there would be no desire on your part to be here unless he had worked in your heart, powerfully by his Spirit, working in you, a desire that can be fulfilled nowhere else. Your presence at this worship service is evidence of that work, that a change has occurred. That which you can point to. The world's desire. The culture is cast off the Lord's Day. What used to be a commonplace event in our country of our neighbors fifty years ago going to worship is no longer. It has been replaced by golf and football and concerts and recreation and family time and work. The culture is so engaged in the world that now most refuse to set aside even one day in seven. For a desire to worship has not been cultivated and planted within their hearts. But for you. This is one of the stones or the events or changes that you can boast in, not in yourself, but in the Lord. Those twelve stones were a boast in the goodness, the watch care, the kindness, the love, the compassion, the protective hand of the Almighty God. And so those twelve stones were boasts in the Lord, each one of them. And so is your presence here tonight. What about the stone of your Bible? Consider that. It's another stone. Every time you pick up the Word of God, it's a stone that's been laid before you to remember. Again, like worship, every time you pick it up to read, you're not doing something else. Your heart's been made such that a decision has been made. It's time to read God's Word. It's time well spent. Your heart has been inclined and drawn to the word. Blessed or happy is the man whose delight is in the law of the Lord. This book was written some 2,000 to 4,000 years ago, depending upon which uh book you pick up, meaning one of the 66. But you understand it to be relevant to your life today. So relevant that you understand that that without it you don't have life. Indeed, you find life in the very Word of God in the beginning was the Word, in him was life. You see as you pick up the Bible every time and read it It's another stone because God has given you the ability to understand. Certainly not completely, but you do understand We're given that image in Paul as he's converted, uh as as his hand is laid upon him. As the words are spoken to him, that you may regain your sight and be filled with the Holy Spirit, something like scales fall off his eyes. And that's the idea. The scales have been fallen from your eyes. The Lord has granted you sight But you're not ashamed of the gospel, it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us Who are being saved, it's the power of God. That's how you understand the Word of God, and it's a stone because you do understand it. Your Bible is is that because you're understanding what you're reading to the extent a mortal can. Scales have been removed. And you know and understand the way to life. What about the stone of peace? Peace that you enjoy. Even as we read tonight, peace I leave with you, my peace I give to you. Not as the world gives to you do I give. Let your hearts not be troubled, neither let them be afraid. Christ has given you, He's worked peace in your hearts. Think of the peace that you enjoy here in this country day by day. Now I'm not speaking of being free from crime. Or free from sin, no, but as we consider the peace that we enjoy of being able to worship freely, being able to read our Bibles freely, being able to speak to others about Jesus Christ freely, to evangelize, that's peace. That's a daily event in your life that you can point to today, and that's a stone. Think of the Apostle Paul's missionary journeys. The time in which those occurred. It's called the Pax Romana. That's Latin for a time period of about 200 years where people enjoyed peace. Because of the Roman government, they had established it. They'd established roads and they'd established peace, and you could walk on the roads without fear of being robbed. We enjoy a similar peace today. Every day, because what God has done here in this country, this is not a Christian nation, but it is a nation right now that's at peace, generally speaking, and so we can identify this peace as another stone of an indication of God's powerful presence with us, a demonstration of Christ's work as King on the throne tonight. But there's also another kind of peace, which is another stone. And that's peace of conscience See, you enjoy as a believer, as a follower of Christ, a cleared conscience. The guilt that you experience outside of Christ has been washed away in Christ. Now you his he has taken your burden. You can think of that as the guilt of your conscience. And he's given you his yoke which is easy and light. Outside of Christ, your sins weigh upon you as a heavy load bearing down on your entire being, such that the psalmist can say, My bones waste it away to my groaning all day long when I kept silent about my sin. He was writing about his conscience being stricken by his sin And he was saying there's a physical aspect to that. What he was really saying is that my soul is is burdened. My strength is dried up. But in Christ that's been removed. He's taken the guilt upon himself as he suffered on the cross at Calvary, and he's purified our consciences. Your guilt has been washed away. As far as the East is from the West. That's a stone that you can point to. And in in place of your guilt, he has given you righteousness. He's clothed you with his royal robes of righteousness. Even now, God the Father sees you, each one of you, as you trust in Christ tonight, as being righteous, as you're clothed in the royal, righteous robes of Jesus. As he rose from the tomb, he broke your chain to sin and threw his righteous robes upon you like Elijah, cast his cloak upon Elisha. It's another stone which could cause you to remember that not only is Jesus present, but he's working. His mighty hand continues to be with you as he pleads for you now, interceding at God's right hand. And then there's this stone of your possessions, your gifts, your abilities, and your physical possessions. Remember the rich young ruler that we spoke of this morning coming to Jesus with much wealth. But he wasn't ready to give it up because he didn't understand the purpose of the wealth that he'd been given. And so he clung to his wealth and not to Jesus. But as you're trusting in Jesus tonight, that's exactly what He's done for you. He's given you the gift of knowing why you have possessions, knowing what your gifts and talents are for. You know why you have them. You know their purpose. Just like the first two servants in the gifts and the talents, the parable of the talents, we heard this morning. You know that God has blessed you with your physical possessions and including your money, your home, your cars, and you know Not to value them above Christ. He's worked in you not mere knowledge, but in addition to knowledge, a desire to release your grip on the things of this world, whether that be your home and your education, your retirement account, your recreations, even your family. These are all blessings, but they become a curse when you hold on to them more tightly than Christ. They become a stone when you can tell others, see what Jesus has done in his power. Upon my heart. I'm blessed with these physical things, with these gifts and talents, but they mean nothing to me because Christ means everything to me. Well finally, all these things are pointing to the greatest stone or maybe the marker. It causes you to remember the presence and the work of Jesus Christ, and that's your heart. A changed heart. You're seeing the work of the Spirit. Just like the Israelites would be looking upon those twelve stones. You can look at your heart and see the work of the Spirit of Jesus Christ. He's transformed it. From that which was hard to that which was now fleshly and tender. From stone to flesh, I'll give you a new heart and a new spirit I'll put within you. I'll remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. Ezekiel 36 Meaning he's changed your heart from that hard, impenetrable soul which would not receive his word or believe upon him to that which is tender. That which has received his teaching and believes in what he's done and knows him to be your Savior and Lord. And so now you want to serve him with your entire being. You can look at your prior life and you can say, that's a stone which I can look upon and see. I used to love my sin. I used to think of one thing only and that was myself for my personal pleasure. I never thought of my neighbors. I never considered their interest to be above mine or even on par with mine. I never looked up to the heavens and prayed to Jesus Christ to wash me and cleanse me from my sin, but now I've changed. He's done the work in me. So as a result of that change, I do believe in Jesus. I trust in Jesus. And that should be your greatest reminder tonight, your biggest stone. Just like the Israelites There was a day, there was a time when they were on the other side of the Jordan, in the wilderness, wandering, not yet to enter into the promised land. There was a time that which was before. And now the stones are piled high, twelve of them saying, We're on the other side. God has brought us over. There's been a supernatural change in the River Jordan, the work of God that's allowed us to pass through. And now there's been a supernatural change in my heart. And I can point to it And I can remember the powerful work of the Lord Jesus Christ who remains with me today by and through his Spirit. Is that important to remember? Is it important to meditate upon these things, these stones, so to speak, to meditate upon the work of Jesus Christ? It seems so. Isn't that what Jesus preached to his disciples in the passage we read tonight? The helper, the Holy Spirit, whom the Father will send in my name, he'll teach you all things. And bring to your remembrance all I've said to you And then he goes on to talk about the peace that he's leaving with them, the peace that he's giving to them, and the love of his father. You see, what Jesus was talking about was this relationship. And he's saying, you need to remember these things that I've done for you, because that's part of our relationship. And without it Our relationship really can't be full and close. So I'm going to send the Spirit so you can remember And draw ever closer to me. Yes It's critical to remember the work of the Lord Jesus Christ and be able to point to each of those stones that he's placed in your life. I think he's throws a second point. Not only are you to remember, but the call to communicate the work of Jesus And that's actually the second purpose of those twelve stones. The first was so that the Israelites, the ones who actually crossed over, would remember Second. Second purpose, verse six, when your children ask in time to come, what do these stones mean to you, then you shall tell them what happened. Not if your children ask, but when your children ask. Now the idea was that they were going to be so close to these stones that they'd be passing by, going to the River Jordan for something. Don't know. But the children would see the stones and they'll say, what in the world are these? Placed heaped up. Likely in that which was unordinary. Strange. Out of place. What do these stones mean? What do they represent? It must have been fairly large. Think of that. For them to remain in place for years, the idea that future generations would be able to look upon them, those twelve stones at the bank of the River Jordan, close to Jericho, and ask that question, what do these stones mean to you? Fairly significant sight, a large symbol that they would remain in place. And so noticeable throughout the generations that this question will be asked. And asked, and asked, giving the Israelites the ability, the parents, the subsequent generations, then to recount the events of that day in the life of the people of God Seeing the unseen. Think of that just for a moment. The stones were taken from the bed of the river. meaning that they would not have been visible as the river was full. And we get the sense that it usually was Full, not visible to the naked eye as the river flowed, but they became visible to the naked eye when the river stopped flowing, and the twelve men went into the midst of the river and pulled out these twelve stones So that the parents in subsequent generations could recount to their children and grandchildren the very presence of God that they had experienced as they were crossing over on dry ground. See, it goes without saying that they couldn't see God. The day that they crossed over, the Israelites didn't see a physical representation of God. They did see the work of his hand, but they couldn't see his hand. They saw the waters pile up on each side, but they couldn't see his powerful arm. The ark was present, but they couldn't see the face of God. The physical presence of God was unseen, but The stones became that tangible physical sight. They could be seen. They came from a place, a location where they could not be seen, where they were invisible. But now they've been made visible. And so you see the picture that's being created by the stones. The idea that the Israelites would recount to their children the very presence of God and his work as they gazed upon the stones. Well the children couldn't see any of it. There was no video. No YouTube. They'd be convicted by seeing the stones. They could be Which were likely nowhere else present. Now the unseen was seeable. The stones confirmed the presence of God, which was unseeable. The unseen stones were now that which they could gaze upon and confirm the work of God. And that was to be recounted to the children and the children's children and the children's children's children. The presence and the work of God through these twelve stones was made physically observable. Even though the children were not present at the parting of the Jordan River. That's the idea That's the recounting that we have here in chapter 4, the second purpose of these twelve stones. And so the Israelites were called to tell their children. So you must be asking at this point, well, was this just for the nation of Israel? For the parents of that day, those who passed over, was this just for them an isolated duty? Or a call to tell their children. Think of Deuteronomy just for a minute. In chapter 6, we read: You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. These words that I command you today shall be on your heart, you shall teach them diligently to your children. Now, that command to love the Lord your God did not die with the Israelites. It's a command for us today. And so we think and understand that this requirement to teach them diligently to your children would stand for us today as well. And so I don't think that this idea of the 12 stones and using the 12 stones to answer the children's question is an isolated duty for the Israelites. So the question is, how can you parents take this and apply it to your own families? How can you do that? Maybe the better question is, how can you parents be silent about the work of the Lord Jesus Christ? How can you be silent about the presence of Jesus, about his person and work? About his work on your heart. How can you remain silent before your children? How can you deny the call of the psalmist? One generation shall commend your works to another. Is that not the way the Lord builds his church, at least one way? Is that not how Christian families press on in this world of darkness? Parents? Point your children to the powerful work of Jesus Christ in you. Tell them That I was a wretched sinner, unlovable. But in Jesus' powerful hands, I've been changed, made new with a new heart And now I'm able to know him and know his presence with me and with us as a family. And so let me tell you what he's done I call for parents to be constantly telling your children, setting before your children the Word of God. There's another call here because this passage is not limited to children. It's actually much broader than that. Look at verse 23. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of the Jordan for you until you passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up for us when we passed over. So that all the peoples of the earth may know that the hand of the Lord is mighty You see, this this telling of what happened at the Red Sea and now at the Jordan was not to be limited to children. It's a good thing to tell the children, and you must tell the children. But it was an account to be told to everyone. Don't miss that this is an evangelical passage. The Israelites were to be evangelicals. I read a commentary recently that just reminded me that the Israelites were set in the midst of a dark world. Yes, they were to remove the occupants from the promised land, but once they did that, Israel, the land, was set amongst those who hated God. They were to be a light to the nations. A blessing to the nations. That's what Abram was told by God, that he would be a blessing to the families of the world. That's what Israel was to be, a light. A light and a dark world. Indeed, the passage in Deuteronomy continues, you shall bind them, meaning God's word, on your hand. They shall be as frontless between your eyes. The word of God shall be as frontless. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. What is Moses saying? He's saying that the word of God should be on you. And it should be proclaimed to everyone, even as they pass by your house, on the gates of your house, as they enter your house, it's on my doorpost. Look, there's the word of God. If you can't see it here between my eyes, look on the doorpost. It's right there. Moses was saying, you need to tell others. About me, about my work, about what I've done. Yes, your children, but everyone needs to hear Of how Jesus Christ has worked in your heart. Always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason. For the hope that is in you. Isn't that what Peter was saying? Bind them on your hand, as frontlets between your eyes. On the doorposts of your house, on your gates, to be seen by all. The world is to be evangelized. Told of the good news and of Jesus' return. We've been learning that in Matthew's gospel. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. Brothers and sisters, brethren, the call tonight is to be remembering, but it's also to be speaking. The call is to refrain from being silent. The world wants to silence Christians. Satan wants Christians to be silent about these stones that Jesus has laid in your heart and in your life. Just as the Jews of Paul's day desired to silence him by placing him in prison and seeking his death, the wicked want you to stop speaking and calling attention to the ways in which Jesus has worked in your heart, but Jesus is calling you to do the opposite. He's calling you to speak to others, to tell others about that transformation that he has done within you. But all those stones that you set in your heart and your life that testify To his work, to his goodness, to his saving work in you As Christians are called to remember and speak of the works of Jesus Christ, to draw themselves even closer to their Savior. Psalm 77 is such an encouragement to us. For as the psalmist begins with the trouble that he's in, what does he do? But he remembers the work of God around him and certainly in him Praise be the Lord that Jesus Christ has given you stones tonight to not only gaze upon yourself and to remember his work, to remember his presence. But then to tell others what Jesus has done to you. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, none of us can stand before you tonight and say this is why Jesus has worked in my heart. other than saying it's because of his everlasting and eternal love. And so tonight we're we're standing in awe. We're sitting in awe of you. For we can't understand your unconditional love for us who are unlovable, but Father, we rejoice in it. And we see how you've worked, and we pray that you'd help us, each one of us, to remember your works of old. And certainly to remember the works of Christ as He has transformed our hearts. Father, help us not only to be thankful and to rejoice And to use these transformations, these various stones that Jesus has laid up in us and around us. But then, Father, to speak, to proclaim Jesus from the housetops, to show others what he's done. And Father, we pray that you use that testimony. To bring our children to confess Christ and also, Father, as a witness to the world. Help us, Lord. Use us. Build your church. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.