If you turn your copy of God's Word now to Jude, I think you'll find that on page 1216 of your Pew Bibles. This evening we'll be reading beginning at verse 17. Getting close to the end of this very short letter. Let's give our attention now to the very Word of God. Jude at verse 17 But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, in the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the spirit. But you, beloved Building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. And have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire To others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh. Let's find the reading of God's Word. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we ask that you'd help us now. We come to the preaching of your word and Lord God, it has been a long day. We're tired physically. You have provided rest and refreshment, and we are so grateful. And now, Lord God, we ask, sustain us. That we might be able to listen, that we might have our ears open. Indeed, our hearts open and ready to receive whatever you have for us tonight. We know that your word will never return to you void And so we ask, Lord God, work powerfully in us. Give us everything that you have planned for us tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. If you remember the account of the arrest of the Lord Jesus Christ before he goes to the cross, There's a group that come to him led by Judas. They were, in a sense, attacking the Lord Jesus Christ, coming to arrest him, coming to take him away, coming to cause him to stand trial with the hope that he would be indeed executed. So as he's with his disciples There's a sense in which Jesus is under attack. And as a result Simon Peter takes out a sword and strikes the high priest's servant's right ear. Peter responds with violence. But Christ Calls for Peter to put the sword back in its sheath and actually heals the ear that's been cut off. Peter took one approach to respond to these godless men who had crept in to arrest Jesus. But Jesus, on the other hand, took a much different approach. He didn't respond with violence But with his eyes on the Father, shall I not drink the cup that the Father has given me? Jesus responded with mercy. In a sense, that's what this passage is about tonight, as we Continue our study in Jude, Jude, the servant of the Lord Jesus Christ, writing this very brief letter to the entire church, the called, the beloved, in God the Father, the kept. for Jesus Christ. Those who apparently were well understanding of the scriptures, at least the old what we have today is the Old Testament scriptures These were likely Jewish Christians that Jude was writing to. And we know that his purpose was that they would increase in mercy and peace and love. That gets lost at times, as we think of the ungodly that had crept in the church Because what Jude has been presenting to us was a a kind of battle that was going on. The church, indeed, was under attack. At this point in time where these ungodly had crept in unnoticed. Tonight, tonight, as we get to verse 17, I want us to see that when under attack, believers are called to build up their faith. And pour out mercy. When under attack, believers are called to build up their faith and pour out mercy. Tonight we'll see that in three heads. First, scoffing divisions. Secondly, building up faith, and then finally, showing mercy. I think the question for us as we go through this passage tonight is, how do you respond when you're under attack? When your faith is under attack. How do you respond? This passage has much for us. Answer that question. Well first, scoffing divisions. Look at verse seventeen. But you must remember, beloved, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, In the last time, there will be scoffers. This passage is paralleled by Peter in a sense As he writes, you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandments of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. Knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. Paul writes of those who would depart from the faith by devoting themselves to deceitful spirits. These seem to be on the same page. Paul and Peter were likely being reminded of what the prophets had taught. In Old Testament times, Isaiah wrote, Woe to those who draw iniquity with cords of falsehood Let him be quick. Let him be quick. Let him speed his work that we may see it. But the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw near. Let it come. Isaiah was referring to those who would say, if God is really going to do that, let's see it. Let's see it happen. Jeremiah also wrote, Behold, they say to me, Where is the word of the Lord? Let it come. And Ezekiel. Son of man, what is this proverb that you have about the land of Israel saying, the days grow long and every vision comes to nothing? The major prophets, each one of them, recording the words of those who scoffed at the very word of God Well, what is a scoffer? One who ridicules, according to the Greek lexicon, one who makes fun of, one who mocks. In this case, we're thinking of those who scoff at religious things, according to Webster's, with scorn or contempt. Contempt is that act of despising. Those who scoff are the ones who despise Christ, despise God. They despise his word. And they speak against it. And Peter recognized that. In that parallel passage that we began reading, Peter continued where Jude did not. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. Do you see what Jude's getting at? What Peter is getting at. The scoffers, in particular, were denying the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Where is the promise of his coming? That's what the Christians were saying. Jesus is coming back. They were believing the Word of God, they were believing the scriptures. And the scoffers were denying that truth of that prophecy. Their words would be something like this. He's not coming. He's not returning. You are foolish to believe that he's coming back. Why? Because we haven't seen it. But more so Because these who would say those things do not want the king of righteousness to return That's what Jude is saying. And the last time there will be scoffers following their own ungodly passions. What is the number one reason that scoffers do not want the Lord to come back? Because they want to remain in the world. in their own ungodly passions. They've exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal men and birds and animals and creeping things, as Paul wrote in or to the church at Rome. The two said these are to be expected Jude said, hey, remember what the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ have taught. This was nothing new. But here's the problem. And it's in verse 19. It is these who cause divisions, worldly people devoid of the Spirit. Causing divisions. The scoffing could lead to discouragement. It could cause despair. It might lead to a downcast spirit. And it seems that this was Jude's concern. As these certain people have infiltrated the church unnoticed, at least initially. They most likely didn't scoff when they were welcomed in. For if they did, how could they have been able to creep in unnoticed? Surely their scoffing would have given them away. But no, more likely these do not begin their scoffing or mocking until they have secured their position within the body, within the church. Think of that. These certain people welcomed into the church, becoming part of the body of Christ, so to speak, at least outwardly. And that's when they begin. They're scoffing. That's when they begin to say he's not coming back. That's when they begin to say you're foolish for believing that the Lord Jesus is coming. And make no mistake, these mockers and scoffers intended to divide and separate. Ultimately, they sought to carry out Satan's plan. To divide and separate the children of God from their Father. And so they scoff. And so they tell those that they have now befriended, you can't believe that he's coming back. Satan's plan carried out by those who've crept in unnoticed, ungodly people designated For condemnation. There's the problem. That brings us to our second point, building up, and now here's the call. In light of these scoffers and mockers who have crept in, these ungodly people who have perverted the grace of our Lord, of our God into sensuality, and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus. Christ. What is the church to do? How is the church to respond? What was Jude's direction? Well, it wasn't to kick them out. It wasn't with an act of violence. It wasn't to slander or defame them. No, we don't read any of that here. Look at verse 20. There's only one thing. But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. Keep yourselves in the love of God. That's it This is Jude's response. Now you might say, well, I thought he said contend for the faith, and he did. Beloved, this is verse 3, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation, I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend. for the faith. Isn't that what they're supposed to do? Yes, of course. That was his call, that was his appeal as he begins, and then he opens up the problem of what's happened with these ungodly certain people who have crept in unnoticed, designated for condemnation, those who pervert the grace of our God. Contend for the faith. But how? There is no detail given Jude said nothing about how they were to do this. How were they to contend for the faith? He doesn't explain it until now. In a sense, he's set the table. He said, here's the battle. I want you to see the full field of what's going on in your church right now. I want you to see who's crept in and and and and I want to make sure you understand who they are and what they're trying to do. And now he's he said contend for the faith. It's now that he tells them how. Keep yourselves in the love of God. That's it. It's so simple. And it really sets the stage for us as to how we are to respond. Now, he does give them and us ways to keep yourself in the love of God. Notice the participles that he uses. First, building yourselves up in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Spirit, and finally waiting. Waiting for the mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ. Those three things I think we can take and say, oh, that's how we are to keep in the love of God. Those three things. And so we want to take a little bit of time tonight and just look at each one of those three first. But you beloved Building yourselves up in your most holy faith. We might be asking ourselves the question tonight, how's that possible? Faith is a gift. We know that. Paul tells those at Ephesus that very clearly, but God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, Even when we were dead and our trespasses made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved. Doesn't sound like something I do. He continues, for by grace you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God. How are we to build that up, which is a gift? Something given to us. Well, Jude said we're supposed to, so we need to look into this a bit further. We know that the Holy Spirit must change our hearts from stone to flesh. We know that we must be regenerated. We know we must have a new birth. We know this is all the work of the Spirit. It's supernatural work within us. And so how is it, if we've been given this new life, this new birth, if he's drawn us to the Lord Jesus Christ, if he's worked faith in us as a gift, how is it that we can build ourselves up in that faith that he's given us? Given to us. You might think of it like a charm bracelet. I'm not quite sure I know of all about these things, but my understanding is that if if you're given a charm bracelet, it doesn't have all the charms And so those are things you add to it over time. That's the idea. Faith is being, in a sense, added to over time. Think of a a baseball card collection. You get a pack of them. Somebody gifts you a pack of baseball cards, and then what you do, if you like baseball, then you keep on collecting more and more cards. You're adding to your collection. You haven't changed the gift or the nature of the gift. You've just added to it. And so that's the idea with our faith. We don't deny the truth that it's a gift from God. We embrace that truth. But here we need to think about strengthening our faith, building up that spiritual muscle. Paul spoke of it as he wrote to those at Philippi. Therefore, my beloved, as you have always obeyed, so now Not only in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. Work it out. Participate in it. So how do we do it? What are the spiritual exercises that we can go through to build up our faith? Well, the first would be to meditate upon the promises of God. You can merely go through the covenant promises and meditate upon them. Read through Genesis seventeen. The Abrahamic covenant, as as God tells Abraham that he will be his God and who else? And his descendants. For how long? Right? What about the Noahic covenant? That God would not destroy the world through a flood again That there be morning and evening seasons. Think about God's covenant with David to always have a son on an eternal throne in an eternal kingdom. Do you see how that's building up your faith? It's not this temporary thing, it's not the throne in in Israel which is gone. No, God promises an eternal throne, which his son will sit on, and then think of the new covenant where God places his law upon your heart and causes you to walk by the Spirit And circumcises your heart And not only those texts but tick out Pick out text with other great promises. Think of Romans 8. 1. There is thou thou therefore no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. We know that there's condemnation for those who remain in their sins. We know that there's eternal death for those who have rejected the Lord Jesus Christ, but we also know that If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ, that there's no condemnation, that there will be no cup of wrath for you to drink on the judgment day as Christ returns. Fix your minds on Galatians chapter 5. For freedom Christ has set us free. You've been given freedom. Freedom from sin. Your chain to sin has been broken. Christ has given you freedom, freedom from the shame that you've covered yourself with in sin. Freedom from bondage to sin. Freedom to thwart Satan's advances toward you with various temptations, freedom to keep the law, not to be saved, but because you love Jesus, and freedom to worship. Remember the works of God. Think of Exodus. Think of how He preserved His people With the Egyptians bearing down upon him, what did he do? He protected them as they waited for the Red Sea to open. Consider Noah and the salvation that he and his family enjoyed from the ravages of the flood. Recall the way in which the Lord brought his people out of exile, changing Cyrus's heart. That he would call them to go and rebuild the temple. And then think of the way that the Lord has worked in your life Sustaining you, keeping you, drawing you out of sin, drawing you to Jesus Christ. These are just a few ways that you can build up your faith. You see? Yes, it's a gift. Can you increase it? By the work of the Spirit, you certainly can. And this is the things, some of the things that the Spirit would call you to. But Jude wrote this letter to the church. And so as we're thinking of building up faith, we should also be thinking of one more thing, how we build up the faith of one another, and that's by coming to worship at least one way. What an encouragement it is to come together morning and evening, to join together as the body of Christ, and that encouragement builds up our faith. There's another participle, and that's praying in the Spirit. Beloved. Building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. It's the second item which he mentions, which I believe is intended to keep you in the love of God. As we think of prayer, we think of that unique form of communion with the living God, the creator of the universe, which only his children engage in. It's a unique privilege that you have even tonight. And you might think, well, what does he mean praying in the Spirit? Well, we might open up Romans chapter 8 and say, likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness. For we do not know how what to pray for as we ought, but the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. You see As we're still in our sins, we still have corruption within, as we pray on our own, it's mixed with sin, but the Spirit takes it up, he intercedes for us. He intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. That's the idea. Pray in the Spirit. Pray according to the will of God. Plead with the Spirit to take up your prayers, to use them, to intercede for you. Do you see how that keeps you in the love of God? As you're in communion with the triune God, the Spirit is working powerfully interceding for you. It's just like praying in the name of Christ in a way. As you pray in the name of Christ, you're praying according to Christ's will. As you pray with the Spirit's help, the Spirit is praying in such a way that it's according to the will of God. In a sense, the Spirit becomes a filter as to how we pray and for what we pray and how we commune with the living God. Think of our English classes just for a moment. Sometimes it's difficult to communicate with our students If they don't know any English and they come and they may be an Arabic speaker or a French speaker, it's just difficult to understand one another. It's almost nearly impossible to to communicate at times, but if we have someone who speaks both languages, whether it's French or Spanish and English together, then that communication begins to flow. It's just like that with the Spirit. As we pray in the Spirit, He is able to commune with the Father and with us And he makes our communion sweet. And he uses it to keep us in the love of the Father. And then finally, waiting. Waiting. Building yourselves up, praying in the Holy Spirit, and waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. What does Jude speak of here? Waiting for the mercy of Christ. He's gone to the cross If you know Christ, He's drawn you to Himself. He's worked faith in you. He's washed you clean. He says, wash your sins. What does Jude speak of? Well this this letter, this short letter has had much about the coming judgment, hasn't it? In verse 4, these certain people who have crept in long ago were designated for condemnation, which will happen at the judgment In verse 6, he speaks of the eternal chains under gloomy darkness, these who have left their proper dwelling place until the judgment of the great day. And now Now he speaks about waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. He must be speaking about the return of the Lord Jesus. When he will come in glory with all the angels with him and sit on his glorious throne. And he separates the sheep from the goats. Judgment in righteousness. Judah is exhorting those who would read this letter to wait for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. Because he knows that he will judge in righteousness as he comes. Wait. Wait patiently. Just like those who were at the Red Sea, at the bank of the Red Sea, and they had to wait. They had to wait upon the Red Sea to be parted, and as they did so, they were protected by the Lord Jesus Christ in the pillar of cloud and fire. And that's exactly what Jude is asking for his readers to do. Wait for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. As you wait, you'll be kept. In the love of God. All of these work together, building up your faith. Your most holy faith, praying in the Spirit and waiting anxiously for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ to eternal life. You see? You see the battle lines now? The ungodly who've crept in seeking to divide And the followers of the Lord Jesus Christ, seeking merely to stay in the love of God. That brings us to our third point. Having mercy. Jude ends this passage In a wonderful way. Have mercy on those who doubt, save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, hitting even the garment stained by flesh. It's an interesting almost conclusion Remember how the letter opened. I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once delivered to all the saints for certain people of corrupt evil. In unnoticed, ungodly people. How can they have mercy? Isn't that the call? Isn't that what Jude is saying? Have mercy. Have mercy on those who doubt. Have mercy on others by snatching them out of the fire. Have mercy on others with fear, hating even the garments stained by flesh. Have mercy. They're under attack. These ungodly people have entered in. They've infiltrated the church. Their desire is one thing, and that is to divide, to split, to tear down the church. And Jude said, Have mercy. How How are you going to respond with mercy when you are under attack? Well, first let me say by meditating upon the mercy that's been shown. Throughout this letter, Judah's really been focusing on describing those who crept in, hasn't he? There's a list of adjectives that he uses here. They defile the flesh, they reject authority, they blaspheme the glorious ones. They pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. He equates them to Sodom and Gomorrah Grumblers, malcontents following their own sinful desires, loudmouth boasters showing favoritism to gain advantage. These are the The way he describes those who not truly part of the church How can any Christian, any believer read through this letter and these descriptors, these adjectives, these images that are given of those who are not in Christ? And not say thank you, Lord. For you poured out mercy on me. Because that was a description of me. Before you changed my heart, before you poured out your mercy on me, before you let me know that Christ has died for me on the cross, that He's poured out His blood for me. That he's washed me clean. This was me. So I have to respond with thankfulness Because mercy's been poured out on me. That the power of his resurrection is applying to me tonight because I'm not designated for condemnation. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for your mercy. My name is written in the book of life because of what Jesus has done and because of who he is. And this is why we can have mercy. This is why Jude pointed them to having mercy on all these different categories of people. On those who doubt. Those who are in the church, but they have doubts, and you're called to have mercy upon them and others snatching them out of the fire. You see, we don't know who's truly designated for condemnation, do we? And so we can guess, we can think, we can speculate, but but here, Jude says, look, you you don't know And you're called to have mercy seeking to snatch those who seem to be on their way to hell out of that fire. Now we can't do that. The Holy Spirit's got to do that. But he's saying, have mercy on them, even those who have crept in unnoticed, because you you just don't know. And then show mercy with fear. Hating the garments stained by the flesh. He means hating hating the sin. Having mercy on the sinner. Because the Lord Jesus Christ has seen fit to have mercy. On you. So our first response should be thankfulness and praise as we read through this letter, and that's where we are at this point. But in addition to thankfulness and praise There's another response that should be immediate. And that is the response of having mercy on those who are not yet fully in the church Brothers and sisters, this should be tugging in our hearts tonight. Is your heart not longing to see more more sheep? More filthy, wretched, dirty sheep Being cleansed and brought into the fold. Isn't that your heart's longing? To see God's glory increased if that were possible? It's not. But that's the idea that that the pews would be full that that more lost who were seemingly headed to hell would be doing a 180-degree turn as a result of the work of the Spirit, as you have mercy on them. Doesn't your heart ache for those who have been reserved for outer darkness? Don't you weep for those who are headed to the wide gate of destruction? Isn't that a mark of Christian compassion? If that's not your desire tonight, I think you have to question your standing before the Lord Jesus. For indeed this morning he called us to mercy, and this evening Jude is calling us to mercy as well. This is a difficult thing. We need to ask the Spirit for help. Yes, brothers and sisters, when under attack, believers are called to build up their faith and pour out mercy. Jesus consistently showed mercy. Even to those who were attacking him. Let us be those who pray for strength To show mercy to those who might seek to even attack us. Our Father in Heaven, we have been shown much mercy Indeed, today we we have focused our minds, our hearts upon the mercy of Christ. And now we ask for God help us. Help us to respond to the attacks that are coming at the church day and night with mercy. Lord God, give us hearts of compassion and mercy, knowing that as we wait on Christ, that He will protect us. Knowing that He has given us a faith that can be built up as we meditate upon your word. And Father, knowing that as we pray in the Spirit, we'll be drawn even closer to you and we'll be kept in your love. And so, Father, for these reasons we know. We know that we'll be kept. There's nothing that can separate us from your love and the love of Christ. So help us, Lord God. To have mercy. Build your church. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.