Pete, open up your copy of God's Word now to the prophet Daniel. Or in chapter 12, I think that's on page 891 of your Pew Bibles. Last week we were in the first three verses of chapter twelve tonight. We'll begin at verse four and read to the end of the chapter. Let's give our attention now to the very Word of God. Daniel chapter 12 at verse 4. But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end Many shall run to and fro and acknowledge and knowledge shall increase. Then I Daniel looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank of the stream, and one on that bank of the stream. And someone said to the man, clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream, How long shall it be till the end of these wonders? And I heard the man clothed in linen, who was above the waters of the stream. He raised his right hand and his left toward heaven. and swore by him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and half a time And that when the shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end, all these things would be finished. I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, O my Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things? He said, Go your way, Daniel. For the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end. Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act wickedly. And none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand. And from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away, and the abomination that makes desolate Is set up there shall be 1,290 days. Blessed is he who waits and arrives at the 1,335 days. But go your way to the end, and you shall rest, and shall stand in your allotted place at the end of the days. A stronger reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Father, as we have read your word now, we ask that you would add your blessing to it. That you give us by your spirit understanding tonight insight That you guide us, Lord. We come to another difficult passage of Scripture, Father, and now we ask, Apply it to our hearts. That we might live in such a way that's pleasing to you. That we might know, Lord God, your promises that are all yes and amen in Jesus Christ. We ask this in his precious name. Amen. If you were able to foretell the future, if you knew what was going to happen tomorrow, And next week and next year, how would you live today? That was exactly the situation for Joseph. He was given the gift of interpreting Pharaoh's dream. Joseph knew that as a result of Pharaoh's dream, what God was communicating was that there would be seven years of plenty in Egypt. Indeed in the world, and then seven years of famine would follow. And as a result of this revelation as a result of this knowledge as a result of this understanding as a result that of Joseph knowing what God had revealed to him for the future he goes out he goes through the land During the years of plenty, Joseph is gathering food. He stores them up in the cities, grain in great abundance, as we're told in Scripture. So much so that he ceased to measure it. See, Joseph lived in a particular way, knowing What God had revealed. Being certain that this famine was going to come to pass. Brothers and sisters In order to live before God in a righteous manner, in a godly way, you need to understand who you are and who God is and what you have done. And what God has done. And what He has promised to do For if you do not have a correct biblical understanding, then you will not be able to live a life today in truth. Your life will be lived according to a lie. But with this knowledge of God, with this understanding, you'll be able to live in such a way that's pleasing to him. We've been here in Daniel since chapter seven in that apocalyptic literature, Daniel has received now these three visions telling him time and again of what is going to come. In the future. Terrifying visions. Visions of wars and strife. Visions of the people of God suffering greatly Indeed, even in chapter 11, as we hear the man clothed in linen comes and reveals to Daniel all the details about the visions that he's already been seeing. We finally come to the end where everything has been revealed to Daniel. The undeniable absolute truth has been set before him. He's been told that there will be those who are going to be awakened to life and those who will be awakened to contempt or death. And now tonight, as we finish this prophetical book, I'd like us to see that knowing Christ as Savior. Enables the Christian to live a fruitful life, waiting for his return Knowing Christ as Savior enables the Christian to live a fruitful life waiting on his return. Well we see that in three points tonight, simple points. First, seal it. Secondly, how long? And then finally, what now? The last two being questions that are asked within this passage of Scripture. In a sense, this is a very critical portion of the Word of God for us to hear tonight. Daniel has received this revelation, and we've been listening in on it, so to speak, as the book has been opened. But now the question is being asked, how are you going to live knowing what you know now? We should see that tonight as we open up the Word of God. Well, first, seal it. Look at verse 4. But you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book until the time of the end. Here we're at the end of this prophetical book, this end of the apocalyptic literature, these last six chapters, and Daniel's told to shut up the words, to seal the book The time was not near. And so the direction that he receives is not to go and proclaim it, which we would have expected. But to shut it up, to seal it. He wasn't called to proclaim it that day. Matthew Henry writes that he must seal the book because it would not be understood. Therefore it wouldn't be regarded till the things contained in it were accomplished. Maybe. We don't know. It's not revealed to us. We do know that there are other similar commands in Scripture after the transfiguration of the Lord Jesus Christ, the disciples who were with Christ were told tell no one the vision until The Son of Man is raised from the dead. And then if we were to turn to the last book of the Bible in Revelation, In the last chapter, chapter 22, we read this. And he said to me, meaning, John, do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book, for the time is near. Don't seal it up. Proclaim it. Allow it to be read by others. Daniel is told to seal it up, for the time is not near. John is told, don't seal it up. For the time is near. See what we can say tonight is in all things the timing of God is sovereign and perfect. It is mysterious Yet we know that in his wisdom and in his love, he works all things together for the good of those who love him. Those who are called according to his purpose. Even the timing of his revelations God has chosen, we see it throughout Scripture, not to reveal everything at one time. Think of Adam and Eve. As they are removed from the garden. Before they are, they receive this cryptic message from God, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. We know now, because we have the fullness of revelation that that was a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. But what about Adam and Eve? Who is this seed? Is it Cain? When? How will this happen? Think of Noah given words of hope after the flood was finished. Never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth Noah might have been asking himself, how is this going to address the sin that remains? God revealing portions according to his good timing. David informed of a forever throne. Your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me, your throne shall be established forever. Which son? David might have been asking. Woe his name be. When would this happen? God was bit by bit revealing his plan of redemption. That's his wisdom. That's his goodness to us. There's a sense in which this passage is asking us tonight, do you trust God? Do you trust that He has kept from you that which is best left unrevealed? For we don't have everything revealed, do we? We'll see that tonight. Do you praise God for that which He has revealed to you and given you understanding? For he hasn't given everyone understanding. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God, for they are folly to him. Are you praising God tonight because he has given you understanding? None of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand. Shouldn't misunderstand that passage. We cannot claim wisdom for ourselves. God grants that to us as a gift. Yes, do you trust God? Brings us to our second point. How long? It's interesting to note that Daniel is not the one asking this question. Look at verse 5. Then I Daniel looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank, one on the other. And someone said to the man clothed in linen who was above the waters of the stream, How long shall it be till the end of these wonders? We know that someone asked the question. We know that there are these on each side of the bank. We know there's the man clothed in linen above the waters, we know that the men who were with Daniel had already fled. They didn't see the vision. They hid themselves. So it wasn't them. Some commentators believe that the angels are referenced here, although not specifically, certainly not by name. We also know that angels long to look into the gospel. They're amazed by it. They're in awe of it. Isn't that what we see at the Ark of the Covenant? The American Covenant has the Ten Commandments inside, judgment, and then there's the mercy seat on top. And then there are the cherubims, the angels, the figures looking in. Angels long to look into the gospel, the good news. It's not for them. They long to see what God is doing, his grace and mercy as it's poured out upon those who are made in his image. It seems significant that Daniel was not the one who asked the question of how long. Indeed, if we were just to take a look back from chapter 7 through chapter 11 and just take a summary of all the times that the time was set forth in each of these visions It's a significant theme throughout all of them. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. How long? When were these things going to come to pass? When were the saints going to be overrun? When was the sanctuary going to be Put back in place. When was worship going to be re-established? What is this two thousand three hundred evenings and mornings? Time. Such a significant theme throughout the visions And yet Daniel never asked. What do you mean? When is this going to happen? Please reveal to me these numbers and give me some dates. Not once. Matthew Henry speculates that Daniel would not ask the question because he would not pry into what was hidden. Maybe. But we need to reflect upon this passage in Deuteronomy 29, 29. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us and to our children. Forever that we may do all the works of his law. That passage needs to be embedded within our hearts. And as we read passages like this, it needs to come forward, and we need to understand that God gives us a revelation, and then He doesn't No for our good. But an answer is given How long shall it be till the end of these wonders? And then the one dressed in linen above the waters raises both hands, confirming the truth of what he's about to say, and he's swearing by the one who lives forever What does it mean? A time, times, and half a time, and that when the shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end, all these things would be finished. There it is. That's the answer to the question. We also read about 1290 days. Or the 1,335 days, what do they mean? The short answer is we don't know exactly. We're not given a calendar, we're not given a year. Some commentators may help us here just to think through this a little bit. Dale Ralph Davis writes the phrase, meaning time times and half a time, seems to imply a restricted and limited time during which Yahweh's flock stands with the ravages of this final oppressor. That's the time for suffering, the terrible trouble that will come Matthew Henry agrees that there's a time fixed for the termination of the church's troubles, punctually observed to a day, limited time, a particular time. And then concerning the shattering of the power of the holy people, one writes: It will seem as if the Antichrist is going to continue forever. It will seem as if the church has been entirely obliterated. I think the key words there are it will seem to be a little bit more than a little bit. Ian Dugod writes, certainly there is no expectation here of a gradual Christianization of the world. He continues, the prerequisite for the end is not the final fixing of our world's brokenness. Rather, it is the final breaking of the holy people's strength. No, the exact date and time is not revealed. Even with all this detail, even with all of the verses, the forty-five verses in chapter eleven Timing is given in a vague, shadowy term. Even Jesus Christ doesn't know. Concerning the day and the hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven nor the Son, but the Father only. Brothers and sisters, we must recognize first and foremost that this is the Lord's will and perfect plan of revelation. That he reel reveals to us that which in his perfect wisdom he has determined to be good for us. Matthew Henry writes that he has learned much who is willing to be ignorant of those things which the great teacher does not choose to impart. Willing to be ignorant. We think it's good to know what's coming tomorrow. The fact that so many people followed and clung to the words of Harold Camping. Who sinfully attempted to predict the return of the Lord Jesus Christ provides clear evidence of what lies within our hearts. We want to know But the Lord has told us. Do not overlook the fact, this one fact, beloved that with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day, the Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach Repentance do you see what God is doing? He's bringing all in All that he's chosen will come into the kingdom in his perfect timing. The word has got to go out to all nations. And every single soul that God has chosen, that He has elected, must come in, must repent. And until that happens, Christ will not return. This passage is asking another question tonight, and that is, how can you wait for Christ? How can you wait on him? These visions given to Daniel form the foundation of one's ability to wait on his return. We can say that because the promises of God are included within the visions. But the people of God will indeed be victorious in and through Christ. We see that promise even as early as chapter 7. And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. An everlasting kingdom. The sanctuary will be restored to its rightful state. Now this doesn't mean the the temple in Jerusalem This means that we'll be able to worship in purity at the feet of Christ Jesus. The sanctuary will be restored. The earth shall awake some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt, and those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky, like stars forever and ever. The promises are included. Within Daniel's visions, within the revelation. And they are all part and parcel of the covenant of grace. They're not separate from it. They're not an addition to it. They're part of it. And so we can wait for the coming of Christ because of the promises. The promises which began in the garden, I will put enity between you and the woman. He shall bruise your head, you shall bruise his heel. They continued with Abraham as he was told that his descendants would number more than the stars, that he would inherit the land, that most of all God would be his God and the God of His descendants. That's the foundation. God would be your God tonight if you believe upon the Lord Jesus Christ. How can you wait for Him to return? Because you know that God has promised to be your God And indeed is your God even tonight. And he loves you so much that he sent his son for you. To raise you up out of the pit of damnation, to suffer his wrath for you So that you could be set free from sin and death, that the promise embedded within God being your God is just that. That the Son will be the one who comes to save you, who has saved you, and will come again to take you as his bride. Holy and blameless, purified, so that you can stand in his presence forever Yes. If you're trusting in Christ tonight, do you have these precious promises secured to you by the blood and the righteousness of Jesus? The unchanging love of God is demonstrated at the cross of Calvary, the promise the Son will return for you, that you will not be left as an orphan. That your soul will not be damned to hell. That you will live in glory forever. These are the promises which enable you to wait for the bridegroom. Hopefully at this point you're thanking God. You're praising God. Hopefully you're not saying, well, what else? What other promises? If you're saying that, you might want to examine your faith tonight. Because those are foundational But brothers and sisters, if you're praising, if you're thanking God, there is more Tonight we've read even the last verse in this entire prophetical book, but go your way till the end and you shall rest. And shall stand in your allotted place at the end of the days. Daniel was promised. Go your way. You shall rest. What is promised to every Christian in the Lord Jesus Christ? Is it not rest? Is it not eternal rest in his finished work? And what did Jesus Christ tell his disciples in that upper room discourse which we read tonight in John's Gospel? Let not your hearts be troubled, believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's house are many rooms If it were not so, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? I will come again and take you to myself. Where I am, you may be also. You shall stand in your allotted place at the end of the days. See, Christ has gone to prepare that allotted place for every single one who's trusting in him tonight. That's a promise. That's how you can wait upon the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. You know he's coming back for you, and you not only know he's coming back for you, but he's coming to take you to your allotted place. Oh, brothers and sisters, we can wait. We can wait on Christ because we know where he's taking us. Brings us to our third point. What now? Now Daniel asks a question. Look at verse 8. I heard, but I did not understand. Then I said, O my Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things? And now this man, who I believe to be a preincarnate appearance of the Lord Jesus Christ, speaks to Daniel. And he gives him a twofold answer. He says, Go your way, Daniel. For the words that are shut up and sealed until the time of the end, secondly, many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined. But the wicked shall act wickedly. We'll talk about Daniel in a minute. But just think upon verse ten. Many shall purify themselves and make themselves white and refined. Daniel is not telling us that what was revealed to him was this self-righteousness. He's not saying that People will wash themselves of their sins, they will purify themselves, they will cast off their sins by themselves. He's not saying that Through this suffering, through this terrible trouble, through this purging Many will be purified. Many will be made white and will be refined. Isn't that what the Apostle Peter writes in his first letter? And this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. That's exactly what Daniel is writing of. Various trials, various tribulations coming upon the people of God. And Peter is picking it up and says, You've been grieved by various trials, so that the testing tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Christ Jesus We see that through the strife, through the battles, that all of the people of God will suffer There is this purification going on, this testing of the genuineness of the faith, so that the one who endures to the end will be saved. That's what Jesus said as Matthew recorded that in his gospel in chapter 24. Then they will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations for my name's sake. Many will fall away, but the one who endures to the end will be saved Save through the fire. Saved through this purification. Save through the testing of the genuineness of your faith. Matthew Henry writes, the afflictions of good people are designed for their trial. But by these trials they are purified and made white. That seems to be the general answer that's given. What will be the outcome? The people of God will be preserved. The people of God will be purified. They'll be made white and blameless. They'll be the bride of Christ. They'll be married to him and they'll be ushered up into glory in that blameless estate What about Daniel? Because that speaks of a day to come, doesn't it? What about Daniel? What shall be the outcome of Daniel? And he said, go your way. That's the answer for Daniel. There's a sense in which the question is taken as, well, how should I live now? You've given me all this revelation. You've told me what's going to happen in the future. Now, how should I live today? What's the outcome? Daniel was to seal the words. Shut them up. And now it seems as though the Lord Jesus Christ and his pre-incarnated appearance is telling Daniel, go back, go back to what you were doing before I came. Go back to the king of Persia, serve him. But Daniel is a changed man He had now been equipped with the truth. These visions had been given to him over a period of time, and now the revelation had been had been poured out upon him. In chapter eleven, and now he's got this understanding, not complete, but he has understanding. He has truth. He has the revelation of God. He's got the promise of redemption. Daniel's a changed man. And now he's told to go back. Go your way. Go back to serving the king of Persia. It's an interesting direction given to Daniel. Listen, it's We expected he was going to say, look, go take this revelation out. Proclaim it. Tell everybody. No. Go your way. Go back to what you were doing. You have to recognize that the good news had already been proclaimed to the people of God. You think, well, Lord, why aren't you sending Daniel to to go to Jerusalem where they're rebuilding the temple, where the walls are being rebuilt? Why aren't you sending them there? Just to share the vision, to share all this revelation that he'd been given. They'd have already been given the good news. Isaiah had already prophesied. Jeremiah had already prophesied. The covenants had already been proclaimed. They were complete. The new covenant is in Jeremiah 31. Indeed, the exiles, the people of God already had the good news. They There's a sense in which they didn't need what Daniel had at that moment, and in God's wisdom it wasn't given to them for that moment. And so Daniel is called to go his way, to go back and continue to minister to the king of Persia. The Spirit of God had given Daniel understanding. And he does the same for you. He reveals himself to his sons and daughters. And by that special revelation to you, he has given you the ability tonight to know the future. To know the result of what the past has shown you. You know that Jesus Christ has defeated sin and death in the tomb. You know that Christ has has paid the price for your release. You know that He's paid off your debt You know that you've experienced, that you've been freed from the chains of sin, the bonds of sin, and because you know the past, you know the future. You know that on the day of return of the Lord Jesus Christ to judge the world in righteousness, the cup of God's wrath will be empty for you if you believe upon Christ. You know that as part of the church, as the bride of Christ, on that day you will be taken to be with the bridegroom forever. You know that there will be no more wickedness, no more sin, no more tears, no more offending God, no more pain, no more suffering, no more death. You know that. You've been given that understanding, you've been given that revelation, you've been given that truth, and so now you should be asking yourselves, what now? I know the outcome. How am I to live today? What am I to do now? The answer seems to be the same one for Daniel. Go your way. Isn't that what the Lord Jesus Christ did? He knew the outcome. He knew the beginning from the end, even as he knew as he was called to his earthly ministry upon his baptism that he would be suffering at the hands of Satan. That he would suffer at the hands of the Pharisees and the scribes and the chief priests and the elders, that he would be betrayed. That his friends, his closest disciples, would leave him, forsake him That the eternal wrath of the Father would be poured out upon him alone, that he would be forsaken. He knew And what did he do? How did Jesus live? He loved his disciples to the end. When Jesus knew that his hour had come to depart out of this world to the Father, having loved his own, who were in the world, he loved them to the end. He went his way. He went the way that had been determined for him by his father before time began. He sought the will of his heavenly father. He went his way. You have a similar answer tonight. Go your way. Live as a follower of this one, of the Lord Jesus Christ, because you know the outcome Living where the Lord has placed you. In the condition that He's placed you in. To be the light shining in the darkness, to love your neighbors as yourselves. To worship the risen Lord Jesus without worry, without anxiety, without fear of men. All the while producing the fruit which the Lord your God calls you to. Just like Christ By grace Daniel knew that he would be saved, and you know that it is all. By grace You're confident not in yourself but in the grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, and so you can go your way. You can live today in a country, in a nation, which seems for the most part to be godless You can go your way applying the truths which you understand and live a godly life. In a world which is at odds with the God whom you serve, all as you wait upon the Lord Jesus Christ to return. Whenever that may be. Knowing Christ as Savior enables the Christian to live a fruitful life waiting on his return. Joseph lived a fruitful life, knowing what God had revealed to him regarding the seven years of famine. Brothers and sisters, at times it feels like we're living in those years of famine, but we know We know Christ is coming back. And he's calling you to wait upon him tonight. And while you wait, while you know the outcome, He's calling you to be those vine dressers and workers, producing that fruit and that vineyard where he's placed you. Praise be to God. What a wonderful opportunity each of us have to live a fruitful life as we wait upon Christ. Amen. Father and our God, we thank you for this book of Daniel. We thank you, Father, for the riches that it contains, and we thank you, Lord God, of how you have revealed to us The beginning from the end, how you have given to us the outcome of all things. Father, how you have reminded us of all of your promises in Christ Jesus. We thank you and praise you tonight that you've given every single Christian, us here tonight, the ability to wait upon Christ. We do even pray tonight that He would return quickly And yet, Father, we do ask once again that you give us the ability to persevere to the end, to live a fruitful life waiting upon the promised return of our Savior. And we ask all these things in the precious name of Jesus. Amen.