If you haven't kept your Bibles open to the book of Colossians, uh please open uh to it once again. I just want to read verses six and seven, although eight is a good one too. Um but just verse six and seven. Uh and if you notice a little difference in my reading and what uh uh your Bible has to say, I like to use the New American Standard Version. So that's what you're going to be hearing. Paul writes, he says, as you therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord. So walk in him, having been firmly rooted and now being built up in him and established in your faith as you were instructed, and overflowing with gratitude. Please bow with me in prayer. Father, as we approach these two verses, simple words, yet, Lord, they are your words. So we ask and pray that you be with the one who is about to expound them, to explain them, to to open them up and uh and Lord to not add uh to them in in terms of improving them, but Lord to to to make them more understandable in a fuller way. So that we may walk out of here Being able to bless our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and to live for Him more fully, for it's in His name we pray. Amen. I don't know if it really happened or I was just sensitive to it. But it seems that just about the time of Thanksgiving there was an uptick uh on commercials on TV for exercise equipment, for uh walkers and uh exercise bikes and you name it But exercise is good. We should all exercise. And there's all kinds of ways to exercise to get into shape. There's aerobics, there's Z this thing called Zumba that I've only recently heard about and known have no knowledge. And then there's uh Pilates. But walking Is the best exercise. It has been called the superfood of exercise. It requires no skill. You can be as uncoordinated as I and still be able to exercise. You don't need any exer uh uh expensive equipment, no hundred dollar rackets and fifty dollar bowling balls or or or whatever You don't need to go to the gym to spa. You can walk indoors. You can walk outdoors. You can walk whenever you want, wherever you want, and it is the exercise least likely to give you an injury. I know of no one who's blown out a knee because they were walking. And so Christians, let me tell you, you need to walk. But when I say you need to walk, I mean you need to walk spiritually. You need to walk rightly with the Lord your God in order to maintain a proper spiritual way of life, you have to be a walker. Now Ken Rightley told us this morning that when Paul wrote the book of Colossians, he wrote it to a church he hadn't visited. He n knows none of these people here. But he's writing to them because of what was going on in Colossae. There were false teachers there who were teaching all kinds of things about Jesus Christ that weren't true. And they were teaching the people that they needed Jesus plus. Jesus plus their special knowledge. Jesus plus their uh uh special works, Jesus plus Their special rights, Jesus plus their special observances, or they wouldn't have the fullness of salvation. So Paul writes this letter to combat heresy. And in doing so, in the beginning, uh even as uh as uh uh Kenzel uh uh read so uh this morning, he talks about Jesus Christ as having said He delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sin. Paul is pointing the people to Christ and Christ alone. And as we come to these two verses, it is said these two verses are really the heart of this epistle. This is the thing on which the whole epistle hinges. And what it is, it's a proper walk with Jesus Christ. a proper relationship with him. So what is the heart, what is at the heart of this letter, this proper walk. I have two points this morning. Now, usually a minister has three points or more. But I only have two. But I'll tell you right now, that doesn't mean the sermon's going to be any shorter. So don't look forward to that. But the two points are this. First of all, it's a continuous walk. And secondly, it's a correct walk. First of all, it's a continuous walk. Paul says, as you therefore have received Christ Jesus as Lord, so walk in him. What does he mean, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord? Well, we received him by faith And that's true. But that's not the point here. The point here is a little bit different than that. The point here is you have received him a in a particular way. You have received him through a particular channel through the hearing of the word, through what you might say the primitive gospel, the straight gospel, the gospel without any baggage attached to it. As you have received him, as you have received those truths, so walk in those truths. Don't abandon the teaching about him. And we see this concept in other places in scripture through Paul. Paul says in 1 Corinthians 11:23, I receive from the Lord that which I delivered to you, I receive some truths. That I delivered to you. In 1 Corinthians 15, he says, Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also received In which also you stand, by which also you are saved, if you hold fast to the word which I preached to you, unless you believed in vain, for I delivered to you what was of first importance, that which I received That Christ died for our sins according to the scripture. And again, 1 Thessalonians. And for this reason we also, this is ver uh chapter 2, verse 13. And for this reason, we also constantly thank God that when you receive from us the Word of God's message, you accepted it not as the Word of men, but for what it really is, the Word of God So when Paul says, as you have uh excuse me, back in in in in Colossians, as you have received Christ Jesus. Jesus the Lord, so walk in as you have received him in truth, as you have received him uh Through the message that is plain and simple, without the baggage. Without the baggage. See, this was similar to the problem that the people in Galatia were having. And so in Galatia, Paul says this, in Galatians chapter 1, verses 9, and then verse 12, he says, As we have said before, so I say again. If any man is preaching to you a gospel contrary to that which you received, let him be accursed. And we pick that up and we think of what we see in the book of Colossians. The gospel you have received is that which you are to walk in Paul says then in verse 12 in Galatians 1, for I neither received it from man nor was I taught it, but I received it through a revelation of Jesus Christ. What you have received is God's word. God's word. So don't be deceived. Don't follow after other things, says Paul. Don't be swayed by uh those who who promise you uh health, wealth, and happiness. Just an aside here, something flashed in my mind and I'm sorry, but this happens from time to time. You all know what a meme is. It's one of those pictures you see on the internet with the caption on it But this memes does you realize that the prosperity gospel preachers, and you know who those are, Perhaps the biggest heretic of them all is Joel Austin. But you realize that the uh prosperity gospel preachers are promising to you everything that the devil used to tempt Christ with in the wilderness. Interesting. So as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, Don't fall for these other things. Don't fall for the prosperity gospel. Don't fall for those who would add works. Don't fall for those who say you need something more than Jesus Christ. And as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. When Paul says that, he's saying this is an ongoing walk. This is a walk without hesitation This is a walk without standing on the corner uh uh uh to watch nature go by. This is a continuous walk. And this, my dear friends is an imperative. It's a command. This isn't something you negotiate with and say, well Paul, you know I want to do is I want to sit down in my easy chair for a while and Take a break from my Christian law. I want to go out and do something different for a while. I want to backslide for a bit. That's a word we don't use much anymore But I want to backslide. You see, the Christian life is not a stag stagnant life. It's not a life where you sit back and relax. We talk about being reformed and we talk about the tenets of of the uh of the Reformation. and of reform the reformed faith. And we've talked about the solas. But there's something that we we we don't always remind ourselves about. And that is we are reformed, it means we need to be continuously reformed, reforming our own lives, reforming our own kind conduct, reforming our uh uh our own minds. Think of what Paul says in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, be not uh conformed to this world, but be transformed By the renewing of your mind. And how is that done? It's done through the word. I'm especially fond and I often use it in in in in ben it when I pronounce benedictions of o of the words Peter uses and s at the end of 2 Peter. Peter he says, and now grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And those two are so s uh linked together that you cannot grow in grace. Not that grace will be taken from you. But you cannot grow in grace. Grow in in in in knowing how amazing grace is Unless you grow in knowledge. That's why you have Sunday school here. That's why you have Bible study here That's why you have devotion. You get up in the morning and read your Bible. Maybe because you're pressed for time in in the morning you you can't read it uh the first thing, but you do sometime during the day That's why you go to the church library and you take out books. That's why you go and you buy books That's why you read things uh like uh uh J. Packer's Knowing God. If you haven't read that, and that book's forty-some years old, you ought to read it. That's why you read a systematic theology. That's why you study these things. So that you grow in grace and knowledge. Now be careful, you don't want to be puffed up in your knowledge. You don't want to show off your knowledge, but you want to use that knowledge because the more you know about God The more you're gonna love 'em. I don't wanna boast. My wife. But in just three months, two and a half months, we'll be celebrating our 44th wedding anniversary But you know I tell her all the time I I grow in love with you more every day. Why? Because I know her better every day. She doesn't believe me, but I tell her she gets prettier every day. You guys I see her inner beauty every day The more you get to know your God, the more you will love him. And the more you love him, the more you'll want to obey him. The more you'll want to obey him. And the more you love him and know him and walk with him The more you will display your Lord and Savior Jesus Christ with your own lives. How you live You might know, might remember what Paul says to the Corinthians. He says, You are our letter. Written in in our hearts. So when people see you, how do they read you? Do they read you as a follower of Jesus Christ? Do they read you as a lover of the Savior? Do they read you as one who's concerned about sin in the world around you? Being a Christian is not an inert principle. It's a real principle. John Edy, Presbyterian, lived in England in the eighteen hundreds, writes this. Christ is not merely a theme to be idly contemplated or admired in a supine. or listless reverie, laying around just dreaming about it, in other words. Nor is he just decreed to be carelessly laid up I hope when you read the Apostles' Creed this morning, you weren't just reading some formal words, but you were reading what was really true in your inner self. in your hearts and minds, nor is he an impulse which might produce a passing and periodical vibration. Well every time you think about him you feel good about him, him or yourself. Uh but uh but he is a power. which in diffusing itself over mind and heart provides its own palpable that is feelable Seeable, tasteable, touchable manifestation and recognition in the daily life As you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him So walk in him. And so we have to as we walk make sure it's a correct walk. I love comedy movies. I love the old slapstick movies. The three stooges, Abbott and Costello, that kind of stuff. And there's always one so in a while you'll see one, you'll somebody's walking with the limp And he says to somebody, walk this way. So the fellow will do that. Well, you are to walk a certain way. How is that way? How is that way? Well first let me just read a number of verses. Some of them will repeat the same concept, but it's okay to hear the same thing over and over again. Because the more we hear it, the more uh uh uh it will stick with us. Romans six, four. Therefore we have been buried with him through baptism So that as Christ was raised from the dead through the glory of the Father, so we too may walk in newness of life. New walk in that new life. Romans 8:4, do not walk according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. Here's the way you don't walk. We don't walk in craftiness or in the adultering of God's word. We don't walk, you don't walk in untruth, but by the manifestation of truth. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 7, we walk by faith. We walk by faith, we walk believing that God is with us. God upholds us We walk believing that Jesus Christ is our Savior. You walk believing that you have been freed from sin and the freed from the power of sin. You walk confidently. You walk with assurance Galatians 5, 16, but I say, walk by the Spirit. You walk, trusting the Holy Spirit to lead you and guide you into truth. And when you do, Paul says you will not carry out the desire of the flesh. Ephesians 2. 10, for he is his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. Which God prepared beforehand that you should walk in them. You walk in your good works. In other words, you walk doing those good works And another aside, this comes from the Heidelberg Catechism. What is it that you do that is good That which is done according to God's word, that which is done for his glory. And I just forgot the third one. Your service? I think so. I don't know. Oh, I had it a moment ago. Sorry. But Paul says Ephesians 4, walk in a manner worthy. Walk in a manner that is worthy of your calling. I don't know if there are any military veterans in here. There are. When you put on that uniform, and I don't care if you're the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, uh the Marines or the Coast Guard When you put on that uniform, you would walk and conduct yourself in a manner worthy of that uniform. Well, every day you put on Christ. Walk in a manner worthy. Walk in love, Ephesians five two. Just as Christ loved you. Ephesians 5. 8, walk as children of the light. You should be a light to those around you. You should be a glowing example of what a Christian is. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Walk is light. 1 John 2, verse 6. Walk in the same manner as he walked. And walk second John one four, walk in truth And again, second John, this time one six, and this is love that we walk according to his commandments. That's the general principles. But then Paul lays down some specifics here He says walk having been firmly rooted in him. Walk being slanted in him. Walk being uh walk abiding in him. Walk uh in him as he is the one who nourishes you. Walk being continuously supplied in your faith and in your strength by him. Walk knowing because you are rooted in him. Now notice that it is a p you have been rooted in him. It is passive. This is something that you didn't do. You didn't plant yourself But you were planted and it means you can't be uprooted. You can't be uprooted. Walk being built up in him Ongoing process, cause of growth in the external, you are being built up in him and established in your faith. Again, go back to 2 Peter, grow in the grace and knowledge. You have to have the right nutrients to grow. I have a brown thumb. I try to grow things that doesn't work. My wife is much better at it than I. She knows when and what to feed the plants. We have this African violet we've had for years. I'm told that most people can't keep them a few months. And my wife knows that when the flower begins to fade, she takes it someplace where it gets more sunlight. You are to be nourished in Christ. You're not only to receive your uh uh uh your food from him, but the sunlight from him, that which warms you That which excites you, that which comforts you Being built up in him and established in your faith. You are in him. Remember that I don't know that I've done this every time I've been here, but I know I've d uh done it at least once. I have a homework assignment for you. Today, if possible, if not, definitely this week. Go home Get your concordances, or if you have an electronic Bible on your uh computer or your smartphone or whatever with where you can look things up, find all the phrases in him. And see what you are in him. I guarantee you you will be delighted by it You will be delighted by it. Being established in your faith And when Paul says being established in your faith, he's not talking about your personal faith. He's talking about, he's really reflecting back on what he said in verse 6, as you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, that is as you have received these truths. See, faith is, when we speak of faith, we speak of faith in two ways. Subjective faith, my own personal faith. And the faith is which I believe in. My faith is I believe in God the Father Almighty. creator of heaven and earth, and in Jesus Christ's only Son, our Lord, who who who who was uh conceived by the Holy Spirit, born of the Virgin Mary, suffered under Pontius Pilate, died, was crucified, and buried, descended into hell. That's my faith. My faith is right here. It's in this book. You want to know what I believe? You want to know what my faith contains? Read this. You are established in this. You keep looking at God's word. You keep meditating on God's word. You don't ignore God's word. Sometimes when reading God's word your mind might go astray. I know what I do when I that happens? I go back and I reread what what I was just supposed to have read You meditate on it, you think about it. And this walk is a walk of thankfulness. Thankfulness is so important. It is so utterly important. A thankless Christian can become bitter and discontent and unhappy. Thankfulness in a Christian can lead to idolatry. Thankfulness comes from looking outside of yourself at what others have in you might not. Thankfulness often comes from covetousness. You know how I identify covetousness? Now this isn't it a hundred percent, because sometimes when you use this phrase It's true. There are some things that are this way. But when you he when you say or you hear somebody say, that's unfair. Parents, when your kids say that because their brother or sister got something they didn't, they go, that's unfair. That's covetousness. They got something I don't have and I want it and that's unfair That baseball player, that football player, that actor, that actress got $20 million for signing or doing something. That's unfair That's covetousness. Maybe they don't deserve $20 million for doing something, but it's none of my business that they got it. That's unfair that he got a raise and I didn't. When you say that's unfair, you're also saying, God, you're unfair This week. So I don't know if a man I've known since the day I moved to uh practically the day I've moved to Maryland. He owns a small manufacturing company. I knew he had a decent income. I figured, you know A couple hundred thousand dollars a year, I mean that's pretty decent. I wouldn't I wouldn't be unhappy with a couple hundred thousand dollars a year. Even one hundred would be fine with me But he says, Do you know how much I make a year? Over a million dollars a year. I said, Okay, stop right there. And I went, Thou shalt not covet, thou shalt not covet, thou shalt not covet. Is it unfair that he makes that much money? No. I I went and I got out my calculator after he left. It takes my wife and I over 14 years to make that kind of money. Is that unfair? No. How do you find a solution to looking at things like that and and saying that's unfair Go back to what we just said. Thankfulness. Lord, I may not make a million dollars a year, but I am so thankful for what I have. I may not drive that uh uh Mustang that I've wanted all my life, you know, the Shelby Cobra one, but I sure give sample for my little Ford Ranger pickup truck I may not have the largest theological library like some of my colleagues have, but Lord, I'm thankful for every book I have. Lord, I'm thankful. And thankfulness is a key to your joy. As a believer, your joy as a believer. And thankfulness increases your desire to walk right. The more thankful you are the more you're going to be willing to walk for Jesus Christ, willing to walk in a way. What shall I render to the Lord, says the psalmist, Psalm 116? What shall I render to the Lord for all his benefits towards me? I shall lift up the cup of salvation and call upon the name of the Lord. I shall pay my vows to the Lord. Oh, may it be in the presence of all his people. What shall I render the Lord for all the good things he has given me? All that I am thankful for, I will lift up the cup of salvation and call on his name. Thankfulness is a sign of selfishness. Thankfulness, however, that's thanklessness. Thankfulness, however, promotes giving. Thankfulness promotes a selflessness. When you appreciate what you have rather than think of what you don't have, you're more inclined to open up Thanklessness promotes waste, irresponsibility, lack of appreciation. But thankfulness leads to godly concern. So people, now for watching this message today Because of what's going to happen in two days. You're going to enter in a new year. And as you enter that new year, I want you to walk. Walk rightly in that new year, through that new year, throughout the new year. Walking is the best exercise you as a Christian can have as long as you walk continuously in the truth and continu or and correctly by the truth. Let's pray Father, we thank you for your word. And Father, I ask only this: that my words, brief though they may be. will have helped your people love you more. Will have helped your people dedicate themselves more To living for our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray