I'm grateful to the opportunity to be with you and worship with you this Lord's Day. Please turn with me in God's Holy Word to the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 12. This is here in this passage, Jesus has been uh teaching for some time. He's in the midst of Judea. So as we come to this passage, we're coming into the middle of that teaching. And therefore, I'd like to begin reading at Prior just prior to this, at uh verse thirty-five. Verse thirty-five Stay dressed for action, and keep your lamps burning, and be like men who are waiting for their master to come home from the wedding feast, so that they may open the door to him at once when he comes and knocks. Blessed are those servants whom the Master finds awake when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will dress himself for service and have them recline at table, and he will come and serve them. If he comes in the second watch or in the third and finds them awake, blessed are those servants. But know this. That if the master of the house had known at what hour the thief was coming, he would not have left his house to be broken into. You also must be ready, for the Son of Man is coming at an hour you do not expect. Peter said, Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all? And the Lord said, Who then is the faithful and wise manager whom his master will set over his household to give him their portion of food at the proper time? Blessed is that servant. Whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will set him over all his possessions And if that servant says to himself, My master is delayed in coming, and begins to beat the male and female servants, and to eat and drink and get drunk The master of that servant will come on a day when he does not expect him, and in an hour he does not know, and will cut him in pieces, and put him with the unfaithful. And that servant who knew his master's will but did not get ready, or act according to his will, will receive a severe beating, but the one who did not know and did what deserved a beating will receive a light beating. Every one to whom much was given, of him much will be required, and from him to whom they entrusted much. They will demand the more. So ends the reading of God's Holy Word. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we do glorify and praise your holy name You are the God who has spoken to us. You are the God who has answered the cry of the prophet that you would run to heavens and come down. You have come down in the person of Jesus Christ. But we know, Father, that our God and Savior Jesus will one day return. And we pray, Lord, that by your grace, for we know it will only be by your grace. We will be ready for His coming. Dear Father, we pray now that your Spirit, the Spirit which revealed this, your word, would work through it to apply it to our hearts and minds, to build us up in the faith and knowledge of Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray. Amen. Please be seated. The theme of God's coming runs throughout the scriptures. It's of course found in the opening chapters of Genesis. We think of God's creating all things, and of course we read then in after Adam and Eve had sinned that God came walking In the cool of the day in the garden. We know that that is an occasion that some that we would think, oh, wouldn't it be wonderful to walk and talk with Jesus? In fact, we have a hymn about that, don't we? But we don't sing it Because there are other problems with that. But nevertheless, there's that idea. We look forward to Jesus coming. We look forward to seeing him face to face. We look forward to being with him. However, if we were to look at the scriptures closely That while the theme of looking forward to God's coming is found throughout, it's in Genesis. It's in Exodus. It's in Leviticus. It's in Numbers. It's in Deuteronomy. It's in Joshua and Judges. It's in Samuel. It's in Kings and Chronicles. It's found in Job. In fact, think about it. Job spends nearly the entire book, all of his discussions. Crying out for the coming of God, looking forward to it. It's found in the Psalms, it's found in the prophets, it's found in the last chapter of Malachi. It's a theme that stretches throughout the entire Old Testament the entire Old Testament. Not just beginning and end, but everything in between Sometimes it was longed for. Oh, that you would rend the heavens and come down. Sometimes it was fear Sometimes it was cried out for, sometimes it was anticipated But what we find in every single case, with a few exceptions, almost every case. Then people weren't ready when it happened. They just weren't. Adam and Eve hid when they heard the sound of God. Job spends the entire book saying that, oh, that you would come down here and I could face you face to face And when he comes, what does he say? My ears have heard of you, but now I have seen you, and I repent. In dust and ashes. The psalmists cry out for God to come down. The prophets cry out for God to come down. Yet, with all of the revelation that is found in the Old Testament with regard to the coming of God to meet his people, what do we read in the first chapter of John? He came to his own, and his own knew him not. They didn't know him. They didn't recognize him. As a matter of fact, God walked out through all of Galilee in his public ministry. He cast out demons. He proclaimed the gospel, liberty to those who were oppressed, to those who were in prison. He promised deliverance and offered salvation and healing And what does he say concerning Galilee after that part of his public ministry is finished? Woe to you, Betheda and Khorazan, it will be better on the day of judgment for Sodom and Gomorrah than for you. Because God had come to them, and they didn't recognize that he was God. Jesus' public ministry then transitions through Samaria, as you know. And as he comes to Samaria, they can see that he's on his way to Jerusalem and say and so they want him to just keep going. They don't want him to stop and spend any Time. The disciples said, Lord, do you want us to call down fire from heaven? He rebukes them for that. He fully had the power to do that, but it wasn't the time for that sort of judgment. If any fire was to be deserved, it was deserved in Galilee. Now we come to Judea. There's a greater expectation here. Here are the people who ought to know the scriptures better than the people in Galilee. The Pharisees and the scribes. Here are the people who are dedicated. The Pharisees believed in the coming of God. They looked forward to the resurrection. And the return and the coming of the Messiah. They looked forward to it. If anyone's going to believe it's these people, not the people up in Galilee. You remember how the people in Judea look at the people in Galilee? Uneducated. Mostly servants. See, see, the people in Galilee lived and worked on land that they didn't own. It was owned by the Romans. People who had never even visited Galilee, owned the land in Galilee. So if you lived in Galilee, you were actually working for some foreigner who you never met and who never saw this place. That's why they were looking for deliverance from the Romans But now he comes to Judea, where people do own land. They own property. They have education and they know God's word. And what does Jesus find? The gospel of a Luke is so revealing. Up in Galilee, at least the people addressed Jesus Jesus as Lord. They addressed him as Lord. That's at least a title of respect If they didn't recognize him as the Messiah, they at least thought he was a prophet, but that wasn't good enough. But at least they looked at him that highly. We get to Judea. The people look at look at the Gospel of Luke. Nobody addresses them as Lord. Do you know how they address him? Rabbi. Teacher, a rabbi is somebody that you only go to for advice, not somebody who speaks with authority Rather than finding greater belief in Judea, Jesus and his disciples have found unbelief. Not only have they found unbelief, but they have found people who are planning and plotting for Jesus' destruction. You may or may not know this, but the word test and tempt in the Greek are the exact same word. Test and tempt, exact same word. So when Jesus comes to Judea, if we were to look at Luke chapter 10, if we were to look at Luke chapter 11, we would find that on two occasions the word test is being used. What Jesus in coming to Judea has found is, Luke is telling us, spiritual wasteland. Just as Jesus was tempted in the wilderness. By Satan. He is now being tempted in Judea, a spiritual wilderness. Not a place of belief. And how does it conclude? Okay, two times of testing. And how does it conclude? It concludes. With the Pharisees plotting. Look at the last verse of chapter eleven. As he went away from there, the scribes and the Pharisees began began to press him hard and to provoke him to speak about many things, lying in wait for him to catch him in something He might say. Third temptation. Just as there were third temptation, three temptations in the wilderness, three temptations in Judea. Luke wants us to see that parallel. So at the end of chapter 11, we have this plotting for the destruction of Jesus by the religious leaders. And how does chapter 12 open up? Look at this. First verses. In the meantime, when so many thousands, myriads, when so many thousands of the people had gathered together that they were trampling one another He began to say to his disciples first, if there were hundreds in Galilee, there are now thousands in Judea But while the people in Galilee at least viewed Jesus as perhaps a prophet, these people are of dubious thoughts concerning Jesus. He is not surrounded by friends. He is not surrounded by sympathizers. He is surrounded by people who are this is the same word for crowd that is later going to be used of those who cry out crucify him in Jerusalem. He is surrounded by those who do not believe believe. And they are led by religious leaders who are plotting Jesus' destruction. Surrounded by so many thousands, Jesus chooses not to speak to them. Instead, he speaks to this little crowd. This little crowd. Seven billion people out there, and Jesus is speaking to you. He speaks to this little crowd gathered around them and he begins to address them. Concerning fear, because he knows they're afraid. The Pharisees have the power with one word to say, stone them. And Jesus and the disciples will be stoned. The disciples are like these fishermen are like fish out of water. They're surrounded by all these people who are better than them socially, these people who are more educated, these people who look down on them as if they're country bumpkins Jesus doesn't talk to those people surrounding them. He talks, he speaks to the disciples. He speaks to them concerning the coming judgment of God, and that rather than being afraid of men who have the power only to kill their bodies. He tells them to be afraid of the of God, who has the power to cast them both body and soul into hell. He comforts them You know what he says to it's found nowhere else. He doesn't he's never said this before. He calls them his friends. He calls them my little flock. Everybody else may look down on them, but God speaks only to them. Jesus gets interrupted in the midst of all this, but he carries on. He is um he he's he's ta he talks to them about the things of heaven and some guy interrupts him to ask uh teacher Because he's remember, he's only called rabbi here in Judea. Teacher, tell my brother to divide the inheritance with me. Jesus is speaking about the things of eternity, and this guy's only concerned about property. So Jesus turns around. Look what he says to the man in verse 14. He says, Man, nobody. I want to tell you this word for man, yes, it is the Greek word for man. But nobody used this as a form of address. You know, nowadays we hear it, hey man, how are things going? You might hear it nowadays. I it's probably out by the time I'm But you hear it in our day, but it was ne this word was never used to address another human being. You used it to talk about somebody or to describe them. You didn't use it to address them. This man has come, has so lowered his address to Jesus That even though this is someone who has the reputation of healing the sick, raising the dead, giving sight to the blind, and casting out demons, he's called teacher a rabbi, he's called Jesus a rabbi. Not even addressed him with any kind of respect. And so, turn about Jesus says, man. He uses a derogatory term, a something that you wouldn't use, a word you wouldn't use to address another human being. being in order to address this person. He's been talking about the things of eternity, and this person is only interested in the things of this earth. Will pass away. And so Jesus goes on. He tells them not to be anxious, not to be afraid. He tells them, look in verse 22, fear 32, fear not little flock. For it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. These other people, they think that the kingdom belongs to them. Jesus says it belongs to you. So Jesus here is God come to his people, but they are not ready for his coming. Yet even before his first coming was finished, he began to prepare his disciples for his return, as he does here in the This passage. In these verses, while he is teaching his disciples in Judea in the presence of an extremely large crowd of dubious attitude toward him, Jesus tells them that they must be ready for his return. In Luke 12, 41 through 48, I would like us to see the faithful servant, the unfaithful servant, and knowing and doing the Master's will. These verses, as I've already pointed out, are in the context of Jesus teaching his disciples in the midst of a very large crowd around him. His disciples are afraid. It's quite, that's why he addresses fear so many times in this particular chapter. Jesus has, there may have been one time when the disciples thought that the Pharisees were going to be part of those who believed. However, that has been lost because Jesus has warned against the Pharisees' hypocrisy. He has told them to fear God rather than men. And he has told the disciples to live in the light of the day when they will face the judgment of God. He has called on his disciples to understand that if they do Deny him before men, he will deny them before the Father. If they confess him before men, he will confess them before the Father and the angels. He has told them not to be afraid when they are put on trial, because the Holy Spirit will give them the right words to say when the time comes. In other words, in every way he has prepared them For persecution and the judgment against Christ that is about to come. And then in verse 35, he begins to prepare them for the For something they don't expect. You see, the disciples' expectation is that Jesus is going to leave this place, he's going to proceed on toward Jerusalem, and that they are going to be with him. If you thought that Jesus was on his way to Jerusalem about to throw out the Romans and raise up Israel to be the greatest nation on the face of the earth and to extend the kingdom of God around the globe. Would you separate him and say, oh Jesus, you know, I just gotta go home for a week. You know, give me some time off here. No! You would stay with him. You wouldn't want to be, you'd be like Elisha was to Elijah When he wouldn't leave Elijah because Elijah was about to be taken into heaven. You would want to be with him every second. You wouldn't want to let him out of your sight. You wouldn't want to go to the bathroom in case he took off without you. That's how the disciples are. They expect to be with Jesus all the way up to his march into the temple and into the city of Jerusalem. And here Jesus is talking about going away in the parable that precedes the verses that we're looking at this morning. What's he talking about? Has he been invited to a wedding that we're not going to? What is happening here? He's telling us to be ready in case the master returns at the second watch or the third watch of the night. What's he talking about That's why they're confused. That's why Peter opens up with saying, Lord, are you talking to us? Are you telling this to everybody? He's told them to be ready for the coming of the Son of Man. In other words, is he warning them to be ready for the Daniel 7 coming of the Son of Man? Because they're not believing right now, and Jesus is about to go up Jerusalem, and so they better get ready. No, Jesus makes it clear. He is not talking. He is talking about himself, but he is not talking to the crowd. He's telling the disciples that they have to be ready. Their watchfulness has to be constant because the master's return could be at any time. So in these verses, Jesus tells them that they must not only be ready and watching for his return, they must be actively engaged in doing his will at his return. For the apostles in particular, and therefore all those disciples who will have a place of leadership in his church, the issue isn't only whether they as individuals are ready. There is also the question of whether those for whom they are responsible will be ready. Will they be actively doing Jesus' will when he He returns. The faithful servant. Verses forty-one through forty-two. I'll just read forty-one Again. Peter said, Lord, are you telling this parable for us or for all? When we think about being ready for the return of Christ, who do we think about needing to Get ready. Of course, most of us think about ourselves. We wonder if we will be ready. Jesus at one point said, Will there be any faith on earth when the Son of Man be? Will we be ready? Jesus' disciples are no doubt confused. I've already pointed out they didn't know whether that they didn't know that he was going away, let alone that he needed to return again, and when's that going to happen? Let alone the fact that they needed to be ready when he came back. They don't know whether he is talking about them or the crowd, as I've pointed out. And they don't expect to ever be separated be from him for very long. Remember the disciples' expectations. They do not understand the cross that Jesus is going to face. They expect to go to Jerusalem with him and there for him to be recognized the Messiah and the kingdom to be ushered in. In light of their understanding, they don't understand what he's talking about at this point. That's why Peter raises this question. As he usually does, Jesus answers Peter's question with another question. Luke opens with one of the twelve times that he describes Jesus as the Lord. The Lord's answer asks whom the faithful and wise servant manager is, or steward, that the master will put in charge of the other servants to give them their food at the proper time. A steward or a manager was also a slave or servant usually in someone's household, as is clear from verse 43. He runs the household, the other servants, and the estate in the master's absence. He's in charge. Without Jesus explicitly saying it, Peter is to understand that yes. The parable is for the disciples. They are to be the faithful stewards, the faithful managers that Jesus will put in charge. They are the men whom Jesus Has called to be the apostles. They are those whom the Master has put in charge of spreading the kingdom. He sent them out with his power and authority to preach the gospel, to heal the sick, and to cast out demons. They were even the ones who distributed the bread and the loaves and the flesh to the crowd in the wilderness around Galilee. Peter certainly knows by now that there isn't anyone in this Judean crowd that Jesus has appointed to be his faithful and wise steward. And therefore, he now must know that Jesus is talking to the disciples. The disciples are those whom Jesus has called my friends. and my little flock. He has told them that the Father has given them the kingdom. Therefore there can be no doubt that they are also the faithful and wise stewards whom the master puts in charge. Jesus says that it would be good for the master to find them carrying out his duties when he comes back. As in the parable in the last passage, Jesus describes the reward that will be given to the faithful steward. And that, in those verses that I began reading with, this morning or a little bit before this passage in chapter twelve. Jesus says that when the master comes back, that he will reward them by having if they're ready by having them reclining at the table, and he will serve them rather than the other way around I mean, in a master-servant relationship, when would one ever expect that the master would come home and say, Oh, you've been taking care of things while I've gone? Have a seat. Let me take care of you. Let me give you your dinner. I think, by the way, this is the uh yes it is. It's the little cap that goes on this thing here. But I kept seeing it and thinking, what is that? Okay So that's what Jesus said. In other words, there is going to be a reward. And here he says, likewise, there will be a reward. Although we certainly want to understand now, and please note that what he is rewarded with here. In the last verse, it says he's going to be rewarded with being served by the master. Hear what happens. Blessed is that servant whom his master will find so doing when he comes. Truly I say to you, he will be set over all his possessions. In other words, his reward is. More work! You were in charge of the housewives, but now you're in charge of everything. I'll just have you take care of everything. You'll be like Joseph over Pharaoh's kingdom. Although we certainly want to understand what Jesus' words here were meant for the disciples. With him in Judea. In other words, what it meant to them. We must not lose sight of the purpose of this record. The Holy Spirit inspired Luke to record this gospel after the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The Holy Spirit inspired Luke to record this gospel for a man whom he addresses in the opening verses as most excellent Theophilus. A man who knew authority, a man who probably had people working for him. And therefore he understood the responsibilities of a steward or manager. This man also was a man who understood the responsibilities of caring for those who worked for him. Jesus' use of the illustration of the relationship between a master and his servant in this and the earlier parable are not about the master and servants. But about Jesus the Lord and his relationship to his disciples. The disciples are to be ready and watching for his return. They're to be actively taking care of those Who are in their charge at the master's return. They are to remember that those whom they care for are being cared for on behalf of their master. These children don't belong to me, they belong to the Lord. This spouse doesn't belong to me. He or she belongs to the Lord. This flock is the Lord's flock, not Pastor Jerry's flock. You know, it's why Bill Shishko always hates to hear people say, oh, that's uh that's uh Doug Clausen's church, or that's Jerry Taylor's church. Okay, it's not that pastor's church, it's Jesus' church. church. If the master has left them in charge of taking care of others Then they had not only they it it they should not only be ready themselves for his coming, but they should make sure that everybody in the Their care is ready for his coming. Such a responsibility is not just given to the apostles, but to pastors, to teachers, to employers, to husbands, to wives, to parents. They have been given the duty of taking care of others, and they had better be doing their job when the master returns. If they are, then Jesus promises the reward and privilege of even greater responsibility. As we know, the analogies used in a parable only go so far. It's a parable after all. It's a metaphor, so to speak. We shouldn't try to figure out exactly what Jesus means. In terms of placing the faithful and wise servant in charge of all of his possessions, how could all of us be in charge of all of his possessions? Okay, it's a metaphor. We need to realize it only goes so far. The point is that Jesus will make that servant share in the rule of what belongs to Jesus. Not only will they share in the inheritance. They will share in the responsibility of that inheritance, even as we do right now. Likewise, a parable representing the master's absence falls far short of characterizing the Lord, who declares to us: Lo, I am with you always, even to the end of the age. He's not physically present, but he is spiritually very present. He lives inside of us. And we, he is not only with us, we are with him. Ephesians 2, we're seated with Christ in the heavenly places. Wherever we are, there he is, and wherever he is, there we are. That's what union and communion with Christ is all about. Our Master Jesus knows who is faithful in the execution of his or her responsibility. Right now. He knows right now whether we are being faithful and wise in our care for others. Jesus' return will make public what he already knows. His return will certainly bring reward for those who are faithful, but he knows right now whether we are being faithful and what The unfaithful servant. Verses forty-five and forty-six. But if that servant says to himself, My master is delayed in coming. Here Jesus gives a warning. It is obvious from these verses that he anticipates the time of his absence To be so long or to be long enough so that people will stop thinking about his return. And we know that that was true within the bounds of the New Testament Peter talks about it. Within a few decades, people began to think that Jesus wasn't coming back, let alone hundreds. And a couple of thousand years. Jesus even suggested his servants might give way to wicked actions, such as beating the men and women in their care. And we all know this has happened. It may not be legal now, but up until so many decades ago it was, and practiced And eating and drinking the master's food and drink in excess. And we shouldn't limit our minds to that, or we've lost the analogy. If we were to turn to Ezekiel chapter 16, we're not going there. If we were to turn to Ezekiel chapter 16, where God talks about Israel as the foundling that he finds He rescues and then later marries. We would see that that prophetic passage, like many others talks about Israel's use of its children and all of the wealth that God abundantly poured out on her For her own benefit. In fact, she threw it away to all of her lovers. That's how God describes it. Food and drink are the most simple things In the master's larder. We might think, oh, they go bad. You ever saw that? Oh, these Oreo cookies are going bad. I shouldn't eat I can't say that about a Twinkie, can you? A couple hundred years later, maybe you could. But nevertheless, you know what I'm talking about There isn't one single thing that you or I have that doesn't belong to Jesus. Not one single thing that you or I have received. That hasn't come from him. and wise? Are we ready for the Master's return? Or are we those who have used what belongs to him? For our own entertainment, for our own pleasure. Mispleasure. There's good pleasure, there's bad pleasure. Do you know what I'm Using things for ourselves rather than for the glory of God. First Corinthians tells us that whether we eat or drink a water whatever we do, everything's to be done to the glory of God. And we certainly don't use everything we have to the glory of God. What will the master do to the servant, to the manager that he finds doing these things at his return? Jesus says that the master will return on a day he isn't expected in an unknown hour and cut that steward into pieces. Reminds you of that picture of old Samuel when Saul brings back And we read about Samuel Tekka, there's this old guy picking up the sword and hewing the king, this foreign king into pieces. That's what's here. Very vivid. That's the description of Christ's judgment on those who have abused his servants. The point is The steward will be surprised, and on account of his unfaithfulness, he will be cast out with the unfaithful. The point is: no true believing leader. Peter would ever treat Jesus' disciples with such disregard. You're right. There are people who behave this way. Over the last two millennia, there have been way too many people who believe Who've behaved this way. But they have not been believers for the most part. Probably for every part. Because no true believer would treat Christ's servants in this way, with such contempt and abuse and disregard. Third, knowing and doing the Master's will. Verses 47 and 48 And that servant who knew his master's will, but did not get ready or act according to his will will receive a severe beating. Look at the next verse but the one who did not know and did what was did what deserved a beating will receive a light beating. Notice ignorance is no excuse. Both get beaten. Both. Those who knew what they should be doing and didn't do it, and those who didn't know And didn't do it. Ignorance is no excuse These two kinds of servants show that we are responsible to know the Master's will. That means knowing the Master's Word, the Bible, the Word of God. Furthermore, it isn't enough simply to know what the Master wants us to do. We must be doing it. They're punished because they're not doing it. The man who doesn't do it because he didn't know isn't being punished because of his ignorance He's being punished for not doing what he should have been doing Furthermore, the more we know, the more we are responsible to obey. Everyone is responsible to know what the master wants him or her to do until he returns. Knowing it, everyone is responsible to do it. And so Jesus concludes with these words that many of us had to memorize in Vacation Bible School. Everyone to whom much was given, of him much will Is this for the disciples? Or is it for For the crowd. It's for the disciples. There are few. I've been around. I've been to thirty-six countries. I've been To 50 states, and I've been to Puerto Rico. I have met a lot of believers. A lot. And I assure you that there are few who have been as blessed. As us. And to those to whom much is given, much, much more is Jesus has given us a knowledge of His Word that surpasses many I've been with the short-term mission groups who say, oh, these people they don't need they don't need Bible teachers to come down here. They need health. They need more education. They need this, that, and the other thing. Yes, I'm I praise the Lord that they love Jesus, but their understanding is so shallow. And you know what? It's not good health that's going to make them ready for Christ's return. It's not more education that's gonna and not you know what kind of education I'm talking about here non-Bible. It's not more secular education that's gonna make them ready for Jesus Christ Return. Those are great things. It's not better clothing that's going to make them ready for Jesus' return. It's the word of God that's going to make them ready for Jesus' return. Knowing the master's will and doing There may be times when we wish for Christ's return, such as at usually at election time. But like the disciples to whom Jesus spoke that day in Judea, we too often look for a political solution. You know that's what they were looking for. A political solution to their problems. problem, the overthrow of the Romans. The Romans weren't Israel's problem. Sin was Israel's problem. Too often we're looking for a political solution. We're just like them. Nothing's changed in 2,000 years. Look at history. Everybody's always looking for a political solution. When is the last time That you thought about Jesus' return rather than thinking about the cost of health care The cost of education or retirement. Have we been ready waiting at the door for the master's return, actively engaged in making sure that we are encouraging others to be ready. Actively engaged in faithfully carrying out his commands to love one another. You must consider not only whether you will be ready and watching and actively serving him at his return, but also about whether you are ready. and watching and actively serving him right now. Because he can return at any moment. There's nothing holding him back. Your faithfulness or unfaithfulness will not only be laid bare then, he knows right now whether you're ready. There isn't any, there isn't a room in the house, there isn't a place in your life that he doesn't know about. He is coming. Him find you ready. Passivity is not an adequate response to the coming of Jesus. You are disciples. You must be ready, and by his grace, you will be ready. Because he will make you ready. Listen to this benediction found in 1 Thessalonians Chapter 5, verses 23 through 24. Now may the God of peace himself Sanctify you completely, and may your whole spirit and soul and body be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful. He will surely do it. Listen to that again. Now may the God of peace himself sanctify you completely and may your whole spirit, soul, and body be kept blameless. May it be kept blameless at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He who calls you is faithful and he will do it. Jesus will make you faithful I know you like me. We look at our lives and say we're not ready. You know, we talk about it. I've been ready since I was in eighth grade. I've been looking for Jesus. I One of the things that probably made my wife the saddest is one time when I told her, There's nothing holding me back. I love you, I love the kids, I love my grandsons, but there is nothing Absolutely nothing here that I would hold on to or regret to being with Christ seeing his return or going to be with him. There is not one single solid, there's not one thing But while that may be true sometimes, and hopefully most of the time, it's not true all the time, is it? Because we love our stuff. We love our things. We love doing the things that we want to do. We can't wait You know, you walk through some stores and you see stuff and you just want to eat that, or you want to buy that thing. Because we love the things of this world too much. The comforts of this world, the pleasures of this world. Are we ready? Are we ready? Praise God that Jesus will make us ready. Doesn't depend on us. Depends on him. And so we must look to him For Jesus, who prepares us for his coming. The sacrifices of Israel did not prepare them for his coming. Neither did the washing of John's baptism get them ready for Jesus' coming. Only the righteous obedience and the removal of sin through Jesus' shed blood and the sanctifying work of his spirit makes us ready for his return. Praise God that being found in him, you may be found by him as ready for his coming. You must be ready because when he comes, it will be too late to prepare for the coming of God. Your readiness means being a faithful and wise servant as well as watchful, and that starts With faith, trusting in him, resting upon him for your salvation and deliverance at his remote turn. Salvation isn't something that took place once and for all back when you said, I believe in Jesus. I believe he died for my sins on the cross. Salvation is completed only at his return. On the day of judgment when you are raised from the dead. And glorified together with him and declared by him to be his own. That you belong to him and that he belongs to you belongs to you. That is the vindication of the salvation which He has secured. Our concern must not only be for ourselves, but for the readiness of all other servants of Christ, whom He has placed in our care. Are these children ready? Is our spouse ready? Are those who work for us ready? Are those who we teach ready? Jesus is coming. Look to him to make you faithful and wise. Look to him who will make you ready. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank and praise you for your glorious Grace and mercy. We thank you for the love that you have revealed out of heaven in the coming of Jesus Christ. We thank you, Father, for the privilege of living at a time when we can not only hear the Bible preached, we can own it and read it for ourselves Yeah, it seems like having been given so much That we are less ready than those who had so little. Dear Father, plant in our hearts a longing for the coming of Jesus. A longing to see him and for him to look upon us. But until then, Father, give us the comfort to know that right now he is with us. Right now we are with him, and right now he is making us ready. Dear Father Father, therefore, make us wise and faithful servants who would be used by Jesus to make us Other wise and faithful servants who look for the coming of Jesus Ready and watching. We pray for this in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's close by singing together hymn 320. Rejoice, all ye believers. Hymn 320. Rejoice, all ye believers, and let your lights appear. The evening is advancing and dark