Our text for this morning's message is from the book of Acts, written as we understand it by the uh the Dr. Luke. We both wrote the book of Luke as well as the book of Acts. And in reading this scripture I think of the passage where the Apostle Paul tells us that inasmuch as all Scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching For reproof, for correction, for training and righteousness, so that the man or woman of God might be complete or adequate, equipped for every good work Since he tells us that is so, it's not just his thought, it is God's truth. Since that is so about his word, as we listen to his word read Let us understand that we are not simply to hear it, we are not simply to read it, but we should prayerfully ask that the Lord would apply it to our hearts and wills and cause us to act on it. Let us hear God's holy word. The book of Acts, chapter 4, verse 1 and following. As they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple guard and the Sadducees came up to them. Being greatly disturbed because they were teaching the people and proclaiming Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in jail until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the message believed. The number of the men came to be about 5,000. On the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes were gathered together in Jerusalem. And Annas, the high priest, was there, and Caiaphas and John and Alexander, all who were of high priestly descent. When they placed them in the center, they began to inquire, by what What power or in what name have you done this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them Rulers and elders of the people If we are on trial today for a benefit done to a sick man, as to how this man has been made well, let it be known to you and to all of the people of Israel. That by the name of Jesus Christ the Nazarene, whom you crucified, whom God raised from the dead, by this name This man stands here before you in good health. He is the stone which was rejected by you, the builders, but which became the chief cornerstone And there is salvation in no one else, and there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. Now, as they observed the confidence of Peter and John and understood that they were uneducated And tr untrained men, they were amazed. And they began to recognize them as having been with Jesus. And seeing the man who had been healed standing with them, they had nothing to say in reply But when they had ordered them to leave the council, they began to confer with one another, saying, What should we do with these men? For the fact that a noteworthy miracle has taken place through them is apparent to all who live in Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. But so that it will not be spread any further among the people, let us warn them to speak no longer to any man in this name. When they had summoned them, they commanded them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered and said to them, Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge For we cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard. When they had threatened them further, they let them go, finding no basis on which to punish them. On account of the people, because they were all glorifying God for what had happened. For the man was more than 40 years old on whom this miracle of healing had been performed. This is God's holy and wonderful and true word. Let us pray. Heavenly Father Even today we see changes like this. Things like this occur. Unexpected healing. We see spiritual healing, people who have been in rebellion against you all of their lives, and then somehow, all of a sudden, change. Because your Holy Spirit works upon them. And they now see you as you truly are. And Bow before you and seek to follow you. And their hearts are changed, and they will now praise you. Oh Father. You have given us such wonderful and great things. We who have lived in darkness, to whom sin was so easy and normal and customary. We who are yours, who you have changed, now are able to obey. We are now able to turn away from sin. O Father, cause us to be so filled with this good news that we can be as the apostles were, and say, as they did, we cannot stop speaking. Of what you have of what God Almighty has done for us. We want to tell others. Oh Father, make that so for your people. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I was struck listening to Alex speaking beforehand. There's so much of a world around us it's hard to keep track of what's going on aware I need to find some good places to look for ready information about South America. Because there are all those countries down there and all these things happening that many of us are unaware of. They're not surprising truly. uh because there's wars and rumors of wars occurring all over the place and tumult. We have it in our own streets of people who argue and disagree about one thing or another. And then we hear that in South America And this all happens because we are all men and women who are born in sin. And we live our lives as sinners. Now for some in his mercy they they are changed in the womb, so you have someone growing up in faith, but for many of us I was twenty-nine years old before I was my heart was changed. changed. I was a good churchgoer. I I went to church. I was baptized and went to church and sang in the choir and things like that, but I was not saved until I was twenty nine years old But that is the normal state of affairs. And as we read this text, as we look at this text, we see These obviously the very beginning of the beginning of the life of the church, where the Lord Jesus set his apostles apart to share the gospel of salvation through him. And we see the suffering that they they went under. I mean, no doubt there are many people in South America who are, as he's as Alex spoke, of the pastor who's fleeing from one place to another. uh who are suffering because he is a Christian, not simply suffering because he opposes the government about this or that. He's suffering because he is sharing the true gospel We can think of so many examples in our history of the last century or so. There was a man during World War II in Germany. uh who was a a pastor named Dietrich Bonhoeffer. And he was a pastor in Germany during the time that the Nazis came to power, the nineteen thirties Not everybody knows it, but Hitler was actually voted into office. He didn't just seize power. He was voted in 1933. He didn't he didn't look as evil as he became later, but there really was enough known that you should have known not to vote for him, but still But because this pastor, Pastor Bonhoeffer, knew that he could not keep from sharing the gospel of salvation through Jesus Christ. And as Paul says as Peter says, there is no other name under heaven and earth by which a man might be saved. So if you want to be right with God, Jesus is the only one available. There's no other name. There's no Buddha. There's not Muhammad. There is no other name. He is the only way. And so since Bonover knew that he couldn't stop from sharing, he was imprisoned a number of times by the Nazis. In fact, I think he was he was killed by them just weeks before the prison camp in which he was living. uh was liberated. But from his prison cell he wrote something that we need to think of. Because so many of our brothers and sisters around the world experience this today Bonhoeffer wrote, suffering is the badge of the true Christian. The disciple is not above his master. She's quoting Jesus there. Martin Luther reckons suffering among the marks of the true church. One of the memoranda drawn up in preparation of the Augsburg Confession, which is a Lutheran confession. And similarly defines the church as the community of those, quote, who are persecuted and martyred for the gospel's sake. Discipleship means allegiance to the suffering Christ. And it's therefore not at all surprising that Christians should be called upon to suffer. So that means even us here living in a relatively comfortable suburban Maryland And as I said, three weeks before the end of the war, Bonhoeffer was executed. His faithfulness to Christ led to opposition, then to persecution, and then for him to his death. And so as we s and we as we see in today's passage, the the healing power that we read about, if you look back in the past, in the chapter before, healing that lame beggar, who is the one that the The Sanhedrin, the Sadducees, the Pharisees are all upset, mainly because these guys were healing him in Jesus' name. The healing power that we read about, you know, led the early church to a step in growth, partly because the Lord was giving the apostles this gift of healing for this time. Which would basically be a divine validation of these men are from me. Listen to them. That's why God was doing it at the time. I want to make sure that people listen to these men, these twelve apostles. Because they are speaking on my behalf. And they wrote things that we have here in the New Testament. And so they were doing this these kinds of healings. And so, you know, since the church was infused with the power of the Spirit, was going out into the world. With with his healing power, the church now experienced opposition and its first persecution. They grabbed these guys and just threw them in jail And persecution is an inevitable element of genuine Christian faith. And and you In the Gospel of John, chapter 15, verses 18 to 20, Jesus says, and we've heard these words. Jesus says, if the world hates you, And it's interesting, the Greek word translated if can also be translated since, which makes it more of a given. Since the world hates you, these days it's becoming more and more of a since the world hates you. if you call yourself a a true Christian. If the world hates you, know that it's hated me before it hated you. In other words, they're they're hating you because of me. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. Meaning, if you acted the way people apart from Christ live, the world would love you. No problem. You act like us But because you were not of the world, but I chose you out of the world, because of this the world hates you, Jesus said. Remember the word I said to you: a slave is not greater than his master. If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will keep yours also. So Jesus used this logic. And you know, what's true of the greater, mainly Christ, will be true of the lesser, us. If it's true for me, it'll be true for you, as you follow me. And the reward for following Christ as he calls us is not fame It's not being praised by the world, but it's often persecution. If or at least being mocked and made fun of. But it's not, it's not going to be people embracing you And Paul writing to Timothy to strengthen him in the ministry. I mean Timothy was a young pastor. When Paul wrote Timothy, he said to him, All who desire to live godly in Christ Jesus We'll get praise? No. We'll be persecuted. That's what Paul Paul's, you know, just understand what you've signed up for. Understand what, you know, what this what this involves But it's it's of God. And there is only one God. So I mean don't you know so it's you know you're in you're in the right place, you're in the right doing the right thing, but don't be don't be bothered But this is not all bad. One I I found an expression somebody once said that one advantage of being thrown on your back is that you face heaven. Nice way to look at it. So when the Spirit reigns in our lives, there will be persecution, but a heavenly focus. So how did the early church respond to opposition and what happened as a result? Let's look at Look at that. The first thing we see is the church is opposed. The church is opposed. When the healed beggar entered the so-called Portico of Solomon. Verse 11 of chapter 3, the chapter before what I read, says he's clinging to Peter and John. He's just been healed. And he goes to the portico of Solomon. It's it's you know it reaches up 60 feet to the roof. And you know, this is here at the temple, the temple in Jerusalem. And His joy no doubt was reverberating all around. People were probably wondering who is this guy, what's going on. But the amazing thing I think about is it's not as if it was a city of seventeen million people. There were no doubt a lot of people going like that's Jacob. I've never seen him walk. Not like that. What happened to him? I know that's Jacob. I mean there are people recognized him. And there must have been a buzz. Like How did that how did that happen? And all of a sudden you see, you know, it's like, what in the world's going on? I've never seen he's always been lame. He can't walk like that. And look at him now. So all of a sudden you get this crowd coming around Peter when he winds up saying he's the one who helped me. And you know the presence of this man who was healed. We don't have his name, I'm just saying Jacob, because he obviously had some name. Brings credibility to what the Apostle Peter had just said in verses 12 to 26. He's talking about, he's telling the people, he's preaching to the people there at the temple. And so verses 1 to 4, we have, you know, these the priests and the temple guards, the Sadducees, the Pharisees, they're all upset. And we have the effect happening that people believed. People believed. You know, people in the temple here, they wouldn't have missed the commotion, as I said. And so you have the priests, and these were the people from the tribe of Levi, working at the temple. You have the captain of the temple guard, which is basically the temple police chief. Just like the Capitol there's a Capitol Hill police and you know, here we have the temple, you know, police chief. And the Sadducees came and and broke up the meeting. And but they have five thousand new people trusting in Christ as the Messiah. I mean the vast majority and probably all were Jews, but you know, I mean that's why where the church started. And all of a sudden they believed. And the leaders made the arrest, and they were obviously some people in the crowd who are sort of like, what are you doing that for? Why are you taking them away? But they did And it's interesting, I mean, look at this group, the Sadducees imprisoning the apostles. I mean, there's obviously not much good you can say about the Sadducees. Their opposition came from political motivations. They aren't as involved as the Pharisees in the early persecution against Christ. Because the Pharisees were more involved with that mainly because they were the more theological ones. They were the ones who who were who thought that Jesus was being a blasphemer for referring to himself as the Son of God. man, the Messiah. The Sadducees were worried about losing power. It's almost like a political party. And they were the secular group of their day. They denied the supernatural. They denied evil spirits. They denied angels. They denied the resurrection. It's almost like, you know, sort of somebody who who prides themselves in calling themselves, um, well, you think about various Jewish groups today, uh, you know, a Jew, but they don't believe in God. Or some Christians who would never be, you know, who believe really in almost nothing whatsoever that's in the in God's Word. Why would you call yourself a Christian if you do that? Yet there are people who do it But they saw a threat to the threat to them at the time from the uh apostles. So to them the the idea of a messiah was simply some kind of vague idea, not the idea that God was actually going to bring someone Who is going to be the savior of his people? Which is what God had said he would do. So here we have the Jewish leaders toss Peter and John into jail, and the story continues verses 5 to 7. And you have all these people gathering together. You have all these head people, Annas, Caiaphas, John, Alexander, and they put the they put they put a Peter and the others right in the middle. They start interrogating them. And here you have this very meat mean group of people who are sort of trying to take care of what they might have thought of as these hayseeds from Galilee, who are these hicks from Galilee And what's interesting here is this Anas is called the high priest, but at this point in time it's more of an honorary title. His son-in-law was Caiaphas, and he's the actual high priest. So Annis is the religious boss. So here we have Peter, John, and this heeled beggar. Says he's 40. years old. Like I say, we don't think about it because we see all these disconnected little stories in the Gospels. But there are lots of people who knew this guy. Yeah, they've seen begging at the temple or wherever all the time. Year week after week, month after month, year after year. And all of a sudden this guy that everybody knew probably wasn't a big friend of the Sadducees, but they knew they'd seen him. They now saw him healed. And they really what are they supposed to say? You're not healed? Or they didn't do it? God didn't do this? And they say, by what power in what name have you done this? And they're trying to trap the apostles. Because if they if they get them to give the attribute the healing to any power other than God, they could sentence them to death. Because there's a passage in Deuteronomy that speaks to that, that it would be God doing the healing But this is the keep in mind, this is the same group that had condemned Christ. They're basically blood brothers of the Pharisees. They're different, different emphasis, but they're very similar to the Pharisees. And most of us would be, you know, would be frozen in our seats, like Peter and James and John. Imagine them standing there. I mean, in our better moments reading the story, we imagine ourselves being full of courage But imagine these and we and we've gotten very used to these stories. But imagine being them. And you've just had these people that who you you've you've seen for years as people you should put you should revere. They've seen for years people they should admire. You know, these are your betters. These are your superiors. These are people you need to pay attention to. And now these people are pointing their fingers at you. Well, how does the church respond to opposition? Verses 8 to 12. Peter filled with the Holy Spirit, it says. Filled with the Holy Spirit. It's interesting. Verse 13 says that the Sanhedrin, this Jewish council, noticed Peter and John's bravery Which was amazing in view of the circumstances. They saw their confidence. Their confidence. Now remember these guys What had Peter been doing the night af right after Christ was taken into custody? He denied Jesus once. No, I don't know him. You were with Jesus, weren't you? Oh no, you must be mistaken. I'm certain I saw you with Jesus. No, I tell you, you're wrong. Three times he denies him. Then Jesus walks by. I just, can you imagine how broken he felt? Of course Jesus had to speak to him after he was resurrected. And say, Do you love me? You know, I you know, yes. And reaffirming for him basically, yes, you are my servant. I love you, and I will work through you. And he restored Peter to fellowship. But this is the same Guy, Peter. And here he is all of a sudden being full of full of I mean he just says filled with the Holy Spirit, so you're sort of thinking that's why. And he says, Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ who you crucified. And here he is referencing the scriptures, which we'd read before, Psalm 118. You know, this is a stone that was rejected by you. Remember? Of course, God's going to be fulfilling his word. And that's what he was doing in and through Jesus Christ the Nazarene. And even though they, you know, the these men did not, the Sadducees didn't want to hear about the resurrection. They didn't believe there was such a thing as that. Nobody gets resurrected Peter hurls it at them and they say, you know, Jesus God raised him from the dead, and then he says, verse 12, there is salvation in no one else, and of course that's as true now as it was then, obviously. There's no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we would be saved. I mean, that is the big scandal. The word scandalon in Greek, it's actually there's a Greek word scandalon, from which we get the word scandal. And it means stumbling block. It's sort of an impediment, it's something that's in your way. And the scandal of the gospel, well part of the scandal of the gospel for the modern world, is that he's it. There is only one God. There aren't five billion or six billion because there are that many people. We all come up with our own ideas. All these competing gods or something. There is one. This happens, this, by God's grace, we happen to be following the right, the only one there is And it's not because of me, he chose me he he changed my heart. It's not because I'm smart. It's not because I'm good, because I'm not. I he He knows how sinful I am It's just simply because he decided to set his love on me and change my heart. But that's the scandal. He's it. It's Christ your nothing. It's Christ your judgment. It's Christ or hell. What marvelous gracious aggression on Peter's part. That's it. It's not what they wanted to hear. Although there may well have been someone on their number. Just wondering. I wonder I mean later in in the early books of Ac early chapters of Acts there's a passage there that says, And many priests were becoming obedient to the faith. You no doubt had here and there some people who knew their Old Testament scripture For them it was the only scripture. There was no New Testament yet. And they're going, wait a minute. Wait a minute. They began to think Think about it and wonder. And the Lord changed changed their heart. But that's not the reaction we see here. What we're seeing is, of course, their their mean, vicious, unbelieving reaction. In verses 13 and 14, they see the confidence of Peter and the others. They're amazed. They realize, yes, these guys have been with Jesus. And they saw the man standing there healed with him, which is the whole point. And it's like they can't pretend, well, no, he's not really healed. You know, it's like when you know other miracles and things happen, it's like Lazarus wasn't really dead before. Well no, he was really dead. And these other things. There's not much you you can't say anything. And even Caiaphas, and he's the one who would say to Jesus, what he said about Jesus, it's expedient that one man die for the people, so the whole nation would not perish. He was just trying to preserve his power. He now has nothing to say. We don't have a quote from him about this. So they dismissed the apostles. And verses 15 to 18, they tell them to not talk about it anymore. Don't speak about Jesus. And they they don't say anything about the the the the healing. They don't say anything about I wonder this must be from I mean, what should be your reaction then When you see something like this happen in the world, it's like when you see something happen in the world, are you thinking about what is God doing through this? What is Satan doing through this? We can't know with certainty all these things as we look out at the world around us, but it's one or the other. And when they saw this, they should have thought, this doesn't just happen. God is the one who gives life, God is the one who takes it away. A believing Jew would think that much People don't just heal on their own like that. What's this must be from God? How do we understand that? That at the very least should have been what they thought And yet they somehow are just thinking of politics or or or pragmatism or uh you don't know what. I mean it made no sense. You see something like that. It's like and these are guys who call themselves religious men. And somehow the idea what is God doing here doesn't seem to come in. In verses 19 and 20, we have Peter and John's wonderful reply through the ages. Whether it's rightness out of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. We cannot stop speaking about what we have seen and heard. When I think of a wonderful passage in Daniel, we have Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And they are commanded to bow down to the idol. And they wind up saying this wonderful thing, you know, such as you know, we know that our God could save us. He is mighty and powerful to save. But if not, we will still not bow down. It was interesting when the when the Allies, the English, were trapped on the beaches at Dunkirk It was a marvelous anecdote that gave me chills when I first heard it. And it says something about how today's today's society we wouldn't understand they wouldn't do this anymore. But back then, this was nineteen forty, May of nineteen forty A telegram went from went from some of the forces there to the English, and all it had was free words. But if not, you may be able to Well to save us, brothers back in England. But if not, we'll stay here and fight on So here they're just saying that, you know, this is we know the one true God. Again, it's his mercy and grace that he's revealed himself to us and caused our hearts to know him and changed them and enabled them Us to follow them. But I have nowhere else to go. When Jesus was talking to the disciples and he started to say some things after the Sermon on the Mount that was that were troubled some people, and some left. Jesus said to the apostles, you're not going to leave two, are you? And Peter blessed his heart. He said, where else should we go? You have the words of eternal life. In other words, no one else does. So this is it. So here these men respond with confidence. And with with aggression but with integrity. I mean they're just very, very plain, no compromise. There's an a g a neat anecdote from the uh the early nineteenth century about a a man who was a Methodist preacher in Illinois named Peter Cartwright, circuit riding preacher. He was an uncompromising man. He'd come from Tennessee because of his opposition to slavery. And one Sunday morning when he was scheduled to preach, his deacons told him that President Andrew Jackson was in the congregation. Actually, that didn't. I guess 1820s or something. And knowing Cartwright was used to saying whatever he felt God wanted it to say, regardless of how people might act, which is okay, that's a good he that part of being a preacher is good there. They warned him not to say anything that would offend the chief executive, which probably caused Mr. Cartwright to get his back He stood up to preach and said, I understand that President Andrew Jackson is here. I have been requested to be guarded in my remarks. Andrew Jackson will go to hell if he does not repent. The audience was shocked. And they wondered how the president might would respond to this, but as of the service he told Cartwright, Sir, if I had a regiment of men like you, I could whip the world I mean I hope I don't know enough about Jackson to know whether or not he was saved. I know a number of things he did which I'm not happy about. But uh But yeah, you don't back down. In fact, during the Reformation, there was a guy up in Scotland named John Knox who would who have for some I don't know exactly all the circumstances, but he would often be preaching where the Queen was And there was this Roman Catholic queen who was really ticked off with him. And he'd really get in her face and tell her stuff she didn't want to hear. I'm not surprised she put herself in front of him. It was the Lord, you know The Lord's doing, no doubt. But I mean, this is integrity, the way the apostles responded. You're going to do what you're going to do. If you need to string us up, string us up. If you're going to say tell us to be quiet, well we won't, but I mean, you know, you can tell us what you're going to tell us. But we can't stop talking about Jesus. Jesus. I mean, you know, if you have to shut us up by force, you'll do that, I guess, but you know, can't stop us. They knew who they were. They knew they knew what God had been telling had led them to do And verses 21 and 22, they threatened them further and then let them go. Time would come when they would stop letting them go. They'd wind up just killing them for being Christians. So, I mean that's how the church responds to opposition. It keeps on keeping on I mean it's a good same old same old. You do you do the you do what you're supposed to do and you keep doing it. And if somebody doesn't like it, it's like, well, goes with the territory. As Jesus said, thank goodness he did say this. I will send my spirit to you so that the time will come where you will not know what to say, but the spirit will give you utterance. Will lead you to know what to be able to say. And you can read accounts of martyrs. You know what the word martyr means? It's a Greek word. That's where we get the word. It's sort of an odd little word, M-A-R-T-Y-R. It means witness The word martyr is somebody who was a martyr was a witness of Christ. So that's what you got. So that's how you respond to it. You just keep on doing what you're what you you've got your mo we've got our marching orders from the Lord. I don't mean all of our lives, but in the sense of being ab of sharing the gospel and telling others. Parents, of course, rejoicing together as believers. Parents sharing with their children because, you know, they're not going to learn this from the world. They need to know. It is true, but the world certainly will not reinforce it, so the parents need to teach their children about the Lord. If you've got family members, you care about them more than some other people because you know them. You share it with them. Then you have co-workers that you come to like and joy. Well, you want to share with them. Not during work time, because you know you you owe your employer a day's work, but I mean you share with others So that's how we respond. And then the last thing to look at is why did the church respond as it did? When verse 13 As they understood the confidence of Peter and John, understood they were uneducated and untrained men, they're amazed and began to recognize them as having been with Jesus. They've been with Jesus. It's interesting, the fatal interrogation of Jesus on the eve of the crucifixion had made an impression on the Sanhedrin. These guys have been with him, haven't they? I don't think these Sadducees and Pharisees who'd seen Jesus the night before he was died Would ever they probably went to their grave, either rejoicing at the Lord's mercy on them later, or coming back as a nightmare to them. Because they would always read Rejected. Now you have two pop the two apostles interacting with them, and they can't help. These guys were with him. They could tell. They're uneducated, they're untrained, but when they talked, they were so much like Jesus that the presence of Christ right there and then before them could not be denied. So Peter and John's companionship with Christ had transformed them What the Sanhedrin did not perhaps understand was that the apostles were still companions of Jesus. Of course, now they were indwelt with the Holy Spirit. God had done that to them and for them. So it didn't just happen to everyone who just happened to be anywhere near Jesus. If you were truly his. And the Lord was saturating their emotions. The Lord was compelling their wills. The Lord was energizing their bodies. So that the Sanhedrin was seeing not only them, but Christ. And not only that, but Peter and John, filled with the Holy Spirit, were in constant communication with the Lord. I mean, you think of Paul's later statement was one that they obviously were probably aware of, that kind of thinking, pray without ceasing. So the the apostles were able to respond to opposition as they did because they were walking with Christ. And as a result, the members of the Sanhedrin would have been amazed. This Jewish leadership group. And you know, these pompous, self-consciously superior, heart-hardened group, hardened of the gospel. experienced a kind of wonder and awe. Now that I'm not saying that they were changed because we don't know for a fact of any being changed. I would guess there could be Have been somebody. But you know, somebody may have come to Christ later. But the lives of all who know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior and Lord. The lives of anyone who's truly trusted in Christ. And again, we only love him if he's first loved us. If he's first loved us, if he's changed our heart. Because the first thing he does in you is he changes your heart. You don't you don't exercise your your will and say, I'm smart enough, I think I'll figure it out. I believe Jesus. The only way you're able to do that is because he's already changed your heart. Because in our sin we'll be like the dead the dead men's bones that Ezekiel was talking about. I love it when the spirit says in that passage about Ezekiel and the dry bones. He says, Son of man, can these bones live? And I'm thinking Ezekiel's going like, that's a trick question, you know. I'll bet you could do that if you wanted to, Lord, but you know uh he said his answer is good, it's like you know, oh Lord Like you know. You know the you know where this conversation's going. That's the whole point. In my sin I'm not going to reach for Christ. Like I said, I was saved when I was twenty-nine. I thought I was a believer. I thought I trusted in Christ Christ. I thought I believed. But I didn't. I didn't really. And I didn't truly believe myself to be the sinner before God that I was And I you know the Lord happened to give me a give me a book that was full of scripture, a book called Knowing God by a man named J. I. Packer. I was saved through that book. But it wound up just laying out who is God, laying out the truth of God's Word, laying out that God is holy and sin can't be before him. Then it laid out who I am. And actually for me, then I was laid out. And I was I was convicted of my sin. And I can't think and the all the only reason I was agreeing with what was there was because he was changing me. I mean I come to know that's true because that's what he tells me in his word. Not because I was taking notes the whole time because I wasn't. I don't know which day it was somewhere in April of eighty six when I was twenty-nine years old. But that's what happens when you trust in Christ. You realize that He is God and there is no other. I am a s I am a you know a creature of God. I'm made just like men and women women all around the world. But we're all sinners. We are. We don't follow God all the time. We don't follow God naturally. We're mean, we're nasty, we're we're we're we're we're angry, we're hateful. We might steal something here and there, small things. Lie, cheat Have bad thoughts, lustful thoughts, stuff come to us. We do those, boom, that we're, you know, we're those that that puts us apart from God. And then God tells me, but I brought a I made a way. I made a way for you. You understand? He didn't have to. And you also understand, I deserve God's anger for my sin. He's changing your heart. That's the first thing that's happening if you're convicted of your sin You realize I don't deserve good from God. I deserve his anger. I deserve to be punished. I deserve hell And then it's like, you know, it's then it's almost like you know, pilgrim's progress, and you turn and you look, and you happen to see that hill with the cross on it. And your burden falls off. And it's like He died for me. I remember thinking to myself, I I'd always have known about how Jesus died for someone's sins, but I wound up realizing that he died for me. For my sins. I mean, I believe he died for others too. But the difference was that I knew that he died for my sins. And obviously, not to be selfish, but that made all the difference in the world for me. Just as if it's true for you, it's true for you. Same way, same things, same facts, but it needs to be for each one of us as it's true for each one of us or it's not. If it's not, ask those who love you to keep praying for you. And if if the Lord is drawing you, hopefully he will continue drawing you. But that's what it is. You know those who've been had their hearts changed We get opposition, we get persecution when we're bold talking before people, and we're enabled to do that. But we also have joy, incredible joy. And the Beatitudes, Christ, Matthew 5, the Beatitudes, which is which is basically the fancy word for the blesseds, where Jesus said, Blessed those, blessed this, blessed that, the Beatitudes. It describes the same thing of persecution and joy. He says, blessed, which means you're happy, you're blissful, you know God's favor. He's been showering good things on you. That's what it means to be blessed by God. Blessed are those who have been gotten all sorts of good things from God. Well, that might be true, but what he says is, blessed are those who have been persecuted for the sake of righteousness. Which basically is referring to following me. Because that's what the righteousness is. Not us, per se. For the sake of righteousness, for theirs is what? The kingdom of heaven That's what Jesus says. No matter what your friends think, no matter what the what the media says, no matter what a politician says, no matter what your cousins or your uncles and aunts or your brother and sister who think you're nuts or silly or dumb. It's true. Be at peace knowing it You know, later on when in Acts when the apostles have been beaten up a little bit, it says they went on their way from the presence doing what? Rejoicing. You know, were they rejoicing because they'd been let go? No. That they've been considered worthy to suffer shame for his name. That's the next chapter, 541. When confronted by their enemies, they responded with confidence, aggressiveness, and no compromise. Why? Because they'd been With Jesus. They knew whose they were. I am not my own. I've been bought with a price. The one true God has made me his. So what does this mean for us? When we're filled with the Holy Spirit, Christ is the focus of our lives. And pray that, you know, Lord, you have saved me. I don't know why. I don't think I'm that much. I know my sin. Nobody knows my sin better better than me, except for you. And I know I got a bunch of it. And yet I also know for some somehow, some reason, you've saved me. You changed me. What would you have me do I mean it begins like how do I act with my wife or husband? How do I act toward my children? What does God tell me about how to do those things? No. But, you know, share with others. Are you among those for whom it can be said we cannot stop speaking about Christ? See, the Holy Spirit does not promote himself. He promotes Christ. The Holy Spirit is meant to be something that points us to Christ. So we must promote Christ. We must promote Christ May the Lord do that in our midst. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, your words are strong and powerful, and we are weak and sinful And yet that in your perfect plan and will, this is how you do your will. Using weak, sinful, imperfect vessels such as us. Such as Peter, such as the persecutor Saul, who became the Apostle Paul, the adulterer David You use to rule your people and write songs that you desire for us to to sing and to pray today. All these things. Oh Father, we pray that you would so fill us with joy and delight and thanksgiving and the power of the Spirit that we will be among those for whom it could be said we cannot stop speaking. about what you have done for us. And brother, what he might do for you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.