And now for the reading of God's Word from the book of Acts, Acts chapter 4, verses 1 through 22. That's about half of the chapter, but um the first half of the chapter. Acts chapter 4, verses 1 through 22. And here we are. This continues on this section we've been in for a little while. You know, back in Acts chapter 3, Peter and John had been going to the temple at the hour of prayer There was a man there who had been lame from birth. We will see in our passage that that man was more than forty years old. He had been lame his whole life long, more than forty years, from the time of his birth. Peter was used by God to heal the man. The man was able to rise up and walk and leap and praise God. And as this happened, Peter was then able to explain to the crowd that was drawn. There was a crowd that drew around Peter and John because They had known this man, and they had known that he was someone who had been lame all his life long. And they had seen something amazing take place. And so Peter was able to use that opportunity to explain the power of Jesus Christ and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. And um our ch our passage today follows up on that as you know Peter has been speaking about Jesus Christ in the wake of doing this great healing miracle. This draws the attention of the authorities, and we see the authorities respond. to what Peter is doing and saying. And this is what we read of in chapter four. Um Pete Peter draws this crowd And this crowd draws the attention of the authorities, and it draws their attention to Peter. And so now listen to what we read, to what happens next. In Acts chapter 4, verses 1 through 22, and give your attention to it as God's word, for that is what it is. And as they were speaking to the people, the priests and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them, greatly annoyed. Because they were teaching the people and proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they arrested them and put them in custody until the next day, for it was already evening. But many of those who had heard the word believed, and the number of the men came to about five thousand. On the next day, their rulers and elders and scribes gathered together in Jerusalem with Annas the high priest and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and all who were of the high priestly family. And when they had set them in their in the midst, they inquired By what power or by what name did you do this? Then Peter, filled with the Holy Spirit, said to them, Rulers of the people and elders. If we are being examined today concerning a good deed done to a crippled man, by what means this man has been healed? Let it be known to all of you and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom you crucified, Whom God raised from the dead, by him this man is standing before you well This Jesus is the stone that was rejected by you, the builders, which has become the cornerstone. And there is salvation in no one else, for there is no other name under heaven given among men by which we must be saved. Now, when they saw the boldness of Peter and John and perceived that they were uneducated common men, they were astonished. And they recognized that they had been with Jesus. But seeing the man who was healed standing beside them, they had nothing to say in opposition. But when they had commanded them to leave the council, they conferred with one another, saying, What shall we do with these men? For that a notable sign has been performed through them is evident to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and we cannot deny it. But in order that it may spread no further among the people, let us warn them to speak no more to anyone in this name. So, they called them and charged them not to speak or teach at all in the name of Jesus. But Peter and John answered them. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge. For we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard. And when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding no way to punish them because of the people For all were praising God for what had happened. For the man on whom this sign of healing was performed was more than 40 years old. The reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it, may he add his blessing to the preaching of it in our midst this day. Well, here in this text we see really the first real instance of strong opposition to the apostles in their preaching of Jesus Christ that we have seen recorded so far in the book of Acts at least. The first strong instance of opposition to them preaching Jesus Christ, it comes in the form of force. It comes in the form of power and authority directed against them. Maybe there was just a slight hint of this earlier on in the book of Acts, so back in chapter 2. There on the day of Pentecost when the Spirit had come down from heaven on the people gathered together. When the Spirit had come down upon the people, there had been a little bit of mocking among the crowd. They had said These people are just filled with wine. These people are just drunk. They're not acting in their right mind. So there was a little bit of opposition to them then. But that at that point it was really just mocking. It was really just words that were spoken with no power or authority behind them. Now we're talking about a council. Now we're talking about rulers and authorities who have the ability to make things happen. Rulers and authorities who have the ability to put the apostles in custody As they do in verse three, who have the ability to arrest them as a response to the preaching of the gospel, which is what they do here in verse three. Rulers and authorities among the people Who have the ability to put these men even on trial. Isn't that essentially what they're doing? They haul these men in the midst of their counsel, and they essentially put them on trial for what For doing a good deed? For healing a man who was unable to walk. Notice that this is what Peter points out in verse 9. He points out the irony of what they are doing. They're essentially um threatening to punish him for what? For doing a good deed At the same time, you know, they have this desire to punish them down in verse 21. They're just looking for a way to stop these guys from spreading the message they're spreading, wanting to punish them. Why? For doing a good deed. For healing a man, for being used by God in the healing of a man, but essentially healing a man. Healing a man more than forty years old who had been unable to walk. Suddenly the man is able to walk. How is that any grounds for punishment? You know, notice what this council is doing, what these authorities, these rulers are doing. They're really just trying to intimidate them, aren't they? Isn't that what they're doing? They're trying to drag them in front of a lot of people with with influence and power and stand them in the midst of this group of people, make them feel intimidated? Isn't that why they're surprised by the response that Peter and John actually give? Now, in verse 13, we notice that they respond to being brought in front of the council with boldness. And the rulers who have gathered them together, they're surprised by this, because these are common uneducated men. They have put the pressure on these men, and these men have not buckled. These men have instead remained in a posture that you could even describe as defiant. Don't they even defy the authorities in this text? Notice they they put it back on the men who are putting the pressure on them. These men are putting the pressure on them not to speak. You know, they're they're kind of acting like You know, they're kind of acting like like that police officer who pulls you over for speeding and then gives you a warning. And doesn't actually give you a ticket but kind of gives you a warning. It's kind of a a little bit of uh an instance of kind of letting you know that their authority is real and it's there. But they're not going to touch you, but they're going to they're going to hope that you kind of take that message away with you and that you then go on and no longer cross, you know, you know, step outside of the rules It's kind of a show of authority what they're doing. That's what they're trying to do. They're hoping this will take care of what they perceive as a problem And yet, what is Peter's response to this? Again, he's brought in front of the this council of men. He responds You know, in a way that surprises the council. You know, we saw in verse eight that it's because he was filled with the Holy Spirit. So he had this great um power That was driving his speech. The Holy Spirit himself was driving his speech. And that's why he was able to stand firm and stand with boldness, even though he didn't have training. or ability ordinarily to stand up under such pressure. But then even after they try to intimidate him and let them go, the response is still sort of a response of defiance As we read in verse 19, you know, notice their their bold response. Again, again, the pressure is being put on them. A little bit of an intimidation factor is being brought against them in the name of the authority and influence that these men have. But Peter and John respond in a way that again could be described as defiant in verse 19. Whether it is right in the sight of God to listen to you rather than to God, you must judge. For we cannot but speak of what we have seen and heard. So again we hear bold defiance in answer to the authorities. Again, this amazing thing has been done, this thing that You know, uh the the rulers and authorities can't explain it. Nonetheless, they want to oppose it. Why do they want to oppose it? What's the reason why they want to oppose it? Now it starts out in verse 2. Verse 2 mentions how these rulers and authorities are greatly annoyed. Why? They're greatly annoyed with Peter and John. They're greatly annoyed with what Peter is saying. Why? Why should it be annoying to them what Peter and John are saying? What Peter is saying? Well the reason we see in verse 22 is because they're proclaiming in Jesus the resurrection of the dead. And so there's a little bit of a historical background here where you saw see in verse 1 it mentions the Sadducees Who are the Sadducees? They are these aristocratic ruling class people, men, who serve on the council in Jerusalem. who are basically in charge of um of overseeing Jerusalem and overseeing things that happen in the temple and in the city of Jerusalem. But here's why they're annoyed. The Sadducees were known for not believing in a future resurrection from the dead. They were known for not believing in a future eternal afterlife They believe that basically this life was it, and then when you come to the end of this life, there is nothing more But notice what that belief implies. Because when you don't believe in an afterlife, that's actually a pretty convenient position for those in positions of authority and power to hold. Because if you're in a position of authority and power, you want the people under your authority to feel like What is what the situation is in this life today is all that it's ever going to be. And when that situation has you on top and then on the them on the bottom, Then it kind of helps your case. It helps you to hold that power over them. Now you can notice how oftentimes those who believe in eternal life, including Christians, Those who believe in a life to come are oftentimes bolder and more courageous in being able to do things that are done for the sake of more than just life. This life. So sometimes, you know, those who uh you know those who sometimes make the biggest difference in this life are those who believe most strongly in the life to come. And because they believe in the life to come, they believe that that this life is worth living for more than just what is present in this life. And so sometimes they're able to be bold and courageous in the things of this life. Because they're living for more than j just this life. Now again you can see how how the Sadducees, in in the attempt to keep their authority over the people, how it would at least be convenient for them to hold the position that they hold. Now surely they had Theological reasons. Surely they would have put forth reasons why they don't believe in the resurrection from the dead. But again, a basic analysis of human nature and a basic analysis of those kinds of things can help you to understand why it would still be convenient for them to oppose the resurrection from the dead apart from theological reasons. Notice it's so often um you know uh uh uh societies where there is maybe some form of dictatorship or totalitarianism What kind of philosophy do those societies tend to promote? They like to promote a form of philosophy that is oftentimes atheistic, oftentimes materialistic Why? Because it helps their case. It helps them to keep the power they have over the people. If the people are not allowed to believe in God and not allowed to believe in the hope of a future life then it helps those in power to hold the power over those that they are in power over. So again, all that is simply to kind of give some extended reasons why the Sadducees might have a desire to oppose the preaching of the resurrection. And so again, they do what they can. They haul these men in in front of them. They essentially hold a hearing. They essentially hold a trial. But a trial for what? For doing nothing but speaking in the name of Jesus and also doing a good deed, healing a man. They're opposed to what the apostles are doing, preaching Christ. They attempt to put the pressure on them. They attempt to stop them from preaching in this name. They flex their muscle against them. But everything they do instead backfires. Everything they try to do to stop these men from preaching Christ ends up backfiring. All the pressure that they exercise against the preaching of Christ backfires. The pressure that is put on these men seems to become the occasion in which their conviction grows even stronger and grows even bolder. And again, we've already seen why that is. In verse eight, Peter was filled with the Holy Spirit. He was filled with the third person of the Godhead But one who is able to accomplish supernatural things in the midst of God's creation. The Spirit fills him with a boldness that he otherwise would not have had. He didn't have it through his training He didn't have it through his education or lack thereof. An uneducated common man stands up to the rulers, stands up to the powers. It's because he has the Holy Spirit. And also, we see the Holy Spirit not only gives him the courage to stand up against these men, but to go on standing against these men. Once again, as we see in verse 18, they have tried to flex their muscle. And what does he say He basically says, you know, we can't promise to do for you what you're asking us to do for you. You want us to stop preaching in this name. But what can we do? We've received our commission from God, and what can we do in verse 20? We cannot but speak of what we have seen and what we have heard. What have they seen? What have they heard? They've seen Jesus Christ raised from the dead. In essence, having seen him, having uh conversation with him, having shared the same space with him. They have seen the good news. The resurrection of Jesus Christ means that sin and death have been overcome. Having seen Jesus Christ raised from the dead, they have seen the good news. And they've seen the good news in such a way that they can't help but speak it. Have you ever had that experience in life where there's something that you've experienced, something that you've seen, something that you've heard? And what you've seen or heard or experienced. It's so great that you can't help but tell someone about it. Well, this is exactly what Peter and John are experiencing. Again, they have seen Jesus Christ raised from the dead. They have seen the reality of the good news, the resurrection that is to come for the rest of us in Christ. And being animated by that good news, they find the strength to stand up against the strongest of worldly powers. Again, worldly power that truly has real power. Worldly power that has true teeth, true ability to make them suffer, true ability to hold them back in their tasks, they can put them in jail. They can put them on trial. They can flex their muscle against them. But the gospel itself gives to them the power and that by the work of the Holy Spirit. Again, they have the Holy Spirit, they're able to stand up against worldly power. And this is what we see in this passage. Again, here it is, the first real instance of strong opposition, and it won't be the last time. You know, these disciples, don't you think they might have been surprised by what they're experiencing here in our text? You know, they they sure seem to have a hard time with the fact that Jesus himself had to suffer under the power of the authorities because Every time Jesus spoke about suffering or implied that his own mission would imply suffering, they resisted him. They didn't agree with him. They had a problem with it. And when Jesus actually did go and suffer and actually did go and die, they were disheartened. They thought that this was as far as could be from what the Messiah was here to do Well, they had um had a problem with his suffering beforehand, but then here they are. We're on the other side of the resurrection. They have seen the outcome of the death of Christ. They have seen that it has led to resurrection. They have seen that his death is not the end of the line. But then now here they are. They have a resurrected Savior. He's ascended into heaven. He's enthroned in heaven. He's given them the Holy Spirit. Wouldn't you think that if they are servants of that Savior? That possibly they might not have to suffer. If the one they serve and the one they preach is now enthroned in a throne on heaven and has sent his Holy Spirit, Wouldn't you think that maybe those who serve that king would no longer have to suffer? And yet, as we understand, as you continue to read in the book of Acts. That continues to be the way it is for the apostles. It continues to be the way it is for the church. Yes, Jesus Christ going up onto a throne into heaven does not mean that his church no longer has to suffer. But what does it mean? It means that when they do suffer, it's he who sustains them. It's he who does what he has done here in this text. It's he who gives them boldness by the Holy Spirit to suffer and even to resist when needed, when called for. What do we see in this passage? One thing we see very clearly, beloved, is how the gospel can often be a threat to those who are in positions of worldly power and authority. Those who would seek to to exercise influence and power over people oftentimes would rather not have those people under their charge exposed to the gospel. And again, we see this in the case of some of the nations around the world where people are ruled in very authoritarian, totalitarian ways, and in some of those nations What's the last thing that some of those rulers want to see happen? The last thing they want to see happen is their see their people become Christians. That's because you know the gospel gives to Christians, it gives to those who believe it An inner sort of freedom, a sort of freedom that gives them courage and boldness even to stand up against rulers and leaders in this world. The gospel gives hope. The gospel gives real hope where worldly rulers and leaders would like to see their people not have any hope that they can escape from their rule and their authority So this passage does show us how the gospel so often is opposed, or worldly leaders often feel threatened. By the reality of who Jesus Christ is as a Savior. Because He's someone who sets people free by His grace. But the other thing we see, of course, is how Christ is able to hold up Those who hold to him. Those who hold fast to him are those who are held fast by him. And we again saw that in the example of Peter and John. We saw how Peter and John put under this uh uh enormous pressure from the authorities. were able to stand fast in the greatness of who Christ was. And it was the Holy Spirit who was sustaining them. There's a strength that we're able to find. You know, Peter and John, they're not just super saints. They're not just those who were somehow able to do this. And then who are we? Would we be able to do this as well? They were held up by the strength of Jesus Christ. They were held up by the strength of the Holy Spirit. We have Christ. We have the Spirit. If that moment comes for us, if a similar moment comes for us. We have the same Christ, and we have the same Spirit. And Christ is able to sustain those who belong to Him. And the Spirit gives us strength by which He's able to sustain those who belong to Him So we ought to believe that what God has done for Peter and John in this case, He can also do for us. But let's not forget that when we have such thoughts. It doesn't apply just to times of particular difficulty or crisis. Let's keep in mind that our whole lives in this world, the whole of our lives as Christians, Is a life of ongoing struggle and conflict, isn't it? Because we face and we encounter every single day of our lives worldly power, worldly forces, worldly authorities that would rather not give room for the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's a struggle for us to carry on, faithful to the gospel of Christ, faithful in our belief in Jesus Christ. So we need Christ and we need the Holy Spirit, not just in particular times of difficulty or crisis. Really our whole lives long. For our whole lives as God's people is characterized in this way. You see, this is not just an isolated incident. Surely it is an isolated incident as we're able to point to it in the scriptures. We're able to circle the chapter and the verses that encompass it But at the same time, it's a picture of the whole of our lives in Christ. For all the way through our lives in Christ, we will face difficulty, we will face opposition. But in facing opposition, God is able to use those situations. God is able to use those circumstances by which to confirm us, by which to strengthen us. By his Holy Spirit. So that the gospel is seen. The gospel and the greatness of who Christ is becomes visible and becomes seen by the ways that God sustains us. in our steadfast profession of it. And so as you think upon this passage, may you think upon it again with regards to situations you might face, particular circumstances of difficulty. But also even more, may you think of it in light of your whole life. The whole Christian life is a struggle. The whole Christian life is a life of conflict where we face opposition But let's hold fast to the one who has shed his blood for us, for he is able to strengthen us, he is able to keep us, he is able to uphold us, and he promises that he will. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we look to you and we give praise to you that you have sent your own Son for us to die for our sins. Thank you, Lord, that you give to us a gospel that sets people free and that also sets us free We pray for the Spirit. We pray that you would continue to strengthen us by that Spirit, by Him who is able to fill us And who is able to give us words, and who is able to give us boldness in times when we need it. Oh Lord, our whole life is a life of difficulty and opposition against you Or grant that we would be faithful to you and serve you well and be good witnesses of what you have done for us. We ask all these things for the sake of Jesus, our Savior. We know He is risen from the dead. We praise you for that. We ask that His resurrection life would continue to be at work in us. We praise these things in His name, for His sake. Amen.