Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Daniel, we'll continue our study there tonight in chapter 5. I believe you'll find that on page 881 of the Pew Bibles. And I'll be reading the whole chapter. It's a long one. If you need to sit down, please feel free to do so Daniel chapter five, beginning at verse one. Let's give our attention to the Word of God. King Belshazzar made a great feast for a thousand of his lords and drank wine in front of the thousand Belshazzar, when he tasted the wine, commanded that the vessels of gold and of silver that Nebuchadnezzar, his father, had taken out of the temple in Jerusalem be brought. that the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines might drink from them. Then they brought in the golden vessels that had been taken out of the temple, the house of God in Jerusalem And the king and his lords, his wives, and his concubines drank from them. They drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone Immediately, the fingers of a human hand appeared and wrote on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace opposite the lampstand. And the king saw the hand as it wrote. Then the king's color changed. And his thoughts alarmed him. His limbs gave way, and his knees knocked together. The king called loudly to bring in the enchanters, the Chaldeans, and these astrologers. The king declared to the wise men of Babylon, Whoever reads this writing and shows me its interpretation shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around his neck and be and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom Then all the king's wise men came in. But they could not read the writing or make known to the king the interpretation. And King Belshazzar was greatly alarmed, and his color changed, and his lords were perplexed The queen, because of the words of the king and his lords, came into the banqueting hall, and the queen declared, O king, live forever. Let not your thoughts alarm you or your color change. There is a man in your kingdom in whom is the Spirit of the Holy Gods. In the days of your father, light and understanding and wisdom like the wisdom of the gods were found in him. And King Nebuchadnezzar your father, your father the king. made him chief of the magicians, enchanters, the Chaldeans, and astrologers, because an excellent spirit, knowledge And understanding to interpret dreams, explain riddles, and solve problems were found in this Daniel, whom the king named Beltishazzar. Now let Daniel be called, and he will show the interpretation. And Daniel was brought in before the king. The king answered and said to Daniel, You are are you are that Daniel. One of the exiles of Judah, whom the king my father brought from Judah. I have heard that you that I have heard of you that the spirit of the gods is in you, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom are found in you. Now the wise men, the enchanters, have been brought in before me to read this writing and make known to me its interpretation, but they could not show the interpretation of the matter. But I have heard that you can give interpretations and solve problems. Now, if you can read the writing and make known to me its interpretation, you shall be clothed with purple and have a chain of gold around your neck and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom. Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let your gifts be for yourself, and give your rewards to another. Nevertheless, I will read the writing to the king and make known to him the interpretation. O King, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar your father, kingship and greatness, and glory, and majesty. And because of the greatness that he gave him, all peoples, nations, and languages trembled and feared before him, whom he would he killed, and whom he would he kept alive, whom he would he raised up, and whom he would he humbled. But when his heart was lifted up and his spirit was hardened so that he dealt proudly, he was brought down from his kingly throne, and his glory was taken from him. He was driven from among the children of mankind, and his mind was made like that of a beast. And his dwelling was with the wild donkeys. He was fed grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, until he knew That the Most High God rules the kingdom of mankind and sets over it whom He will. And you, His Son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this But you have lifted up yourself against the Lord of heaven, and the vessels of his house have been brought in before you, and you and your lords, your wives, and your concubines have drunk wine from them And you have praised the gods of silver and gold, of bronze, iron, wood, and stone, which do not see or hear or know, but the God in whose hand is your breath. And who whose are all your ways you have not honored? And from his presence The hand was sent. And this writing was inscribed. And this is the writing that was inscribed. Mene, mene, tekel and parsin. This is the interpretation of the matter. Mene. God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end. Techal, you have been weighed in the balances and found wanting. Peres, your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians Then Belshazzar gave the command, and Daniel was clothed with purple, a chain of gold was put around his neck, and a proclamation was made about him that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom. That very night Belshazzar, the Chaldean king, was killed. And Darius the Mead received the kingdom, being about sixty-two years old. This far in the reading of God's Word. Oh man. Please be seated. Father in heaven. We ask for your guidance now. We ask that you would by your Spirit lead us. For we need eyes to see and ears to hear. And we'd ask, Father, that they'd be granted to us. As the Spirit works. Lead us, lead me. Father, help me to speak truth. Your very words. Edify us. Convict us of sin. And remind us of all your promises, which are yes and amen in Christ. We ask this in his precious name. How serious are we about Christianity? About our relationship to God through the Lord Jesus Christ. Do we understand it to be a matter of life and death, really? Or is this something we just do one day a week? As Moses was writing his last book of the Pentateuch, Deuteronomy, as he got to the end, he wrote this The words of God. See now that I, even I, am He, and there is no God beside me. I kill. And I make alive, I wound, and I heal. There is none that can deliver out of my hand. As he finished that song, he told the Israelites, Take heart To all the words by which I am warning you today, that you may be, that you may command them to your children. That they may be careful to do all the words of this law. And then he added this: for it is no empty word for you, but your very life. And by this word you shall live long in the land. Moses was serious. The question is, how serious are we about our relationship to God through Christ? I think that question is being asked tonight as we look at this chapter five in Daniel Certainly, Belshazzar's father, King Nebuchadnezzar, was serious about his commands. We've seen that. Even in the first four chapters. As Nebuchadnezzar has that first dream And he calls in those who might be able to interpret it. He commands them to tell him the dream and then its interpretation. And if they didn't, he threatened to tear them limb from limb that their houses would be laid in ruins. And because they couldn't, he commanded that they all be slain. He was serious about his commands He was serious as he set up the image of gold. That ninety foot golden statue, as he called everyone from the nation to come and bow down to it, and if they would not bow down, he threatened them. with the fiery furnace. Nebuchadnezzar was serious. But so were Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. As they defied the king, and they worship the one true and living God. And then we see the humbling of Nebuchadnezzar in chapter 4. Which is seemingly set next to this chapter five for a reason Tonight I want us to see that the God of creation reveals himself to all, but passes over those who refuse to revere him. The God of creation reveals himself to all, but passes over those who refuse to revere him. Tonight, three simple points. First, a supernatural show, secondly, a supernatural signification, and then finally that supernatural selection. Again, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be asking yourself, how serious am I about this Christianity? Well, first the supernatural show. Every time and in every way that the Lord God makes Himself known to humans To his creatures, it is indeed supernatural. That means above the natural. Why am I saying that? Anytime God reveals Himself to His creature, it involves the infinite, one who is not bounded by time and space. Communicating the infinite to the finite, that's us. Every time. We're limited by time. We're limited by our bodies. We're limited by space. And we cannot understand. We cannot comprehend that which is unlimited By time and space. Thus, whenever the Infinite One, the only Infinite One, God Himself, the God of Creation, communicates to His creatures It's by definition supernatural above nature. We need to grasp this truth if we're going to begin to grasp this prophetic book of Daniel. Every time and in every way God reveals Himself to us as creatures, it is a supernatural event. We may be tempted to look at this chapter five and say, well the supernatural uh event was those fingers appearing, that hand appearing out of nowhere and writing on the plaster of the wall. That was supernatural. We're tempted to think that way But I want us to be thinking that the truth really is every revelation of God to his creatures is supernatural. The current king, Belshazzar, was privileged to receive all kinds of revelation. Now just so we understand, Belshazzar has now taken the throne in Babylon. His father, Nebuchadnezzar, likely dead. We don't read that in the Text, but this is not a historical text, meaning Daniel's not providing a history of Babylon for us, although he is writing historical events He's not writing the history of Babylon. And so I think we can assume Nebuchadnezzar at this point in time is dead, and now he's been replaced on the throne. at this point by a son. Some commentators I believe might take him as a grand son, as I heard even this morning But for our purposes, we understand that Belshazzar is in line. He's now the king. And he has been privileged to witness many revelations of God. He likely knew of the golden image and the fiery furnace. Both set up by Nebuchadnezzar. He likely knew that there were these three who were cast into the fiery furnace, who came out without a a singe on them, without a smell of fire. He likely knew of Nebuchadnezzar's downfall and subsequent rise from the beast of the field. Indeed, we're even told that in verse 22, here in this chapter. And you, his son, Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this. Nebuchadnezzar was driven from among men and ate grass like an ox. His body was wet with the dew of heaven until his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers, and his nails were like birds' claws. But then he's taken from that estate and put back on the throne for the glory of my kingdom. My majesty and splendor was returned to me. Belshazzar knew of this. He'd been privileged to hear likely the words of his father. Nebuchadnezzar. It has seemed good to me to show signs and wonders that the Most High God has done for me. How great are his signs, how mighty his wonders! And then at the end of chapter 4, how Nebuchadnezzar blessed the Most High, praised and honored him who lives forever. You see, Belshazzar was knowledgeable. He had received revelation from God. Several revelations which set the stage, the foundation that this king should have been standing upon. But then we see the current estate of the king's heart, despite these revelations, despite probably his actual vision. Certainly hearing of these things, knowing of these things, these revelations from God. He was not ruling or living in such a way that was consistent with that which the Lord had shown to him And that's how this chapter opens. He makes a great feast for the Lords and drank wine in front of the thousands, and then he commands the vessels of gold and silver that Nebuchadnezzar had brought out of the temple of Jerusalem. He uses them for himself, his lords, his wives, his concubines to drink wine from. It's a picture of a celebration, of a victory. It's a picture of celebrating this great nation that he now sits enthroned on. But it's also a picture of what he perceives to be likely as a triumph over the God of Israel. How do we know that? Because they drank wine and praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. They're taking the vessels from that temple that they knew of, being the house of God in Jerusalem, and in a sense mocking the living God. Giving credit to idols, false gods. So once again At this point in the history of redemption, God condescends and he enters into his creation to reveal himself and his will to his creatures. To right a great wrong, to exalt himself. This fantastic display of the power of God to those who witness it To those who are able to see the fingers, the hand, the letters, the words, and yet those who view it are completely lost. God chooses a rather unique way to reveal himself here to Belshazzar and likely all those in the company. Remember, he's in front of a thousand. He's drinking wine in front of a thousand, and now this image appears immediately, as he is giving praise to the gods of gold, silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone, immediately. The fingers of a human hand appear and write on the plaster of the wall of the king's palace. And the king saw the hand. We know the writing, we know what was said, we know what was written. Daniel interprets it, he recites it, mene, mene, techel, and parson. But think about this supernatural show. A supernatural revelation. This is the only instance recorded in the scriptures where we have fingers or a hand disconnected from a body, suddenly appearing and writing. It's revelation of God, the special revelation on a wall for these few to see. If all thousands saw it, it was still a few This was a unique way of God to communicate with his creatures. But it was also fairly unique in that it was given to these pagans, those who were celebrating their victory, their kingship, their prosperity, their superiority. This in fact is the third revelation given to those who were not the people of God at that time that they were given. The Word of God more times than not is given to the people of God in general, but here it's given directly to those who are not the people of God. So significant. And yet these could not understand it. This fantastic show, the supernatural event, not the king, not his advisors, as he calls loudly. To bring in the enchanters, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, the wise men. Follows the pattern that's been given already in Daniel, the pattern of King Nebuchadnezzar. But we see once again that these had no ability to understand this revelation. These who were taunting God, mocking God, refusing to honor God, were unable to discern truly what he was communicating, they needed an interpreter. We'll speak to that in a moment in our second point, but for now we merely want to consider the fact that this sign was given, this vision of divine revelation, the third time And each time, including the one now before King Belshazzar, the revelation of God was unintelligible to those who refused to honor, worship, and revere God. That brings us to a very general precept of Scripture. That those who are outside of Christ, those in whom the Spirit does not abide are unable to grasp, to understand the very word of God, they are blind to it. It doesn't mean that God has not revealed Himself, He has. But they're blind. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God for their folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. You see, in this case, as in many cases, pride, the sin of pride, was blinding These, blinding them to the revelation of God. It's as if pride was forming a veil over their eyes, clearly over their hearts. Such that the revelation of God was unintelligible. It could not be understood, for pride had corrupted the hearts of these such that they would not allow it, meaning the Word of God, to penetrate and take root. We might consider the parable of the soils and see that the seed or the word of God must be planted deeply in order to sprout and produce a crop. It must be planted in the right kind of soil. But when the soil is filled with pride, the seed cannot be deeply planted, but remains on the surface to be stolen by Satan. Let me ask you tonight, if you're trusting in Christ tonight, are you praising God for the ears? That you've been given. Hearing ears, seeing eyes. Bartimaeus was blind and asked the Lord Jesus Christ for sight. And once it was given by Christ, what did he do? But he followed Jesus. What a gift! To be able to follow with new eyes, able to see Christ. See, once you were blind, but now you see. Are you praising God for the sight that you've been given? Such that you can see the narrow gate now and enter through him. It brings us to our second point, a supernatural signification. Well now the king calls Daniel. There was some understanding clearly that this writing was important. Just like King Nebuchadnezzar in his first dream. Which caused him to be very disturbed, very troubled. His sleep left him. Because he knew that there was something divine about the dream that he had had, and then Belshazzar is acting the same way. The king's color changed. His thoughts alarmed him. His limbs gave way, and his knees were knocking together. That is one scared man. It's a dramatic impression that this hand appearing had upon Belshazzar. And then because no one could interpret. Now we see Daniel's reputation comes to the fore as the queen has to tell the king, look, I know there's this guy. And whom is the spirit of the holy gods? You see, Daniel's reputation goes before him. We're not sure exactly when this takes place. This particular text is not chronological. We'll read of Belshazzar later on in Daniel. So we're not quite sure what year this was, but we do know this. Daniel's reputation precedes him. People know who Daniel is. They know what he's been able to do. He has been reflecting the light of God. He's been very salty. And people know it. And so the queen reveals that to the king. And as a result Daniel was brought in before the king. And now Daniel's promised much in return for his interpretation, and Daniel says, Well, you keep that. Let me tell you. what God has revealed. Now we know that this message was divine, it was from the Lord God Almighty. Why do we know that? Because Daniel was able to understand it, and Daniel had received revelation from God in order to proclaim it. Look at verse 24 just for a moment. As Daniel is called in, and as he reviews the history with Belshazzar, Verse 24, then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed. See, Daniel's been made to know, he's received a revelation himself from God, that indeed this hand was from God, that God sent it, that this is a message from God, that this inscription. was from the living God. From God's presence, the hand was sent, the writing was inscribed, and now comes the interpretation. God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end. You've been weighed in the balances and found wanting. Your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians. In short. God is sovereign of all. He's numbered the days of Babylon. And in his wisdom, the Lord is determined to bring Babylon to an end, exactly what he told Nebuchadnezzar. Secondly, that God has evaluated Belshazzar. He's put him on the scale. And God has found Belshazzar deficient and wanting. And thirdly, the kingdom has been divided. God has divided it. He's given it to whom He desired. You see the focus in this interpretation? It's not on Belshazzar, it's on God. God is the actor, the living God of creation. Everything up until this point had been focused upon a false God, upon a false king. And now God is turning the tables back to focal point upon him. Notice all these prophecies were written in the present tense. There's nothing in this message, this revelation of God, that was conditional. All of these events indeed had already happened. He has numbered the days. He has brought the kingdom to an end. Belshazzar has been weighed, he's been found wanting, and the kingdom has been divided and given. The God of creation, the sovereign God, is executing his most holy and perfect will And as a result, Daniel is lifted up, and ultimately Belshazzar is cast down. That very night, Belshazzar the Chaldean king was killed. And before that, Daniel becomes the third ruler in the kingdom. And the kingdom is divided. Darius the Mead receives the kingdom. Once again, this pictures the truth of Scripture. That God saves the humble, but the haughty he brings down. Psalm 18. That the Lord of hosts has a day against all that is proud and lofty, against all that is lifted up, and it shall be brought down, brought low. Isaiah chapter 2. Or even as we've studied the Beatitudes, Matthew 5, verse 10, blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And later on in Matthew, we'll read in chapter 23: whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. See, this picture here in chapter 5 is exactly that which we read throughout all of Scripture. Brothers and sisters, tonight, tonight as you trust in Christ, you've been given gifts. If you're trusting in the Lord Jesus tonight, you've been given the gift of faith. You've been given the gift of the abiding of the Spirit. You've been given the gift of understanding Scripture. Not necessarily in that order. But all of them you've been given. And now, like Daniel, you're called to use these gifts. The question is, how will you use them? How will you use your faith? Knowing that the gates of hell shall never prevail over the church. How will you act knowing that the Holy Spirit continues to abide in you, the comforter, the protector? The helper is with you. God will never leave you nor forsake you. How will you act before others? Consider how Daniel did. How will you use your gift of understanding? The natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. Their folly to him, he's not able to understand them because they are spiritually discerned. Will you keep it to yourself? Or will you take it out to those who are lost in darkness, just as Daniel did? Do you see how I'm saying that God reveals Himself to everyone? Those who were lost in darkness couldn't understand, but Daniel was there to interpret for them. That's just one way. Will you take it out to those who are lost in darkness? That brings us to our third point. A supernatural selection. Well, if this passage tells us nothing else, it does tell us that God chooses who He will save and who He will pass over. This passage uh reinforces what Jesus said. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him. It reinforces the fact that Jesus chose his disciples, that they did not choose him. It reinforces what Paul wrote of. In chapter nine of Romans, which we read tonight. Actually, this was before what we read tonight. Jacob I loved, but Esau I hated. And the Westminster Confession of Faith picks this up by the decree of God For the manifestation of his glory, some men and angels are predestined unto everlasting life, and others are foreordained to everlasting death. That's the teaching of Scripture. That's the truth. Praise God for His truth. So as we've seen from these revelations, these interpretations given to Daniel, the Babylonian kingdom was to come to an end and did come to an end. It was first given to Nebuchadnezzar. as his dream was interpreted. And now as the handwriting was on the wall and that was being interpreted, we read, God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end, and God gives the kingdom to whom he desires. Kingdom is divided and you give to the Medes and Persians. And the Lord gives his kingdom to his people. God is the one who chooses. And as we consider these two chapters set next to each other, chapters four and five, we see a difference. We can compare and contrast, and it's good for us to do to understand how God works. Both Nebuchadnezzar and Belshazzar were sinners. Think of Nebuchadnezzar. Think of his pride. The facts recorded by Daniel tell us that he was a prideful man. It's difficult to imagine one who is more prideful. Indeed, Daniel gives us a full compliment of his pride, a complete description of what was in Nebuchadnezzar's heart. And we know. And we know that in order to address his pride as he lifts himself up and ascribes his majesty, his kingdom, to his own power, God must lower him down to a a beast of the field To deal with his sin of pride. Nebuchadnezzar had exalted himself as he ascribes power and majesty to his own strength. He is full of pride. Even the golden image speaks of Nebuchadnezzar's pride. 90 feet tall, six feet wide, calls the nation, even the world to come down and bow before it, neglecting God, replacing God with this Image he had created, seeking to create his own everlasting kingdom in the hearts and minds of the people of nations. The pride of Nebuchadnezzar was deep. His heart was filled to overflowing with himself. He had completely and utterly neglected and attempted to cast off the God of creation. Now think of Belshazzar. Think of the description of Belshazzar's sin and contrast it with Nebuchadnezzar's. They're both prideful men. But this is how Belshazzar's pride is represented by Daniel. They drank wine, praised the gods of gold and silver, bronze, iron, wood, and stone. They took the vessels out of the temple. They used them, they mocked God, they drank wine. And they praised idols. The idea of celebrating that victory, celebrating kingship, reveling And sitting on the throne of the most powerful kingdom of the world, victory over Israel, and need over the kingdom of God. Both were prideful. Yet the description of Nebuchadnezzar's pride seems to go well beyond, from a human viewpoint, that of Belshazzar's. And then consider that Nebuchadnezzar himself received a warning through Daniel. As this Second dream of Nebuchadnezzar is interpreted. Daniel says to Nebuchadnezzar, Oh, let my counsel be acceptable to you. Break off your sins by practicing righteousness and your iniquities by showing mercy to the oppressed. That there may perhaps be a lengthening of your prosperity. He was also given twelve months after he receives this warning. After he receives this warning from Daniel, he's given twelve months to turn, to repent. He doesn't. He's brought low. To purge him of his pride. But he lives. He's restored. Belshazzar received no direct warning, no time to turn. Indeed, it's immediate. They use the vessels, they ascribe glory and power and honor to false gods. That night he's dead. God selected, he chose. In his holy wisdom, God chose to save Nebuchadnezzar and his In his pure, his perfect wisdom, God chose to pass over Belshazzar. At least that's what it seems from the scripture we have. Similar sins And yet in the Lord's wisdom he chose Nebuchadnezzar. What shall we say then? Is there injustice on God's part? By no means. He will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who can resist his will? There's the complaint, isn't it? As we read these two passages side by side, aren't we receiving the possibility of that complaint coming to the surface? As we receive and read of this history of redemption and fix our minds upon the similarities and then the different results, might we be inclined to conclude that this was just not just or fair? Yes, God makes a supernatural choice. He did so with regard to the kingdom. And now he does so with regard to these individuals. He determined to give Nebuchadnezzar a specific warning by and through the prophet Daniel. And God brought Nebuchadnezzar low and seemed to have changed his heart as Nebuchadnezzar makes that public profession of the goodness of the eternal God and his kingdom. But Belshazzar was not given a specific or direct warning. Not to repent or turn away is received by his father Nebuchadnezzar. Yes, he received the indirect warnings. He was the one who was watching all of this. And yet his pride does not appear to be as deeply rooted or at least as detailed as his father's, and he is the one struck down, with no indication that he rose again. Many would say that this just and so just doesn't seem fair. God was making a sovereign choice between these two. He was determining to have mercy on one and passing over the other. People are clearly able to make that claim. But it has no basis in truth. God is a just God. He is sovereignly able to choose those who will come and be with him forever in glory. He's the creator God and possesses every right to build his kingdom and populate it with whomever he desires. Here then is the answer to the complaint. Belshazzar's actions may have seemed minimal in comparison to his father's. But the heart of Belshazzar was dark, and it refused the light that it had been given. Again, verse 22, and you, his son Belshazzar, have not humbled your heart, though you knew all this. See, in passing over Belshazzar, God merely left him in the condition that Belshazzar desired. A heart full of sin, a heart which loved and cherished his sin, a heart which rejected God, a heart which refused to honor God. The complaint has no basis. The real question tonight is whether or not if you're outside of Christ. You desire to stop rebelling. You desire to turn and put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible tells us that everyone who does that who trusts and believes in the Lord Jesus Christ will indeed be saved from his or her sins. The problem does not lie with God and his sovereign choices. The problem lies within your sinful heart tonight. If you're listening to this message tonight and you have been in rebellion, loving your sin, hating God, running from Christ, The fault lies within you, not within God. You are the reason. It's your sin. It's your rebellion that you love and remain in. The tonight, the call is to listen to the revelations that you've been given from God Almighty to hear his voice, to heed his warnings, which are replete in his word, which have been laid upon your heart. to confess your sin before him and repent of it. That means to turn away from your sin and turn to God through Christ. To trust in him alone for your salvation, for he is the narrow gate. And the only way that you can have true life, stop deceiving yourself. Stop blaming God and hear the call of Jesus to you tonight. Listen to me diligently and eat what is good, and delight yourselves in rich food. Incline your ear and come to me and hear that your soul may live. Those are the words of Christ The revelation of God is clear and convincing and persuasive because it is absolute truth, it is absolute authority, and it is the promise. That Christ will return. And if in your in rebellion tonight there is time to turn to Christ He will come to judge the world, to separate the sheep from the goats, to bring his bride, the church, to his home, and to cast all others into the lake of fire. So here's the call. Believe upon Christ. Reject your sins. Plead for mercy in the blood of Jesus. It's the God of creation. Reveals himself to all, but passes over those who refuse to revere Him. How serious are we about our relationship with God through Jesus Christ? Brothers and sisters, it is a matter of life and death, as we have those two set forth before us here in the prophet of Daniel. The call tonight is to choose life, to choose Christ, to believe upon Him to your salvation. Amen. Father in Heaven. Oh Lord God, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the narrow gate. We thank you that Lord God, He is life. And we ask, Father, that you would continue to draw us to Him, that you'd continue to draw more to Christ Jesus. That you'd help us, Lord God, to be those who love you so much that we cannot keep within us What you've revealed to us and that we would proclaim it from the rooftops. Lord God, there are so many who are lost in darkness. Help us to shine forth brightly for Christ. And Father, continue bringing those lost sheep to this place, to other churches where your word is proclaimed boldly. Help us, Lord. Do your will. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.