All right. As we start tonight, we're going to be taking a look at four shorter catechism questions and answers, because so we're going to go through them very quickly But as we do, let's start at Luke. Luke chapter 1 67. Luke chapter 1 verse 67. Give attention to God's word. And his father Zechariah was filled with the Holy Spirit and prophesied, saying, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people. and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David, as he spoke by the mouth of his holy prophets from of old, that we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all who hate us. to show the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant, the oath that he swore to our father Abraham, to grant us that we, being delivered from the hand of our enemies, might serve him without fear. holiness and righteousness before him all our days, and you, child, will be called the prophet of the Most High. For you will go before the Lord to prepare his ways, to give knowledge of salvation to his people and the forgiveness of their sins because of the tender mercy of our God, whereby the sunrise shall visit us From on high, to give light to those who sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace. Let's pray. Father our God, we ask that you would be with us tonight, that you would guide our study, that you would help us as we consider The preface to the Ten Commandments. Guide our hearts now, Lord God, that we might see why. You put this preface there, what it means for us, how it helps us to understand all of your ten words or your ten commandments to us. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, let's see. If the Christies are on, can I ask you to admit people that are entering now? All right. Sorry. Well, let's uh review where we're at with regard to our study of uh Of the shorter catechism. Last time we looked at question 39. What is the duty which God requireth of man? The answer to that question was the duty which God requireth of man is obedience to his revealed will. And as we considered uh that question, uh we asked this, that the way of salvation for sinners like us is solely through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, who has lived a fully righteous and thus obedient life. Then came the question, does that mean that the law is done away with? Does the person and the work of Jesus do away with the law And we saw no it didn't. What did God at first reveal to man for the rule of his obedience? And the answer was the rule which God at first revealed to man for his obedience was the moral law. So as we talked about the moral law, we went and spoke about the three kinds of the law that are set forth in the Old Testament. We took a bit of time to consider the ceremonial or the cultic law, which were the sacrificial laws, all the commands that God had given the Old Testament saints in order to enter into his presence through the tabernacle and then through the temple We discussed the civil law, which were the laws specifically for the nation of Israel as a nation under God, a body of uh of God um that were set apart and they had their own laws that were only for their nation. Those were the civil laws, those of also expired with the nation with exception to those uh general purposes or uh general considerations That are set forth in the laws, which would be precepts for us as well. And then finally there were the moral laws, which we're going to talk about a little bit tonight So here we are. We're getting into some new things tonight. And the first question, after question 40, is 41, where is the moral law? Because we did say that the moral law continues for us. So we would want to know where it is summarily comprehended. And the answer is that the moral law is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments. Well, where do we see that in Scripture? Yeah. Sorry folks, let me get back to this. Okay. Deuteronomy four? Verses 12 and 13. Then the Lord spoke to you out of the midst of the fire. Now this is Moses recounting what happened on Mount Sinai You heard the sound of words, but saw no form. There was only a voice. And he declared to you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform. That is the Ten Commandments And he wrote them on the two tablets. A stone. So what Moses is saying, at least in part, is that the law of God, the moral law of God, was Are the Christies on the Um okay. Could the Christies allow people to enter who are coming in? Because I I'm having a difficult time doing it. Thank you. So as we read the answer to question forty-one, that the moral law is summarily comprehended in the Ten Commandments. The writers of this question and answer clearly understand that the Ten Commandments are a mere summary of the moral law And we know that, that they are a summary, because of what Jesus Christ does in the Sermon on the Mount. Opens up portions of the Ten Commandments. Jesus Christ tells his disciples that there are other aspects To the Ten Commandments that are not set forth in the commandment itself. So, as we consider the moral law of adultery You shall not commit adultery. We see as Christ opens it up that this goes well beyond uh a physical interaction between man and woman. It goes to the thoughts. It convicts us of lust And so that commandment clearly is much broader and includes more things than were set down merely in the one command. We see it as well in you shall not murder. If we are angry with someone, Jesus Christ has told us we've broken that command. And so the Ten Commandments is a mere summary of the moral law, and that's why they wrote it in that fashion. If we were to open up the larger catechism And Lord Willing will do that as we study the Ten Commandments a little bit. We'll see how full the moral law is. And again, the larger uh catechism is really just skimming the surface And so that's why they wrote that the moral law is summarily comp in the Ten Commandments. And I should have been on this slide as I was discussing that We move on to question forty-two. What is the sum of the Ten Commandments? And the answer is the sum of the Ten Commandments is to love the Lord our God with all our heart, with all our soul, with all our strength, with all our mind. and our neighbor as ourselves. We know that Jesus Christ was the one who summed up the moral law in this fashion As he is asked by the lawyer, which is the great commandment, Jesus answers in this way, and the writers of the shorter catechism Recorded that as their answer. Basically, you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, and all your mind This is the great and first commandment, and the second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Now we see as Jesus Christ sums up the moral law, which is in fact itself a summary. He boils it down to two heads. The first dealing with our relationship to the Lord our God. And we can take each one of the first four commandments and say that they all hang under this single great command to love God. To love God with all of our being. And so each one of those first four commandments would be included within this Summary. The same for the last six commandments that deal with our relationship with our neighbors. And that includes everyone around us. So to respect and honor your mother and father, to um Avoid coveting to speak the truth, to not steal all of these can be summarized in loving our neighbor. If we're loving our neighbor, we're not coveting. If we're loving our neighbor, we're not stealing. If we're loving Our neighbor we're not lying if we're loving our neighbor we're not murdering But for loving our neighbor, we are honoring our mother and father. And so we see the sum of the Ten Commandments here as Jesus gives it to us. Question 43. What is the preface to the Ten Commandments? And I think we know these words. I am the Lord thy God. Which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. And there it is in Exodus 20, verse 2. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. That's as is put forth by the English Standard Version. What does it teach us? And we want to spend a little bit more time on this last question tonight than we did on the first three. What does the preface to the Ten Commandments teach us? And I would say it teaches us at least three things, as is set forth in this answer. The preface to the Ten Commandments teaches us that because God is Lord and our God and Redeemer, therefore we're bound to keep. His commandments. And so they point to actually three different aspects of God. And the writers of the shorter catechism indicate that this is why this is why or what the preface is telling us And so you see one, two, and three right there. First one will be that God is the Lord, second will be that God is our God, and the third will be God is our Redeemer. Well first, God is Lord. Well where do we see that? In the in scriptural nearly uh we need to go to the first chapter of Genesis. where God made all things. Well that would put him in the category of God being the Lord, God being the only God, God being the living and true God The one who made all things from nothing. But then we come to verse 27 of the first chapter. And we read, so God created man in his own image In the image of God, He created him, male and female, He created him. So God is our maker, He's our creator. And that's in essence what the writers are saying, that the preface the Ten Commandments tells us at least in part that if God is our Maker, if He has made all things, He is all powerful, He owns all things, including us, then That flows into every single commandment. It's the reason for our obedience, at least one of the three reasons. There are likely more. But it's a primary reason that God is our maker. He is our possessor. He owns us. And as our maker, we owe him every single duty that he calls us to. You should keep that in mind, and that's why it's part of the preface. He created us in his image. Secondly, God is our God. Now that comes directly out of the covenant, the covenant that was made with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The covenant that was made with us as well. I will establish my covenant between me and you, and that's a reference to Abraham and your offspring after you Well, we know that Abraham is the father of faith. He believed and it was credited to him as righteousness. And if we believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, then Abraham becomes our father, so to speak. We are in the covenant with Abraham. We are his offspring, spiritual offspring, so to speak. Establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring after you throughout their generations, for an everlasting God to be God to you, and your offspring after you. So God has entered into covenant with us. God has condescended. He has lowered himself down to enter into covenant, to bring us into a covenant with him, and as a result, Part of the promise, one of the greatest promises in the covenant is that he has promised to be our God. The God of creation, the God of all things, has covenanted to be our God. And as a result, we owe him again every single duty that he requires of us. That's the second reason. That's the second thing within the preface. What's the third? God is our Redeemer. And that's why we read Luke chapter one at verse 67. Now Luke chapter 1, beginning at verse 67, is Zechariah's song As a result of the birth of his son John the Baptist He is filled with the Spirit. And so Zechariah, the Levite, prophesies. And what we read was his song or his prophecy about Jesus Christ, about his son John the Baptist But within this song, within this prophecy, Zechariah tells us why indeed we would obey God. Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, for he has visited and redeemed his people and has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. He's visited us. He's redeemed his people. Because we've been purchased, because we've been bought back, because we've been brought out. And we'll read that in a moment. We owe God everything. This seems to be the most significant focus, I think Of the preface to the Ten Commandments, or at least that's how I take it. I am the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. The others cannot be overlooked, they should be understood, and I think rightly so. But most of the words in this preface are about the deliverance of the Israelites. It's about being brought out of the bondage. It's about being brought out of slavery That's redemption. He's visited and redeemed his people and raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. That horn of salvation is a reference to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the Lord Jesus Christ is of the house of David. That's how he redeemed us. That's what Zechariah is prophesying. That's what he's singing about. That we should be saved from our enemies. Again, who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. We should be saved. The Israelites were saved. They were redeemed. They were bought back. And this is a primary reason for this prelude. This is a primary, this is a significant, most significant point to the prelude to the Ten Commandments the reason that we would obey God. We have been saved from our enemies, from Satan, from sin, from death, from the hand of all who hate us And that salvation shows the mercy promised to our fathers, that we being delivered from the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear. There you have not the conclusion of this prayer, but close, that we, being delivered, being removed from the hand of our enemies, being having the bondage to sin broken, the chains have fallen off. might serve him, meaning God, without fear, in holiness and righteousness. What does that mean? It means keeping his word, keeping his moral law. All the days of our lives. Peter writes something very similar in his first letter. Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance, but as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. God is called us. What does that refer to? God calls all. We see that in Isaiah. We see the general call that goes out. A call to common and taste, a call to feed upon Christ It goes out to all, but only those who are elect, only those who have been chosen, only those who have had their hearts regenerated Receive the call, and it becomes effectual by the work of the Spirit. So he who called you is holy And so this is a reference to those who haven't truly been called by God, and He has made that call effectual within their hearts. And as a result of being called, you see what Peter is saying Our work then, our call then is to be holy. Now, as we consider this preface just very broadly and generally We see that there are three things that the writers have pointed out, but I want us to focus on that last one as we complete our study tonight. I'm the Lord your God who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery. The emphasis is not on creation. The emphasis is on being delivered from bondage. The emphasis is not on the first birth, but the emphasis is upon the second birth or the new birth. For being born again. That's the emphasis. And so as we think through this, as we think through this, this is the preface to the Ten Commandments It is so, it becomes so very clear that these commandments were not given so that the Israelites might be saved, but they were given because they were saved. They were given because they were delivered. They're given to us for the same reason We have been delivered. God has broken our bondage. Our enemies have been defeated by Christ. And as a result The Lord has called us to live in a particular way. We shall be holy, we are to be holy, because He is holy. As the Lord gave the covenant to Abraham, he told him to walk before him and to be blameless. You see, he didn't say, Well, Abraham, I'll give you the covenant, I'll enter into covenant with you if You do walk before me and be blameless. No, he tells him to be blameless, to walk before him, and then he immediately gives him the covenant. It was not a condition to enter into the covenant. It was as a result of entering into the covenant that Abraham was to do this. And we see the same thing with regard to the preface. to the Ten Commandments. They're given to us, given to Christians, to live in a particular way, having had our bondage to sin broken Who brought you out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of slavery? What a great blessing. Well, next week, next time we meet, we're going to talk about Lord willing the first commandment. And uh here we have it, which is the first commandment. The first commandment is, and if some of you were here, I was going to be asking that question, but no one is, so There you go. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. So I think we can all get that one correct. What about 46? What is required in the first Commandment. The answer to the first commandment require us to know and acknowledge God to be the only true God and our God. And to worship and glorify him accordingly. What is forbidden. Do you see how the moral law is a summary as those who even wrote the shorter catechism are going to the positive and the negative. What's required, what's forbidden. It's more than just the commandment itself. What is forbidden in the first commandment? The first commandment forbiddeth the denying or not worshiping and glorifying the true God as God and our God, and the giving of that worship and glory to any other which is due to him alone Finally, what are we specially taught by these words before me in the first commandment? Answer These words before me in the first commandment teach us that God, who seeth all things, taketh notice of, and is much displeased with the sin of having any other God That will be for next time. There's a lot there. And that's just a preview