All right, very good. Let's begin. We're going to continue our study tonight of the shortest catechism. Number 38 would be the one we'll be focused upon Turn to Matthew chapter twenty-five. I'll read there beginning at verse thirty one. Let's give attention to God's word. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another, as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. To replace the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you for me. On the foundation of the world. I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison. And you came to me. And the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty, and give you a drink? And when did we see a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them, truly I say to you, as he did it to one of the least of these of my brothers, he did it to me And it will say to those on his left, depart from you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. For I was hungry, and you gave me no food, I was thirsty, and you gave me no drink, I was a stranger, and you did not welcome me, naked, and you did not clothe me, sick and imprison, and you did not visit me Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister Then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Let's pray. Father, as we have gathered together tonight and as we have read your word, we ask now that you add your blessing to it and guide and direct our hearts tonight. As we study this very important doctrine of the benefits believers receive at the resurrection, we ask, Lord God, that you'd help us. Guide our hearts. We will be so very thankful of what Jesus Christ has done and what you have promised. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen Well a bit of review just so we remember where we're at. We've been talking about effectual calling And the benefits of it. Effectual callings, the work of God's Spirit, convincing us of our sin and misery, enlightening our minds in the knowledge of Christ and renewing our will. whereby he persuades us and enables us to embrace or trust in Jesus Christ as he is freely offered to us. us in the gospel. Our focus has been what are the benefits that flow from that effectual calling? What are the gifts that we receive? So we've read that defectual, those that are effectually called do in this life participate in or partake of justification, adoption, and sanctifying. And the several benefits which in this life do either accompany or flow from them. And then as we studied those, we saw that the benefits Which accompany or flow from justification, adoption, and sanctification, assurance of God's love, peace of conscience, joy of the Holy Ghost, increase of grace, Perseverance to the end. Now, we moved from this life to the benefits which believers receive from Christ at death. So we've seen these categories. In life and now at death, souls of the believers are at their death made perfect in holiness, and do immediately pass into glory The bodies still being united to Christ do rest in their graves until the resurrection. That's the one we studied last week when we broke this down. Trying to understand what it may meant to be made perfect in holiness, to pass immediately into glory, being united to Christ and resting in our graves until the resurrection. Well, tonight, what is it that we want to think about? Benefits that believers receive from Christ at the resurrection. So we've seen during this life, at death, and now at the resurrection. And here's the answer we Took a look at this on Sunday briefly. At the resurrection, believers being raised up in glory shall be openly acknowledged and acquitted In the day of judgment, and made perfectly blessed in the full enjoying of God to all eternity. Well, there's our answer, at least given to us by the folks that wrote the shorter catechism. Now we want to see, are they right? Is this actually in the Bible? Are these uh part of the word of God, all of these benefits. Raised up in glory, openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment, and made perfectly Blessed. Is that anywhere in the Bible? What do you think? Yes? No? Yeah. First, raised up in glory. Let's talk about that a bit. Can the dead be raised? Can the dead be raised? Some people are shaking their heads saying yes. How do we know that? How do we know that the dead can be raised? Yes, got some examples of it, certainly, actual examples in Scripture. But uh this is what the Apostle Paul does. Right? He he asks this question. Apostle Paul is that guy who who knows that there are questions, the doctrine. that he's teaching. And so he poses the questions himself and then he goes about answering them. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Someone will ask How are the dead raised? What kind of body do they come? Foolish person. So here what he does is he creates an analogy. He he talks about something, he writes about something that people are going to know. What you should know does not come to life unless it dies. What you sell is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as He has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own And so he's asking the folks that are reading this to consider that which they know. Matthew Henry puts it this way as he's considering the Apostle Paul's words to the former. The Apostle replies: meaning, there are two questions here. Can the dead be raised? And if so, And what kind of body? What does that look like? So he's answering the first question: can they be raised? And he replies by telling them that this was brought about by divine power. Very power which they'd all observed to do something very like it year after year. In the death and revival of the corn, he picked he picks out corn, could pick out wheat Any kind of crop where the seed which is dead, so to speak, goes into the ground and becomes something quite different as the Lord brings it to life. Therefore it was an argument of great weakness and stupidity to doubt whether the resurrection of the dead might not be affected by the same power So what's Paul saying? Paul's saying that it's God who can do this. And we see it happening all around us. Not the same kind of body, obviously. We see it happening. They saw it happening. And that's the argument that Paul is being is using. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. But he's sown perishable. What is raised is imperishable. What is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, it is sown in natural body, it is raised a spirit spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. Paul is is taking that seed, which is dead. Right? And he's thinking about that which God creates out of that. So a whole ear of corn. So it is with the resurrection of Us sown perishable, raised very different, imperishable, sown in dishonor, raised in glory, sown in weakness, raised in power, sown in natural body, raised in spirit spiritual body. So we can't see within ourselves really the resurrection, right? Because as we are, as we die, we're going to become something that we're not. That's what Paul's trying to convey. Raised up in glory. Didn't he say somewhere that we also like that moving growth That's exactly what he was saying right there. That's what exactly was saying. So how are the dead raised? First he's answering the question that the dead indeed are raised by the power of God Then the question is, the second question is, well, how? How are the dead raised? What does this look like? And so he continues in this 1 Corinthians chapter 15. The first man, Adam, became a living being, last Adam. Who's the last Adam? Jesus Christ became a life-giving spirit. It is not the spiritual first that is first, but the natural and then the spiritual. First man was from earth, a man of dust. How was Adam formed? He was formed out of dust. Alright, the second man is from heaven. As the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust. That's us. And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, of Adam, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven Jesus Christ. He's describing to us what it's going to look like. Now, we don't really know, do we? But he's saying we're going to be like Christ. Love. And this is exactly what the Apostle John writes, right? In his first epistle, chapter three. We are God's children now, and what we'll what we will be Has not yet appeared. But this is a great butt, right? He qualifies this, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him. Who's the he? When he appears. Second coming. We shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is, raised up in glory. You see where they're getting this from? So that's the first part, raised up in glory. The second part is openly acknowledged and equ acquitted. Openly acknowledged You get the sense that this is kind of a courtroom setting, openly acknowledged and acquitted. What is this day of judgment? Because it's openly acknowledged and acquitted in the day of judgment. judgment. Is there going to be a day of judgment? Yeah. Low trumpet in Zion, this is from the prophet Joel. Sound an alarm on my holy mountain, let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord, that's the day of judgment, is coming. It is near. Now when was Joel writing? A long time ago Ago, more than 2,000 years. Day of darkness and gloom. He's describing the day of the Lord, day of judgment, a day of clouds and thick darkness, like blackness There is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people. Now Joel was writing in this context of the locusts that had come, that were coming. But he is analogizing the locust coming to the day of judgment, the Lord's day, day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. Is the day of judgment coming? Yes What is this? Obadiah writes, for the day of the Lord is near. Again, you remember what Joel said. He also said it was near. Upon all the nations, it's not just on one, all the nations. As you have done, it shall be done to you. Your deeds shall return on your own on head. A bit terrifying. Obadiah Chapter one, Day of Judgment, Second Corinthians, not just the Old Testament. So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good or evil. I want to make sure we understand that this is reality. This is coming. The what? In Greek it says being Oh I don't I don't know I don't know. Okay, I'll have to look that one up, but don't answer to that one. So we have the idea. Judgment Day, the day of the Lord. It's coming, it's not yet. It will be when Christ returns. But on that day, those who are in Christ will be openly acknowledged. Openly acknowledged. Do not fear those who can who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. He was speaking to his disciples, who he's now sending out To proclaim the truth. This is what he's telling them before they go out. He continued, Jesus said, Is, but even the hairs of your head are all numbered, fear not. Therefore, you are of more value than many sparrows. He's sending them out into a dark world. So everyone who acknowledges me before men, I also will acknowledge before my Father who is in heaven. But whoever denies me before men, I will also deny before my Father who is in heaven. Openly acknowledged. If you confess Christ here before men, this is why we have members, new members come to the front and publicly profess their faith. confessing your faith you're professing Jesus for men and God acknowledge for my father who is in heaven this is what Christ does is you confess Him. Openly acknowledged. Revelation 3:5: the one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book. Never I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. We get the sense that Jesus Christ will profess this throughout all of heaven, throughout all of glory. I will confess his name before my father and before his angels. How many angels are before the Father? I learned a lot. A lot I mean legals won't be like sand grains of sand on the beach, angels gotta be similar number. I mean that's serious. When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all his angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Jesus Christ sitting on his throne, openly acknowledging all who have confessed him Before him will be gathered all the nations. This is what we began with. He will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates sheep from the goat. Place the sheep on his right, the goats on his left. He is separating. In that separation, he is acknowledging. King will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom of Caribbean from the foundation of the world, in open acknowledgement. And in open denial. And he will say to those on his left, Depart from me. He does not acknowledge me before his father. And then finally, if you just think of Romans chapter eight here, therefore now no condemnation. Christ Jesus. That's an open acquittal. There's no condemnation. There will not be a pronouncement of guilt, a pronouncement of innocence in Christ. The spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ, Jesus from the dead, will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit who dwells in. No condemnation, an open acquittal. Finally, made perfectly blessed Made perfectly raised up in glory, openly acquitted, and acknowledged in the day of judgment, and finally made perfectly blessed. Are we blessed today? Are we perfectly blessed today? This is what the Westminster Larger Catechism writes on this topic, and I just wanted to put it here because it's false. It's full in terms of this uh this perfection and blessing. Let's just down to the middle, speaking of what shall be done for the righteous or to the righteous day of judgment, where they shall be fully and forever freed from all sin and misery. filled with inconceivable joys, a perfectly holy and happy both in body and soul in the company of innumerable saints and holy angels, but especially in the needed vision and fruition of the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ and of the Holy Spirit to all eternity. He just put it in such a wonderful Now we're gonna go to scripture and see how they did that. Right. John chapter 12, if anyone serves me where I am There will my servant. The idea of my Christ. That's the idea of being perfectly blessed, being in his presence forever. Forever. First Thessalonians chapter 4, for the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, with the shout of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ. Will rise first. Then we who are alive, we're left, we caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air, and so we will always be with the Lord. That's the central idea, isn't it? Being with our God, our trying God. No more separation. Nothing to separate us. Everything to join us. for eternity. And perfectly blessed. Psalm 16, 11, this is such a wonderful verse. Scripture, you make known to me the path of life in your presence. There is fullness of joy. At your right hands are pleasures. Evermore. Simple verse, but so complete. So complete. Then in the writer to the Hebrews in chapter 12, you come to Mount Zion The city of the living God. That's the idea. The heavenly Jerusalem to the innumerable angels in festival gathering and to the assembly of the firstborn. who are enrolled in heaven and to God, judge of all, the spirits of the righteous made perfect unto Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant. That's That's being perfectly blessed. And then Paul puts it this way in 1 Corinthians chapter 13, that is the love chapter. So think of it. Maybe we should think of it a little bit differently tonight. When I was a child, I spoke like a child, I thought like a child, I reasoned like a child Child. When I became a man I gave up childish ways. Now we see in the mirror dimly, but then face to face face. Now I know in part, then I shall know fully, even as I have been fully known. Well that's a skim over this subject. It's so full. It would take us a long time really to dig Big into this more completely