Well good evening everybody. Let's turn to John chapter 20 as we uh We're going to be considering again this what we call the hypostatic union, the single person of Jesus Christ, the two natures. And tonight we're asking that question, how did the Son of God become man? John chapter 20, beginning at verse 19. Jesus has gone to the cross, has been buried And he is now risen from the tomb. Let's give attention to God's word. John chapter 20, verse 19 On the evening of that day, the first day of the week, the doors being locked where the disciples were for fear of the Jews, Jesus came and stood among them and said to them, Peace be with you. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his side. And the disciples were glad when they saw the Lord. Jesus said to them again, Peace be with you. As the Father has sent me, even so I am sending you. And when he had said this, he breathed on them and said to them, Receive the Holy Spirit. If you forgive the sins of any, they are forgiven. If you withhold forgiveness from any, it is withheld. Now Thomas, one of the twelfth, called the twin, was not with them when Jesus came. So the other disciples told him, We have seen the Lord, but he said to them, Unless I see in his hands the mark of the nails and place my finger into the s mark of the nails and place my hand into his side, I will never believe Eight days later, his disciples were inside again, and Thomas was with them. Although the doors were locked, Jesus came and stood among them and said, Peace be with you. He said, Thomas, put your finger here and see my hands. And put your hand and place it in my side. Do not be do not disbelieve, but believe, Thomas answered, My Lord and my God Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen, and yet have believed. Thus far in the reading of God's word. We'll stop there tonight. Let's pray. Our Father and our God, help us now as we study your word, that we might see more of Christ. We have even a deeper understanding of this thing we call a hypostatic union, this uh joining together of the divine and the human nature in one person our Savior, even Jesus. God and direct our hearts tonight. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, as we just consider this short passage in John tonight, we have to scratch our heads and wonder how is this possible that this man Jesus Christ entering into this womb that was locked, calling out to them his disciples Peace be with you, showing them his physical hands and his side. And clearly the disciples recognizing him as Jesus The one that was on the cross, the one that was buried in the tomb, now raised from the dead, how is this possible? And Thomas, even Thomas, who uh tells everyone, if he doesn't see he won't believe, puts his hand into the mark of the nails, his fingers. He places his hand into his side And believes is touching, physically touching the body of Jesus Christ, the crucified body of the Lord Jesus Christ, and yet the living body, the living person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well Clearly, we have that question before us, how now do we understand that Jesus, the Son of God, became man? As we review Just a few of the uh catechism questions that bring us to the point, our point tonight. We know that Adam and Eve fell, and primarily Adam, he is our covenant head, our representative, we fell in him. And then the question came, what state the fall bring all of us into? And we know that it brought us into that state of sin and misery. We defined that estate of sin and misery, uh, a little bit more fully. The sinfulness of that estate was the guilt of Adam's first sin, the want of his original righteousness, the corruption of his nature, his whole nature. commonly called original sin together with all our actual transgressions which proceed from it. That's the sinfulness. That's the estate that we want to be taken out of. There's another aspect To this estate, and we saw that in Shutter Catechism number 19. What's the misery? So we have the sinfulness, we have the misery And the misery is seemingly not any less than the sinfulness. We've lost communion with God, we're under his wrath and curse, and made liable to all the miseries in this life, to death itself and the pains of fell forever. That's the estate that we need to be brought out of and into an estate of salvation. Well, here we have that question, did God leave us in that estate? And as we have said before, the answer is no. He's not left everyone in that state of sin and misery, some certainly, but God Out of his mere good pleasure, from all eternity, elected some to everlasting life. Not all And he did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of that estate of sin and misery and bring them into an estate of salvation by a Redeemer. Now we're beginning to study who that Redeemer is. That was question 21. And we again answered that question very quickly. Well, that Redeemer is the Lord Jesus Christ. Who, being the eternal Son of God, became man and so was and continueth to be God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. That's the first question that we brought up this idea of the hypostatic union, these two distinct natures in one person, Jesus Christ, God and man are me might. uh give him the title then the God man. The only redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. And here we have some description of who that Redeemer is, who this Christ is. And so last time we spoke a bit about these elements, becoming man and being the son of God Being God and man in two natures and one person forever, which we call the hypostatic union. Tonight we want to focus on this idea of becoming Man, becoming man. And tonight we're focusing on the 22nd shorter catechism question How did this happen? How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man? And there you see the answer. Christ, the Son of God, very important that we include that, second person of the Trinity. The Son of God became man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul, being conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary and born of her yet without sin. So let's uh let's break this down a little bit, talk about it, and at the end we're going to ask why does it matter Well first we're going to start with the truth that Jesus, the man, was indeed conceived by the Spirit. supernatural event in the history of redemption conceived by the Spirit. And here we see it foretold In Isaiah in chapter seven, as uh there was about to be a battle And the king, the Lord speaks to the king, Ahaz, and God had told him that Ahaz would be victorious And so now God tells him, ask for a sign. Ask for a sign that will confirm my word. You see, throughout Scripture, these supernatural actions of God, supernatural works of God, Are always used to confirm the authority of his word, to confirm that it is indeed his word. And so God speaks to Ahaz, the king. But Ahaz says, I won't ask. I won't put the Lord to the test. And uh this does not please God. God nevertheless tells them that he will give them a sign. House of David, is it too little for you to weary men, that to weary my God also? Therefore the Lord himself will give you a sign Behold, the virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. We see that very nice artwork off the side. Emmanuel, as we uh noted last this past Sunday, means God with us, a virgin, shall conceive and bear a son. Call his name Emmanuel. Right there we have this supernatural act. the supernatural event in the history of redemption, a virgin conceiving and actually having a son And then his name shall be called Emmanuel. Foretold 700 years before it happens by the prophet Isaiah, God with us. We're told that that virgin well conceived. Conceived by the Spirit. So Joseph is told, the earthly father of Jesus Christ Before he comes together with his wife to be married, knowing that if she is pregnant, it's not by him. And so he's told that she will be found to be with child, and this child will be conceived by the Holy Spirit. Now Joseph is ready to divorce her, even though they're not married, that she was betrothed to him, and this time was as good as being married, so to speak, and he would readily divorce her because she would be found with child. But now he's told In a dream, the Lord appears to him, says, Do not fear to take Mary as your wife, for this child that's conceived in her is from the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit conceived this child. You shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people from their sins. Jesus, the Savior, Emmanuel, God with us, foretold by Isaiah being conceived by the Holy Spirit. Supernatural birth. Supernatural conception And not only Joseph is told that Mary, we know, is told as well, as the angel speaks to Mary and is told that she will bear a child, and she says, Well, how's this supposed to happen? I'm a virgin Angel tells her very clearly that the Holy Spirit will come upon you, and the power of the Most High will overshadow you. And that's where the divines get this idea by the power of the Holy Spirit. Mary conceived. And we know it's a supernatural act, but here it's just the the words of Scripture are being used by those who write wrote the shorter catechism. It's by the power of the Spirit by the power of the Holy Ghost that Mary conceived will overshadow you. Just this idea of the spirit who hovers over the surface of the waters at creation. Now the spirit is, in a sense, hovering over Mary to conceive this Jesus, this Savior of the world. What an amazing thing. Supernatural event, the conception by the Holy Spirit. Now, before we get to being born of the Virgin Mary, this is, as was mentioned on Sunday, the way in which Jesus uh does not inherit that sin nature. Remember, uh as uh as Adam fell He gave to everyone who proceeded from him by ordinary generation. That's why this is so important to be conceived by the Holy Spirit, because that's not by ordinary generation. Jesus is the only one who's not conceived by ordinary generation. Only Jesus. And so he falls outside of that category of being one who inherits this sinfulness, this original sin. from Adam. He doesn't because he's not conceived by Joseph, who was conceived, and we go back in the genealogy, and Joseph goes back to Adam Jesus, Jesus' lineage comes from the Spirit That's the difference. That's why Jesus does not inherit a sin nature. That's why he doesn't have guilt. through Adam. That's why he is not corrupt. His whole nature is not corrupt in Adam. That's why his original righteousness was never evaporated. Jesus had it and never lost it. And that's how they can write in part that he was without sin. He never inherited the sin nature because he was conceived by the Spirit. Now, born of the Virgin Mary, very important. Very important. Now We see this in the scriptures, and I'm just using Luke as our proof text for this. Joseph goes up from Galilee, goes to And the town of Nazareth, the city of David, called Bethlehem. He's going to be registered there with Mary, his wife to be betroth betrothed who was with child, even Jesus Christ. While they were there, the time came for her To give birth, and she gave birth. The scriptures confirm for us that indeed this one who was foretold by the angels, the vision that Joseph had uh the prophecy we see from Isaiah all comes to be. Today birth This is the culmination of those prophecies. This is the culmination of the vision. This is the culmination of the angel speaking to Mary that this one will be born. Here we see it. Verse 7. Luke chapter 2, she gave birth to her firstborn son and wrapped him in swaddling cloths, laid him in a manger. Angel says to the shepherds later on in Luke 2, There's good news of great joy, for unto you is born this day, born this day, human. In the city of David, a Savior who is Christ the Lord. Bringing these two things together. The birth of a child, a baby wrapped in swaddling cloth, who is Christ, the Messiah, Christ the Lord. Bring them both together. Born of Mary, conceived of the Holy Spirit. And later on in Luke chapter 2, we see that his name was called Jesus, just as Joseph was instructed in the vision that he was to call this one, this child that was conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary by the Holy Spirit Call him Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived. Born of Mary, conceived by the Spirit Now, became man. That's our question tonight, right? How did this one become man? Well, you're saying, well, we we've just been learning that, we've just been seeing that throughout the scriptures. Yes, but we want to dig a little deeper Became man. We want to understand this phrase, we want to understand this term, became man, because we don't want to fall into a trap or into uh wrong thinking that God somehow changes, the Son of God changes from being divine to somehow morph into change into transform into Something other than divine. God doesn't change. We know that throughout scripture. And if the Lord Jesus Christ Is the son of God and he has a divine nature, which he does, and scripture bears that out, and we believe that And this terminology of becoming man, we have to use it carefully. We need to understand how they're using it, how scripture uses it. Because it does use it. John 1. 14, as we read the Gospel of John, and it opens up with the word The word was God. The Word was with God. The Word was God. All things were made through the Word. And in verse 14, the Word became Flesh in our English version, that's the word that the terminology used. I think that's where the folks who wrote the shorter catechism got it from. It became man. It became flesh. Well, this becoming man really is equivalent to taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul. That's how we want to think of it. That's how we when we think of becoming man, we don't want to think of God changing We want to think of the Son of God taking on a human nature, true body and a reasonable So where do we get that from? Philippians. We had this particular verse last time. It's so important. It's a critical passage for us in Scripture and gives to us this the God man picture. Now as Paul is writing to those in Philippi, he's very concerned about their attitudes toward one another, their attitudes Of humility, and they need to be instructed in humility. And so Paul brings out the example of the Lord Jesus Christ, but much more than an example. Much more than an example, he's showing that this Christ, this Christ is one person with two natures. And here we have it, two. Though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God as thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross And so what Paul is writing, what Paul is talking about, what he's saying is the Son of God veiled his glory And that's this emptied himself. That's the aspect. Again, God doesn't change. The Son of God didn't change. But he veils his glory, and that's the best understanding of this idea of emptying himself, a thing not counting equality with God, a thing to be grasped. It's not that that the Son of God and God the Father are not of the same substance. They are They are. But now we're we're thinking in term in in two ways. The first way is that the sun The son is being sent. The son has a different role than the father. The son of God submits himself now. He condescends. He puts himself under the law. He's born in a miserable condition. And so he's sent by the Father to do the work of redemption, of reconciliation. And he veils his glory with what? Takes the likeness of men, born in the likeness of men, found in human form, taking the form of a servant. Do you see this The words that Paul is using, the form of a servant, born in the likeness of men, found in human form. That's the idea. Becoming man is taking on the form of a servant. born in the likeness of men, not actually fully and completely because he was without sin. He was without the sinfulness that Adam gives all of us. Son of God became man. Here we have Hebrews chapter 2, verse 14, since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things, flesh and blood. Two body, a reasonable soul. He partook of the same things. Therefore he had to be made like his brothers. He's talking about you and me In every respect, with one exception, without sin, he partook of the same things, flesh and blood. A little later on in Hebrews chapter 4, verses 15 and 16, we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. Because uh Jesus uh was fully human True-body, reasonable soul. Because he lived under the law, he was subject to the miseries of this life He's able to sympathize with our weaknesses because he took on that weak flesh. Son of God became man. Well, let's talk a little bit about true body and a reasonable soul. Where do we see these ideas, these truths in Scripture? Well, first a true body. We know that as Jesus was led into the wilderness by the Spirit, he became hungry. Only one who has a true human body would become hungry. If Jesus was uh fully divine and did not have any humanity, Uh he wouldn't become hungry. It's only in his human nature that he becomes hungry, and we must say that he fasted forty days and forty nights, and we can see why he was hungry because we can actually sympathize with that because he took on our human nature. He took on our nature. So we say, yeah, of course he was hungry Jesus needed rest, Mark 4. Remember that as he is in the boat with the disciples, and they're running into rough weather, he is asleep. Jesus needed sleep. Again, having a true body. His body needed rest. His body needed to be refreshed. It needed to be rejuvenated. It needed sleep. He was able to sleep even as the waves were crashing and we just blowing And here even here we see in this short passage in Mark, the God man, needing sleep You need to be woken up because he was in a deep sleep. And then he calms the wind and the seas, the divine nature. having control over all things, able to cause the wind to cease and the seas to be still On the cross Jesus cried out, My thirst Again, hunger, needing sleep. And once again, we would say yes, we could understand the need for water on the cross. As our Savior was physically dying, he calls out for stomach. something to quench his thirst. He confesses his humanity on the cross by thirst. And then as the soldiers confirming or bringing to death those who had been crucified by breaking their limbs. They did not break the legs of the Lord Jesus Christ, again fulfilling scripture. But one of the soldiers pierced his side with a spear, and at once there came out blood and water. Now there is more theological truth to this passage, but But right here we can see again that Jesus had a true body, a real human body, as blood flows out. as he is dead and now the death is confirmed that this is the death of a human as blood and water flow out of his What about that reasonable soul? It's not a word that we typically use or think of when we think of our souls, that they're reasonable But I think really all that the writers of the shorter and larger catechism are saying is that the soul of Jesus Was a real human soul. Rational. A soul that was able to reason, had a will her desires, who thought, who was made in the image of God And so we see here that as Jesus is led by the Spirit into the wilderness, he was led to be tempted. God cannot be tempted. The divine nature could not be tempted It's only the human nature which could be tempted, only the reasonable soul who had a reasonable will could be tempted. And I've copied the same passage twice here, so I guess I thought that it was really important that we see it. It's not the case. I had another passage that I wanted to put there So forgive me for that, but it's always good to emphasize scripture. And then we can turn to Matthew 26 And we see in as Jesus goes to pray, as he takes his disciples with him to pray in the Garden of Gethsemane prior to his betrayal, prior to his uh crucifixion. Uh his soul is very sorrowful, even to death. He was troubled Those uh emotions uh are flowing out of the soul, the will, the heart, the mind. uh the seat of his very being, which is human. God would not have these uh words And finally, on the cross, as Jesus dies, he cries out with a loud voice and yields up his spirit. Again, it's only the spirit of humans that are separated from their bodies. And here we have the reasonable soul of Jesus Christ, fully human, being yielded up upon his death. Well that reasonable, the word reasonable, Webster's has a little bit of help force, not a lot, but having a faculty of reason, and that's exactly the idea for Jesus the Christ, his human nature, had the faculty of reason, human reason. Under the influence of reason, thinking, speaking, acting rationally or according to the dictates of reason, we might insert the word human reason. That's the idea. A reasonable soul. Fully human. Well Let me finally ask, why does this matter? Why does this matter that uh we dig into the well it's good for us to dig into the scriptures, we know that we uh we love the scriptures, and so we enjoy being in them Why does this particular aspect of our Savior matter that we understand That we believe, that we know, that he is the God, man, one person in having two natures. Why does this matter. Is this just for theologians? And the answer is no, it's for it's for us. It's for us. There have been a few attacks on the biblical truths of the God man throughout time. And all this comes from G. I. Williamson, the Westminster Confession of Faith, his commentary on it. And he lists these, these are not all that he lists, but these are just a few attacks or heresies that have been floated since um since Jesus uh was crucified and resurrected basically Monarchianism. That is the thinking that Christ is subordinate to the Father, not fully equal, not of the same substance, but that he is somehow subordinate. And that's going to cause a problem because if that if he is subordinate, then he's not God. Iranianism. Christ was a created being So that takes the first and actually takes it to a a new level, a created being, one who didn't exist. There was a time when he didn't exist and And God made him, God the Father made him, so he's not only subordinate, he's created. A Polinarianism. So the spirit of Christ was divine, not human, but divine. Nestorianism. Christ was actually two persons, not one, but two. And you take Uticanism. Difficult set. Christ had a single divine nature Each of these heresies has a different bit of a spin, but you can see their problems. With each one. None of these would confess that the Jesus was and is the God man, one person, with two natures, one fully divine. one fully human with the exception of sin. So it's important, critical for us, because if Christ is not the God man, then we don't have a Savior. Here, the larger catechism helps us. with why it's so important for us today. Why was it requisite? Why was it necessary that the mediator, the Savior, should be God? Here's their answer. It was requisite, it was necessary that the mediator should be God, that he might sustain and keep the human nature from sinking under the infinite wrath of God. No way possible for a mere human to sustain the eternal wrath of God and rise, to give worth and efficacy to his sufferings. The the divine nature does that. In intercession. And to satisfy God's justice, God's justice is an eternal justice. His wrath is eternal. And so Jesus Christ's death on the cross must satisfy that. And so it's only by this combination I have to use that term carefully, of the divine with the human. The divine gives satisfaction To the once-in-time sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the last is full, procure his favor, purchase a particular people, give his spirit to them, conquer all their enemies, and bring them to everlasting salvation. That could not be done by a mere man. And so any Any doctrine that suggests that Jesus Christ is not God Basically, it is saying that we have no Savior because he needs to be God in order to accomplish all of those things. Why was it necessary or requisite that the mediator should be man? So now we were talking about the other nature. We just talked about the divine nature now Now we have the human nature. Why is it necessary? First, that he might advance our nature. Our nature needs to be advanced. that it can be advanced, perform obedience to the law. We couldn't do it. We can't do it. Since the fall, we don't have the ability to keep the law. Jesus Who was not sinful, did not inherit that original sin, had the opportunity and did perform obedience to the law perfectly. Suffer and make intercession for us in our nature. Only a man, only a fully human being could suffer and make intercession for us In our nature, bulls and goats couldn't do it. Have a fellow feeling of our infirmities. He is our high priest who is sympathetic because he has stepped into our shoes And that's probably a bad metaphor to use. He had and has a human nature. And so he has that fellow feeling of our infirmities. He's felt the weakness. He's felt the frailty. He's been tempted that we might receive the adoption of sons. We receive adoption because he's the firstborn. He's the first fruits And as a result of his entry into the heavens, the heaven of heavens, the holy of holies, now we can come, and we see it there in the end, have comfort and access with boldness under the throne of grace. Because he's present, because he's the mediator, because he's the intercessor, now we can come through Jesus With boldness to the throne of Christ. One in who is in our nature. We can come in and through him to the throne. grace. That's why it matters. That's why it matters. Without the divine nature, we don't have a saint. Without the human nature, we don't have a Savior. We need both of them in one person. The Lord Jesus Christ, the Redeemer. Well, next week, Lord willing, we'll jump to number 23 and consider the offices of Christ Jesus. Here it is. What offices doth Christ execute as our Redeemer? You can see now that progression, right? As we're talking about the Redeemer, we're getting into a little bit more of who Christ is and now the office is Christ. as our Redeemer executes the offices of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king, both in his state of humiliation and exaltation.