All right. Brothers and sisters, uh welcome. And turn off your mics. That might make our our time, at least at this point, uh more pleasant. Tonight we're going to continue our study in the Westminster Shorter Catechism. We are moving into the estate of humiliation. of Jesus Christ. As we think about his roles as prophet, priest, and king. He served those roles both in his estate of humiliation and Let's turn as we begin to Philippians chapter 2. I'll be reading out of the English Standard Version as soon as I get to it. Philippians chapter 2. For context, I'll begin at verse 1. Let's give attention to God's very word. So if there is any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy Complete my joy by being in the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look out not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus Who, though he was in the form of God, did not county quality with God, a thing to be grasped but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in a in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of the Father Amen. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that you'd help us to better understand the humiliation of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we know that he did this for our sakes. And so it's so important for us, Father, to understand a bit more about what it meant for Jesus Christ to be humiliated for us. We thank you, we praise you, we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, uh every time we join together we review a bit, and so it helps us get ourselves back into the context of where we're at. Question 21, who is the Redeemer of God's elect? And the short answer is Jesus Christ, who being the eternal Son of God became man. And so was and continues to be God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. Now, as we open up what that means for Jesus to be our Redeemer, we see that The divines have broken that up into three offices, prophet, priest, and king, and in his estate of humiliation and exaltation. That's what it means for him to be our Redeemer. We've looked at the office of a prophet, and that office he reveals to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation. The office of a priest is that one's offering up of himself to satisfy divine justice, secondly to reconcile us to God, thirdly as he makes continual intercession for us, as we can see very clearly, he is continuing to fulfill that office of the priest and, yes, of course, the office of the prophet. But here most Clearly, he executes the office of a king as he subdues us to himself, he rules and offends us, and he restrains and conquers all his enemies. And our enemies, knowing that he does that, he did that on the cross, he did that in the tomb, he's doing that even now as he sits on the throne. Tonight, we want to take a quick look at the humiliation that our Savior suffered. And here's the shorter catechism answer to that question, wherein did Christ's humiliation consist? And we see that it consisted in his being born that in a low condition made under the law, undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God and the cursed death of the cross, being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time Well, the larger catechism states it this way Oh, excuse me. Uh part of uh our our study tonight is really going to involve very closely this idea of Christ becoming the Son of God becoming man It certainly is at the center of uh his humiliation, isn't it? He became man by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul, conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary, born of her yet without sin. Now, sorry, we get to the larger catechism, back to the estate of Christ's humiliation, and you can see that this is a bit different The estate of Christ's humiliation was that local condition, that sounds familiar, wherein he for our sakes, emptying himself of his glory, took upon him the form of a servant, all very similar And in his conception and birth, like death, and after his death until his resurrection, we see them uh classifying or or categorizing this whole time as his state of Humiliation. Now here's the interesting thing. The larger catechism takes the next four questions and answers really to um open this up. This is really the title. This is really the headline of humiliation. We're just going to go through these very quickly just so you see the breaths of Christ's humiliation. What about his humiliation and his conception and birth? Well being from all eternity, the Son of God, and that's what we're going to focus a bit on tonight. In the bosom of the Father he is pleased in the fullness of time to become the Son of Man, made of a woman, of low estate, born of her with diverse circumstances of more than ordinary abasement. Well what about in his life? He was humbled in his life by subjecting himself to the law, which he perfectly fulfilled. By conflicting with the indignities of the world, the temptations of Satan, the infirmities in his flesh, whether common to the nature of man or particularly accompanying that his low condition. So we see his birth, his life. What about his death? How did he humble himself in his death? Betrayed by Judas. Hmm. Forsaken by his disciples, scorned and rejected by the world, condemned by Pilate, tormented by his persecutors having also conflicted with the terrors of death, the powers of darkness, felt and borne the weight of God's wrath, we may say that as the incredible aspect of his humiliation He laid down his life an offering for sin, enduring the painful, shameful, and cursed death of the cross. And then finally, what about after his death? Humiliation after his death consists of his being buried, continuing the state of death, and under the power of death until the third day, which has been otherwise expressed in these words, he descended into hell. There's a sense in which the larger catechism opens this up. I'm not saying we don't need any proof texts, but this is such a wonderful gathering. In one place of the humiliation of Christ, these five questions and answers, which really help to hone our minds to bring our minds to understand a bit more, a bit more the depth of the humiliation of Jesus Christ. Well tonight what I want to do is take Philippians chapter 2, just those few short verses beginning at verse six and using this um to really dig deep into our hearts And understand a bit more or appreciate a bit more of the humiliation of our Savior. First, he was In the form of God. This is the words of, these are the words of Scripture. Verse 6, who, though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God as him to be grasped. There it is. Those are the words. Now, first we want to recognize that as Paul uses the past tense verb was in the form of God, he is not suggesting that Christ is not currently God or that he somehow changed. We want to make sure we've got those two safeguards before us as we just trying to unpack, just very briefly, this idea of him being in the form of God. Paul's not saying that he wasn't God. He's saying, really, at the time of Jesus' incarnation That the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, true God, came and took on a human nature. He was at that point in time. In the form of God. He was God. And so we want to make sure we understand Paul's not saying that he really wasn't God. He's not saying that. And he's not saying that he's changed And he's not saying that today he is not God. He's just taking this at a single point in time. And I think that's the best way to understand that was. So what does that mean? That the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, is God Himself John reveals that to us as he opens up his gospel in the beginning was the word. And as John uses the term or the word word, he's referring to the Son of God. He's referring to the second person of the Trinity. The one who was present, not merely present with God, but was God and is God. Remember, look at that word was. He's not saying that Christ, Jesus Christ is not God today. The Word was God. He was with God. He was in the beginning with God. So much so that all things were made through him. How did God create him? He spoke all things into existence. The Word, the second person of the Trinity. All things were made through him. Do you see? This is the idea that the second person of the Trinity, this one who's described here in these first three verses of John's Gospel, this is the one. who condescended. This is the one. This is where he came from. Fully and completely God himself. Jesus, as he enters into the high priestly prayer at the other end of the Gospel of John acknowledges and professes these things. He prays, he says, since you have given him, and he's referring to himself, authority over all flesh Now, Jesus had not gone to the cross yet. Jesus had not gone to the tomb yet. Jesus had not risen from the tomb yet And so at this point in time, Jesus is recognizing that he has been given all authority. He always had all authority. There was never a time when he did not have all authority. The Son always had authority. That's where he came from. The one who had all power, authority, control, sovereignty, now taking on human flesh. We have to recognize and we have to understand that this was The Son of God, this was the second person of the Trinity. This is where he came from. And then he says, now Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. all authority and glory. This is the second person. This is the Son of God. He has all authority, power, majesty, glory We have to understand where he began. And we really have a hard time using that word, don't we? Where he came from is actually better. Well, that's where he came from, but he did not grasp equality with God. Have this mind among yourselves, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God as thing to be grasped. Now again, from riches to rags. That's sort of the idea. The second person of the Trinity now has done something Meaning that he did not cling to his glory. Now, we have to understand that he does not give his glory up. We have to understand that he did not change. But we also have to understand that as part of his humiliation, he does this, which in a sense, from a human perspective from a way that we can understand. In a sense, he gives up his glory, although he doesn't. Here's what Thomas Watson says. He left the bright robes of his glory to be clothed, that's supposed to be clothed, not clothed. clothed with the rags of our humanity, a wonder to humility. Oh, what a picture we have We could even think at this point of Jesus Christ washing the feet of the disciples. And what he does is he takes off his outer garments and he puts on the garments of a slave. He wraps the towel around his waist and he begins to wash the feet as he stoops down and washes the filth off of his disciples' feet. He took off his outer garments and he places upon himself a towel so that he can dry off the feet of his disciples. And here, as Thomas Watson recognizes, the second person of the Trinity, in a sense, leaves behind his robes of glory to be clothed with our humanity. A wonder to humility. Let us be like Christ in disgrace. This is the glory of a Christian. What an interesting thing for Thomas Watson to write. This, this humility is the glory of a believer. True religion is to imitate Christ. Watson is saying this is this is one way in which we can imitate Christ and that brings glory. He left his bright robes of glory. He didn't grasp on to his glory in order to shine it forth. He did not come clothed in the robes of a king. He didn't shine forth his glory as the Son of God, but he emptied himself He emptied himself. Again, we have to be careful. We have to say emptying himself does not refer to a change in God. Did not count equality with God. A thing to be grasped, but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men That's the idea of this humility. Now we want to see the two ends of the spectrum. The Son of God. departing from his dwelling place in the heaven of heavens with his father, with the Spirit having perfect unity and community, having all glory, majesty, honor, splendor, all sovereignty, having created all things Enjoying the fellowship and the communion of the Trinity, perfect harmony, perfect love, not in need of anything And he leaves that place, that position, that estate, in order to take on a form of a servant. Those are the two ends of the spectrum. Now it the humility actually becomes more humble as we go on, but We have to recognize that he goes from this position of an estate of majesty to this estate of humility. condescension, becoming in a sense like us We see that, don't we? As Mary is spoken to by the angel. Do not be afraid, Mary. If you found favor with God, behold, you will conceive in your woman bear a son. This is the human nature. The Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, comes to take on this nature, the Son of Mary. Now, here we see the wonderfulness of it. He will be great and will be called the Son of the Most High. See the God man here, don't we? And the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David, and he will reign over the house of Jacob forever. His kingdom there of his kingdom there will be no end. But yet, in order for this to happen, he needed to take on that human nature and bear a son. taking on flesh. That's how he emptied himself of the glory that was rightfully his. Now again, remember, he didn't actually take off glory, he takes on a human nature. Thomas Watson writes this, that Christ should clothe himself with our flesh, a piece of that earth which we tread upon. Think of that. What are we? But dust. What was Adam made of? Dust. What is Adam going to return to? Dust. What are we going to return to? Dust. That Christ should clothe himself with our flesh, a piece of that earth which we tread upon, O infinite humility. Christ taking our flesh is one of the lowest steps of his humiliation. And I'm hoping we're beginning to see that now. He humbled himself more in lying in the Virgin's womb than in hanging upon the cross. It was not so much for man to die, but for God to become man was the wonder of humility. Taking on flesh, emptying himself of that glory that was rightfully his. Obedient to the point of death. Emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself. by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Now we can say many things about the obedience of Christ. It was perfect He kept the Ten Commandments and more perfectly without sin We have to think of the Garden of Gethsemane. He so longed to remain in the fellowship and communion with his father. But he became obedient to the point of death, going to the cross for the joy set before him. Because of his love for his father. He humbled himself. This is part of his humbling of himself. We see it here, don't we, as Pilate is given the ability by God to pass judgment in a sense upon Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Pilate washes his hands before the crowd trying to say, although he does say, but he's not correct in what he does say, I am innocent of this man's blood. He is the one who sentenced the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus is the one who submits to that. We see the humility in that. All the people answered, His blood be on us and all our children. Do you see the shame that was poured out upon the Lord Jesus Christ? When they cry out for Barabbas and ask for the blood of Jesus Christ Pilate has him scourged and then proclaims the sentence calling for him to be crucified. Jesus submitted himself to this, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords, the one who is coming from the heaven above heavens, dwelling In perfection comes down and humbles himself even before Pilate, even before the people who are crying out for his blood. Why does this matter? Why does this matter to us? What does it tell us? How should we receive this idea, this truth? of the humility of the Lord Jesus Christ. We certainly see it here. It was an example for those to whom Paul was writing to. He was saying, look to Christ Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours. It's very interesting that he wrote it that way, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Why does it matter? Comes Watson, these next three quotes are all from Watson, and he's got more than this. But he calls for us to be zealous because of Christ taking upon taking on our flesh. Did Christ take our flesh? Was he made like to us? Let us be made like him in zeal. Zeal of the house has eaten me up. That's just a quote from John 2 verse 17. He was zealous when his father was dishonored. In this let us be like Christ, zealous for God's truth and glory, which are the two orient pearls of the crown of heaven. You see, Watson's point is that as Christ took on our flesh, now let us be like him. He came to be made like us. So that he could step into our shoes, take our punish, be righteous in our place. And so the idea now is for us then to imitate him, because now he's been made like us with the exception of Sin. Let us be made like him in zeal. In abasement as well. If Jesus Christ was so abased for us, took our flesh which was clearly a disparagement to him, mingling dust, that's us, with gold, that's him. If he abased himself so for us, let us be willing to be abased for him. Are we willing? Are we willing to be a base for Christ? If the world reproaches us for Christ's sake and cast dust on our name, let us bear it with patience. Peter tells us that that is going to happen if it has not happened already. Thomas Watson's Council to us is bear it with patience because of what Jesus has done for us. Abasement. And then finally, comfort. Just a very interesting quote from Thomas Watson. And the first word is not supposed to be flash, but flesh. Jesus Christ, having taken our flesh, has ignobled our nature. He's lifted up our nature. Our nature is now invested with greater royalties and privileges than in the time of innocence. What he's referring to is the Garden of Eden. He's saying our nature is now in Christ different than Adam and Eve's nature. He's saying we have greater royalties and greater privileges than Adam and Eve. Before, in innocence, we were made in the image of God, but now, Christ, having assumed our nature, we are made one with God. Our nature is ignobled above the angelic nature. Christ, taking our flesh, has made us nearer to himself. I believe that's supposed to be written than the angels, nearer to himself, than the angels. No. Sorry for the mistake. But that's the idea. We should have comfort In knowing that Jesus Christ took on our nature, and as he did, and as he went to the cross, and as he rose from the dead, and he has now ascended There should be great comfort to us in that he has elevated our nature. Think of how Adam lowered our nature. And Christ has raised it up, even beyond that, which was in the garden. Well next week, next week we'll study the estate of exaltation. So important for us to see the humiliation of Jesus Christ. so that we can also then appreciate not only what he's done for us, not only the extremes of where he came from, and when he took on human nature what he did. But then also, as we see the extreme, going from humiliation to exaltation. Christ's exaltation consists in his rising again from the dead on the third day and ascending up into heaven and sitting at the right hand of God the Father. and in coming to judge the world at the last day