As we continue our study and shorter catechism at question number 20, we're going to open up with a reading of out of 2 Kings. Chapter five, I'll begin at verse one. And we'll be reading tonight from the English standard version. Give attention to the word of God. Second Kings chapter five. Naaman, commander of the army of the king of Assyria, was a great man with his master and in high favor, because by him the Lord had given victory to Assyria. He was a mighty man of valor, but he was a leper. Now the Syrians, on one of their raids, had carried off a little girl from the land of Israel, and she worked in the service of Naaman's wife She said to her mistress, Would that my Lord were with the prophet who was in Samaria? He would cure him of his leprosy. So Naaman went in and told his lord, Thus and so spoke the girl from the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go now, and I will send a letter to the king of Israel. So he went Taking with him ten talents of silver, six thousand shekels of gold, and ten changes of clothing. He brought the letter to the king of Israel, which read When this letter reaches you, know that I have sent to you Naaman, my servant, that you may cure him of his leprosy And when the king of Israel read the letter, he tore his clothes and said, Am I God to kill and to make a lie? That this man sends words to me to cure a man of his leprosy? Only consider and see how he is seeking a quarrel with me. But when Elisha, the man of God, heard that the king of Israel had torn his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, Why have you torn your clothes Let him come now to me, that he may know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and chariots and stood at the door of Elisha's house And Elisha sent a messenger to him saying, Go and wash in the Jordan seven times, and your flesh shall be restored, and you shall be clean. But Naaman was angry and went away saying, Behold, I thought that he would surely come out to me and stand and call upon the name of the Lord his God and wave his hand over the place and cure the leper. Are not Abana and Parfar or Farpar the rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Jerusal of Israel? Could I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. But his servants came near and said to him, My father, it is a great word the prophet has spoken to you. Will you not do it? Has he actually said to you, wash and be clean? So he went down and dipped himself seven times in the Jordan. according to the word of the man of God, and his flesh was restored like the flesh of a little child, and he was clean Then he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and he came and stood before him. And he said, Behold, I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. So accept now a present from your servant. He said, As the Lord lives before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it, but he refused Then Naaman said, if not, please let there be given to your servant two mule loads of earth For from now on your servant will not offer burnt offering or sacrifice to any God but the Lord. In this matter, may the Lord pardon your servants. When my master goes into the house of Rimen to worship there, leaning on my arm, and I bow myself in the house of Rimen When I bowed myself in the house of Ramon, Lord, pardon your servant in this matter. He said to him, Go in peace. That's fine reading of God's Word. Amen. And you pray with me. Father in heaven, we ask now that you'd lay this word up in our hearts as we study this Westminster shorter catechism and learn about this state of salvation that you have brought us into, that you have not left us in in a state of misery and sin That you have delivered us out of it by grace, by your covenant of grace, and you've delivered us, Father, into Salvation by a Redeemer, by the Redeemer, the only one, the Lord Jesus Christ. We thank you, we praise you, and we ask all these things in the name of Jesus. Amen We started with uh this particular text tonight to see this change that happens, this one going from in a state of sin and misery as He was a leper, one going from a state of being unclean to a state of being clean, cleansed. Cleansed by the Lord. Now, uh this was leprosy, certainly a physical uh disease that was upon him, but it appoints us to what God does, what the Lord has done, as he's delivered us. out of that state of sin and misery and placed us into an estate of salvation. by a redeemer. This is just a wonderful example as we see Naaman not merely cleaned or cleansed of his leprosy, but then his heart has been changed uh as he speaks to Elisha and and asks advance pardon, advanced forgiveness uh for serving his master uh going into uh the place where his master will go to worship a foreign and and idolatrous god and knowing that there is only one god, uh the Lord God, the Creator God, the living and the true God, And Elisha sends him off in peace. That's exactly what we should be thinking of as we read this particular shorter catechism tonight being delivered. uh from being enemies of God to being those who are in peace with God through our Savior. Well, just a few uh items of review as we come to number 20 tonight We've seen that special act of providence God exercised toward man. He entered into a covenant of works or a covenant of life with Adam. We're going to see that contrasted with the covenant of grace tonight. We know that our first parents did not remain in that estate wherein they were created as very good. They fell, left being left to the freedom of their own will. They fell from that estate wherein they were created by sinning against God. And we know that that sin uh that they committed against God was the eating of that fruit that was forbidden, taking of that single tree that God had, a portion that he had set apart, as the one from which they should not eat. They sinned against God by doing that. We learned that sin is any want Of conformity unto or transgression of the law of God. We see that's exactly what Adam and Eve did. And we talked about the fact that all mankind, including us, fell with Adam in his first transgression. He was our first federal head, whereas Jesus Christ becomes our second and our final federal head representing us Adam in the garden Jesus Christ on the cross and in the tomb representing us as our final federal head we fell in Adam And so the question was, what estate did that fall bring us into? And we answered that by saying we fell into in a state of sin and misery. And so we see that the sort of catechism breaks down or the Bible In the shorter catechism recognizes it, breaks the fall down into that estate of sin or sinfulness and the estate of misery. It's one estate, but it includes both of these things And we studied that. We asked that question, where is that sinfulness of the estate wherein to man fell? And we said, well, we're really talking here about Original sin. And as we studied original sin or the sinfulness, we saw that it consisted in the guilt of Adam's first sin, which was laid upon us As we sinned in him, we also inherited or had that guilt imputed to us. We lost original righteousness, which we had in Adam. We lost it as he fell, as we fell with him. We are no longer righteous originally, and our whole nature has been corrupted, just as Adam's nature was corrupted as he sinned. That's a called original sin, or we can refer to it as sinfulness, together with all of our actual transgressions which come out of having that sin nature. Well, we weren't left just in misery. We're all, excuse me, we weren't just left in that sinfulness But we are also left in misery. Misery is part of that estate into which we fell. And we define that by saying, well, that misery is our lost communion with God. The fact that we are under his wrath. and curse, just as a Christian and Pilgrim's Progress is carrying that that backpack, that bag, that burden on his back, that is God's wrath and curse, which was laid upon us uh and and imaged for us by uh John Bunyan with that backpack or that pack on Christian's back. And so made liable to all miseries in this life Including the curse that was laid upon the world, to death itself and to the pains of hell That's the misery which we were placed into. The misery that estates not just for this life, it's for eternity uh that we fell into as a result of Adam's fall from grace. Well, tonight question is being brought to us. Do we remain in that state Or have you been brought out of that estate of sin and misery? Tonight, in a state of salvation. Well there's that question then, question number 20. And we've been asking all along at the end of our sessions recently, was there any good news? Well, tonight we have Really good news. Did God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin? And misery. And remember that a state of sin and misery was not just for this life. It was for eternity. And it is for eternity. Here's the answer. God, having out of his mere good pleasure from all eternity, elected some to everlasting life Did enter into a covenant of grace, and now we see that distinction between the covenant of works and the covenant of grace, to deliver them out of the estate of sin and misery and to bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. This is good news We're going to break this down in a minute, but I want to take a look very quickly at the larger catechism, which is very similar, but again, a larger catechism puts uh some emphasis on some things which the shorter catechism does not. Basically the same question. Does God or doth God leave all mankind to perish in the estate of sin and misery? And the answer, God doth or does not leave all men to perish in the estate of sin of misery, into which they fell by the breach of the first covenant, bringing that idea out. That we're in this estate of sin and misery because of the breach of that first covenant, the covenant of works, the covenant of life, commonly called the covenant of works. But Of his mere love and mercy delivereth his elect out of it. And bringeth them into an estate of salvation by the second covenant, commonly called the covenant of grace. And so the larger catechism really sets forth uh the covenant of works, the covenant of grace, side by side, showing us that there is a division in this sense uh uh uh in terms of Adam being under the covenant of works, failing at it, and then as a result of his failure, God instituting, in a sense, because we think of things in terms of time, uh uh instituting the covenant of grace. And we know that all this took place before time began. So Let's break down the 20th Westminster shorter catechism. We're going to be talking about election. We're going to be talking about covenant of grace, deliverance, and then finally that estate. of salvation or redemption. Those four points really contained in the 20th question and answer. Well first, election Election, the choice of God. We turn to Deuteronomy first, because we see this idea, this concept, this truth of election Not just in the New Testament, we see it in the Old, and we see it as early as the Pentateuch, certainly throughout Scripture. And here we have Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy chapter 7. And remember that the Israelites are about to cross over the Jordan into the Promised Land. And Moses is, in a sense, in Deuteronomy, reviewing for them, telling them where they've been, what's happened As they prepare now to enter the promised land. And he's telling them here in chapter 7, you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you. To be a people for his treasured possession out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. Clearly. Clearly, it's not that the Israelites made a decision we want to be God's people. That has never been the case As God entered into covenant with Abraham, he tells Abraham that he, meaning God, will be Abraham's God and the God of his descendants. The covenant is instituted by God Himself, and he applies it. He applies it to Abraham, and he applies it to the descendants of Abraham. And here that language now is chosen. God has chosen you. He has selected the Israelites, the Hebrews. to be his people. And we see clearly this idea of selection or choosing or election Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth, God made a choice. And here we see in verse 7 that it wasn't because you guys were special. It was not because you were more in number than any other people that the Lord has set his love on. You might learn later in in chapter 9 of Deuteronomy, Deuteronomy, but it wasn't because they're righteous. It wasn't because they're numerous. It wasn't because they were righteous. God chose them. God chose them because of his love. God chose them because of his most holy and perfect will. You are the fewest of all peoples, but it is because the Lord loves you. And is keeping his oath that he swore to your fathers. God chose to love this people. Choice of God. Election. You see it in the New Testament as well, clearly as Ephesians opens up, as Paul opens up his letter to those at Ephesus. He has this first sentence in Greek, which just keeps on going on and on. It's so chalked full of doctrine. Here we read in verse 4, the first chapter of the letter. Even as he, referring to God, even as he chose us in him, meaning in Christ, he, meaning God, chose us. meaning those who are electric chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and blameless before him In love, he predestined us for adoption to himself. Clearly, we have this idea of adoption, with choice with the election, predestination all tied together here in this in this in these two verses, as Paul is opening up this letter to those in Ephesus God making a choice. God determining who he's going to bring into his family. Yes, election, the choice of God according to the purpose of his will. You see, Paul never says it's because you were intelligent, because you came to faith, because God looked down the down the halls of time and saw that you were going to come and believe upon him. No, nothing of that nature. He chose according to the purpose of his will, before the foundation of the world. Peter, also in his first letter, uses the Old Testament language. You're a chosen race, a royal priesthood people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness and into his marvelous Are you seeing that idea? Did he leave us in that estate of sin and misery? No, he's called us out of that estate of sin and misery. And he's called us into his marvelous light As we go through Exodus, we're seeing that picture so very clearly. Out of Egypt, into the promised land, out of darkness, into light. That's how John begins his gospel. A chosen race, a people for God's possession. And interestingly, we kind of skip over this part here, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him. And we're chosen for that purpose. God has set his election, his love on his people. Why? So that they can proclaim the excellencies of him The one who called you out of darkness into light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Now he's referring to the Gentiles. What a wonderful passage. Yes, election, choice of God. He has done it. It's by his will that he brings some out of the estate of sin misery and brings them into an estate of salvation God's choice. Well then we come to the covenant idea by a covenant of grace. And last uh a few lessons ago we just had this picture This covenant of redemption that was entered into by the Trinity before time begins. And the big picture we see it broken down into the covenant of works Which was instituted in Genesis 2 when we think of time, and then the covenant of grace, which was instituted from a human perspective As Adam fell. Now again, we know the covenant of redemption was before time began. All these things were before time began. But as we see the history of redemption unfolding in our humanness, we're assigning times to these things, don't get confused. That doesn't mean that that's when God instituted them God instituted these before any clocks were around, any clocks started ticking, any sun had arisen. Covenant of redemption, broken down into two big categories, covenant works, which Adam failed at, which Christ had to complete And the covenant of grace, which Christ fully completed. Well, where do we see this covenant of grace? We see it clearly as Adam falls and the Lord is speaking To each of those who were involved in this transgression, and as he speaks to the serpent, or as he speaks to Satan, tells him that I will put enmity between you and the woman. Now, we know that that is because Adam and Eve created an alliance with Satan himself as they believe not upon God's word, as they uphold not God's word, as they as they fail to heed God's word and listen to Satan's word There was this alliance formulated between Adam and Eve and Satan. And so God says very clearly That he will create this division. He will break this alliance that's been established between Satan and the woman As she listened to the voice of Satan. He will separate them. That's part of the covenant of grace. We have to see that, this breaking of our inclination to sin. It must be broken. The alliance that has been created with Satan must be severed. I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. Now we can look at ourselves and say, hmm, that includes us. Clearly, it does. That enity that was created by our first father and his wife must be severed. And God has promised to do that in the covenant of grace. And now we see this offspring of the woman being singular, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise is heal. Reference to the Lord Jesus Christ who would go and suffer on the cross. That's the bruise his heel part But he, meaning ultimately the Messiah, the Savior, our Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of God will bruise the head of the serpent or of Satan. And so as he goes to the cross, that's exactly what he does. He is the one who dies in our place He is the one who defeats sin and death. That's the covenant of grace. And we see it from our human terms as being instituted here, just after the fall. Where else do we see this covenant of grace? You see it later on in Genesis as well. Even as the flood has taken place, even as mankind has been wiped out, with the exception of Noah and his family. And as Noah goes and creates that burnt offering and the aroma is wafting up to the Lord and he smells it. And he says in his heart, I will never again curse the ground because of man. The intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Never will I again strike down every living creature as I've done While the earth remains, sea time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night shall not cease. You see grace in this? You should For God is recognizing that even after He has wiped out the earth, all living creatures on it, including men, with the exception of Noah and His family, yet God knows that the intention of man's heart is evil from his youth. Even in spite of that. He says, I will never again do these things. There's much grace in that. He is the one who's going to correct this intention of man's heart, the evilness which resides within. It won't be man who will do it. God will do it. And there's mercy shown in this passage. Shall not cease. Covenant of grace. Let's see it in Deuteronomy as well. Deuteronomy chapter 9. Remember, I referred to this. Know therefore that the Lord your God is not giving you this good land to possess because of your righteousness, for you are a stubborn people. Remember, and do not forget how you provoked the Lord your God to the wrath in the wilderness. You've been rebellious against the Lord, despite their rebellion. He's yet bringing them into the promised land, a place where he will be able to dwell with his people. where the temple will be built, where Jerusalem will be the center of government, the center of worship for the nation of Israel, a theocratic nation. And yet, it's the covenant of grace because God knows that he's bringing a stubborn, a rebellious people, a people that had provoked him, into the land. He will heal their hearts. They won't. And even Jesus Christ in the high priestly prayer. As he's praying to his fathers, he's about to go to the cross. I've given them the words that you gave me, and they have received them, and have come to know in truth that I came from you and they have believed. that you sent me. Covenant of grace being worked out. We go from a people that have provoked God to wrath and anger. To people now who have come to know the truth, that Jesus Christ was sent to save them Verse 10, all mine are yours, and yours are mine, and I am glorified in them. You see, that is in a state of salvation. I am glorified in them. See the difference between the passage in Deuteronomy? Or Moses was reminding them of how they provoked the Lord to anger, and now Jesus Christ is saying, I am glorified in them. A change is taking place. By into the covenant of grace, an estate of salvation has been attained or close to being attained. Deliverance, let's talk about that. Where do we see that? Well then in Exodus, we've studied that even this past Lord's Day, as Moses is standing before that bush that is engulfed in a blazing flame with an angel Now he hears the Lord God speaking to him. I have come down to deliver them, to bring them up. You see? Bring them up. The cry of the people of Israel has come to me. I have also seen the oppression with which the Egyptians oppressed them. Come, I will send you to Pharaoh that you may bring my people out of Egypt. Deliverance. Coming out of that state of sin and misery, being delivered. That's why Jesus Christ came. He came to glorify his Father, but he came to deliver us. out of that estate of sin and misery. Isaiah speaks often of deliverance. And I will lead the blind in a way that they do not know. We cannot lead ourselves In our corrupt state, in our state of sin and misery, we have no way to walk in a path because we don't even know it. I will lead the blind in a way they do not know in paths that they have not known. I will guide them. We must have the guidance of the Spirit. I will turn the darkness before them into light, the rough places into level ground. Sound familiar? Isn't that what John the Baptist was proclaiming in the wilderness? These are the things I do, and I do not forsake them. Deliverance, being brought out and brought into And again, just to emphasize that idea of being brought out and into, 1 Peter called you out of darkness and into his marvelous. light. That's the idea. That's part and parcel of this Westminster shorter catechism being delivered out and then into And then finally, an estate of salvation, redemption. Redemption. And here again, Deuteronomy 7, you see that word being used At the end of verse 8. It's not because you are more numerous, but it is because the Lord loves you and is keeping the oath that he swore to your fathers that the Lord has brought you out Again, deliverance, with a mighty hand and redeemed you from the house of slavery. Redeemed. Well That is such an important word for us to understand. Being brought out and being brought into, there's this idea of redemption, this clear scriptural idea. We see it in Jeremiah, don't we? This covenant, this new covenant with the house of Israel. I will put my law within their within them. I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me. The least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord, for I will forgive their iniquity. And I will remember their sin no more. That's the idea of being redeemed, isn't it? Of being brought into an estate of salvation. How does that happen? We must be cleansed. It's not just merely being brought out of Egypt. It's not just merely being placed in a different geographical location. It's not merely being placed in the problems that we've got to be cleansed. We've got to know God, know who He is, know what we've done before Him. Isn't that what Jesus prayed in the high priestly prayer? And this is eternal life, that they know you the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you sent. For they shall all know me. That's life, that's eternal life, knowing God and knowing that He is the one, He's the only One who can forgive our iniquity. That's the estate of salvation. That's being redeemed. Well, it's good for us to just look at that definition of what redemption is as we think of being redeemed or being brought into a state of salvation by a redeemer, that's really speaking of redemption. Webster's gives us a good definition, something to think upon too upon. To purchase back, to ransom, to liberate or rescue from captivity or bondage or from any obligation or liability That's the idea. By our sin, by the sin of Adam, we have brought guilt upon ourselves. And so we need to be relieved from that obligation, that liability to suffer for our sins, for the sin of Adam. And Jesus Christ has done that. We need to be liberated from our inclination to sin, our captivity, our bondage to sin. We've been sold into slavery to Satan. And Jesus Christ has to ransom us. He's got to buy us back with his blood. To repurchase what has been sold, to regain possession of a thing alienated. Isn't that exactly what God told the serpent in the garden? I will put enity between you and the woman to regain possession. of a thing, of a people who have been alienated from God by repaying the value of it to the possessor. We have to be brought back. We have to be liberated from captivity or bondage to sin and Satan. That obligation to suffer must be paid. That's redemption. That's redemption. And this is the good news, isn't it? This is such wonderful news. This 20th shorter catechism just speaks to us of good news. That's exactly what Jesus Christ did on the cross. And as as Peter declares that that Jesus is the Christ, then he tells them. Jesus tells them so very clearly. He must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and on the third day be raised. He must pay the price. He was sent to redeem. He was sent to bring the captives out of captivity to Satan and bring them into bondage to righteousness. That is good news. Well, next week, we'll talk about who the Redeemer is. Who is the Redeemer of God's elect? See, the only Redeemer of God's elect is the Lord Jesus Christ. Who being the eternal Son of God became man and so was and continueth to be God and man in two distinct natures and one person forever. Praise be to God. Amen.