All right, I think we got it. Let's begin. We continue our study tonight in the Westminster Catechism. Part one of redemption applied. From Titus chapter three. Let's give attention to God's word Remind them to be submissive to rulers and authorities, to be obedient, be ready for every good work. To speak evil of no one, to avoid quarreling, to be gentle and to show perfect courtesy toward all people. We ourselves were once foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures, passing our days in malice and envy hated by others and hating one another. But from the goodness and loving kindness of our God and Savior appears, He saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness, but according to his own mercy, by the washing and regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit Whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior, so that being justified by His grace we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life Saying is trustworthy. I want you to insist on these things so that those who have believed in God may be careful to devote themselves to good works. These things are excellent and profitable for people, but avoid foolish controversies, genealogies, dissensions, and quarrels about the law. They are unprofitable and worthless. As for a person who stirs up the vision, after warning him once and then twice, had nothing more to be exempt. Knowing that such a person is warped and sinful, he is self-condemned. Let's pray. Father, we ask that you be with us now as we seek to study your word. We ask for help. We need it. We need the Spirit. So we ask, Father, that you would fill us To guide and direct our study tonight that it might bring glory to your name and call to Lord Jesus Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name for his sake. Well let's review where we are in terms of our study. I'm not sure why this is taking so long to catch up, but it is Who is the Redeemer of God's elect? We've been studying Jesus Christ, the Redeemer. We know that the only Redeemer Of God's intellect is the Lord Jesus Christ, being the eternal Son of God who became man, so was and continues to be in two distinct natures. So what offices does Christ hold? Sorry that this is really slow tonight. As our Redeemer, he executes the office of a prophet, a priest, a king. There's a state of humiliation and exaltation No. In regard to his office as a prophet, he does so by revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our Salvation. With regard to his office as a priest, he once offered himself up, satisfied divine justice, and reconcile us to God who has made continual intercession for us. The office of a king, he subdues and rules and defends us and restrains and conquers all his and our enemies Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born and that in a low condition, made under the law. Undergoing the miseries of this life, the wrath of God, and the cursed death of the cross, being buried and continuing under the power of death For a time his exaltation consisted in his rising up again from the dead on the third day, ascending into heaven, and sitting at the right hand of God, the Father, and finally coming to judge the world. at the last uh tonight tonight we're going to take that aspect of what Jesus has done And ask the question, how can we be made partakers of what Jesus has done? How can we be many partakers? That's the question we're asking tonight. Westminster shorter catechism number twenty-nine, if the screen will catch up to us How are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ? We've been talking about the redemption, although it hasn't been put that way. As Christ fulfills the office of a prophet, priest, and king, in both as a state of humiliation and exaltation, he has been purchasing for us redemption. So the question is, how? How are we made partakers of what Jesus Christ has purchased? Mom and Dad might purchase food for the house. And it's in the fridge. And mom cooks it. And you may be thinking, well, how can I enjoy that food? They purchased it, it's theirs. They've got to actually give it to you. Here, we are made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ by the effectual application of it to us. By his Holy Spirit. That's the answer given to us by those who wrote this catechism question and answer. Let's try to dig into this a bit, looking at the larger catechism, very similar We've seen some big differences between the shorter and larger catechism, but tonight the larger catechism is very similar to the shorter. How do we come to be made partakers of the benefits, and that's a good word, the benefits which Christ hath procured. The redemption. How do we We're made partakers of the benefits which Christ has procured. That means He's got them, He purchased them, He owns them by the application of them unto us Which is the work especially of God the Holy Spirit. So not a big difference between the two, some different language, but very, very Similar. What I want us to take notice of are the next couple of questions that follow along in the larger catechism, because we're not going to get this in the shorter catechism Who are made partakers of the redemption purchased through Christ? Is everyone? Does everyone become a partaker of redemption? Is certainly applied and effectually communicated to all those for whom Christ has purchased it. And so there's a certain number of people that Christ has purchased it for, and everybody. who are in time by the Holy Ghost enabled to believe in Christ according to the gospel So, who are made partakers? Those, all those for whom Christ has purchased them. And then number sixty, and take a moment to let this catch up just for a second. So the Christ has purchased not all the people, solely seven people Yes, yes, and we'll have questions at the end, but good question now. Uh go back real quickly. And so redemption is only for those for whom Christ has purchased it. It can't be everyone. We see in Scripture that God says very clearly, we'll have its night, Jacob I love, but Esau I hated. And so we know that there are those people for which redemption was not purchased by Christ, certainly Esau. Redemption is applied and effectually communicated to all those for whom Christ has purchased it. Oh, sorry. Question sixty, and I'll start reading this. This slide will catch up here in a moment. Can they who never heard the gospel and so know not Jesus Christ nor believing him be saved by their living according to the light of nature. Can people be saved by their good works? Even if they don't know Jesus Christ Again, this is not in the shorter pantheism. And many who never have heard the gospel, not knowing that Jesus Christ and not believing in him, cannot be saved Be they ever so diligent to frame their lives according to the light of nature. What that means is people who are just trying to do good works but don't know Jesus, don't trust in Jesus, don't believe in Jesus. There's no salvation for them. Neither is there salvation in any other but in Christ alone, who is the Savior, only of his body of the church. Those don't appear in the shorter catechism, but we'll be talking about them inside a little bit. So, some preliminary thoughts tonight Preliminary thoughts. First, we're dead. We're dead in trespasses and sins. The scriptures tell us that we've got a problem. They teach that men are by nature spiritually dead in trespasses and sins, not and And we cannot turn from sin to God except as we are first drawn by God. Taken from a book by Hodge and Hodge commenting on shorter catechisms. We see this very clearly in Ephesians 2, verses 1 and 2. You were dead in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air Spirit that is now within the sons of disciplines. Can we see now clearly that we are dead in our trespasses and sins? And if we are dead, that means we cannot go to Jesus On our own. We can't have that which Jesus purchased and go out and grab it on our own You can't go to the refrigerator and get that food out and prepared to purchase on your own. It's not to be it food So we're dead in our sins and in our trespasses So salvation, therefore, which Christ has wrought, that means his purchase, out for us, must be applied to us by the mighty power of God. Since we're dead, we can't apply it to ourselves. You see, that's exactly what John, excuse me, what Jesus tells Nicodemus is he comes to Jesus and he asks him or talks to him about Coming from God. And Jesus answers and says, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, you cannot see the kingdom of God. God must do something in the heart of a person who is dead. God must apply to us that which Christ has purchased. Hodge and Hodge continue the salvation excuse me. The work of the Holy Spirit In us is just as essential as the work of Christ for us And in the first instance, we are no more able to cooperate in the work of the Spirit, applying redemption Then we are able to cooperate with the atoning work of Christ meritoriously, effecting redemption. See, what he's saying, or the authors are saying, we didn't participate in what Jesus did on the cross. We're not able to do that. And what they're saying is we also don't participate in what the Spirit does And again, in that meeting with Nicodemus, Jesus says, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Do not marvel that I said to you, you must be born again. God must do this work. God must provide the rebirth. Well, as we're talking about this, it's good for us to review and think about the Trinity. The Trinity. Because this is the work of the Trinity. Without the Trinity, we cannot be saved. We need the Trinity working together And so as we think of this question, how are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ, it should cause us to think Think of the Trinity and its persons and its work, the Father, Son, and the Spirit Westminster Confession of Faith, chapter 7, has this for us. This is a chapter about God's covenant with man, man by his fall, having made himself incapable of life By that covenant, the Lord was pleased to make a second, second covenant, commonly called the covenant of grace, wherein he freely offers And to sinners, life and salvation by Jesus Christ. Are you seeing the division now between the persons of the Trinity and their work? He freely offers Salvation by Jesus Christ, requiring of them faith in Him that they may be saved, and promising to give unto all those that are ordained to eternal life His Holy Spirit. Each member of the Trinity working to accomplish salvation Now as we speak of the Trinity, we can think of the Trinity in two different ways, probably more than that. But we can think of their being. And that's really not what we're talking about tonight, but I want to touch upon it God the Father, God the Son, and God the Spirit are the same in the same substance, same in being, same in power, same in glory. As far as their being is concerned, they're the same. This is what the Westminster Confession writes about the being of God in the unity of the Godhead, there be three persons of one substance, power, and eternity. No difference. God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. The Father is of none, neither begotten nor perceived. The Son is eternally begotten of the Father, the Holy Ghost, eternally proceeding from the Father and the Son. This is about the being of God, the three different persons. Now what we really want to talk about tonight is the work of the trans. That the persons, and then we've got the work of the persons The being and the work. God the Father, God the Son, God the Spirit. They have different works. God elects. God the Father elects. It does come up. Maybe it will, maybe it won't. I don't know. There it is. There's that word. He elects, he chooses. What does God the Son do? He accomplishes. God the Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, accomplishes the work of redemption. God the Spirit then applies the work of redemption. Redemption. Different works. One God, three persons, same in being, power and glory, but different work. We see that throughout scripture, don't we? In Malachi, we read, chapter 1, I have loved you, says the Lord, but you say, how have you loved us? Is not Esau Jacob's brother, declares the Lord, yet I have loved Jacob, but Esau I have hated. The Father chooses. He elects. The Son, the Son was sent to accomplish salvation, to die on the cross, to go to the tomb, to be raised from the dead, to ascend up into heaven. at God's right hand, for God did not send his son to the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. And about the Spirit See at Pentecost, after Jesus Christ has gone to the cross, after he's been in the tomb, after he's raised from the dead, now he's ascended up into heaven, what happens? Spirit is sent Rested on each one of them, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and began to speak in other tongues. The Spirit gave them utterance. The Spirit is working, is applying what the Son has done. and accomplishing redemption. So let's talk about that. Redemption to purchase. What what is this This redemption purchased by Jesus Christ. Well, we talked about a problem. We know we've got a problem. As Adam and Eve sin against God, what happens? God comes and speaks to each one, he speaks to the woman Speaks to the man, the man says, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me the fruit of the tree and I ate. The Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me and I ate Evadus. But what they did as they did that is they formed an alliance, they came together with Satan And what did God tell them? I will put enmity, meaning he will create a division between Adam and the serpent. I will put enity between you and the woman Between your offspring and herd offspring, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. There's the problem. An alliance made with Satan in the garden. God promised to break it, didn't he? That's the foundation for redemption. That's the need for redemption because we were sold into Satan's house in the garden, weren't we? It's a redemption divine. See Isaiah 61, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me, meaning the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ. To bring good news to the poor. He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives. See now this picture of being brought out, brought out And the opening of the prison to those who are bound. That's what Jesus has done. He's opened the prison to those who are bound. He's making that separation between us and Satan. An eternal redemption is what Jesus Christ has purchased. We see that in Hebrews chapter 9. When Christ appeared as high priest of the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is not of this creation. He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves, but by means of his own home. Plus securing an eternal redemption. Securing, we might say purchased. We might say purchased That's what Jesus did by his word. He has purchased or secured an eternal redemption. But what does it mean to be redeemed? You redeem the bottles. You get money back. Webster's defines redemption the first part this way, repurchase of captured goods. Who was captured? We all were captured by Satan. Prisoners. The act of pure curing or securing or making sure that we get delivered of persons or things from the possession and Power of captors. Satan's been the captive. Jesus Christ is the one who procured the deliverance of all the children of God. Here's what I want us to think about tonight. We think about my dam machine. Again, from Webster's 1828 in theology, the purchase of God's favor by the death and sufferings of Christ. That's what Jesus did. He purchased God's favor. He earned God's favor. That's the root of the idea. Redemption. The purchase of God's favor. Lisburkoff writes this, the atonement makes its primary impression on the person to whom it is made. What was that? God. If a man does wrong and renders satisfaction, this satisfaction is intended to influence the person wronged. Who was wronged when Adam and Eve sinned? God and not the offending heart. In the case under consideration, Louis Burkoff is writing about the atonement of Christ, it means that the atonement was intended to propitiate God or Earn God's faith. And to reconcile him to the sinner. That's what this redemption is Purchasing the favor of God. Well, made partakers Made partakers. The question then is, how is a person made a partaker Of the redemption or favor of God purchased by Jesus Christ. That's the question. How? How is a person made a partaker Of redemption or favor of God purchased by Christ. Well, notice the use of the word made. Made partakers. Made partakers. Clearly doesn't have anything to do with what you do. You cannot earn that which Jesus Christ has purchased That's not the idea. It's not our work. As we read tonight in Titus chapter 3, verses 4 and 5. But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, it saved us not Because of works done by us in righteousness. Not because of something we did, not because of our righteousness we have done But according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit whom He poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Being justified by His grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of eternal life. See that? Not because of our righteousness, but according to the mercy of God How? Here it is. Here's the answer to that question. How are we made partakers? By the washing of regeneration and the renewal of the Holy Spirit We see now the redemption accomplished by Jesus, now applied by the Holy Spirit through his washing. Through this washing of regeneration that the Holy Spirit does, and the renewal which the Holy Spirit does, who is poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ, our Savior. Isn't that what Jesus said to Nicodemus? The wind blows where it wishes and you hear its sound. If you do not know where it comes from or where it goes, so it is with everyone who is born of the Spirit. Made partakers by the work of the Spirit. That's the answer to our question. This truth should work much praise and adoration within us. For the work of our trium God. Well, that's really an introduction This idea of redemption applied. It gives us a foundation where we can continue on next week, Lord willing. In part two, where we'll be discussing this aspect, how does the spirit apply to us the redemption purchased by Christ? That would be the obvious next question This is how we're made partakers. The question now is how does he apply that redemption purchased by Christ? And the answer is he Applies the redemption purchased by Christ by working faith in us and thereby uniting us to Christ in our effectual calling. And then just a sneak peek to the question that follows this, so you can see that they're all related. Question 31 then deals with effectual calling and defines that. So all related. All these questions, these three questions, are very closely related. All right. We'll finish there with our presentation. I'll pass.