Let's continue our study tonight in the shorter catechism. We'll be talking about Jesus Christ tonight as our prophet or in the office of Prophet. John chapter nine. Gospel of John chapter nine I'll be reading there, beginning at verse 24 and reading down through thirty-four. And Jesus says, heal the blind man, blind from birth, and uh blind man The Pharisees and others are trying to figure out what has gone on and they are interviewing people. Let's give attention to God's word. John 9 at verse 24. So for the second time They called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, Whether he is the sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I have told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? And they reviled him, saying, you are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and would you teach us? And they cast him out. Let's find the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's pray. Lord, we ask now that you would help us. Guide our hearts, penetrate our hearts, Father, with the truth of your word, convict us, not merely of its truth, but of our sin And then, Father, we pray, remind us of all the promises in Christ. Help us to see how Our elder brother, our high priest, our king, our king of kings and lord of lords also serves us and has served us as our prophet. Help us to understand this more fully tonight, Lord, that we might glorify your name and listen. Listen intently and heed the teachings of our Savior We praise this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we're continuing to study about our Redeemer. So where we've been, we've learned from catechism number 17 that we did fall into uh uh in a state of sin and misery. Uh we fell with Adam As he fell from grace, as he sinned against God by taking and eating the fruit which was forbidden, he fell into an estate of sin and misery, and he brought all of us along with him into that estate of sin and misery. And we know that that sinfulness consists in the guilt of Adam's first sin, the want of original righteousness, the corruption of his whole nature which is commonly called original sin, along with all actual transgressions. That is that state of sinfulness that we have fallen into. We also have fallen into that estate of mur of misery. Misery. And that misery is defined as our lost communion with God being under his wrath and curse, and being made liable to all the miseries in this life, to death itself and the pains of hell forever. And we know we know that God did not leave us to perish, did not leave all mankind to perish in that state of sin and misery. that he, indeed, out of his good pleasure from all eternity, elected some to everlasting life, meaning that he elected some, he chose some, that would not perish. in that estate of sin and misery. But he chose some to be brought into an estate of grace. Elected some to an everlasting life, did enter into a covenant of grace to deliver them out of that a state of sin and misery and bring them into an estate of salvation by a redeemer. We might also call that in the state of grace Well, we've been learning about this Redeemer. Who is the Redeemer of God's elect? We can answer that in the name Jesus Christ, the only Redeemer. He is the Lord Jesus, who is the eternal Son of God, who became man and so was and continues to be today, God and man, two distinct natures and one person. Forever, that hypostatic union divided up into these two questions. Well, how did Christ, being the Son of Man, the Son of God, become man? And we know that he did that by taking to himself a true body and a reasonable soul, which is conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary, and born of her, yet without sin. We know that he was born of her without sin, because he was conceived by the Holy Ghost. And he has that true body and that reasonable soul. Now it was so important. We dug into that a bit last week. Well Tonight we want to consider Jesus the prophet. Jesus the prophet. Well our next Turtle Catechism question is actually 23. And it asks that question about our Redeemer, what offices does Christ execute as our Redeemer. The answer, Christ as our Redeemer, executeth the offices of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king, both in his estate of humiliation, And exaltation. Now, that's a lot. A lot of information. And so In considering the organization of the Westminster shorter catechism, what happens from time to time is we will get this big answer, this broad answer Which is which encompasses a lot of information. That's what um number twenty three does But the next five questions in the shorter catechism open up this answer of 23, the three different offices held by Jesus Christ as well as in his state of humiliation and exaltation. So the next three questions deal with his office of prophet, of priest, of king, three different question answers based upon those three different offices. And then the next two questions deal with humiliation and his exaltation. So instead of dwelling on 23, let's go ahead and just jump into 24. And here it is. How does Christ execute the office of a prophet? See, we're going to focus on Christ as our prophet tonight And here's the answer. And this is the same form that all of these, these next three, or this one plus the next two, will take. Christ executed the office of a prophet in revealing to us By his word and spirit, the will of God for our salvation. He executes the office of a prophet in revealing to us by his word and spirit the will of God for our Salvation. Let's just take a quick look at the larger catechism. Same question here, number 43, but they give us a little bit more information as the larger catechism usually does. Christ executes the office of prophet in revealing to the church now the shorter catechism stays revealing to us. Well We can just say that us means the church, because we know that God's word is foolishness to those who are perishing. We know that to the natural person, uh the the gospel, the the cross, uh makes no sense. It's it's It's unintelligible. It cannot be grasped. It cannot be understood. It cannot be believed. And so God's special revelation, the words of Jesus Christ revealed to the church in all ages, not just the Old Testament, not just the New Testament, but But all ages, Christ executes the office of a prophet in revealing to his church in all ages Not just since he was raised from the tomb, not just since he ascended on high, knowing all ages. How? By his spirit and his word Now that makes sense to us by the Spirit and His Word. That's how Jesus today reveals to us. We don't have extra-biblical revelation All the revelation that we get is either general revelation, meaning the creation, or special revelation, meaning God's word. And now how is God's word Explain to us, how is it opened up to us by the Spirit? The Spirit is the one who takes the word, lays it up in our hearts, so that we can practice it in our lives and that we can believe. Well, they also say here in diverse ways, meaning in various ways. We know that certain prophets had visions, we know that some had dreams, like Daniel. uh but christ executes the office of a prophet in various ways the whole will of God Now see the shorter catechism seemingly limits it to the will of God concerning our salvation. But here the larger catechism opens it up. The whole will of God in all things concerning their, meaning those who have been saved, the church, their edification and sound. It's a little bit broader, but opening our eyes up a bit more to how Jesus executes the office of a prophet. Now that this is not included in the shorter catechism, but the larger catechism becomes a little bit more explicit for us. Well, focusing on the shorter catechism, first I've got to give much credit tonight to Thomas Watson. who wrote A Body of Divinity. He was very, very helpful to me in putting together our lesson tonight. And you'll see some quotes from his book. as we go on. So Thomas Watson, um a Puritan, uh who wrote A Body of Divinity. So first question, what is a prophet? Jesus Christ is our prophet. How do we define that? How do we understand that? If you went to Webster's 1828, we'd see that one that foretells future events, a predictor. Secondly, a person illuminated. I wouldn't use that word with regard to the prophet as we understand them in Scripture. Not illuminated. A person inspired? Yes. We're illuminated. We're not inspired. Only those who wrote God's word are inspired. So inspired is a great word and instructed by God, certainly. to announce future events. Or number three, an interpreter, one that explains or communicates sentiments. You can see that Webster's really focuses on foretelling the future. Now, some prophets did that. We know that. Isaiah did that. that others did that there were some of them were including those things that God had revealed to them concerning the future But not always. Not always. So we can pull out of uh Webster's here. Sometimes the Old Testament prophets Would foretell a future? Jesus Christ predicted the future. He has told us what's going to happen. He's going to return We know that those who wrote scripture, the prophets, were inspired by God. And we know that they also explained or communicated God's very word. And Watson refers down there to, or actually, excuse me, Webster's, uh cites Exodus 7. 1, where the Lord said to Moses, See, I've made you like God to Pharaoh. There shall be your prophet, one who explains or communicates. Well, prophet, what does it mean? We can turn to Jeremiah chapter 1, and we read there the Lord put out his hand and touched my mouth. This is Jeremiah writing and uh this is this is an event in Jeremiah's life. The Lord has touched his mouth. The Lord said to me, Behold, I have put my words in your mouth. Prophet has the very words of God that he has inscripturated. See, I have set you this day over nations and over kingdoms to pluck up and break down, to destroy and overthrow. See the power? Power in the prophet? It's actually the power in God's word that Jeremiah is referring to. Put my words in your mouth. I've set you this day over nations and over kingdoms. The power of God's word, the prophetess, the very words of God in his mouth. Jeremiah continues, the word of the Lord came to me saying, Go and proclaim the hearing of Jerusalem. And we see what he was to proclaim. He was commanded to go and to tell Israel, to tell Jerusalem the very words of God. A prophet reminds the listeners of what God has done And what he's going to do. Both. Not just the future, but what God's done. I remember the devotion of your youth, your love as a bride, how you followed me in the wilderness, in a land not shown Israel is holy to the Lord, the first fruits of his harvest. The prophet reminds listeners as well as foretells the future. And a prophet calls hearers back to God. That's exactly what Malachi was doing, the oracle of the word of the Lord to Israel by Malachi. And then now Malachi writes. Those words of God, for I the Lord do not change, therefore you, O children of Jacob, are not consumed From the days of your father you've turned aside from my statutes and have not kept them. Return to me, and I will return to you, says the Lord of hosts. Prophets were continually calling God's people back to Himself, whether it was to heed the law, whether it was to set aside their idols. They were constantly calling the people of God back to God. That's what a prophet did. And in great part, that's what a prophet, an Old Testament prophet did. Well we see this as well in Jesus Christ, don't we? Isaiah forty eight Verse 17. Remember, we're speaking about the Redeemer of God. Thus says the Lord, your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. I am the Lord your God who teaches you to prophet who leads you in the way you should go. That's what prophets did. And especially the Lord Jesus Christ. I am the Lord your God who teaches you to profit, who leads you in the way you should go. And think of the teaching of Jesus Christ. At the end of the Sermon on the Mount, the first recorded sermon by uh Matthew or in Matthew's gospel, not necessarily the first sermon that Jesus preached, but certainly the first one that was recorded by Matthew. Here at the end of uh the Sermon on the Mount, he's speaking of the person who built his house on the rock versus the person who Who built his house on the sand? And he ends with this. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not do them It would be like the foolish man who built his house on the sand, and rains fell, and the floods came, the winds blew, and beat against that house, and it fell. And great was the fall of it And when Jesus finished these things, the crowds were astonished at his teaching. He was teaching them as one who had authority. You see, this is the prophet Jesus. He astonishes with his teaching because He is with authority, not as the scribes. Well, Jesus is the promised prophet. Deuteronomy 18 is where we see that promise being made, as Moses writes As he is speaking to the people as an Old Testament prophet now, he says, The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet like me from among you, from your brothers. And it is to him, you shall listen. Look at the end there, what he says, and I will put my words in his mouth, and he shall speak to them all that I command him. And whoever will not listen to my words, but he shall speak in my name, I myself will require it of him. Jesus is this prophet, promised. Promised by Moses, promised by the prophet of God. We also see it in Isaiah, don't we? Isaiah 9, for to us a child is born, a son is given, and the government shall be on his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. Wonderful counsel. As Jesus teaches, isn't he also counseling? As he's giving us the very will of God, isn't he also counseling? Don't we understand it that way? Isn't Jesus as our prophet also our counselor? I think so. This was a passage cited by Thomas Watson. And then consider this. Of the increase of his government and of peace, there will be no end. Well the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and uphold it with justice and with righteousness. How does he do that? How does Jesus do that? Kingdom is full of people He establishes it and upholds it with justice and righteousness as he works powerfully in the hearts, revealing the will of his father, convicting his people. Of his word. That's part of the work of the prophet. Well, this is his kingdom. Well, yes, but behind it lies the work of the prophet. He's working in our hearts, counseling us, teaching. Promised prophet. We see it in Hebrews, don't we, as well? The end of the New Testament. Well, not the end, but getting closer to the end. As Hebrews, the writer to the Hebrews, opens up his his letter, his book. Long ago and at many times and many ways God spoke to forefathers by the prophets, plural. But in these last days, he's spoken to us by his son. Consider that. Jesus Christ, the ultimate prophet whom he was appointed heir of all things, through whom he also created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God in the exact imprint of his nature. Who could better tell us and reveal God to us but Jesus Christ, the one who is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature? We couldn't have a better prophet. Well, not only is Jesus the prophet, but the prophet is explained as the one who reveals. That's part of the work of the prophet. That's part of the shorter catechism answer. He reveals to us the will of God for our salvation. Well the revealer. Think of this. I think this is the only scripture or proof text I have for this one. But as these were on the road to Emmaus Luke chapter 24. What's going on? These men are who are on the road to the mass are walking and walking and talking to each other. They're upset. They're Talking with each other about what has happened. And Jesus draws near. And he asks them about their conversation. Not that he didn't know But they were distraught. And so what does Jesus do? They'd hoped that he was the one to redeem Israel. And now they think everything is lost. But what does Jesus do? He speaks to them. He opens up the word of God to them. He shows them. He tells them. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer? these things and enter into his glory and beginning with Moses and all the prophets he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself Jesus didn't stop there. He enters the rooms where the disciples are. He declares peace to them. And this peace is based upon the fact that now he took the words that he spoke to them while he was with them Everything written about me in the law of Moses and the prophets and the Psalms must be fulfilled. And he opened their minds to understand the scriptures. That's how he could declare peace to them by revealing to them, by opening their minds such that they could understand the scriptures. Well, he reveals to us what, or reveals to the church what the will of God, the will of God. And so in the high priestly prayer, Jesus is praying to the Father, and he tells the Father, I've manifested your name to the people. And and when when we refer to the name of God, there is so much included in that to manifest the name of God to the people is to give them everything about God, manifestation in his person, in his words. Jesus Christ, the prophet, is manifesting the name of the Father to the people. Verse 8, I've given them the words you gave me. All of them. He doesn't say, I've given him, I've given a few. He's given the people who were given to him out of the world by the Father. God's very words. And they believed that you sent me. That's the will of God. proclaiming to them the name of God, giving them the very words of God, such that they would come to a saving belief, the will of God. That's what he reveals. We think of that also in the Great Commission, don't we? As Jesus Christ was about to ascend, as the disciples were gathered around worshiping him. And now he's about to be taken up into heaven. What does he tell them? Go therefore, make disciples of all nations. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. What did he command? The will of God. Or we could go to Luke chapter ten as the as the attorney, the lawyer tries to test Jesus Christ, tries to trap him, asking him about inheritance of eternal life. How shall I do that? What shall I do? And Jesus asks him what is written in the law. And he answered, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and all your soul, and with all your strength, and with all your mind, and your neighbors yourself. And he said to them, You've answered correctly. Do this and you will live. Jesus Christ taught The will of God. John 14, verse 15. If you love me, you will keep my commandment. Jesus taught the will of God. He modeled the will of God. He manifested the name of God to his people, to the people that were given to him. Well, will God for what? Well, very specifically for our salvation. Now remember, the larger catechism tells us, well, it's kind of everything. Which does include our salvation. What did Jesus teach? The will of God for our salvation. The first sermon that is recorded in the Gospel of Mark is very simple, very straightforward, and points to our salvation. Indeed it It contains the seeds of how we can come to a saving faith Now after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God, the gospel, the good news, salvation Time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is between repent and believe in the gospel. The gospel of the good news. That which he continued to tell his disciples, which they weren't understanding. I'm going to be put to death by the chief priests. I'm going to rise on the third day. I'm going to stop it. And this will all be to take away your sins and to glorify my Father. John 14, verses 1 through 3, let not your hearts be troubled. Believe in God, believe also in me. Salvation. What did Paul and Silas tell the Philippian jailer? What must they do to be saved? Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And you shall be saved, you and your family. Here, Jesus Christ is telling his disciples as he's about to go to the cross, as he's told them he's going to have to leave them, he's telling them, don't be troubled. Believe. In my father's house are many rooms. If you went outside, I would have told you, would I have told you that I go to prepare a place for you? And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself, the gospel. Salvation. If you believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, he will come again and take you to himself. Jesus Christ, the prophet, who proclaimed the will of God for our king. salvation. Well, why does this matter? Why does this matter for us today? We'd say that the gospel matters. Of course it does. Of course why does it matter that Jesus is a prophet? Why does that matter? You have to ask that question tonight, is is he your prophet? See, as the writers of the Hebrews opened up and read that tonight And Jesus, the Son, is the final word Prophets, Old Testament prophets, had come before Jesus. He was the final prophet in a sense. Now he's given his word to to the apostles and they inscripturated Jesus' words for us. But here in Hebrews chapter 2 verse 1 The writer to the Hebrews tells them and tells us we must pay much closer attention to what we have heard. And the last one we have heard from is the Lord Jesus Christ, our ultimate Prophet, lest we drift away from it. Is Jesus Christ your prophet? Are you paying close attention to his word tonight? Should all be asking ourselves that question. Here's what Thomas Watson If Jesus Christ is our prophet tonight, then we will be doing this. Wait upon the means of grace which Christ has appointed. Though Christ teaches by his Spirit, yet he teaches in the use of ordinances. How can we receive Christ's word? In the use of ordinances, the means of grace. The word, prayer, sacraments, wait upon them Jesus Christ teaches by his Spirit, and He does so as He uses ordinances. That's what Thomas Watson is saying. Wait at the gates to wisdom's door Wait there. Wait upon the Spirit as He feeds you with the Word. As He takes the Word and lays it up in your heart. Use them If Christ is your prophet, you will be doing this. And here's the alternative. Such as wean themselves from the breast of ordinances seldom thrive. If we back off, if we're not using the ordinances, if we're not using the means of grace, reading the word, sitting under the preaching of the word If we're not praying, if we're not entering into prayer, if we're not receiving the sacraments, such as wean themselves from the breast of ordinances seldom thrive. Watson is saying you're you're not gonna grow. Either they grow light in their head or lame in their feet Is Jesus Christ your prophet tonight? Are you heeding the words of your prophet, Jesus? Again, from Thomas Watson. I left off a quotation mark. If you would have the teachings of Christ, walk. according to the knowledge which you have already. Remember Paul's Paul's teaching to us, present yourselves as a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable. Walk according to the knowledge which you have already. Use your little knowledge well, and Christ will teach you more. Jesus Christ is very willing to teach us Why else did he enter into the calling of the ministry, but to teach the mysteries of heaven? Are we heeding the words of our prophet tonight? Why does this matter that Jesus is our prophet? Think of those who are lost in darkness tonight Many of us have relatives, close relatives, good friends, that are lost in darkness. Why does it matter that Jesus is a prophet? He's holding that office to them. This is from Thomas Watson. Before Christ becomes their prophet, they are enveloped in ignorance and darkness. Men know nothing in a sanctified manner. They know nothing as they ought to know. Men in the dark cannot discern colors. So in the state of nature, they cannot discern between morality and grace. In the dark, the greatest beauty is Kid. Watson is saying they don't know Christ. They're not being taught by him. And so the darkness that they are in is this blackness. They can't discern colors. They can't see the beauty of Christ. They can't see the magnificence of God the Father, nor the touch of the Spirit. Again, regarding lost sinners, thus it is before Christ teaches us Meaning, before we were taught by a Christ, nay, the the darkness in which a sinner is, while in an unregenerate state, before one's heart is changed from stone to flesh, that estate is worse than natural darkness. For natural darkness affrights. We can be afraid of the dark. But the spiritual darkness is not accompanied with horror. Men tremble not at their condition. Nay, they like their condition well enough. John 3. 19, men love the darkness. Why does it make a difference that Christ is our prophet? He's the one. He's the one who teaches. He's the one who brings us the good news. He's the one who reveals to us God's will for our salvation. But those who are in darkness are not fearful in their spiritual darkness, but actually love it. That should cause us to to want to proclaim Christ even louder. Why does it matter that Jesus is our prophet? If you've been taught by Christ savingly, be thankful. Isn't that really one of the best teachings that we can take out of this lesson time? If you've been taught by Christ, be thankful. It's your honor to have God for your teacher. What an amazing thing. But Jesus Christ, to be a son of God, would care to teach us to be our prophet. It's a matter of admiration and congratulation. I'm not quite sure what he meant by congratulation, but I think it might have had slightly different meaning when he wrote it. Not saying to congratulate yourself. He's saying it's a matter of being of thankfulness. He goes on. He goes on. This is a matter for our thankfulness. That you should have the inward As well as the outward teaching that Christ should anoint you with the heavenly unction of his spirit. But you can say, as he in John 9, verse 25, one thing I know. that whereas I was blind, now I see. Oh how thankful you should be to Christ, who has revealed his father's bosom secrets unto you. And isn't that what he's done? If you know Christ tonight, hasn't he been your prophet? Doesn't he continue to be your prophet? Just like that blind man we read of in John 9. I was blind. Now I see Christ has revealed the Father's bosom secrets. unto you tonight. Praise be to God. Well next week, uh, Lord willing, we will take up number 25, Christ, the priest. Here's a quick look at that. How does Christ execute the office of a priest? He executes the office of a priest and is once offering up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice Then reconcile us to God and in making continual intercession for us