Let's continue our study in the Westminster Shorter Catechism. Tonight I want to turn to 1 Samuel chapter 8. Beginning at verse 10, 1 Samuel chapter 8. This is when Samuel is leading as a judge. the nation of Israel and the nation of Israel had asked for a king A human king, like the other nations. That's where we'll jump in at verse 10. 1 Samuel chapter 8, verse 10. Let's give attention to God's word. So Samuel told all the words of the Lord to the people who were asking for a king from him. He said, These will be the ways of the king who will reign over you. He will take your sons and appoint them to his chariots. And to be his horsemen, and to run before his chariots. And he will appoint for himself commanders of thousands and commanders of fifties and some to plough his ground and to reap his harvest, and to make his implements of war and the equipments of his chariot. You will take your daughters to be perfumers and cooks and bakers. He will take the best of your fields and vineyards and olive orchards and give them to his servants. He will take a tenth the tenth of your grain and of your vineyards and give it to his officers and to his servants. He will take your male servants and female servants and the best of your young men. and your donkeys, and put them to his work. He will take the tenth of your flocks, and you shall be his slaves And in that day you will cry out because of your king, whom you have chosen for yourselves. But the Lord will not answer you in that day As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Let's um let's pray. Father, as we come before you tonight, we ask that you would help us to See Christ our King. Help us to see each aspect of His kingship. Help us, Lord God, to be guided and directed As we study your word by your spirit, we pray, Father, that you would work upon our hearts, convict us, subdue us Subdue us anew to Christ, as He is the one who rules and reigns over all things, especially our hearts tonight. Forgive us of our many sins. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, let's quickly review where we've been in the shorter catechism. We have been speaking about our Redeemer. Do we know that we we have a Redeemer? Uh who is the Redeemer of God's elect? The short answer is Jesus Christ. The longer answer is God's Uh elect is the Lord Jesus Christ, being the eternal Son of God, who became man and so was and continues to be God and man in two distinct persons and One person, two distinct natures, and one person forever. How did Christ, being the Son of God, become man, that's question number twenty-two. He did it uh he did take to himself a true body and a reasonable soul because he was conceived by the power of the Holy Ghost in the womb of the Virgin Mary and born of her yet without sin. As we continue to study, we ask that question, question twenty-three. What offices does Christ execute as our Redeemer? And we've been learning he executes the offices of a prophet, of a priest, and of a king, both in his estate of humiliation. and exaltation. And we know that the questions in the Westminster Shorter Catechism then follow that order. We've been following that order closely. And we found that he executes the office of a prophet by revealing to us in his word and spirit the will of God for our salvation. And he executes the office of a priest who is once offering up of himself a sacrifice to satisfy divine justice and to reconcile us to God. And we know that he continues to make Intercession for us, even as we speak tonight. So tonight we are to that third office of the three prophet, priest, and tonight Jesus the King. Number 26. How does Christ execute the office of a king? Here's the answer. Christ executes the office of a king in subduing us to himself and ruling and defending us and in restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. Now in this case, the larger catechism is much fuller than the shorter catechism. It hasn't been that way. We've seen subtle differences between the two, but here, when we get to the office of a king, we are overwhelmed with the n sheer number of words in this answer. Larger catechism has Christ in the office of a king by calling out of the world a people to himself, that's that subduing part, giving them officers, laws, and censures. ruling and d and defending by which he visibly governs them and bestowing saving grace upon his elect. We don't even have that in the shorter catechism in any way, but I suppose that would fit under the category of subduing, rewarding their obedience as any good king would, correcting them for their sins, preserving and supporting them under all their temptations sins and sufferings, restraining and overcoming all their enemies and powerfully ordering all things for his And also in taking vengeance on the rest who know not God and obey not the gospel. Much fuller. Uh a good tool for us as we consider the office of the king. Tonight we're going to be focusing on a shorter catechism. It would take us a little longer to do the larger We'll continue focusing on the shorter. Well, first, as our king, the king must be set first upon the throne in order to uh be ordained in order to establish his kingship and he must have people uh who are under him, but first he must be set upon the throne. Where do we see that in Scripture? In Psalm two, we see it so very clearly. As God says to us, as for me, and this is God speaking, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree the Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you Ask of me and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession. Oh, there we see he's he's sat on the throne and he's given a kingdom Make the nations your heritage, the ends of the earth your possession. Yes, the Lord Jesus Christ is the Son. Who is spoken of here in this second psalm? We see it in Daniel, don't we? As he has a vision. He's gazing upon the ancient of days, and then he sees one like a son of man who comes before or comes to the ancient of days and presented to him and to him meaning the one who's like the Son of Man. To him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. which shall not pass away. This kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed. We see that Christ, as he sat on the throne, is given this everlasting this the eternal kingdom which cannot be destroyed. It's given to him by the ancient of days. A reference to God is presented as the Son of Man is presented before him, the Son of God. Uh, is given this kingdom. He's been given this kingdom from before time began, an everlasting kingdom. We see it in Philippians as well, don't we? As the Apostle Paul is describing Jesus Christ, the one who uh humbled himself, the one who uh did not grasp the glory of God. Uh therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name, so that the at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. Every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. Do you see the exaltation of Jesus Christ? Now we're going to get into that later on as we study humiliation and Exaltation. But here he he is exalted to the throne. So that all would confess this one as Lord, as the King. And then Revelation. So we have this throughout all scripture, don't we? Revelation chapter eleven, verse fifteen, then the seventh angel blew his trumpet, and there were loud voices in heaven saying Saying the kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord and of his Christ. Yes Jesus Christ sat upon the throne from eternity past to eternity in the future, his kingdom shall reign he shall rule and reign his kingdom for ever and ever. Well, let's talk about subduing. That's the first part we see in the shorter catechism. Once he is set upon his throne. he begins to subdue. And let's just talk about subduing generally first. If we look in the dictionary, we see that if we look up the word subdue, we'll see the bring on your Control by physical force, persuasion, or other means overcome. Now, we know that Jesus does not use physical force. He does use persuasion and he does overcome the hardness or the corruption of our hearts. And so that's the idea. The Lord Jesus Christ, in subduing us, is overcoming the hearts that we've inherited from our first father, even Adam, replacing it with a new heart and then calling us to come to him He's bringing us under control, isn't he? That's that subduing aspect. We see that in Ezekiel, don't we? Ezekiel the prophet tells us that we'll be given those that the Lord has chosen. We'll be cleansed from all our uncleanness. Our idols will be stripped away. And verse 26, be given a new heart, a new spirit. Isn't this part of subduing? Absolutely. This is the first step in subduing. We get a new heart, a new spirit put within us. And I will remove the heart of stone that's got to go There will be no subduing if the heart of stone remains. We have to have that fleshly heart. And I will put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey That's just the picture of subduing, isn't it? Overcoming that heart of stone, that hardness of heart, that corruption which we inherited from our first father, given a new heart. And then And then the Holy Spirit abiding within, causing us to walk in the statutes of God, careful to obey the rules. Somebody's got their microphone on, it's coming through it. It's be going through to the um Going to to the recording as well. So if you can turn off your mics, that would be great. Psalm 103 continues in this idea of being subdued to Jesus Christ, doesn't it? We actually read this or referred to this in Psalm 2. Your people will offer themselves freely Once subdued, what happens? Then we offer ourselves freely on the day of your power and holy garments. Yeah, that's the idea. Once a person is subdued, then there is this willingness to come to Christ, to submit to Christ. Uh uh but he's got to do that work first. And we see that in John 6, 37. All that the Father gives me will come to me. Whoever comes to me I will never cast out. See, the Father gives uh individuals to the Lord Jesus Christ. He does that by changing the hearts and that's part of that subduing process, isn't it? And then we come freely Well, this is what Tom and Thomas Watson writes about uh the kingdom of the Lord Jesus Christ. His kingdom is spiritual. He rules in the hearts of men. This is the subduing idea, right? He sets up his throne where no other king does. He is the sole king of this throne. It's a spiritual throne. It's a throne ruling over hearts. He rules the will and affections. His power binds the conscience. He subdues men's lusts. Jesus Christ has got to cause us to stop lusting after the world. It's part of that subduing, isn't it? He will subdue our iniquities. Micah 7 Well, let's look in particular to this subduing in the calling that goes on. We referred to that a little while ago as God calls, the Father calls. His chosen ones to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ. But here we see it in Isaiah. Incline your ear, come to me, hear, that your soul may live, and I will make with you an everlasting covenant This is that passage where we are wooed to the Lord Jesus Christ. We're called to Him. And God makes that call effectual in our hearts. It doesn't become effectual in the hearts of those who are not called, who are not chosen, who do not have a heart of flesh. The heart of stone remains, and the call uh as it were falls on the stony heart, and it can't be received Behold, you shall call a nation that you do not know, and a nation that did not know you shall run to you. Once we're called and that call becomes effectual, then you see that willingness, that subduing that takes place. Because the Lord your God and the Holy One of Israel, for He has glorified you. Zechariah has something very similar. Thus says the Lord of hosts: peoples shall yet come, even the inhabitants of many cities. The inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go at once to entreat the favor of the Lord and seek the Lord of hosts. You see, as others are called, there's going to be this great coming to Christ. Many peoples and strong nations shall come and seek the Lord of hosts in Jerusalem and to entreat the favor of the Lord. Let us go with you, for we have heard that God is with you. That's what the Lord of hosts says in those days. Ten men from the nations of every tongue shall take hold of the robe of a Jew and say, Let us go with you. We have heard that God is with you, subduing through calling. And then 2 Thessalonians, not just the Old Testament, not just the prophets. We ought to always give thanks to God for you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because He chose you as the first fruits to be saved, to this He called you through our gospel so that you may attain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ, being called out, God doing the calling, subduing us through his calling And then finally an example of calling, a clear example of calling with Abram, as the Lord calls him. to leave his country, to leave his family, to leave his father's house, his kindred behind, and and that he would make a great nation out of him. He's called out And he's called into, he's called out from his father's house. And he's called to go to that place where the Lord would have him to go. Abraham went But this is just such a clear example of one who is physically called out, but it has spiritual roots to it. Abraham is called by the Lord. He's called to the Lord. To that place where he can worship the Lord. We've we've seen that in Exodus, aren't we, as the Hebrews, the Israelites are being called out of Egypt to To do what to worship, to be with God. Calling. Well, what about ruling and governing? We could spend a lot of time on this one. We might want to start at Romans 13, let every person be subject to the governing authorities. Well God gives us laws. Jesus gives us commandments to follow. This is one of them. It's just a clear example of of the ruling that's being done by the Lord Jesus Christ. He places these uh governmental authorities in positions over us, establishing civil laws, calling us to live by those, is establishing a a particular kind of rule. This is physical rule, so to speak. But it's part of what Jesus does as our King, calling us to be subject to those authorities he's put in place over us Uh first Timothy chapter three, uh we see the ecclesiastical rule that Jesus puts in place, the office of an overseer or an elder or a bishop Uh and m he has put and Lord willing, we're going to study this in a bit, but the Lord Jesus Christ has placed elders in the church to exercise the office of rule or uh shepherds. You see that very clearly. It gives us officers. What about defending? That was the ruling part. We skimmed over that very quickly. But where do you see defending or bestowing grace upon us, as a larger catechism might put it? We see that in Revelation, don't we? Casting down the accuser. Satan is daily, hourly, about accusing the people of God, bringing accusations against each one, constantly. We'll see at the end and of uh Satan's existence. Um I'm not talking about eternal existence, I'm talking about his existence and his being the accuser, he will ultimately be cast down, won't he? Now the salvation and the power and the kingdom of our God and the author authority of Christ have come. Look at the idea of Christ's kingdom, Christ's rule, Christ's authority being over even the accuser, even over Satan, the one who accuses us day and night. It's been thrown down, and they have been conquered. They have conquered him by the blood of the Lamb, by the word of their testimony. Casting down the accuser. It's part of that defending, isn't it? What about temptations? The um larger catechism brings this out, but that's part of that defending, isn't it? God will provide the way of escape, clearly part of defending us, clearly part of not allowing us to fall into all temptation. He provides the way out. He provides a way of escape that you may be able to endure it. A way of Christ defending us What about restraining and conquering? Restraining and conquering all his and our enemies. Well we see once again using that very same verse. No temptation is overtaking you that is not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. He won't let us. That's a clearly this idea of restraining. Now, that's not restraining us from falling into temptation, but it's restraining the tempter. He's not going to allow the tempter to bring temptations to us that are beyond our ability, beyond the the strength that he's given us to withstand that temptation. It's a way of restraining. It's not restraining us, it's restraining the tempt. Tempter. He will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, restraining the tempter. And then we see in Job uh this clear restraining of the tempter, Satan. We know that Job uh was afflicted. He had all of his family removed with the exception of his wife. killed, all of his wealth, his animals stolen. And then Satan comes back to him and wants more If you strike his flesh, Satan tells God, then he will curse you. Skin for skin. All that a man has he will give for his life, but stretch out your hand and touch And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, he is in your hand, only spare his life. He restrains Satan the first time. The second time he restrains him with regard to Job's life. There's restraining going on of Satan. Not just for Job. But for each one who's held in the hand of Christ, for each one that Christ rules over their hearts. Conquering the clearest picture we have of conquering by the Lord Jesus Christ. Is the tomb. As John and Peter go and investigate the tomb, stones rolled back They go into the tomb, what do they see? The linen cloths lying there. They see no body, they see no Jesus You see the linen cloths lying there. Notice we've got three references to these linen cloths lying. there, removed by Jesus himself, folded up in a place by itself. Just a wonderful picture of Jesus' conquering death He takes the death clothes and he actually folds them up, indicating his complete and utter authority. his defeat, his conquering death itself. And there we have it as Paul knows the same that Jesus Christ has been raised from the dead, he has conquered death, and so he in his gospel tells his gospel readers, you must So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ, because death no longer has dominion over him. He died to sin, and so not only is death conquered, but sin is also conquered as Jesus Christ rises from the death. tomb. The tomb shows us both, doesn't it? That death and sin have been conquered in the Lord Jesus Christ, and we must ourselves consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God. Conquering. Well Why does this matter? Why do these things matter that Christ's King, that He subdues, that He rules and reigns over our hearts? That he uh governs and defends, that he conquers and restrains. Why does this matter Well, think of the Israelites. They rejected God as their true king and longed after a human king. They wanted to be like the nations that Surrounded them all, even though God told them to be separate, even though God told them to purge them from the land, even though God warned them that uh intermixing with them, wanting to be like them Would be offensive to him. And yet they longed after a human king. If Jesus Christ is not your king tonight, then who or what is ruling your heart. Who or what is your master? That's a valid question The Israelites cast God off. They rejected him, and they wanted a different kind of king, and we do that But those around us do that. Those who don't know Jesus as their true King do have a King, but it's not Jesus And so one of the tasks of evangelism, one of our tasks as being a light of Christ, is to show them the majesty, the beauty. Of being under Christ King, of being ruled by Jesus Christ, of being subdued by our Savior. Knowing that everyone has a king. Everyone is ruled by something or someone. That's our nature. We are created beings. And so we we do submit. The question is, who are we going to submit to or what are we going to submit to? Is Jesus Christ your king tonight? As we read first Samuel eight, Samuel warns the people of all that a human king would demand of his people Take your sons, take your daughters, take a tenth of your grain, take a tenth of your flocks, everything. Ultimately, Samuel tells the people that they would become slaves. to the king. That's what other kings become. Tyrants Evil masters over our very souls. That's the idea. That's what sin does to us. That's what longing after the world does to us. But all things done by Jesus were not done for himself. He does all things and he does all things well for his father. And because he does, and because he did. He did all things for the people of God, as he was called to do so by his father. Here we have just a short passage out of Mark 7 as this one uh comes to him. With uh who is deaf and mute. And Jesus looking up to heaven sighed and said to him, If that is be opened And his ears were opened, and his tongue released, and he spoke plainly, and they, meaning the people who were watching, were astonished beyond measure, saying, He has done all things well. That's our King Jesus. The human kings, as Samuel told the people, were going to take and take and take from the people until they became slaves. It's a picture of sin. It's a picture of what sin does to us. But the true King Jesus does all things for his people. We never see Jesus taking from his people. We always, in everything, see Jesus giving. He said that those who would follow him would need to become lower than all, become servants of all, Jesus Christ being the greatest servant. And here's what Thomas Watson has to say about Jesus' rule. He's a king full of mercy and come and come. He has a scepter in his hand. So an olive branch to eat in his mouth. Though he be a lion of Judah for majesty Yet he is the Lamb of God for meekness. He sheds abroad his love into the hearts of his subjects. He rules them with promises as well as precepts. I thought that was a great quote from Watts, and it's our King, Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Well next week, brothers and sisters, we're done with the offices, and we'll begin to consider the estate of humiliation that Jesus Christ was in. Wherein did Christ's humiliation consist? Christ's humiliation consisted in his being born and that in a low condition, made under the law, undergoing the miseries of his life, the wrath of God And the cursed death of the cross, and being buried and continuing under the power of death for a time.