Tonight we're going to recommence our study in the Westminster Shorter Catechism. Reading there from chapter four. Starting at verse one and going through verse eight, let's give attention to God's word. Oh no, Windows keys. Windows keys fine. No no windows keys. I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead By his appearing in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, reproduke, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. The time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions And will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths. As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering. Do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry For I am already being poured out as a drink offering. And the time of my departure has come I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up from me the crown of righteousness. Which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day. And not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearing. That's fine, the reading of God's word. Amen. That's great. Father in heaven, we ask now that you'd help us. As we continue with our study in the Westminster Shorter Catechism, and tonight as we look a bit into the assurance of your love for us. Open our eyes, Lord God. Work by your Spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. All right. Next slide And that's what we just read, Timothy, 2 Timothy 4, 1 through 8. So as we um come back to the Westminster Shorter Catechism, it's good for us to take a quick review of where we've been. At least that will lead us up to where we are tonight in Number 36. So we see number 29. That's that question, how are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ? Obviously, we've already gone through those shorter catechism lessons where we've learned that Christ is the Redeemer. He's the one who has shed his blood. And the question is now, how do we Uh how are we made partakers of the redemption that he purchased? The answer, we are made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ by the effectual application of it to us by his Holy Spirit. And so we see The Trinity is involved in salvation. Christ being the one who purchased redemption, the Holy Spirit being the one who effectually applies it to individuals. Next slide. And so how does the Spirit apply to us the redemption purchased by Christ? We know it's the Spirit who does it. The question is, how does he do that? And so he does that. He applies redemption purchased by Christ by working faith in us. Sometimes we think we're the ones who do the work of faith. We always. Always we think this. And that's not the case. It's the Spirit that works faith in us and thereby unites us to Christ in our effectual calling. Next slide. So, what is effectual calling? It's the work of God's Spirit, where He convinces us of our sin and misery. He enlightens our minds in the knowledge of Christ and renews our wills. and persuades and enables us to embrace Christ. That's faith. That's where faith comes from. It's the work of the Spirit. Look at all the different things that are in there. That's not what we're going to be focused on tonight, but we're progressing along to get to where we need to be for number 36 tonight. Next slide. So now we get to that question: what are the benefits that those who are effectually called partake of in this life? See that language in this Life. We see it again. We're going to see it in number 36. What are the benefits that those who are effectually called partake of? Well, we see justification, adoption, and sanctification And the several benefits which in this life do either accompany or flow from them. That's what those who are effectually called partake of. Those are the benefits. Now we studied justification, adoption, and sanctification. That's not my intent tonight, but what we're headed toward Are that those words that are highlighted? Those other benefits, the several benefits which either accompany or flow from justification, adoption, and sanctification. Next slide So now we've skipped over those shorter catechism questions and answers which deal with justification, sanctification, and adoption. Now the question for us tonight is, what are the benefits in this life which do accompany or flow from those three: justification, adoption, and sanctification? That's what we're focused on Well, the benefits which in this life do accompany or flow from justification, adoption, and sanctification are assurance of God's love Peace of conscience, joy in the Holy Ghost, increase of grace, and perseverance therein to the end. Next slide So we see there are five. Remember, justification, adoption, sanctification, and all these five are those which flow from or accompany justification, adoption, and sanctification. There are the five. Assurance, peace, joy, increase of grace, and perseverance. Next slide. Well tonight, tonight we're just going to deal with the first of these five. The first of these five. Who can remember which was the first? Assurance. Assurance. Very good. Very good. Next slide. There it is. Phil was right. Assurance is the first one. That's what we're going to deal with tonight. We're going to skim over the top. Especially since we had a lesson on it this last Sunday with some questions, which were good. So we were going to deal with assurance tonight. Next slide So what is assurance generally? What is it generally? Well we can go to the larger catechism. We go to larger catechism number eighty. The shorter catechism really doesn't deal specifically with assurance. The confession of faith does. The larger catechism does, the shorter catechism doesn't really. So can true believers be infallibly assured That they're in the estate of grace and that they shall preserve therein unto salvation. Now you're beginning to see this idea of assurance, infallibly assured That you're in this state of grace, that they shall preserve or persevere there unto the end. And so here's here's the answer: such as truly believe in Christ and endeavor to walk in good conscience before him may without extraordinary revelation You don't need some new revelation, something outside of Scripture, no. Special revelation is adequate. By faith grounded upon the truth of God's promises, and And faith is grounded and by the Spirit enabling them to discern in themselves those graces. to which the promises of life are made. Bearing witness with their spirits that they are the children of God, be infallibly assured that they are in the state of grace and shall Persevere therein unto salvation. So those things that I've highlighted really help us understand what assurance, what biblical assurance is. It's the Spirit's work, first of all He is convincing us, he's allowing us, he's enabling us to discern that these graces are with us, they are been provided to us He, meaning the Spirit, bears witness with our spirits that we are children of God. We've been given that title. We are a son, we are a daughter. And that we are infallibly assured that we're in that estate of grace, no longer in the estate of sin, but now in the estate of grace, and that we shall persevere unto salvation. Next slide. We saw that as we read 2 Timothy 4, 7 through 8. This is Paul's assurance. He's fought the good fight. I finished the race. Paul's not thinking that he's got more to do. I've kept the faith. He's not fallen away. He has Persevered. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day. He's not thinking if this is not a Bear hope, it's a certain hope, right, that the crown of righteousness is awaiting him. He'll be awarded him. Not because of what he's done. Don't get this wrong. This is not Paul saying, I'm prideful. This is not Paul boasting. But as we read about assurance and what it is, it's the work of the Spirit. So Paul is saying that the Spirit is worked within me such that I have this confidence. And look at what Paul says at the end. Not only to me, but also to all who have loved his appearance. He says this is true for everyone who have loved Christ, who have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Next slide. So let's take a look of it in particular, assurance of God's love. That's what the Shorter catechism states this is one of the benefits that flow from or accompany justification, adoption, or sanctification, assurance of God's love. And so we see here in Romans 8. 39, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in creation. What are we talking about? Nothing is going to be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. That should be something that should give us assurance. That's the truth, right? Next click. Here we read very clearly of the truth set forth in Scripture concerning the love of God for his children. Couldn't be any plainer, couldn't be any clearer. Next slide. Romans 5, 5, and hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, has been given to us. Again, a statement of truth about what God has done through the Spirit. He has poured within our hearts those who trust in the Lord Jesus Christ, his very love. Next click. Here it is again, the truth that's given to us in Scripture. But we need to ask that question: how is it, or how does an assurance of the love of God flow out of justification, adoption, and sanctification. Because that's what the Tudor Catechism question tells us. That this assurance of God's love flows out of or accompanies these things. That's what I want to take a look at quickly tonight. Next slide. That's the question that needs to be asked of all the benefits listed. Remember, there are five benefits, all of them flowing out of or accompanying justification, sanctification, and adoption. Next slide. So looking at justification and that definition which we skipped over in our review, it's an act of God's free grace whereby or wherein he pardoneth all our sins. Pardoneth all our sins. That's God's work of justification. Click. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts. No iniquity. That word blessed. We might, we might, well I'm not going to, but we could kind of substitute that one whose transgression is forgiven is loved by God. The man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity is loved by God. Right? He's blessed. He's loved by God. Next slide. Justification is an act of God's free grace wherein He pardoneth all our sins. John 3:16, a verse that you may have memorized even as a child. So loved the world, he gave his only son, whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. What does that mean? He pardons our sins. He forgives us. God so loved the world. The love of God flows out of justification. Next slide Justification is an act of God's free grace wherein he accepts us as righteous in his sight. Next click. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. You see, the love of God is he takes our sin and places it upon his son. Why? So that we might become righteousness. of God. He accepts us as righteous in his sight. That's the love of God. It comes out of certainly his love for his son. But you see how how he poured out his wrath upon his son because he loved Us. Next slide. Justification is an act of God's free grace, wherein He pardoneth our sins received by faith alone. The righteousness of Christ imputed to us, which is received by faith alone. Do you see the love of God in that? He doesn't come to us and say, you know, you need to work, you need to do this, you need to do that. I want this from you. No, a person is not justified by the works of the law. He doesn't ask us to keep the law. His son did it. Through faith in Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ, not by works of the law. You see God's love in that? All of it flowing out of justification? Next slide. What about adoption? It's an act of God's free grace whereby we're received in the number. We have a right to all the privileges of the sons of God. Next click. 1 John 3. 1, see what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. Remember the larger catechism. Right? What is assurance? It's that conviction that we indeed have that title. We've been brought into the family. We should be called children of God. God so loved us that he would bring wretched sinners into his household to be called sons and daughters. Next slide Quick one more time, please. Again, on adoption, for you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you received the spirit of adoption as sons. whom we cry, Abba Father. Who can cry out to God in this way outside of the love of God? Do you consider that? As we recite the Lord's Prayer, as we pray, Father, the only reason that we can pray in that way is because of His love. Because we've been adopted. Next slide. And then we go to sanctification. It's a work of God's free grace whereby we are renewed in the whole man after the image of God. Next click. We see that in Ezekiel. Even in the Old Testament, in chapter 36 of Ezekiel, we see this renewal Sprinkle clean water on you. You shall be clean from your all your uncleanness. From all your idols I will cleanse you. Think of that. Every single idol that we have fabricated. All of our sins, washed clean, renewed in the whole man. I will give you a new heart, put a new spirit within you. Remove your heart of stone from your flesh, give you a heart of flesh Put my spirit within you and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. Do you see the renewal within that? Renewed in the whole man, the love of God. How can he do this for us? Those who are his enemies? Only because of his love. Next slide. Sanctification is the work of God's free grace whereby we are enabled more and more to die unto sin. The work of God. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin, for sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law but under grace. Think of that, those who longed to remain in sin, broken the chain. Those who were captive, captive in Satan's house. Now being wrought out. It's like the Israelites out of Egypt. The bondage to sin broken, dying to sin. That's the love of God. Next slide. Santification is the work of God's free grace whereby we're more and more enabled to die into sin and live unto righteousness. It's not just dying to sin, next click. But also that we are enabled to present ourselves to God as those who've been brought from death to life, and our members to God as instruments for righteousness. What a change. What a change put forth by and within us, by the triune God who loves us. You see how the assurance of God's love flows out of each one of these things, how it accompanies Justification, adoption, and sanctification. Next slide. That's it. We just skimmed over the top of assurance tonight. Assurance of God's love. It's one of the five benefits. In addition to justification, adoption, and sanctification, one of the five that flow out of or accompany them Next week, Lord willing, we're going to take a look at the last four benefits. Next slide Which would be the peace of conscience, joy in the Holy Ghost, increase of grace, and perseverance to the end.