All right. Let's turn to Galatians. Galatians chapter four. I'm going to read into chapter five. Attention about the word. Now you brothers like Isaac are children of promise. But just as at the time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. What does the scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free woman. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. So look I Paul say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. Justify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. We're severed from Christ. We'll be justified by the law, and we've fallen away from grace. But through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole love. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view. And the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty whoever he is. But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsell it would emasculate themselves. Father, we thank you for your word. We pray that you use it tonight within our hearts To lead us, Father, to Christ and to Him alone, and to think upon our justification. That's the things in His preciousness. Amen. Well we're continuing to study justification tonight. And as we do, as we look at this passage in Galatians, we have to ask that question, what was circumcision? Because That really plays a significant part of Paul's discussion of what was going on with the Galatians. They received the gospel And now they were headed off in a different direction. They were being told that they needed to be circumcised in addition to having faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So was circumcision a work to earn salvation? Was it ever that? No. No. It wasn't supposed to be, I think they were making them have to be Jewish first Was circumcision that which saved Abraham? No. It was a seal. You guys are jumping with it. Did circumcision wash away sin and make a person righteous in the sight of God? No. No. Circumcision was a sign. Thank you, Donald. This is my covenant which you shall keep. This is back at Genesis 17. Between you and me and your offspring, after you, every male among you shall be circumcised. You shall be circumcised in the flesh of your foreskins, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and you. Circumcision as a sign. Sign of the covenant of grace. Paul repeats that in a sense in Romans chapter 4, for we say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Was it before or after he has been circumcised? It's not after, but before he was circumcised. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith, while he was still uncircumcised. See, circumcision is sign conceal. Didn't cleanse anybody, didn't save anybody, never was I I like it because uh God did say Jacob have I love but Esau I hated. Esau Esau was circumcised too. But circumcision became a work. So as Paul wrote to those in Galatia, he was implying that for those who were requiring circumcision It becomes something other than a sign and a seal of the covenant of grace. They're misusing it. They were misunderstanding they were leading people astray. To these, those that were teaching that you need to be circumcised, circumcision had become a work of righteousness. The keeping of the law which they proclaimed as necessary For salvation. Paul boldly and adamantly warned his readers, warning us, even this evening If they became circumcised, or if they received it or accepted circumcision as a requirement for salvation And Jesus Christ would not be the statement. That would be strongest statement we have in scripture, I think, to tell you to find a stronger one. If we try to work for our righteousness, we'll be cut off from Jesus Christ. I Paul say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he's obligated to keep the whole law. We know that that's impossible. We can't even keep one part of the law. You are severed from Christ. You who will be justified by the law, fallen away from Christ, cut off from Christ. And Paul even in a preview of what he writes in Romans chapter 4 tells us this in Romans 2 circumcision is in indeed is of value if You obey the law. What he's saying is uh keeping the law is of great value if you keep the whole thing. And no one can do that. If you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision Circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the Latin. It's always been That's what's almost done. Come on, loop the cave. Talking about justification back So let's review. Let's review where we are in the shorter catechism. Number 29, how are we made partakers of the redemption purchased by Christ? We know that we are made partakers by the effectual application of it. To us by his Holy Spirit. How does the Spirit apply to us the redemption purchased by Christ? By working faith in us and thereby uniting us to Christ. In our effectual calling. Number 30. Number 31, what is effectual calling? It's that work of God's Spirit whereby He convinces us of our sin and misery He enlightens our minds in the knowledge of Christ and renewing our wills, he persuades and enables us to embrace Jesus Christ. You might want to substitute the word have faith in Jesus Christ there. To embrace Jesus Christ, freely offered to us in the gospel. What benefits do they that are effectually called to partake of in this life? Well, there's a lot of them. Justification, adoption, sanctification, and several benefits which in this life do either accompany or flow. From them. So we've seen this is a seven-part series on the benefits of redemption. Questions 32 through 36 concern the benefits in this life 37 and 38 concern the benefits of death and resurrection. Lots of benefits of redemption Well, the Ordo Salutis, we've been studying that, we began studying that's the application of the redemption accomplished by Jesus Christ. Especially effectual calling regeneration. We've been studying the order of salvation. Studying the order of salvation. Here it is, one of my seminary professors, first calling, which we can break down into the general call, regeneration, the change of part And the effectual call, where the general call now becomes effectual then as a result of our new heart. Conversion, faith, and repentance Union with Christ, that happens when we come to faith in Christ. We're in union with Him, and as a result of that, we're justified, we're adopted, we're sanctified, there's a definitive and a progressive. We'll talk about that more doing it later. Perseverance and glorification. There is the Bordo Salutis. Tonight we're continuing with our discussion. Of the benefits of redemption, justification. We studied that last week. We're going to study that again tonight. The justification. Well We've read this, we've studied it. I thought it would be good for us to have one more session on it. It's an act of God's free grace wherein He pardons all our sins and accepts us as righteous in the sight. only for the righteousness of Christ imputed to us and received by faith alone. The larger catechism is very similar, but it adds some things that I think are important. Justification, act of God's free grace unto sinners, in which he pardons all their sins, and accepts and accounts their persons as righteous in his sight. Not for anything lost in them, meaning not for anything within the person whom he justifies was done by. Out of work. It's not intelligence. Nothing within us. But only for the perfect obedience and full satisfaction of Christ. By God impeded to them. So some key things that the larger catechism adds, and we don't have any shorter. Helps us understand all the spiritual trust. Well, last time, when we were talking about justification, we were going to the Old Testament. Where was it in the Old Testament we can find passages But help us understand that we're justified by faith and not by work. We're not going to get through all those. I just want you to remember that that's what we did last time So justification is not something, justification by faith, is not something that the apostles made of. It's not something that the Apostle Paul just kind of created out of thin air. No, no. It's founded in the Old Testament. It's founded in Christ. It's founded in God's plan of redemption. Here we saw in Isaiah 53, it was the will of the Lord to crush him, speaking of the Father. Bashman, his son, Jesus Christ. Let's put him to grief. And his soul makes an offering for. Work is all that of Jesus Christ, not of ourselves. The Old Testament makes that clear. The anger for the soul he shall see and be satisfied by his knowledge shall a righteous one, speaking of Jesus, my servant Make many to be accounted righteous. There it is. Funny sight. Fuck that I said. May to be accounted or credit for having his righteousness imputed to us. Alright, we're not going to study the Old Testament tonight. Tonight, I want us to look at Roman Catholic doctrine First is I want to do that because I want you to see that this study is very relevant to us today. Very relevant. Do we have friends? We have family members. Most friends, we're in this way, it's the truth. We want to be able to witness to them. We want to be able to talk to them about this very important subject. Justification. Justification is one of the prime topics Justification by faith was one of the significant doctrines which separated the what became the Protestant Church. From the Roman Catholic Church. It's very interesting. Let's take a look at fallacy a little bit, just with regard to participants. Just to regard it too. Look at the Council of Trent. And what was the Council of Trent? That is where some of the Roman Catholic doctrine is set forth. This is from uh Encyclopedia Britannica online. 19th century ecumenical council of the Church, the Roman Catholic Church, that held in three parts, it was prompted by the Reformation, according to Britannical. Responded emphatically to the issues at hand and enacted by the formal Roman Catholic reply to the doctrine of changes Of the Protestants. The official adjudication adjudication of many questions about which there had been some ambiguity throughout the early church and the modern ages. The Council of Trent. So if I talked about it, you're going to know a little bit about it. Council is important for its sweeping decrees on self-perform and for its dogmatic definitions. Verify virtually every doctrine contested by the Protestants. Protestants have got any The Reformation wasn't a separate church. What emerged from the Council of Trent was a chastened but consolidated church and papacy of Roman Catholicism of modern Samari? Mmm. Yeah. Okay. What I'm gonna show you now are some canons They were part of the Council of Trent. So they came up with their doctrine, and then at the end of the doctrine, they would append these canons to them. This is one of them on justification. If anyone says that by faith alone, the impious is justified Such wise to mean that nothing else is required to cooperate in order to be obtained the grace of justification. And he be prepared and disposed by the movement of his own will, let him be an anathema. An anathema is a curse. So if you're saying that by faith alone, you're justified You should be accursed. 10 and 11. Does anyone say it that men are justified either by the sole imputation of the justice of Christ? But by the sole remission of sins, to the exclusion of the grace and charity which is poured forth into their hearts, that's infusion And is inheriting them, or even that the grace whereby we are justified is only the favor of God, which we will say is clearly Let him be in an epic. Well, anyone says that justifying faith is nothing else but confidence in the divine mercy, which remits sins for Christ's sake Or that this confidence alone is that whereby we are justified, let him be done after. In the 14th. Anyone saith that a man is truly dissolved from his sins and justified because that he assuredly believed himself absolved and justified, or that No one is truly justified, but he who believes himself justified, and that by this faith alone absolution and justification are effective, let it be a man. They weren't even those scriptures because we don't have those scriptures. And 24. If anyone saith that the justice received is not preserved and also increased before God through good works, But the said works are merely the fruits and signs of justification obtained, but not a cause of the increase thereof let them be in a reason. So this thing is a watch saucer, right? This is a watch so here. Yes, exactly It's not Christ alone, it's not faith alone, it's faith plus works. Not just Catholics, it's the last Catholics to I mean This is one of the uh catechisms. This is different than the Council of Trent, but this is also how they have put forth their teaching in the catechism of the Catholic Church. Eighteen twenty one, this is paragraph number apparently. We can therefore hope in the glory of heaven promised by God to those who love him and do his will In every circumstance, each one of us would hope with the grace of God to preserve to the end, to severe to the end, and to obtain the joy of heaven as God's eternal reward for the good works. accomplished with the grace of Christ. The grace is infused, and then that permits you then to do the good works. Well fuse you go to math, you take the sacraments, and you do the works that calls for the confusion. Yeah, you gotta have that bracelet fuse by those things And then as you do, then you you work. Declarations and the anathemas of the Council of Trent had never been revoked. This is uh from a 2013 article. I don't think that's changed since 2013 The decrees of the Council of Trent are confirmed by both the Second Vatican Council, which was in 1962-65, and the official Catechism Czech Catholic Church one which we just read. 1992, this article was written in 2013. So I believe all that stuff is still applicable, still applies today. Alright, let's compare that then now with the New Testament. We studied the Old Testament a little bit. Now we're going to look at some of the New Testament passages. Romans. Romans would be the place to go for God's word with regard to justification. We have one word that defines the book, and that would be very difficult. Justification might be a toy. of the letter to the Church of Rome. By the works of the law no human being will be justified to disciple. Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. For all of sin was called God and are justified by his grace as a gift. So to the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. Continuing chapter 3, then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By law of works, no. But by the law of faith. We hold that one is justified by faith apart from the works. Chapter 4, Romans. But then shall we say it was gained by Abraham our forefather according to the flesh Or if Abraham was justified by works, he has something to boast about, but not before God. What does the scripture say? Abraham believes God and it was counted to him as righteousness. You might insert the word imputed Therefore, counted. Or credited. It's the same idea. With a question on Sunday about what imputed means, it means to credit, to give something to me that I didn't have, that I didn't earn. It's all my roots. My bank account was empty. It actually was a negative number. That was wiped out. And now I've got all this righteousness within my bank account. And to the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness. The promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. Chapter 5. Therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God But if while we were enemies we were reconciled with God by the death of His Son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by His Son. Not just Romans. Let's go to Ephesians. God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead and our trespasses made us alive together with God, by grace you have been saved. Raise us up with him. Let's do the best we can in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Nothing in these passages about work Nothing in these passages about turning your way into glory. Nothing in these passages about appending something to that which Jesus Christ has done. We continue in Ephesians 2. By grace you've been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It's the gift of God, not the result of works, so that no one may boast for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared before. Slide concerning imputation, meaning to credit, to attribute, to start the account of that's what it needs to impute. That's what God has done with Jesus' righteousness. Our account of righteousness was empty. Absolute negative. Would it be fair to say that our sins were also a credit or present Jesus Christ? It would be very fair to say that, because without that we'd be in trouble. Double imputation. We get his righteousness, he gets our punishment for our sin. Right. Right. I think that's a good example because when you think about that With a double imputation, it means that it that our sin did not change Christ's nature in any way, shape, form, or fashion. He just paid the penalty for us, yes. So His imputation of righteousness doesn't change us into righteous beings. It just means that righteousness isn't counted to us. Yes. And that's the difference, it's a significant difference with the Roman Catholic. Yeah. And we just went back over that debate goes all the way back to Augustine and Gladius because it Ultimately I think if we looked at what their idea was around original sin, they in some way deny the impact of original sin. Yeah. We were at a uh Catholic thing work for one of our neighbors. And the last time was amazing, race. Alex and I first signed in the top of the land One of our other neighbor goes a deep end in the Catholic trip. So he doesn't like that for it. So we are vegetable key to me. No, I think five sub serving. So this really boils down to works versus great stuff. And our catechism tells us so very clearly that justification is an act of God's free words. Works destroys works, I think. From a human perspective, we can't destroy this. But when you believe that you can actually work your way into God's favor or merit your way into glory you have in a sense just destroyed with Christ. And that's what Paul writes in Galatians, and that's why I wanted to start with Galatians. If you accept circumcision, and you can put in place of circumcision, if you accept that you need to work for your righteousness, then Christ will be of no advantage to you. Every man who accepts circumcision or works righteousness is obligated to keep the whole law. We know that we're wretched sinners. We can't do it. That Greek word peace, right? That's used for faith and um belief. How would you explain that? Trust, faith, and believe. How would you explain it? Are they synonym? Go, hallelujah. Faith, believe the truth might be certain else, but still it's an intuitive rationing, right? Well when we talk about belief, trust, or faith, uh generally we're talking about the same thing. Generally we're talking about the same thing Um and it's and it's faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, faith and trust in who he is and what he's done and and all the promises of of God. knowing that it's it's Christ who will put our in the sense of a human perspective our souls in his hands. He is the one who carries us. By into that, now we're we have God's work of imputation. imputes to us when we come to a saving faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, then he, God, justifies, and he imputes Christ's righteousness to us. And our sins, the punishment for our sins include Christ. Kevin Wilghill says it's like uh a judge on the bench and stuff. He it say you that He would declare you righteous. Yes. Yes. It's a declaration and it's also an act. Okay, okay. So here we are in Romans again, Romans chapter 8. Finish this up, it's all of grace There is therefore no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit of Life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do. Sending his own son in the life and should come for flesh and for sin. He condemned sin in the flesh. God has done what the law could not do. All of this. All of this. Next week, to move on to New Orleans Lews, part three, to adoption Adoption is an act of God's free grace whereby we're received into the numbers. We have a right to all the privileges of the sons of God.