You turn in your copies of God's Word now to Matthew. Continue our study there. Matthew chapter 13. I believe that's on page 972 of your Pew Bibles. If you think that, well, we read this last time you rewrite It's always good to rehearse Scripture more than once. Matthew chapter 13, beginning at verse 1, let's give attention to God's holy word. The same day Jesus went out of the house and sat beside the sea, and great crowds gathered about him so that he got into a boat and sat down. And the whole crowd stood on the beach, and he told them many things in parables, saying, A sower went out to sow, and as he sowed, some seeds fell along the path. And the birds came and devoured them. Other seeds fell on rocky ground where they did not have much soil. And immediately they sprang up Since they had no depth of soil, but when the sun rose they were scorched. And since they had no root, they withered away. Other seeds fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up and choked them. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty. He who has ears let him hear Then the disciples came and said to him, Why do you speak to them in parables? And he answered them. For to the one who has, more will be given, and he will have an abundance. But from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. This is why I speak to them in parables. Because seeing they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Indeed, in their case, the prophesy of Isaiah is fulfilled that says You will indeed hear, but never understand. And you will indeed see, but never perceive. For this people's heart is grown dull. And with their ears they can barely hear, and their eyes they have closed, lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and turn, and I would heal them. But blessed are your eyes, for they see, and your ears, for they hear. For truly I say to you, many prophets and righteous people longed to see what you see, but and did not see it. And to hear what you hear and did not hear it. Hear then the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom, And does not understand it, the evil one comes and snatches away what has been sown in his heart. This is what was sown along the path. As for what was sown on rocky ground, this is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself But endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. As for what was thrown among thorns, this is the one who hears the word. But the cares of the world and the deceitfulness of riches choke the word, and it proves unfruitful. As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it. He indeed bears fruit and yields, in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty. Would you pray with me? Our Father in heaven, we come to a a passage in Scripture which really digs into our hearts. We ask Lord that you would work powerfully by your Spirit this morning, revealing to each of us where we are. Where are we in Christ? Guide us this morning, Father, by your Spirit. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. In Acts there is a chapter which deals with Saul's conversion. You would know Saul as Paul. But before he became known as Paul, he was Saul, the persecutor of the church. Luke records that Saul was breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, meaning Christians. He even asked for letters to go to Damascus. to imprison men and women who were belonging to Christ. And if you know the story in Acts Jesus strikes Saul on the way. A light from heaven shines around him. He falls to the ground. He hears a voice. Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And the voice tells him, get up, enter the city. It will be told you what you must do. The Word of God Going out to Saul. He sees nothing. He's blinded for three days without sight. And then if you're familiar. One comes to him and anoints him, and then he begins his ministry. Luke tells us that Saul increased all the more in strength as he meets with the disciples at Damascus. Blinded for three days in darkness. Was the Lord Jesus Christ speaking into his heart? Yes. It will be told you what you must do. His sight now regained. What were the disciples talking with him about? Were they leading Saul, who we know is Paul, in the Word? Maybe. Were they scattering seed into his heart? Maybe. We read that he increased all the more in strength. The conversion of Saul, who we know as Paul, the persecutor of Christians, the persecutor of the early church. Becomes Paul, the follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, an awesome account of the Spirit planting the word deeply and producing much fruit in this one. It's much about what this parable is about this morning. Jesus has been teaching much about the kingdom. That's what the entire Sermon on the Mount was all about, the kingdom of God. And now he continues that teaching as he sent his disciples out to proclaim the word, telling them that the harvest was white, plentiful, abundant, he sends them out into it with the confidence that they will produce that fruit, with the confidence that the kingdom will grow. And now as the Pharisees continue to attack him, continue to challenge his identity, he's opening it up even more and more through the parables. They demanded a sign and he provides teaching through parables Last week we spoke about parables in general, seeing what a great blessing they are to the children of God. This week today, we want to dig into the first parable. And I want us to see that the Word of God must be planted deeply within a tender heart for the Spirit to produce a fruitful life of following Jesus Christ. The Word of God must be planted deeply within a tender heart for the Spirit to produce a fruitful life of following Jesus Christ. We'll see that in three points this morning. First, the seed must be scattered. Secondly, the soil must have depth. And finally, the spirit will produce fruit. See, all three of those are required. The seed, the soil, and the spirit. Well, first, the seed must be scattered. This passage or the explanation of the parable follows upon the disciples' question to Jesus, why do you teach in parables? As Jesus unfolded his reasoning, now he unfolds the parable. Sower went out to sow. It's an illustration, obviously. Obviously. The seed. The seed is the word. Hear then the parable of the sower. When anyone hears the word of the kingdom The seed is representing the Word of God, and the sower is representing the proclaimer or possibly the preacher of God's Word. And then he sets forth these four different types of soils upon which the scattered seed falls. First the path, or beside the road. Secondly, the rocky ground, third the one that has thorns mixed in amongst it, and then finally the good soil. The path representing the one who doesn't understand has no understanding. And as the seed or the word is proclaimed, the Satan, the devil, comes and snatches it away. It never never penetrates, never takes root. The rocky ground is the person who has no root within himself. That's the condition of his heart. And so persecution, tribulation tears the word out. It's cast off. The thorns representing the deceitfulness of riches and the cares of the world, which choke the word. And finally, the good soil, which has none of these problems, where the seed takes deep root, the one who hears the word and understands it Four different types of soils representing four different hearts or conditions of hearts. As the word is proclaimed, the word of the kingdom as it goes out. It represents those from no understanding to those with understanding. Four different types of hearts. There's a side note here that I want to make sure we uh don't overlook. And that is that the word is to be spread to all. See, as the sower goes out here, it would almost seem that the sower is not such a knowledgeable farmer. It's just scattering seeds wherever. All over. It's spread to all. It's sown everywhere. In a sense, it's just falling wherever it will. This farmer has a broadcaster and the seeds in it and it just goes. The path, the road, the rocky places, and the mist of thorns on good soil. The word is to go out to all. The bread of life is to be given to everyone. Jesus cried out to all. We saw that in chapter 11 of Matthew's Gospel. Come to me all who labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. That passage we find just after he is admonishing those who wouldn't receive the word. He's still calling them. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. Or in John's Gospel, as Jesus goes up to the feast, Last day of the feast, the great day, supposedly when the most people were gathered in Jerusalem, the Israelites would be there in great crowds, and now he stands up and cries out, If anyone thirst, let him come to me and drink. Everyone got the word. Everyone got the call. Everyone got the seed. See, kingdom growth is clearly dependent upon sowing the seed, sowing the Word of God. Do you believe that? Something so simple. Do you believe that this word of God is that powerful? Do you believe that the word is so important that it's the foundation Of the growth of God's kingdom, that the creator of the universe, the maker of all things from nothing, By the word of his power, in the space of six days, and all very good, that this one would build his kingdom on his word. Jesus is saying that's how the kingdom is built. That's how it grows. That's the means by which grace is given to you this morning By the Word of God going out. It's the Great Commission. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. How? By the word. That's it. He didn't say go there with swords, force them into the kingdom, threaten them. No Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, the word of God It's by the supernatural power of the word, the one about which Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it's the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith to faith. And so God uses sinful, broken, frail, fallible preachers How will they call on him in whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him in whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? And how are they to preach unless they're sent? You see, faith comes from hearing, and hearing to the word of Christ. The word must go out. Seed must be scattered. Everyone. What's your role this morning? As you listen to this passage, as you hear it, as you've read it before, what's your role? How does this portion of the scripture apply to you this morning? Maybe you're not a sower. Maybe you're not called to be a preacher of the word. Most are not. Jesus said it very clearly. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few Pray. Yes, of course. Pray for laborers to be sent out. That's the first answer. But there's within this passage the truth that the word will go out, but not many are going to hear. Think of Isaiah's words. Think of what Isaiah was told by God as he enters the throne room. They're looking for someone to send out. Isaiah says, Here am I, send me And what does the Lord tell him? Make the heart of this people dull, their ears heavy, blind their eyes. Lest they see with their eyes and hear with their ears and understand with their hearts and turn and be healed. You see, Isaiah was being sent out to bring the very word of God, and yet it wasn't going to be understood by many. Calvin puts it this way. He comments on that passage. Although our labor appear to be fruitless, and men rush forward to their destruction and become more rebellious, We must go forward. We do nothing at our own suggestion and ought to be satisfied with having the approbation of God, meaning He's the one who sent us out. We ought to indeed be deeply grieved when success does not attend our exertions, and we ought to pray to God to give efficacy to his word. Yes. Yes, we ought to pray that God would give efficacy to his word. Are you praying for that? But are you praying for your preachers? Do you see how hard that can peek? Think of Isaiah Sent out and told, you're gonna proclaim God's word, but there's gonna be a lot of people who just aren't gonna understand it. And you're gonna use that word to stop their ears. So what's your role? Whether you're a sower or not? Pray for those who are sowing. Encourage those who are sowing. It's a difficult work when a farmer sows and sows and sows and sows and the fruit just isn't coming up. Or only a little is evident. It's the same with preachers of the Word of God. They need your prayer and they need your encouragement. Brings us to our second point. The soil must have depth. So what's the problem here? Three out of these four soils are not producing any fruit. What's the problem? Why is the word not producing faith? Why doesn't the word convict sinful hearts every time it goes out? Why don't these seeds produce a great crop every time in every soil in which they are sown? Well, Jesus explains. I think the general explanation, the general precept or the general rule that Jesus is stating through this parable is that the soil must have depth. In other words, if the seed is scattered amongst these different types of soils, really the difference between the soils is primarily the depth of the soil or the depth that the seed reaches. There's certainly other factors. But the overarching quality or factor we see in this parable is the depth of the soil. And so how does Jesus explain this? This is why I speak to them in parables, because they do not see, and hearing they do not hear, nor do they understand. Nor do they do they understand. You will indeed hear, but never understand. You will indeed see, but never perceive. Jeremiah writes something very similar in chapter four, for my people are foolish, they know me not, they are stupid children, they have no understanding. Paul writes something extremely similar in his first letter to the church at Corinth, the natural person does not accept The things of the Spirit of God, they're folly to him, and he's not able to understand them, for they are spiritually discerned. See, the depth translates into understanding. That's how we should grasp this parable. And so we take up these soils. The path, the seeds that fall in the path, are beside the road. The path is well worn or trodden down. It's hard And so the seed has no opportunity to penetrate hardened path or soil. It's too hard. There's no depth to the soil, so to speak, because the seed is unable to penetrate the top layer. So it just stays on top. The soil's so hard. It's a picture of one whose heart is so hard that it cannot, that it will not. Receive the word of God. If you if you're a griller, if you cook meat on the grill, sometimes you sear it. Right, you cook the outer edge, the outer portions of it. It's the same idea with a heart that's callous, it's seared. It will not understand or grasp the word of God. As the word is proclaimed, this type of heart is so hard that Satan, like the birds, is able to snatch it before there's an opportunity for it to penetrate. The one who remains in their unrepentant sin, unwilling to give it up, enables Satan to snatch away the word of God because he doesn't want it. For this one, the Word of God has no value. It's foolishness to him. What about the rocky soil? The parable expressly calls attention here to an insufficient depth of soil, since they had no depth of soil. Did not have much soil. So as the seed starts to germinate, the sun scorches it and it withers. Because the depth was insufficient. There is soil, and the seed does sprout, but because of the rocky nature of the soil, there's little depth, and thus the roots cannot and will not get established. It's insufficient for the continued and sustained growth of the sprouting seed because of the presence of the rocks Soil depth is insufficient. The roots can't grow deeply unless the plant withers. And so we see this heart This heart actually does hear the word. And the word does actually penetrate to an extent, and there's joy. But that joy is temporary, and the receipt of the word is only superficial. And so when tribulation and persecution arise on account of the word, this one immediately falls away. The idea is this one immediately casts off the word. Think of Herod, just for a moment, who listened to John the Baptist. And as Mark records, he was greatly perplexed as he hears him, yet he heard him gladly. John was telling him, You can't have your your brother's wife. He was admonishing him, he was rebuking him, but he was also teaching him. And Herod is hearing him, and he hears him with joy, so to speak, but clearly as he has John beheaded. It had not taken root. His heart was rocky hard. And so once persecution and tribulations arise for this one who has superficially received the word, the word is cast off. In order to be rid of the persecution or tribulation. Do you see the idea? The rocks representing persecution, tribulation, and so they don't allow the word to go any further. Indeed, the the one who receives that tribulation, that persecution, uh doesn't think highly of the word because it's not taken depth This is hard to understand that it's better to cast off the word to m and avoid the persecution or tribulation There's an important truth for us to recognize here, and that is troubles will arise as a result of the word. There will be persecutions. Jesus spoke of them as he began preaching about the kingdom. Remember the Beatitudes. Right at the very end, he's stressing the fact that there will be persecutions. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Persecution is not abnormal for a Christian, for a believer, for one who has received the Word of God. It's not abnormal for one who is had that word planted deeply within his or her heart. It will come. Expect it. Here's the irony. The only way to survive those persecutions and tribulation is by clinging to the word. That's the only way. It's not by casting it off. It's to ask the Spirit planted deeper and deeper in your heart. How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your Word. I've stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Do you see? That's the only way. To be persevering through trials and tribulations and persecutions That brings us to the third type of soil, which is sown amongst thorns, and those thorns grow along with the sea, and the thorns are stronger Than the seedlings and thus choke them out. Thorne's representing the deceitfulness of riches and the cares of the world. which choke the word. The depth of soil is unstated here, but clearly it's an issue. If the plant, if the seedling, had gone down deep in the soil, deeper than the thorns then it would have been able to survive because it would have received nourishment and been stronger than the thorns, that water, the nutrients. But it didn't And so the third type of heart Jesus speaks of being choked by the cares of the world into the seatfulness of riches. We might picture this as the word not being sufficiently understood, or planted deeply enough within the heart, to counteract The world. The world becomes the focus. The things of the world overtake the things of Christ. Cares of the world. Rich, the desire for them, the deceitfulness of riches, they take priority. Those things become so important that the Word of God, Jesus Christ Himself, fades and dies in the heart. Does that describe you this morning? What is most important? This heart condition is probably the most concerning. For the word remains. Did you notice that? The word remains the seedling uh continues to grow. This person may be deceiving him or herself. This person may think, I I have the word. I still know Jesus. I still go to church. It's just that my worldly cares are so important. So important that the word isn't really important. Does that describe you this morning? It does bring us to the fourth type of soil, and we see a great contrast here. Other seeds fell on good soil, produced the grain. Again, the depth of soil here appears to be at the forefront. Think of other passages of Scripture. I delight to do your will, O my God, your law is within my heart. Do you see the connection between the law being planted within the heart and the delight of this one? I've stored up your word in my heart that I might not sin against you. Mary treasured up all these things as she's spoken to by God himself through his angel. She ponders them in her heart, and she finally comes to know her son as her Lord. He wasn't choked out. He was planted deeply. The image here of the issue becomes what is most precious, isn't it? If the word of God is planted deeply within the heart, meaning that it's understood, it's appreciated, it's valued because it's precious like that pearl which the which is found by the dealer of pearls and so precious that he sells everything to obtain this special one of great value. That's the idea. The word of God is it's planted deeply within the heart. The person comes to know the truth, the promises, the eternal covenant of God, the hope. which is certain in Christ, the description of all of his attributes and his eternal law becomes that which is most precious The word must be deeply grasped and understood, not comprehensively, not exhaustively, for we're finite and that's impossible. But it must be understood such that you're able to appreciate how precious it is. It's only then. And you can compare it to the riches of this world. And you can release your grip upon them because you understand the preciousness of Christ. Think of Paul, I've suffered the loss of all things and count them as rubbish in order that I may gain Christ and be found in him. Do you see Christ that way? As the one who takes priority in your life Because he's the one who's described within the scriptures. He's the one who's described within the word. That's what he told the two disciples on their way to Emmaus. They were grieved. They thought their hope was crushed. And Jesus said, wait a minute, haven't you read the scriptures, the word of God, because they tell you everything about me The one who walked with them, this one was so precious to them. This one had just purchased for them eternal life on the cross as he rose from the tomb. Do you see the word of God this way? That it's much more. The precious nature of the Word of God, Jesus Christ, has indeed risen from the dead. And i if you believe upon him, you'll be raised to eternal life. That's the preciousness of God's word. Do you understand it that way? Are you hiding it in your heart? Is it so deep that the riches of this world pale in comparison? But that's what Jesus is teaching. Brings us to a third point. The Spirit will produce fruit. See, this may be the culmination of this entire passage. Other seeds fell on good soil and produced grain, some a hundredfold, some sixty, and some thirty. Jesus is talking about the heart that truly gris and understands the Word of God. He indeed bears fruit and yields in one case a hundredfold in another sixty and in another thirty. That's the promise, isn't it? Certainly the contrast. But it's the promise. It's certain that as the Spirit plants the word deeply in the heart, which has been made tender, its power will multiply. The condition of a tender heart is such that the word will not lie dormant. The word will not be taken away by Satan. It can't be. The word will not be cast off during persecution or tribulation or trials. The word will not be choked out by the world. No. It can't be. Because the Spirit has laid it in your heart. There will be action. There will be fruit. Because the Spirit plants it deeply. And here's the promise. He indeed bears fruit and yields much fruit. There is no fruit from the other three types of hearts. None. The heart and heart which does not understand, the heart which rejects the word because of persecution and tribulation, the heart which prefers prefers worldly Riches, these produce nothing. But in this heart, which is characterizes good soil, we have the sense that this one makes up for all the others, so to speak For all the other poor and unproductive soils. You might be thinking this morning, well, I think the Spirit has planted the word deeply in my heart. How much fruit fruit am I supposed to produce? How much fruit will I produce? That's a good question to ask. Think of the thief on the cross just for a moment. We can imagine that the thief on the cross was living a life of sin before he meets Jesus. Indeed, Matthew records that the robbers, both of them, there are only two, who were crucified with him also reviled him, meaning Jesus. in the same way as all others were doing that day as Jesus hung on the cross. Both of them. Even moments before their death They were both reviling Jesus. Luke helps us here. So one of the criminals who was hanged railed him saying, Are you not the Christ? Save yourself and us. But the other rebuked him, saying, Do you not fear God, since you are under the same sentence of condemnation? And we indeed justly for receiving the due reward of our deeds, but this man has done nothing wrong. You see the fruit? How much fruit? There was fruit Jesus sent seventy out, and they returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. There was fruit. And so there's the promise of Christ If you know Christ this morning, if you're trusting in Christ this morning, if the Spirit is working in your heart this morning, if He's planted the Word deeply within you this morning, if you are grasping the Word, if you're understanding the Word of God. If you're longing for more of the Word of God, He's producing fruit first. First within your heart. Isn't that fruit? Wasn't that what was going on in the thief's heart? As Jesus was speaking As he was watching, as he saw this one suffering, praying to his father His heart was changed in an instant. And he produced fruit. And so are you, and so will you, as you cherish the Word of God, as the Spirit lays it up in your heart. The Word of God must be planted deeply within a tender heart for the Spirit to produce a fruitful life of following Jesus Christ. The conversion account of Saul to Paul is an amazing work of God. But brothers and sisters, that's what God is doing in each one of you, even today. As He's changed your heart, and as He continues to do so As the word that He's planted within you produces much fruit. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father and our God, we just must humble ourselves before you this morning. For within within this passage, we're not seeing any work of men. This is all the work of you, by and through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ, by and through your Spirit. And buy into your word. And so, Father, help us to have a much deeper appreciation of the purpose of your word, of scattering your word. Of the dangers of rejecting your word and Father, of the joys of having the Spirit plant your word within us. Continue to work powerfully, Father. Help us to be those who work out our salvation with fear and trembling, knowing. That you will complete the work that you've done, that you've started within us. Bringing it to completion in Christ Jesus. And we ask all these things in His precious name. Amen.