Amen. If you turn in your copy of God's word now to Joshua, we'll be in chapter twenty-two tonight. It's on page, I believe, 231 of your Pew Bibles. This is a rather long passage, and so please feel free to sit. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Joshua twenty-two At that time Joshua summoned the Reubenites and the Gadites and the half-tribe of Manasseh and said to them, You have kept all that Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, and have obeyed my voice in all that I have commanded you. You've not forsaken your brothers these many days down to this day, but have been careful to keep the charge of the Lord your God. And now the Lord your God has given rest to your brothers as he promised them Therefore, turn and go to your tents in the land where your possession lies, which Moses, the servant of the Lord, gave you on the other side of the Jordan. Only be very careful to observe the commandment and the law Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, to love the Lord your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments. And to cling to him and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. So Joshua blessed them and sent them away, and they went to their tents. Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh, Moses had given a possession in Bashan. But to the other half, Joshua had given a possession beside their brothers in the land west of the Jordan. And when Joshua sent them away to their homes and blessed them, he said to them, Go back to your tents with much wealth and with very much livestock, with silver, gold, bronze, and iron, and with much clothing. Divide the spoil of your enemies with your brothers. So the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh returned home, parting from the people of Israel at Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan. To go to the land of Gilead to their own land of which they had possessed themselves by command of the Lord through Moses And when they came to the region of the Jordan that is in the land of Canaan, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by the Jordan, an altar of imposing size. And the people of Israel heard it, said, Behold, the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh have built an altar at the frontier of the land of Canaan, and the region about the Jordan on the side that belongs to the people of Israel. And when the people of Israel heard it, the whole assembly of the people of Israel gathered at Shiloh to make war against them And the people of Israel sent to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh in the land of Gilead, Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the priest. And with him ten chiefs, one from each of the tribal families of Israel, one, every one of them the head of a family among the clans of Israel And they came to the people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh in the land of Gilead, and they said to them, Thus says the whole congregation of the Lord, what is this breach of faith that you have committed against the God of Israel in turning away this day from following the Lord by building yourselves an altar this day? in rebellion against the Lord. Have we not had enough of the sin of Pior from which even yet we have not cleansed ourselves? And for which there came a plague upon the congregation of the Lord, that you too must turn away this day from following the Lord. And if you two rebel against the Lord today, then tomorrow he will be angry with the whole congregation of Israel. But now If the land of your possession is unclean, pass over into the Lord's land where the Lord tab's tabernacle stands, and take for yourselves a possession among us. Only do not rebel against the Lord or make us rebel rebels by building for yourselves an altar other than the altar of the Lord our God. Did not Achan the son of Zerah break faith in the matter of the devoted things, and wrath fell upon the all the congregation of Israel, and he did not perish alone for his iniquity And the people of Reuben, the people of Gad and the half-tribe of Manasseh said in answer to the heads of the families of Israel, The Mighty One, God, the Lord, the mighty one, God, the Lord, he knows. And let Israel itself know. If it was in rebellion or in breach of faith against the Lord, do not spare us today for building an altar to turn away from following the Lord. Or If we did so, to offer burnt offerings or grain offerings or peace offerings on it, may the Lord Himself take vengeance. No. But we did it from fear that in time to come your children might say to our children, What have you to do with the Lord, the God of Israel? For the Lord has made the Jordan a boundary between us and you. You people of Reuben and people of Gad, you have no portion in the Lord. So your children might make our children cease to worship the Lord. Therefore we said, let us now build an altar, not for burning, nor for sacrifice. but to be a witness between us and you and between our generations after us that we do perform the service of the Lord in his presence with our burnt offerings and sacrifices and peace offerings So your children will not say to our children, In time to come, you have no portion in the Lord. We thought, if this should be said to us or to our descendants, in time to come we should say, Behold the copy of the altar of the Lord which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifice, but to be a witness between us and you. Far be it from us that we should rebel against the Lord and turn away this day from following the Lord by building an altar for burnt offering, grain offering, or sacrifice, other than the altar of the Lord our God that stands before his tabernacle. When Phineas the priest and the chief of the chiefs of the congregation, the heads of families of Israel who were with him heard the words that the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the people of Manasseh spoke, it was good in their eyes. Phineas, the son of Eliezer the priest, said to the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the people of Manasseh, Today we know that the Lord is in our midst. Because you have not committed this breach of faith against the Lord. Now you have delivered the people of Israel from the hand of the Lord Then Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the priest, and the chiefs, returned from the people of Reuben and the people of Gad and the land of Gilead to the land of Canaan, to the people of Israel, and brought back word to them. And the report was good in good in the eyes of the people of Israel. And the people of Israel blessed God, and spoke no more of making war against them to destroy the land where the people of Reuben and the people of Gad were settled. The people of Reuben and the people of Gad called the altar witness, for they said, It is a witness between us that the Lord is God. Amen. Praise be to God. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father and our God, we Continue to study this book of Joshua. And there are things, Lord God, which are foreign to us, which are difficult to understand, and yet we ask even now, Holy Spirit. Work in our hearts. Give us understanding of this passage. Apply it. Apply it with power. To our hearts this evening. That Christ will be our all-in-all, that he would be exalted tonight. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, how do you pursue unity? In a sense, that's what this passage is asking us tonight. How do you pursue unity? Paul suggested in his letter to those at Philippi that the saints there do it using Jesus Christ as their example. He was so concerned about unity in the people of God that he wrote them this letter which is really focused on If there's any encouragement in Christ, any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind. You could translate that in this way, complete my joy by being in unity. And then he pointed to Christ. who did nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, who sought after the interest of others before his own. In a sense that does bring us to our text tonight. We know that the people of God have been brought into the promised land. We know that they've defeated all of their enemies, all those who occupied the land. We know that the Lord of hosts was leading the battle. And he has now fulfilled his promise by giving them the promised land after forty years of wilderness wandering. The crossing was complete. The battles were done as far as Joshua was concerned. The people had now achieved rest. And the promised land. Indeed, that's what we read of tonight. That the two and a half tribes who had already taken possession on the east side of the Jordan who were called to fight alongside the nine and a half tribes in order to have possession of the promised land had completed their task. They'd completed the work that was set before them, and now they're headed back to the east side of the Jordan, to their land, to their families. The nine and a half tribes have been given rest on the west side of the Jordan. And on their way back, on their way back home, so to speak, back to their families, back to their land, they build this altar, this huge structure. Which looked like the altar that was before the tabernacle. And the nine and a half tribes hear of it And jump to the conclusion that the two and a half tribes have now strayed, immediately strayed from God and worshiping another God. Worshiping in a way that God had not commanded them. In rebellion. And so they suspect the worst. And they head out to engage them in battle. And it's only when there is this discussion between the the two of them That each one understands now what's going on. And there is unity. And there is oneness. As we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to see that as Jesus Christ rules, he uses even the misperceptions of the children of God to bring about unity. As Jesus Christ rules, he uses even the misperceptions of the children of God to bring about unity. We'll see that tonight in three points. First, the righteous are given rest. Secondly, the impatient are misguided, and finally, the godly are unified. And once again, as we go through this passage, I'd like you to be thinking about that question. How often do you pursue unity? Well first the righteous are given rest. Look at verse 2 in this passage. And said to them, this is Joshua, Speaking to the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, that's the two and a half tribes, said to them, You have kept all that the Moses, the servant of the Lord, commanded you, and you have obeyed my voice in all that I have commanded you. This is an extraordinary statement by Joshua, once again stating that these two and a half tribes have done everything that they've been commanded to do. They'd not forsaken their brothers. They'd done exactly that which they were charged with. You've been careful to keep the charge of the Lord your God. As a result, they had given rest to their brothers. The Lord, God, has given rest to your brothers. Seemingly as a result of the work, the labors of the two and a half tribes fighting alongside the nine and a half. It's interesting. That rest was given by the Lord to their brothers and not to them at this point. That's the statement. That's the statement that Joshua makes, and now the Lord your God has given rest to your brothers as he promised them Meaning upon the completion of their work, their labor, the labor of these two and a half tribes, upon the completion of their fighting alongside the nine and a half tribes on the west side of the Jordan, as they were commanded to do, the two and a half tribes of The Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh were allowed to go home to the east side of the Jordan to their families, and the blessing of rest was not given to these two and a half, but was given to the nine and a half that were on the west side of the Jordan. In other words As these two and a half tribes kept the command of God, as they obeyed the word of the Lord, these two and a half tribes, as they carefully kept the command, the charge of the living God, They did not receive the blessing of rest. No, it was those who were helped. The nine and a half received the blessing of rest, even as the two and a half tribes fought alongside them. The nine and a half tribes received the blessing of rest. They kept the command, the charge of God. Set forth in Deuteronomy. Until the Lord gives rest to your brothers as to you, they and they also occupy the land that the Lord your God gives them beyond the Jordan, and each of you may return to his possession which I have given you Do you understand? The Word of God tells us that the rest is given to those That weren't commanded to fight alongside of those who would inherit the land. Consider the person and the work of Jesus Christ. He kept all the commands that Moses the servant of the Lord commanded. He never forsook any of his brothers. He was always careful to keep the charge of the Lord his God. Indeed, Jesus is the only one about whom we can say these things with confidence and certainty. And who received rest upon the completion of the work of Jesus Christ? It wasn't Jesus. Just like the two and a half tribes who were headed home, the first to make a memorial and then to cross the Jordan. No, Jesus was not the first to receive the rest. It was the people of God. They were blessed with rest. Like the fighting of the two and a half tribes, it was the fighting of Jesus which secured rest and peace for the people of God. See what this points to So it's Jesus that secured your inheritance and thus gave you rest if you're trusting in him tonight. Such that Paul can write in his letter to those in Rome, God chose his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. You see? It's the work, it's the person of Christ which has secured the rest for the people of God. Just like these two and a half tribes, as they fought, as they battled, they secured the rest for the nine and a half tribes. Therefore, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. That's the idea. That's the That's the beauty of Christ, isn't it? As He secured arrest tonight. Has Jesus labored for your soul tonight, such that you can say, I do have rest. Because of who he is, and because of what he's done. That brings us to our second point. The impatient are misguided. Well now, as the two and a half tribes make their way back to their possession, to their families, back across the Jordan Back to the east side. They build an altar of an imposing side. Look at verse ten. The people of Reuben, the people of Gad, and the half-tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by the Jordan, an altar of imposing size. Now you have to jump down to verses twenty-six and twenty-seven to figure out what what they were doing, what the altar was for. He said, Let us build now an altar, not for burning Not for a burnt offering nor for sacrifice, but to be a witness between us and you. This is their talking to the nine and a half tribes now. And between our generations after us, that we do perform the service of the Lord in his presence. So your children will not say to our children, in time to come, you have no portion. In the Lord. The altar, as we read at the end of this chapter, was a witness. For they said, It is a witness between us that the Lord is God. That was the purpose of the altar. But we don't learn that until the end of the passage. And so before we get to the end of the passage, we see that the nine and a half tribes turn something good into something bad. Or they perceive that which is good as that which is bad. The nine and a half tribes look at that altar. That which was in its essence very good and perceived it as that which was very bad. Verse 16, thus says the whole congregation of the Lord, what is this breach of faith that you have committed against the God of Israel? In turning away this day from following the Lord by building yourselves an altar this day in rebellion. It's hard to count the number of times that they slander and think ill of their brothers. In that one verse. Breach of faith, turning away, building an alt an altar in rebellion against the Lord. They came to the misperception that this altar was a violation of God's word, of God's command, and that they were going to be using it In rebellion. They perceived it as that which was so bad it deserved death. Look at verse twelve And when the people of Israel heard it, the whole they heard that the altar had been constructed. The whole assembly of the people of Israel gathered at Shiloh to make war against them. Their misperception was so great that they felt they needed to wipe out the two and a half tribes that had done this. See, we do the same, don't we? Many times as we consider the providential hand of God We look at it and consider that which is very good to be that which is very bad. In opposition to what Romans 8. 28 tells us, we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. The Heidelberg Catechism, in response to the question, what is your only comfort in life and in death, includes this. He also watches over me in such a way that not a hair can fall from my head without the will of my Father from heaven. In fact, all things must work together for my salvation. How often do we perceive an event or circumstance in our lives which God decrees as that which is very bad. How often do we look at afflictions and frowning providences? And trials and tribulations and difficulties in our lives, such as illness, or lack of money, or a bad score in our math exam, is that which is bad and bad for us. It's exactly what the nine and a half tribes did, as they gazed upon the altar that was constructed. They considered it immediately to be bad. And their misperceptions can be broken down, I think, into at least three categories. They forgot the work of their brothers, they forgot the character of their brothers, and they forgot the fellowship of their brothers. Let's think about those just for a moment. They forgot the work. The nine and a half tribes had come to the conclusion regarding this monument without speaking to the two and a half tribes that erected it. without considering the work that they had done and fighting alongside of them, fighting the enemies of God, fighting the enemies of Israel. They concluded this monument represented that which was opposed to God, or was in rebellion against the commandments of God They concluded the worst of their brothers as they neglected to consider the good work of the warriors who fought alongside them. Think of that. Think of these two and a half tribes. It wasn't all the tribes, it was just the men. It was just the warriors. They fought hard. They fought hard enough to drive out the occupants of the land for the nine and a half tribes then to dwell in the promised land in peace. Did they lose men in the fight? Scripture doesn't tell us. Did they sweat and toil and strive, laboring alongside their brothers to provide rest for them? I think we can speculate and say yes. Remember, they were not driving out the occupants of land that they would occupy. But they were fighting for the nine and a half tribes so that they would have rest. It was a good work. And the nine and a half tribes failed to consider that good work as they concluded the worst of their brothers. He also forgot the character. Not only the work, not only the labor, not only the fighting, the actions of the two and a half tribes were forgotten or set aside and neglected. The nine and a half also failed to remember the character of these men. Think of that. They strapped on their protective gear, whatever that looked like. They strapped on their swords and obeyed the word of God given through Moses. These men were obedient. That was their character. They heard the word of God through Moses and determined with all their hearts to obey. Called to fight for the nine and a half tribes for that which would become their land before they could return to their homes. Before they could return to their families, before they could have their own rest on the east side. They were called to fight. They were commanded to fight for that which they would never possess. And they did. They heeded the word of God. They sincerely obeyed. What could be more sincere than putting your life at risk for another at the command of God? And that was neglected by the nine and a half. That truth was not considered by them as they came to the worst conclusion considering their brothers. And then they forgot the fellowship, didn't they? Think of the fellowship, the communion that they enjoyed. During that period of time when the battles were taking place, when the fighting was going on, side by side. As the occupants of the land were being driven out or killed by the army of Israel, there was presumably fellowship and communion between brothers. The twelve tribes were fighting together. Not only sword by sword, but think of in the camps at night, when there was no battle going on They were likely sitting around the fire, having meals, enjoying fellowship, brotherly love, in communion together, considering the work that they were about. The labor that brought these men together had one purpose, one cause, to glorify the living God, clearing the land so the people could dwell in worship there. And so in that pursuit, it was fellowship, it was communion, they got to know one another intimately and personally. It was this communion and this fellowship which was also cast off and set aside and neglected. So much so that the nine and a half tribes were ready to wage war against their brothers. Fellowship gone, neglected, discounted, not even given a second thought. That kind of thinking Forgetting the fellowship, forgetting the character, forgetting the work is part of our corrupted nature, isn't it? We're an impatient people. We come to conclusions without consulting the Lord in prayer, and we misguide ourselves. It happened in the garden. Wasn't that Satan's argument before Eve? The serpent said, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened and you'll be like God, knowing good and evil. Satan was saying God has excluded you from the tree of life, a tree of knowledge of good and evil, not for your good But because he's a bad God, a selfish God. See, he convinced Eve to think ill Of her Heavenly Father. It happened in the wilderness. Time and time again. The Israelites, as they were walking about for those 40 years, grumbled against Moses and against Aaron and against God himself. Thinking ill of the Lord, would that we had perished when our brothers perished before the Lord. Why have you brought the assembly of the Lord into this wilderness that we should die here, both we and our cattle? Why have you made us come up out of Egypt to bring us to this evil place? Do you see how they considered the work, the plan of God ultimately to be evil? Ascribing wickedness to the God of creation, the one who is leading them out of the furnace of Egypt. It's not only Eve, it's not only the Israelites. It's you and me also. We take that which we receive by the providential hand of God, which is given for our good, and we perceive it, a circumstance, an event as bad, bad for us, even as God intends it for good. You see, Joseph was able, by the work of the Spirit, to put things in the right perspective, from God's perspective. As his brothers come to him and and ask for forgiveness in a sense, Joseph said to them, Do not fear, for am I in the place of God. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good You see, thus the call tonight is to remember and meditate upon the work of Christ. upon the character of Christ and upon the fellowship of Christ. Every time you you receive a frowning providence, that means when God's hand seems to and appears to be bad for you, that you'd meditate upon Christ, upon his work, upon his character, upon his fellowship, such that then you would cast off that that thinking evil of God, such that you might put the providence of God in the right light and rejoice with Paul. As he's in jail, as he's in prison, and others are proclaiming Christ, even out of selfish ambition, thinking to afflict him in his imprisonment, what does he do? He rejoices. He rejoices in the Lord, and he calls others to do the same. Why? How? Because he's meditating upon the work of Christ, the character of Christ, and the fellowship of Christ, even in his circumstances. Which all would consider to be hard, even bad, and yet he rejoices. Yes. The impatient are misguided. But as we're patient in the Lord He allows us, he guides us to meditate upon the work of Christ, upon the character of Christ, and upon the fellowship of Christ. That brings us to our third point. The godly are unified. Strangely enough, it appears that both the nine and a half tribes and the two and a half tribes really wanted the same thing. Unity and fellowship with the living God. Think of the nine and a half tribes as they're watching their brothers returning to their homes on the east side of the Jordan. And thinking that they're establishing this new worship center, this altar, where they would worship not the living God, but another God, not the God of the Israelites, but some idol. Their concern is that unity would be severed, isn't it? Ultimately that's their concern. Not only unity within the twelve tribes, but the unity of Israel with the one true and living God would be damaged. Think of their words. Do not rebel against the Lord or make us as rebels by building for yourselves an altar other than the altar of the Lord our God. They're concerned that their unity with God would be damaged and even destroyed by this wicked act that they perceive the two and a half tribes are doing. That's their concern. The wrath of God will be poured out upon them for this break in unity, this failure to worship the one true and living God, evidenced by this construction of this unwarranted and ungodly altar. And so they sought to destroy those who would lead them away, lead them astray, and bring disgrace and dishonor upon the name of the one and only God of creation. They truly sought to unify the people of God under the name of Jehovah. The real purpose of the two and a half tribes, similar, unknown to the nine and a half tribes at that moment. But they sought to maintain unity, didn't they? Which they enjoyed as they purged the promised land of its ungodly occupants. By building the altar, they sought to keep unity in the one living God together. Verse 28. And we thought if this should be said to us or to our descendants in time to come, we should say, Behold, the copy of the altar of the Lord which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifice. but to be a witness between us and you bringing us together. Such that they would not be, nor would their children or their grandchildren be severed from that blessed unity in the living God. The altar was a means by which to protect and guard that unity, such that they both wanted the same thing, to be one people, under one God, their creator. The God who had promised to be their God. It's a call to unity tonight for us. The psalmist speaks of that blessedness of unity, doesn't he? In Psalm 133, behold how good and pleasant it is when brothers dwell in unity. Just like the precious oil on the head running down the beard on the beard of Aaron. Just like the dew of Hermon, which falls on the mountains of Zion. For there the Lord has commanded the blessing life forevermore. Paul writes of that necessity as well as the blessing of unity. Complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. The church is called to be in union. The church is called to reflect the unity of the Trinity. The example that we're given That complete and utter oneness of the Triune God Unable to separate the love that is infinite and eternal And that's what we have in Christ. You see, he's the single head, isn't he? We have one head, the Lord Jesus Christ. The true church has been blessed with his headship such that we do not have multiple masters, only one. Jesus Christ, who's seated on the throne even tonight, continues to lead and guide his church, his bride, toward one object, the divine, living, and true God. Jesus is constantly and continually guiding and directing his followers back to his heavenly Father, to your heavenly Father So that you may enjoy not only liberty, but most of all fellowship and communion and union with the one who made you. And that's just a part of the blessing that we have in our head, the Lord Jesus Christ, our unifier, who will return for his bride for the church. And as he does return, he unifies. He's ensuring that his bride will be blameless as he returns for her the church. You see, this blamelessness and unity go together. They can't be separated. For if the church is unrighteous, if the church is blameworthy, it will never be unified. We can turn that around and say, if if the church is unified, then the church will be blameless. And all of this happens in Christ. You see, there's no way to be blameless outside of Christ, but there is blamelessness in Christ. There is righteousness in Christ. And because there is righteousness and blamelessness in Christ, if we're in Christ, then we will be unified. The body of Christ must be blameless. If the head is blameless and innocent and pure and righteous and holy, how could it be that the body would be otherwise? It can't be. You know that. The head goes along with the body. In other words, your body follows your head. The head is the heart, the mind and soul that leads the body. And it's that picture that we have of Christ, of Jesus Christ, the head leading the body, the church. to that goal of blameless unity in himself. Is that where you're headed tonight? Is your desire to be in union with your brothers and sisters here in this place? Has Christ laid it upon your heart To be not individuals or individualistic, headed in your own direction in your own way, but headed in his way, along with your brothers and sisters in one direction. That's unity. Setting aside your individual desires and wants and joining with the rest of the body and moving even closer to Christ. Is that your desire tonight? It seems to have been the desire of the 12 tribes of Israel. You see, that's what happens when collective unity is in the body of Christ. It remains together in worship. Do you see the importance of corporate worship? Of in-person assembly of the body of Christ? And this is just a picture of unity in Christ, isn't it? That picture which was on display as the two and a half tribes constructed that altar. So that they wouldn't be separated from your brothers on the other side of the Jordan. Their heart's desire was to be one people in Christ and their Heavenly Father, even though they didn't know his name, Jesus. So now do you see the importance of unity? You see, we really can't be the body of Christ if one leg is headed to the left and the other leg is headed to the right. We can't be the body of Christ if one eye is looking up and the other eye is looking down. No. To be in union in Christ is to be headed toward one object, toward one single object, and that object is eternity with your Maker. To worship him, to praise him, to bow down before him in blissful service forever Sometimes we discount unity, don't we? But what was it that brought these twelve tribes together? Ultimately it was unity, wasn't it? Ultimately it was the seeking of oneness It was actually the nine and a half tribes impatient misguidedness which brought them together. The scene ends in the furtherance of unity of oneness, at least for a time. Those warriors of the two and a half tribes Thought so highly of unity that they would take the time to build this altar, this monument, so large that the word gets back to the nine and a half tribes, it brings them together. Such that their children and their children's children and their children's children's children would know that they were part of the people of God. What kind of monument are you building for your children or for the next generation? That they will know for certain that they have a part in the people of God. Something for us to meditate upon and pray about. Building monuments to the next generation. Yes, as Jesus Christ rules, he uses even the misperceptions of the children of God to bring about unity in himself. Paul thought even encouraged unity, but it's Jesus Christ who enables unity. Praise be to God that we have unity in the Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Father and our God, what a blessing it is to enjoy unity. Father at times we we don't, we see disunity, but we know in Christ We can have that blamelessness and that unity, that precious unity. Help us, Lord. Help us to set aside our our own individual wants and desires and to lift up the desires and the needs of our brothers and sisters here. That we may be of one mind, of one heart, in Christ, seeking after one object. The true and living God. Help us, Lord. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen.