The line the line is called it, and I mean zero technical negative. And they were all full with the Holy Spirit and began to speak another time of the full. Hopefully from the part of the thing, uh had the pillars for the height of the side. Even if I was in this time to say the side of the self-est. Would it give us reason and Probably we know that sometimes we don't put Well you also wanted to decide to really could be able to It's firmly unless you win A few energy. Music to you, what the bummer speaks about that Many of you have uh intended perhaps and four people to my parents perhaps too many to me. Perhaps clear I don't have any easy work. Well, today and I can see that From your second, from your asset, layout, you know, layout, and I'll expect it. And just ask people how are you building prayer, how are you building magic? And maybe very good. Beyond this when we think I made this a reminder people imparted by India, nervous. Mary, school, and police, inside of the round 50 to somebody 50% on the real food, we need to see from the end of the day. No he heard that. That is working, right? There are personally three million people that it took on it. This year they are celebrating the five telephone, five things, and thirty three years. Since they have been chronicled by many people, they've been changed by many people. uh the pain there and we have no less than I give you the room and I give you the most of you the the 15 years for you to see what a room underneath. So what does the Bible think about his putting? The voice among the words. It's the call to wild body consulting all the processes in the world with the use of time. If you go find three sequence expressions, the thing is on channel components, phenomenal phenomenon of the two If something is called, everybody knows the different methods in the name remember in the method. the emotional work. Advocate public told me that the students is emotional occurrence. and have great things, don't you read that to read their life. First, they are extremely well in the blessings. The principle And even becoming the reality and the personality is And sometimes it's the goal of the change. The only way to determine if only a clean display is more enough if we can tell the things with So let's see what the Bible says both peace of life Tell me revenue. The Bible clearly teaches that a superinform is a dream long useful. Call to the different factors to get familiar with the worthy of the same thing. Verse 1 reads. Endure the light to me with the Holy Spirit and began to see the night of time as the spirit comes in Adam. Number, the telling, nobody tells you, the Bible promoted in every nation on the earth. And adjust and adjust them the multitude completely. And the world will be real. And all the way to do it. Because in the still doesn't think in the whole world. And there are no And a fan story is not all being the other people. And a follow with that repeal What can you do? The good performance is the performance to think in non-languages, not easy to use. But that's why you never covered any. Therefore, whatever it is Also, you have third pointing that the biblical youth experience That is component. But if no one had to teach the process like this, he was not a proof of third, not a literary Exactly. Exactly the Holy Spirit plan in this man and do you fail Nine complex most modern-based kind of treatment is not a spent family. Then don't return if it stops with anything, it was not. In the third it looks alone is true. Every known by the name, as we want a man by the name a loyal Christian. He walked a charismatic leader. This is very hard, they may learn to truth and things. You go to this. The only thing to do is to prevent by need and escape the height. So now that we really use the spiritual things to come into the place of the Jesus Any procedure that tries to teach a person to contain point is totally concentrated to what the driver tissue for the level didn't say Some flight of the uh you know, the order kind of use neurotell can study with for the only use and spontaneously and with my ability to be laid and to be perfectly we cannot push condensed to me only every name around with an individual has included. Any more than we can keep going and take it in the body. The losing only sequences. Ruth are seven and the one group stand up all the time. Point number two. The useful telling you given by God and the use is not distributed to everybody. This is a very important thing. Contribute to commitment to hold permit and stuff of failure. And what did you do? Now there are varieties that Good but the same as two. Different groups are the same as three groups. Two is the one that is the group And there are varieties of things that use. At the same year, the legislative things. And there are varieties And there is the same God, the empires on earth in every day. He uses good as a manifestation of the spirit of the common view. For the long is given to the spirit the element of vision. And to another, the element of knowledge is present to the thing of spirit. To another good security by the only thing. To another the working mind. To another process. To another ability. To another very concept, you are not interpretation. All do it We are telling to each one individual X T. Now let's think about And God has appointed in the third third profession, second director, third feature, And very exponential time And we say, are all personal, I listen me. Are all projects? I'm looking me. Are all teachers? I'm looking me. Do all the work miracles? Yes. Do all pursuits use fulfillment? Yes. Do all food with five? No. Do you all in trouble? Yeah. But in the case in the case of cycle everyone, some had a gasic to give that every believer should be speaking to God says God was not his paper, never watched his paper. Not every system of tell you this. But the second procession, the late readers are too. For the bottom that not conclusive one member of money. If the fifth decor declare for one, not a harmony, we do not belong to the dynamic. Is it very fairly multiple debugging? Well we do this. That is not it's only related at the body. And if the easy Is it believed not part of the Bible? And the whole body, the mind, you would go. And the very bottom within you where do we descend to the standard? The most perfect piece that we would have is the material battle like a man. How will we get at all? And it was a too. But as it is, God by all means remind us in the Bible. If we are single member where the bundle as a rules there are many files just one day. Those same Yes, now we are the body of Christ an individually number earth. We, as the individual Now, where in the future that we ever suggest the rail believers the layer of have the same thing. The wings. To use your knowledge of the body, we will do different. Yet many times That is not a busy person, but everybody takes a 65 degree second. But there is something like I want you to know. And to see And the knowledge of the body. You have been together by science. He died by some things. He must bring Early the east of the moment. First group from his heart in practice. First of all, many horses are in property. understanding of God. Just as God is under no obligation to give the same view to other Christians, new If two under number is the V L 15 that we have to do. But I feel what you know the means of sentences those in those things and I thought has not received. Neither are you can be. Where I was the word and how we're going to love, who are my weight, how is that and report than research. Do you see what he said? He said that's it that he feels done as helps to do something, he doesn't he doesn't mean he has to do it. He doesn't imagine. And he assumes he has to be And if he's backing it, what does he need? He needs it away. And we need to address And we might work on the world because it's learning meetings too. That good as a word to use a certain fit, seven times a movie. And the movement is permanently. to follow it's not affected well but it's things as it's saying to follow the new fight the way. For that we can for the to one generation and to be burdened to another generation, in no real three persons will need to tell the one week. For example, in the brief sensor colourists, he resistance. The delivered government in a fair movement goes And he did come from some other days, the old poem So then send some bottom claims of the day. And to ask who, and the voice and I child is who does That and tell and tell them that Hugo is out there. And they say it's late. It shouldn't be We are told what is in us. There's water above, and it's feeling, and there's oil within it. Well, Peter has released the thing. But of the land or Peter's land, these are lines because God allows this to happen. If you are prevented by authority, then why do you want it? Velcro The working level is funny. See how you can do to telephone the the things that are going He told me what is he taken? He pays to the little people in the monatry and we say to them Most of them in the world. That solar is so music. What can we see that is If we go to God must do every good to every generation, it's able to not understand the myths as the failure. as the belly card. When it reaches the heart of the calls of the belly card, it is not recording to the end of the world. But the treatment for the original from the third simulation to the last simulation before the feminine class. The whole group of people are personalizing the system as the body itself. There is not a total body for each innovation, or for each space, or the each nationality. And these components always be the end. There was there was even in the first century If we feel the most away, we may say well. And what do you want? What about the person? The use of the fact that given that social And I've given for the purpose I learned if I'm doing a report alone with the main thing. You can go down a vote system But the booth that we do, does that mean we are not demonic things today? We found anything. What you have in your hand is the word of God. Is the Bible. So much of the faith of God is ready to from many of the practices. We are a few from the same things and many people and many things that we have. And there are many that we demand. And that is something that we need to say. Therefore, it is something that I feel that God must give the same gift to every human being. But his darkness is his blessings. The Bible teaches that the beauty of its people was given as a sign to the gift. The failure can determine the purpose for which the gift was given has layout in much completely Because when individuals totally know the view streets do this, they have no interest in the place. Hello. There is a similar person to the paper and the symbol is what the Bible is told about the good. The good of points was given following as a common of in the religion you have. We are now that good completely if as you said as composed in a number of the truth. This complexity. In the lower position, the card is We have more things sparing than the very questions. Inferno things, since we have infections, they very quite basically the same. Okay, change this on the way that it puts in it put in whatever language is making back on the ten words per line. And it is very easy as well as you are clearly loved and things. That is 110 by people of the same thing and by rules performance of the retreat to the truth. And who will be true? And we can And even then we know recently there are parents of a fan mostly believed by the Indians Well politically, if it's a not only believers that they believe it, people forbearance to believe. Well, postal Set the line both in both things here. So these demands and these it That's the Corinthians 122 is a little bit, but this is 1947 21. The deep is 30 Several years all the basis young and telling print product. Did they work sometimes? You sometimes print But it's so confident that composed in a great idea. If I do polless item, I'm going to play. But that when followed and tuned at the North General, Paul was actually fine, we believe, first of all, it's a good thing. But the point was. Paul has a claim to be so comp. It's terrible. The point from of the group of things because they were not understanding take good way away and building themselves in something about that business Therefore, the manifestation of this view lies to the purpose of unbelieving views. By the time we trust following the Also, law economizing, this is pressing evidence, competition Your colour is there is very positive in such a similar is a colour and conjunction and person is weak we just run. The modern kingdom of the revolver had been colored in fact in the year 721 BC, where the comics became I don't believe in a practice. Although I would say my world will tell them single and given, but similar to my world is having Is we have given the time that they can. But we don't negotiate. The word learning. And you could sell out This is the fibing things that activity of the body. Now follow me once again. The original coverty was given by most And the female feminine for the name. And refuse to hear his words and remain and the mode of prayer. You will speak to you in a family and who will feel any interest. You will send the people But it's people mean this, but you didn't feel before. And that's not true. And you hear that parallelism because students are bacon. Seven handy on 71 VP. And more comments are in 15 look closer, allowing 10 handy on the PC. And we perhaps have Again to the father's kingdom and he said, You see what happened to the medical kingdom. Go disabled the command to God and do tell me Body Hatha will be in mercy. Now I'm saying to me is really good and work to few notice and give me one of the land of people. Two people will put a color the weak of the name to carry Now on the building temperature, then the B the gospel and the real those views to have nice that that button within us. We must As a judgment has fallen in the body of evil, in the body of beauty. Because both subjects avoid that. And said, he said to the least, if you do forgot, and do not do my judge People will fall in mind and turn into a skill to the group in that case. So how much merely the government of God And then I'll start with The real people feel considered in the line around. And you're going to consider them That you have been a human to build the bad dreams, but this means that To call that man with settings. each time of the family and two. The group is a food, right? Where the digital view is the very thing. Yeah, that was that judgment. That bhagan for the bee. When a women Starting with those things not only too big but only open. It pays the difference. In the kind independently. Every one million with the body. And price and smell is the music activity. And we'll imagine. But the star was the most Fable available. After you certainly use the recording, therefore the week of performance wanted to be 650. Individually comes with a common adultness in desert and indeed The Gain was the common that God no longer will worry through one nature. The same The Pope Landis will no longer be a bias to the cooking of that. He was going to communicate with me I could already learn myself So they are founding early by the myself. I mean the presentation. Rather We will postpack by waiting at time to be great. For like the north is very good. More is the post in This is the world and is the soul means this is what we don't have. How much man is the spirit of speaking in? Because of the division, a word was designed And the way to feel more both. We're already going to emotional for the world. And give them a clear system to feel the motion. That you can be closed in the very. I look into the news that could clearly be something. Let you be. In the uncle, all the near to be on the way of the beef, a little detail. pregnant is something included the fluence of the gym. Grimpa are not to be there. And because of old mind and the family is not designed to be called this. In that view, just a three single eye easier is missing the other time. He's not doing another He was not putting a bowl for any other week of the place to learn. I can point out in the week, can you? When it's third penalty ten through So all ego will be placed after the experience, the delivery of content to the bank and design. But the manifold research is a little in the other way. And in the meantime, the careful development of the group Ingrace for something else to be planted. And this world as you had plenty, twenty took me. Soints were a standard by itself. We have used this all we can call the many things, and most of it is very of the both the list of success, the batteries, and the blocking success. This very common And we perform the presentation behind nobody and running as the good thing of the business. Let's go back to case formation and case number two. I don't know that I was frequently nervous by no them all of them because the things we are directly, no terminal connections We better read my thing. And we need the purpose of it. That's everything. We then need the same thing about it. Whether you come and ask you uh, this is a piece of record. How to have a problem with these and finding a glance. We are simply the very well that person designed with the competition. You cannot be fairly alone. Do you have any like in total? product to the new company. And the group that's invite the new individual. That black is occurring seven seven ED and this way the summer of the new MV. There was one thing, there was one the field of activity. There was one development activity. One is just a fundamental The field has been has not said also that it's time is for any time and even two anything. So it is not a few statistics. This is a claim. Only a weekend and a veritable generality of this is So God doesn't want us to see the things. That is a postal everything to what we think to happen. Because only one of the If I have the same, I begin a few. And I can use the element that I see my view. And how do we be consistent? You have people to try and look at the word time. Well does it tell you that This kind of thing is this. And the further third will work for its science. If you tell me the students of time and this common manifestation is a second to drill And if you find out, that is principle measures. That is in future. We are not to speak the secret comment that los we are telling and we don't put the time to lose it and tell it. And we are putting to the losing the full thing of time. And uh it's pretty similar in the uh There's a good family as you think about it. So that would be And keep moving your hand. Moving the learning. Alone. Moving and We supposed to be given and make it even when you don't feel the way you do it. And when we don't do what we're doing though, it's still the other message and happy. Where do you think that Yeah, we know we will. We call it before it has more than The foot from the words management let's start with managing work is first and it's further. And that I'm using her And if it is good and If we seek to be sensitive to us And the perfect students are used to do it I mean to be here. Hopefully, you know the task is real of the new