Hear now the word of the Lord. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. For by it the elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God. So that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. Again, that's what I think. Let us pray. Dear Lord, as we look at your word today, we are cognizant and well aware, Father, of the fact That you must grant understanding and you might must grant knowledge to us. And as we think about the subject of Your involvement in the creation of the worlds. Lord, we pray that our minds might be directed to appreciate um what this passage, especially verse Elo three is saying about your creation and our relationship to it. Pray, Father, that at at the end of our message that you will make it clear to the assembled saints here what it is that they should believe about your creative work. And we pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, today we come to uh a significant statement in Verse 3, to say it's a significant statement is really an understatement because it's been this special uh statement that stands in contrast and the the emphasis in this statement stands in contrast to what is the preeminent, predominant theory of how creation occurred And I must say today that I do not see it as my job today To talk about the alternative theories of creation that have been advanced by those who are unbelievers. It's not my job to then talk about the texts or these theories and then attack them Although what I have to say, I believe does present a clear statement from God about the creation in which we live What I will say will undermine the unbelievers' theories. It will undermine their entire foundation upon which the theories are based. I realize that I can never convince the unbeliever of the truth about what I'm about to say. And quite frankly, nor do I care to try to convince them. I am not trying to change the unbelievers' heart and mind Because I know the only power that can do that is God. And especially God's word. Can change the sinner's heart. And so I see my task today as presenting the truth. As presenting the truth and trusting the Holy Spirit to work. Whether it is in the hearts of unbelievers or whether it's in your hearts as believing Christians. If God chooses to use these words to convict unbelievers, I will say, praise the Lord. But my primary aim is to unleash the power of God's Word to work as He wills, to strengthen the faith of His elect children. So let's look at this little verse, verse 3. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God. So that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear By faith we understand. We are said. And of course, the writer is here, when he says we, he is considering that we to be Christians. That's who he's writing to. The Christians understand that the worlds are framed by the Word of God. To understand the word that's used here is not just to know. But, and that's part of it, but it's to perceive. It's to have an insight. It's to have an understanding that the knowledge makes a connection. with your heart to the point where it's not just that I I affirm what is being said, but I know it to be the case. I know it to be true. Um And the reason the Christian has this kind of understanding is because he understands by faith. He understands by faith that the worlds were framed by the Word of God By faith, you, as a believer, are enabled to understand properly the world in which we live. A world where you live and in which you dwell. How do we get that understanding? How how where does this faith come from? Well It ultimately comes from God, but God also is bearing witness to your faith. He bears witness to your faith in the very existence of the creation The creation is something that every man can see and every man can understand or From creation, from what he sees with his own eyes, he or she, what they see with their own eyes, they can see that God is That the creation doesn't the creation didn't just happen, didn't just come about, didn't just come about on its own There is a being that's behind the creation in which we live All men know that. All men know that. The believer knows it in faith. The unbeliever knows it in rebellion. And as he or she rebels against this truth, they postulate all kinds of intellectual arguments. They take their talents, their God-given intellect and talents to erect a false construction about what their eyes see. Every minute of the day. And by doing so, they seek to overturn. The knowledge that God gives to the unbeliever every time he sees the stars in the heavens. Or every time she sees the birth of her child The unbeliever hopes to retreat into his lives. And hide from the Creator. But the creature deceives himself. Into believing that he will never have to face God. The God he knows is there. And I tell you, with all such lies, and when the creature, the unbelieving creature, embraces the lies To an ever-increasing degree, the creature pays the price. The creature pays a price. Clinging to his anti-God presuppositions, he denies God's existence. He denies God's word is true, inerrant, infallible, and he seeks any theory that will help him dispute God as his creator. But in the process, such a person can never arrive at truth nor mean His knowledge is always skewed toward the lie, as he vainly attempts to prove God's non-existence. But this is an impossible task. This is an impossible task for man to succeed at. Particularly a man who rejects the truth that creation is of God and is being constantly revealed to him. The first and greatest casualty of the unbeliever's rejection of the God of creation is man. Man himself. He can never know God. He cannot know God because God's witness to himself Is there in creation? God's witness to Himself means that God is not difficult to find. The unbeliever can never know God because his knowledge of God is everywhere to be found. But he rejects it. One only has to open his eyes to see the truth about God's existence. The impact of unbelief on the individual, as well as man's collective knowledge, is devastating. The only way man individually and collectively can exist in God's created world is to borrow. to borrow truth from the creation, which he sees and then gives himself the credit when it all works Beloved, such is not the case with your knowledge, because God has given you faith. Faith in Him and faith in Christ. You know, you understand the creation at its very foundational principle. You understand creation witnesses to God. It is his world. It is his creation. You understand your place in God's world. You are not a usurper of God. You are a servant of the majestic Holy One on high. And even if you can never know God's mind exhaustively, you can always say you know it truthfully. And you know it wonderfully. By faith we understand That the worlds were framed by the Word of God. The worlds are framed I think that's an interesting phrase. The Greek translates that word as framed, but it it also comes into our understanding as something that you put in order. Something that you complete, something that you prepare or make or create or design All those words are acceptable translations for the word framed. But if you choose all of those synonyms or any one of them, they all make sense And they point to they point you to God's transcendent genius God is, you see, the greatest artist, the greatest carpenter, and simultaneously the greatest mathematician The greatest physicist, zoologist, botanist, ecologist, microbiologist, historian, geologist He is simultaneously all of that. And he uses every discipline in creation. To frame the worlds that exist. I really have come more and more in my life to marvel at everyone who has creative ability. The artists, the carpenters. You know, how many times I have to pick up the phone and have somebody come to the house and do some carpentry work around the house You know, I got left out when the artistic gene was handed out. And it's not just that I can't draw I can't even miter angles on a door frame I even went out and bought a power saw that swivels around so I can cut 45 degree angles. And I still can't get it right. Thank God for Woodfiller I can't miter two boards and make them fit perfectly. But God has framed the creation to make it all work perfectly God has used his genius to cause the worlds to come into being And to fit properly together. It when we think about this point, it reminds us that God is the author of his word, but he's also the author of creation. The sense of the phrase, we understand the worlds were framed by the Word of God. The sense of this is that It is God's own words that gave life to the creation. Actually, the thing that clued me into this This phrase here is called theat mustas in Greek. Thaiat mustas. Literally, God breathed. You all remember Second Timothy chapter three, verses fifteen and seventeen. sixteen All scripture is inspired by God. They apnustas Same word. And here it's used to talk about God creating by his whe Or his speech. And I found it interesting to take note of the fact that when we go through Genesis 1, that is one of the stories of creation. You find this phrase, and God said, and God called. You find both of those phrases. that occur with regularity in Genesis chapter 1. In fact they occur 14 times. I went through and tried and counted them. I may have been off One or two. I also lost the mathematic gene when I the one that were handed out. But anyway, that being here nor there, the point is that it's That even Genesis 1 refers to God's creation coming into existence with the repeated word, God said. And God spoke. And God called. And I didn't look up the Hebrew, but the Greek is The Yat Nustas. And we see that that concept of God creating by the exercise of his word, we see that reflected. in the scriptures themselves. On multiple occasions. John chapter 1, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Psalm chapter 19, verse 1. The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament its handiwork. Day unto day they utter speech. The heavens utter speech. Night unto night they show knowledge. There is no speech or language where their voice Heaven's voice is not heard. And then what we read in Psalm 33, verse 6, which is a psalm I was not so familiar with. But it's a really truly marvelous psalm. There are two verses, six and nine, which stand out on this concept of God breathing out the word or speaking in order to create. Verse 6, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made. And all the hosts of them by the breath of his mouth, he gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the depth in the storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord, and all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him, for he spoke. And it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. You see, this promised was not infected so much at all by the tendency to see God absent from creation. In fact, his words are predicated on the fact that God is there. He sees God at work in his creation. Talks about God speaking and breathing out his word. And it stands as a witness, a 24-7 witness that the unbeliever can never run away from. He can never find a place to hide. Where can you go that you can't see? Creation. Where can you go that I mean I mean if you're blind you can't see it, but you could hear it. Blind people tend to have heightened other senses. And they can hear the you can hear the marvel of creation, just still out sometimes away from the city into a wooded area. And hear the birds singing their melodies, or hear the brook babbling over the rocks. So you can't they ca you can't get away from this witness. Okay, so since the world and the word frames all things that are created, Christ is the ultimate declaration of the Word of God. He is the creator also. And the owner of all things. Hebrews makes that point as well. John makes that point as well. John 1. All things in creation serve God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Christ is Lord of heaven and earth. Even as he demonstrated during his life. You remember the incident in Mark chapter 5? The disciples are out on the Sea of Galilee, and a fierce storm comes up. Jesus is asleep, and they wake him up. And he arose, it says he arose, Mark 5, 30 to 9, he arose, rebuked the wind. and said unto the sea, Peace be still. And the wind ceased, and there was great calm. And he said unto them, Why are you so fearful? How is it that you have no faith? And they feared exceedingly and said to one another, What kind of man is this that even the wind and the sea obey him? They didn't answer the question. Well you know the answer. The wind and sea obeyed its creator What things Okay, the last point of this section is this verse. So that the things which are seen are not made of the things which do appear. Now listen to this very carefully. The things which are seen do not, literal translation, do not be Do not be from the things which are made. Understand that this means that the God who created and worked worked and created with no preexisting matter. In order to create. Nothing was here on earth When God created nothing but a void All creation was avoid when God created. This teaching from this particular passage Further witnesses to us that the things which are seen, the things which we can see Cannot be ultimate in any sense of the word Things do not be or happen because the created world says so The world, earth, moon, and stars are not the great determiner of what is or will be. Behind all things created is God, not Mother Nature, not fate, not blind luck not evolution, not anything else man dreams up in his silly sin-twisted mind. In fact, man is not ultimate. Believers rejoice in the God unit Revealed to you in creation and in revelation. In his word. He has created all, and he has seen fit to reveal all to you. To reveal meaning to you and to sustain you according to his eternal purposes, which he has revealed to us in his word. Let us work hand in hand with God to see that his eternal purposes are fulfilled. Not that it depends upon us, but as creatures we should Serve him. Serve him to see that all creation, every man, woman, and child come to glorify the Creator. Amen. Let us pray. Tell you, and we confess before you, Lord, that we believe that your word does not go forth without accomplishing your purposes. And so, Father, as this word goes out today within this assembly, but also, Lord, as it goes out over the internet. We would ask, O Lord, that it would accomplish your purposes, that it would strengthen your people and their faith, that it would erase from their minds The false interpretations of creation that they have heard, but they would begin to realize what is at stake when they embrace the lie. And for the unbeliever, Lord, we pray that you might be pleased to cause them to begin to think more about eternal reality than about themselves. That they might see, Lord, who they are in relationship to God. That He is the creature. And they are the creator. No amount of lies or intellect will ever change that reality. To God be the glory, Amen.