Here in this afternoon service that happens once a month, we have been moving through the book of Acts, Acts 16. This section where Paul is in basically in Philippi, um, you know, in the the area of Philippi as we've been in Philippians in the morning, so in the afternoon we've been sort of paralleling that with Paul's prior missionary um So here we are in Acts 16, starting verse 19 through 34. Now you'll remember this is this is a follow-up on what happened just before this. Paul had spoken words that had delivered a slave girl from a certain spirit of divination, a demonic spirit of some sort, and she was Um delivered from that spirit by these words that Paul spoke, Paul spoke in the name of Christ and uh and commanded the spirit to to leave her, and it came out And so here we're reading what happens right after that happens. And I would remind you that this is God's very word, so listen to it as such and giving give your attention to it as such. Acts 16, 9 19 through 34. But when her masters saw that their hope of profit was gone, they seized Paul and Silas and dragged them into the marketplace to the authorities. And they brought them to the magistrates and said, These men being Jews exceedingly trouble our city. And they teach customs which are not lawful for us, being Romans, to receive or observe. Then the multitude rose up together against them, and the magistrates tore off their clothes and commanded them to be beaten with rods. And when they had laid many stripes on them, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to keep them securely. Having received such a charge, he put them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. But at midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns to God, and the prisoners were listening to them. Suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken, and immediately all the doors were opened, and everyone's chains were loosed And the keeper of the prison, awaking from sleep and seeing the prison doors open, supposing the prisoners had fled, drew his sword and was about to kill himself. But Paul called with a loud voice, saying, Do yourself no harm, for we are all here. Then he called for a light, ran in, and fell down trembling before Paul and Silas. And he brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? So they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. You and your household. Then they spoke the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. And he took them the same hour of the night and washed their stripes. And immediately he and all his family were baptized. Now when he had brought them into his house, he set food before them, and he rejoiced. Having believed in God with all his household. As far as the reading of God's word, may he add his blessing to it and to its preaching in our midst this morning. Well, you know, considering what Paul just did, what Paul and Silas and you know possibly others with him, considering what they just did to deliver this slave girl. From her spirit, from the spirit that was keeping hold on her. And the way that delivering her from that spirit also delivered her from being used by these cruel masters. Considering what Paul just did, some thanks he receives for doing something as great as what he just did, right? Um well you know what's that saying that that they say? They say uh no good deed goes unpunished. Look at what hap look at what Paul did. He speaks in the name of Christ. This gospel frees the girl, and then it it frees her from the spirit It also frees her from being used by these masters who who have been using her. In some way it frees her. What does Paul get for doing that? Look what happens to him. No thanks are directed in his direction. He gets mistreated. He gets scorned. He becomes a target of scorn. He becomes the target of abuse. Alright, so basically what happens here in verse 21, he basically is getting labeled a troublesome Jew. The uh these masters, they're upset that they've lost their source of profit now that the girl can no longer speak with the spirit of divination. They're upset with him What do they want to do? They want to get back at him somehow. So what do they do? They basically point the finger at these men, Paul and Silas, and they say, Look! These guys are Jews. These guys are troublesome Jews. Now there is some history behind this. A certain Roman emperor, Emperor Claudius, probably shortly before this had gotten rid of all Jews out of Rome. He had expelled all the Jews from Rome because basically he had concluded that they were too troublesome. The reason why he had expelled all Jews out of Rome probably had to do with some controversy, controversy between Jews and Christians. Religious controversy over what was the right way of faith and the right way of worshiping the one true God. Now, Claudius, the emperor, seems to have come to the conclusion. That such religious controversy is damaging, and such religious controversy is only going to cause trouble and is going to disturb the peace of his city, Rome. And so Emperor Claudius gets rid of all Jews. You know, um there's some language about at the instigation of someone whose name sounds like Christ. And so so it seems like it's a religious controversy between Jews and Christians. Now The Jews already didn't exactly have the best reputation with the Roman Empire to begin with prior to Christianity coming along and Jesus coming along. There was not always peace Between Jews and Romans, and oftentimes it was provoked by Jews. Jews were considered narrow, intolerant, not open Roman culture wanted everyone to coexist. Roman culture wanted everyone to embrace one another. All religions, all gods, all faiths, all coming together. The Jews uh uh were not willing to embrace this and they cared about things like the Word of God and they cared about things like their temple, and you know, in a lot of cases rightly so. And yet here comes this little religious debate between Jews and Christians. Well these guys, they're such a small group, they're causing way too much trouble for for the Empire. Let's just get rid of them This is what Claudius um concludes, it seems, by the edict that he puts out. And so for this reason, um The Emperor had already pointed the finger and said, troublesome Jews, well guess what? These masters here in Acts 16 They're ready to they just want to get back at Paul. All they have to do is copy the thing that the emperor has already done. The emperor pointed the finger and said, the Jews are troublesome These these masters of the slave girl, they point their finger. They say, oh, here are a couple more. And guess what happens? What happens is what happens here in our text. Okay, so these meet these men, being Jews, exceedingly trouble our city. Again, there's some more of those troublesome Jews. And uh whether or not the charge sticks, public outrage is at such a level that the crowds are ready to rise up against them. And it basically forces the magistrates to act. So here's the thanks that Paul gets for um what he has done to f to um speak the words. that free this slave girl from her from the spirit that is troubling her. He gives label the troublemaker. He gets uh lumped in with all these troublemaking Jews that Emperor Claudius has probably already um you know uh made his his conclusion on. Um He becomes the target of the crowd. The multitude in verse 22 rises up against them, Paul and Silas. And you know, the the public outrage is so high that what happens, they tear off their clothes. They end up getting beaten with rods. They end up having laid upon them many stripes. Stripes are, you know, the wounds from these these rods are beat with. Open wounds They get thrown into prison, into a dark, dirty prison cell. They get locked up, their feet locked in stocks. So here's what happens to the Apostle Paul. Isn't this the way that the gospel of Christ is often viewed in this world? Why are you going to all that trouble? You're just stirring up trouble Look, these guys, these masters, they were just ordinary guys. They were just trying to make a buck in this world. Here comes Paul, you know, um disrupting the source of their profit Isn't this the way the gospel is sometimes viewed in this world, though? And isn't this the way the world is always prone to answer the gospel of Jesus Christ? Apart from, you know, with the exception of when the world actually receives the gospel and embraces it and is changed by it The world is prone to look at the gospel as nothing but something that's kind of in the way, something that gets in the way of the things that they are trying to accomplish. And this is how this is the reception we often receive, isn't it? Let's not be surprised. Let's not be surprised if when we are seeking to be faithful to God, when we are seeking to preach and promote the gospel faithfully. Let's not be surprised if the world doesn't throw a parade for us. Let's not be surprised if the world doesn't publish our names in the newspaper. And give us all kinds of applaud and acclaim. Let's not be surprised if the world sometimes ends up looking at what we're doing and just casting its scorn at us. Or calling us, look at those troublemakers over there on the side. What are they doing? Now, even though Paul and Silas end up getting mistreated for what as a result of what Paul had done What do they do? What do we find them doing in verse 25? Now notice what happens. They end up being locked up in the prison, but what are they doing in prison? What could they be doing in prison? What do most people do when they're put into prison? Lots of people who end up in prison, they're ready to say, I don't belong here And they're ready to give you a list of reasons why they don't belong there in prison. Is that what we find Paul and Silas doing in our text? No. Surprisingly, even, it's unnatural what they're doing. Here's what they're doing in verse 25. At midnight, they're awake praying and singing hymns to God. And of course, look at what the prisoners are doing. They're listening to them. This stands out to these guys. Of course it does. What kind of people get thrown into prison The way that these guys have been thrown into prison and end up doing the thing that these guys end up doing. Praying and singing t hymns to God At midnight. And yet this is what Paul and Silas are doing. They don't um, you know, they it getting thrown in prison doesn't cause them to question what they were doing Doesn't cause them to question whether they did the right thing. Doesn't cause them to question whether they should go and do something else. They simply hold fast in their faith. They hold fast in their faith in God They press on, praying and singing hymns to God. Now, Paul really hasn't done anything to cause real trouble. In fact, what he's done has been something that's good And yet getting thrown in prison for this, he doesn't make an issue of it. He doesn't uh complain about it. We hear him and we see him praying. And singing hymns to God. So again, this is something uh very unnatural and and uh uh the prisoners seem to to notice because they pay attention to what he's doing Now, is it significant that the time at which Paul and Silas are praying and singing Is before they have any idea what's going to happen next. Okay? Is that significant? Because what does happen next? Now What happens next is the Lord seemingly miraculously frees them from their prison. But when are they praying and singing hymns to God? They're praying and singing hymns to God before they know what the Lord's going to do. Isn't that significant? And isn't that significant to us? When is the time to pray and to sing hymns to God? It is before we know the outcome. It is before we even know whether the outcome will be good for us in whatever circumstance or situation we are going through. And we see this modeled here by Paul and Silas. Again, they have no idea that the Lord is going to bring this earthquake to deliver them from prison. They are praying and singing hymns to God. Whether or not the Lord is going to deliver them by means of an earthquake, they are praying and singing hymns to God. This is something for us to consider. The time during which to pray and to sing hymns to God is before we have any idea what the outcome will be. of whatever the situation is that we are going through under God's hand. So again, this is what's going on. They show this. Now, in this case, the Lord does deliver Paul and Silas We had no expectation that that would have to happen or that the Lord would have to do that. But in this case, He does it. This earthquake comes. In verse 26. It seems miraculous because the results seem very specifically focused on freeing Paul and Silas and the other prisoners as well. There's this earthquake. The foundations of the prison are shaken. The doors to the prison are opened. The chains are loosed. And so that means Paul and Silas and other prisoners with them are free. They're free to leave the prison. So something fairly miraculous happens, clearly miraculous. All the prisoners are set free, Paul and Silas. Now again, remember, they were singing hymns and praying to God before this happened, before they knew this would happen, and yet the Lord does it in this case. Now, all the prisoners getting freed. This is something that scares the prison keeper. And there's very good reason why it should, right? This prison keeper. He's got this one job. Keep the prisoners. Wait, wait, all the prisoners are free at the same time Um understandably, he's scared. Um and seeing that, you know, supposing the prisoners had fled, well what do you expect prisoners to do? What do most prisoners want to do They don't want to just hang out there in prison, right? If they get if they're let out, what are they gonna do? They're gonna leave. You know, you hear so many stories about people planning prison escapes or things like that, you know People who are in prison have a lot of time. Sometimes what they do is scheme how to get out of prison. And so if they were just handed this opportunity the way these guys were, many prisoners would jump at that opportunity So of course, understandable, the jailkeeper is freaked out, scared, for good reason. He doesn't want to face the repercussions of Letting all his prisoners go. Oops. Um you know who would want to? Um we don't know. What would he face? What would he face for losing all his prisoners at the same time? We don't know, but he knows enough that he'd rather kill himself with his sword than be caught. And so he's prepared to do this. Verse 27, we see this. He he awakes from sleep, sees the prison doors are open, and assumes What you would rightly assume the prisoners must be gone if this has happened. And the the consequence is going to be so bad that Boy, I would rather kill myself with a sword than face what I have to say, or or what I have to face as a result of these prisoners getting freed. Now, something miraculous happened The prison was shaken, the prisoners were let free. Something that's possibly almost just as miraculous happens. The prisoners are still there. They haven't gone anywhere. Um So Paul calls out with this loud voice to let them know, wait a minute They are still here. Whew. This jailer must have been very relieved. Now, again, um It sounds like it's the best news he's ever heard in his life. Um he's not gonna have to kill himself, he's not gonna have to face the results of letting all his prisoners go free. It turns out the prisoners are still there. And they're waiting. And Paul says, Do yourself no harm, for we all are all there. Now, that's a question. What kind of prisoners, when the prison is opened up and able to be emptied, hang around. What kind of prisoners do such a thing? Maybe the same kind of prisoners who were up at midnight praying and singing hymns to God. And maybe the other prisoners who were listening to these guys pray and sing hymns to God. and possibly even heard and possibly even believed what these guys were praying and singing. What a remarkable thing. Again, these these prisoners, they could run the instant the prison is opened. They could go and find their own freedom Instead, we see them doing what they do here. They're concerned for this man. And they hang around so as um that this man will not get uh get in trouble or will not kill himself as well And so the man hears what's going on. He hears what Paul says. He calls for a light in verse 29. He runs in. He's trembling. It shows you how anxious he is over uh what he's facing if his prisoners get out. But a light, he calls for a light, he goes into the dark place, he looks, he sees that all the men are there. All are present and accounted for. It sounds to him like the best news he's ever heard in his life. It sounds to him, those words come to him when he sees what has happened. It sounds like he has been brought salvation from certain death. And this is indeed what has been brought to him. And yet, even though it sounds like good news that these prisoners are still here, there's even better news that he's about to hear a moment later. As he asks Paul in the next verse, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? He hears good news. He's saved from death. He's been saved from death because his prisoners are still there. He gets saved from death in an even better way when he comes to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. And this is what we see These men who stand here with such poise in the fact that they've been imprisoned, and nonetheless are praying and singing hymns to God, in the fact that God lets them out of the prison miraculously, and they don't leave, they stay. This is clear evidence to the man that who they are dealing with is someone more than the normal prisoner. Who he is dealing with is someone other than the normal prisoner. And so he asks the men, what must I do to be saved? Somehow he recognizes in them, these are men who know something about true salvation. Tell me, what must I do to be saved Paul and Silas answer and they tell him, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved. You and your household. Then in verse 32, they speak the word of the Lord to him and to all who were in his house. He takes them, he takes them to his home. He washes their stripes. He helps take care of the wounds that they've gotten from their beatings. They're baptized. He and his family are baptized. And they bring food and they s and he serves serves them, rejoicing in his faith in God, and in the in uh his entire household with him. So here is the outcome of what happens with the Apostle Paul. Now here again, here's a question we have to face. What is the reward that Paul gets for doing what he has done? And I introduced this sermon by Um, you know, uh mentioning that saying that no good deed goes unpunished, right? Paul goes and he he uh speaks these words that that deliver the slave girl from a spirit. What does he get? What's the outcome? He gets thrown into prison. He gets beaten. He gets beaten with wounds, with stripes. Um made by Raj, he gets his clothes torn off him, he gets falsely charged, he gets a mob riled up against him. Is that his reward for doing what he had done? Is that his reward for doing good? Well, it turns out the reward he gets for going through what he's gone through, the outcome that Paul counts as significant is the outcome that takes place here at the end of the text in verses 31 through 34. All that other stuff is minor stuff compared to the reward of seeing people believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Here is his reward Here is why it's all worth it. The false charges, the imprisonment, the beating, being kept in stocks, being falsely charged, being kept in prison in a dark, dirty cell. It's all worth it for this purpose. People believe on the Lord Jesus Christ through his testimony, through his ministry If you were to ask Paul, was it all worth it? Was it worth it going through everything he went through just to see this jailer and his family come to faith in the name of Jesus Christ? I think Paul would have very clearly answered yes. Eternal salvation brought to a whole family. A few minor sufferings that last for a little while on the way there. But here is why Paul is in it. Here is the reason why Paul is in it, ministering the gospel of Christ. To see people believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. To see people like the slave girl delivered from the devil's tyranny over her. To see people like the Philippian jailer come to rest in Jesus Christ, come to faith, and come to eternal salvation. And beloved, this is a good point at which for us to remember the purpose of the church. The purpose of the church's ministry. It's very important for us to remember that we face, we could face many of the same things that Paul faced, and we ought not to be surprised if we do. But in the midst of the possibility of suffering the world's scorn, it's important for us to remember the purpose of the church is not to seek fame Is not to seek a name for ourselves, not to seek a good reputation in the world or good treatment in the fine things of this world. But we press on in service to Christ the same way that Paul did and for the same purpose. To see his gospel spread, to see people saved for all eternity. And even if the world responds to us the same way that Paul was responded to, not understanding how great it is, what is happening right there in their midst. scorning those who proclaim the gospel as people who are troublemakers and who don't deserve their time or any good treatment Possibly falsely charged, possibly labeled troublemakers. Let's remember the reason why we are in it. The reason we are in it as the Church of Jesus Christ is to see people saved. To see people delivered from the darkness of Satan's tyranny. To see people delivered unto salvation, to live in God's presence forever. And when we see that, we need to understand that that is a much greater reason to be in it than anything that this world could give us Even if the world did heap upon us praise and acclaim and applause, it's a far greater thing, and we should count it a far greater thing, simply to be used by God. In bringing salvation to people. That is what is rewarding about being part of the church. That is what is rewarding about belonging to the Savior Simply being used by God to see his salvation come to people who otherwise would not see it and would not hear it and would not receive it. Let's remember this. Let's keep this in mind. The pattern of Paul's ministry could easily be the pattern of the church's life in this world and the church's ministry in this world. Yes, we too may have to face the very same things that Paul faced. But as we do, let's remember why we're in it. We're not in it for good treatment in this world. We're not in it to make a name for ourselves in this world. We're in it to see people saved and see people delivered. Let's press on in that. And one day we will see the outcome of all this. We will see how God used us One day. We're waiting for that day. We will see it. Let's press on until that day with faithfulness to Christ and his gospel. Amen. Let's pray. O Father, we do praise you and we give uh give all honor and glory to you for who you are. Lord, we look to you, we look to what you did through Paul and Silas in bringing the gospel to people. to people who were badly in need of it. A a slave girl who was hardly worth the time of many in the world, yet who was bound in um being possessed by a spirit that had a hold of her And she was being used for it by these cruel masters that she had for profit. Lord, thank you that you freed her. Thank you that you freed this Philippian jailer by giving him salvation when he was on the edge of despair, and in many ways rightly so, owing to his circumstance. Thank you that You know, in this really um seemingly odd circumstance you used you used Paul and Silas to bring him to yourself. So that he would rejoice in you. Lord, thank you for using your gospel in this way, and thank you for using your servants in this way. We pray that you would use us in this way. Help us to be um ready to be used in these ways. Yes, even if it means we go through some of the things that Paul went through. We ask you to bless the ministry of your word here and around the world this day. We ask you to use the preaching of your word and the reading and The reading of your word and the knowledge of your gospel to spread your name across this earth. Help us to be faithful servants as you have charged us with a commission. Lord, strengthen us, we pray. Enable us to be your faithful servants. We ask these things all in the name of Jesus Christ.