Let's go to Page ten eight ten eighty one Acts chapter two verse four And they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and began to speak in other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Please be seated. Brothers and sisters, last week we started a series called What the Bible Says About Tongues And that was part of part one. And as why I was preparing the message, I came to the realization that it needs to be to have at least two more. messages on the topic. So tonight we are having part two. And next time, God willing we'll have part three. It is a topic in the Bible that it is loaded with information. So you're gonna have to bear with me because there's gonna be a lot of A lot of passages of the Bible cited. Don't try to write them down because you can download it and listen to the to that information later There are few issues facing the church today as controversial and dividing as the subject of speaking in tongues. This is a subject that cannot be ignored. It won't go away. And brothers and sisters, sooner or later someone will come up and will confront you and challenge you in your individual faith and basically ask Ask you if you have spoken in tongues and or receive the baptism of the Holy Spirit Well, we're gonna address those issues today. Therefore, it is absolutely essential that you know that God has what God has said about speaking in tongues. And better yet that you learn here in your church. At the beginning I noticed that there were nine passages of scripture that mention this phenomenon. And those are the passages that I'm using for the messages. So far in the study we made the following observations in part one. Observation number one, speaking in tongues was a genuine gift of the Spirit given to the church. The gift itself was the ability to preach the gospel in another known, and I underline, known language that the speakers had never before studied or known. If you were not here for part one, there are about 35 minutes with that information that you should listen. That's if you have not done so Please note the biblical gift of tongues involves actual known languages. And I again emphasize known languages and not some unintelligible gibberish nonsense. Language. Brothers and sisters, that is a very important point and I want you to keep you I want you to keep this point in mind through the whole the during the three presentations. Observation number two. The gift was sovereignly given by God and he did not choose to bestow upon every believer. It is obvious from the passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Observation number three. The Bible teaches that the Speaking in speaking of tongues was a signed gift to the Jew Almost always forgotten in the discussion of tongues, is a sign gift to the Jew. And it was a sign gift that was threefold That indicated that the gift was number one, sign of judgment. Number two, sign of blessing. Blessing to the Gentiles indirectly because disobedience of Israel. And number three, a sign of authentication. This to the apostles. for their ministry, who were Christ's personal representatives. Now let's tonight resume our observations with some additional ones. Observation number four. Speaking in tongues is no indication of spirituality. Doesn't matter what people tell you. It is not. I don't know how many individuals I have spoken to, and I have spoken to a few, and on top of this I they I made a lot of phone calls and I talked to people not only in the States but in South America. So I don't know how many individuals I have spoken to that have been or are presently involved in the speaking in tongues and they give the very distinct impression that this is a vital part of their spiritual lives and should be a vital part of everyone's spiritual life. and an essential part of every local church ministry, on top of that. And without it, you cannot really be all that Christ wants you to be. So very pretentious, but they have a belief. And we have to work with this. I think that is contrary to all evidence we find in the Bible But it doesn't matter because for them is only what they believe. Brothers and sisters in Christ, the goal for every believer should be Christ's likeness. The scripture reveals that producing and manifesting the fruit of the Spirit is Christ's likeness. Galatians 5, verses 22 to 23 delineates the fruit of the Spirit as. But the fruit of the Spirit is law, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. As you can see there, there is no mention of speaking in tongues or working miracles. Moreover, there is no mention in the Gospels of the Gospels of our Lord ever having spoken in tongues. Therefore, it's evident that spirituality, which is Christ's likeness, can be achieved without speaking in tongues. Casting out demons or performing miracles. The spiritual growth, furthermore, comes through the word of God In John 17, 17, chapter 17, verse 17, Jesus says, sanctify them in the truth. Your word is truth. So he's saying that we that we are built up and strengthened and grow to maturity on the basis of God's Revelation and our obedience to it. Let's go to Acts Chapter 20 verse 32 where we read, and now I commend you to God and to the world of his grace. which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. What builds you up? I ask. The word of his grace builds you up. It's a very simple answer. Now let us turn to Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25 and 26. Husbands Love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her. How would he set her apart and cleanse her, I ask, by the washing of water with the wood The word of God is that which God used to bring Christians to maturity and only his word, nothing else. That is why the gift of speaking in tongues is not even mentioned among the leading New Testament congregations. There is no mention of tongues among the believers in Salomaica. 1 Thessalonians 1 identifies as a model church. But here is a model church that did not get themselves involved in the speaking of tongues. At least it is not mentioned there. So if they did get involved in it, it was not anything that was worth to be reported. No mention of tongues in the church of Ephesus. No mention in Philippi. No mention in the seven churches of the book of Revelation. It was not mentioned because this gift, and it is a gift, was never intended to be a permanent, an essential ingredient to the spirituality of any New Testament church. The only mention of this gift in the epistles is in the least spiritual of all the New Testament churches. the Corinthian Assembly. Furthermore, is mentioned there as a part of the epistle of an epistle of correction Because of the carnality of the Corinthians. Why would anyone or any church desire to emulate Such a worldly, selfish, envious, divisive, argumentative, and I'm running out of arrogant, disorderly, amoral congregation. as the Corinthian Assembly. It's beyond my wildest imagination. But unfortunately, that's what we have. Beloved, let no one fear that his spiritual life is lacking because he or she has never spoken tongues. Because spiritual growth in Christ's likeness is not dependent upon speaking in tongues. Therefore, don't let anyone mislead you in that regard. No one. Observation number five. Tones was now one of the major gifts. We may be surprised, but he was not. When the Apostle Paul listed the spiritual gifts in order of their importance in 1 Corinthians 12. 28. He did so as follows. And God has appointed in the church first apostles, second prophets, third teachers Then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and various kinds of tongues As you can see, the apostle first starts numbering them. First apostles, second prophets, third teachers. Then he stops ordering. And starts to simply name them, then miracles, then gifts of healing, helping, administrating, and lastly tones. The question That came to my mind was why did Paul have to carefully number the most important gifts? I believe that Paul assigned ordinal numbers, first, second and third, to the first three gifts because the Corinthians have wrongly relegated them to a lesser position. Whenever you read the scripture and the apostle is saying one thing, you think the apostle and you You think the opposite and you discover why is he saying what he's saying. In other words It's not by accident that things appear in this book. There is no accident in Bothia. So if you think about why he was numbering them, the only logical conclusion you can come to is he was numbering them simply because they have reduced and they, being the Corinthians, have reduced these three major gifts to minor significance. And they have turned around the minor gifts and made them major gifts. Then in verse thirty-one, Paul exhorts the church to give prominence to the greater gift, where he says. but earnestly desired the gift, the higher gifts. He just got through mentioning them. Apostles, prophets, teachers. I believe the idea there is to give prominence to these gifts. Such reaffirmation was necessary because the carnal and immature experience-oriented and prideful Corinthians had twisted the word of God by making tongues a major gift while depreciating the value of apostleship and preaching and teaching. That was what Paul was beginning to observe and to see. Therefore, Paul had to write the Corinthians to correct this error. Look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12 verse 1. Now concerning spiritual gifts, brothers, I do not want you to be uninformed, or I do not want you to be ignorant. other words, right? Now that is really now that is really a slap in the face to the Corinthians because they thought that if anybody was ignorant It might be Paul. So the relationship wasn't going too well. Now compare that with 1 Corinthians 1 7. Well he says to the Corinthians, so that you are not lacking in any gift. They had the gifts. They were not lacking in ability. What they were lacking in was wisdom. But they thought they have wisdom. They thought Paul was the one lacking on w in wisdom and they resented even being challenged by the apostle They challenge his apostleship, they challenge the value of his preaching and teaching. So he was saying to them, you know about the gifts, but you don't understand the purpose. for the gifts. And that is why I have to write these strong words to correct your abuses. They did not lack ability, they only lack wisdom. And they depreciating, and by depreciating and devaluating apostleship and preaching and teaching They were cutting themselves off from the only divine source of spiritual growth So the very thing that could help them to correct their thinking was the very thing they did not want to hear They didn't get too worked up about preaching or teaching. It was the experience-oriented term what it got them moving. And the Apostle Paul is trying to correct that. Observation number six. You may be baptized by the Spirit and not speak in tongues. Perhaps you have been asked the following question by a charismatic. Have you ever been baptized by the Holy Ghost? That is one of the favorite questions. And for a believer that is not well trained, he is pretty well shaken. Or he could be, because he is not sure. He sure would like to be baptized by the Holy Ghost. He feels that must be significant. He's heard about it, but he doesn't know anything about it. So, here comes somebody along and says, have you ever been? And automatically they we ask they must be the experts, right? Well that question has caused great confusion to many. But where does it come from? Some modern-day tongue advocates have erroneously contended that the evidence of the baptism of the Holy Spirit is the speaking in tongues. Such a false assumption is the result of the misinterpretation of several passages of the book of Acts. In Acts 2, everyone who was baptized by the Holy Spirit did speak in tongues. By the way, it doesn't tell you that they were baptized by the Holy Spirit in act. In Act 2, you came to that conclusion on the basis of looking Act 15 and Act 11 Verses 15 and 17. But the baptism of the Holy Spirit did take place there, and they did speak in tongues. This procedure was the by the way was repeated when the Gentiles in chapter 10 and John's disciples In chapter 19, each first heard the gospel. And this particular particular sequence provided the necessary unit For the initial entrance of each group into the body of Christ. Now, if the New Testament ended with the book of Acts, It would have been logical for such an experience to be normative for all future ages. But we have news The New Testament did not end in the book of Acts. So now would you turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 12 verse 13, where we read. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, and all were made to drink of one spirit. This passage clearly teaches that every Christian has been baptized by the Holy Spirit. So if you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ Whether you realize it or not, you were already baptized by the Holy Spirit. And by that baptism, you were placed in the body of Christ. Yeah. I say we were gonna touch that. Well there it is. That's that's one of the answers, right? Now Paul adds To that from Ephesians chapter 4 verse 5 and he says, one Lord, one faith, one baptism. And the one baptism here is Spirit baptism. So he says we are each baptized once by the Holy Spirit and does not ever happen again. It is never repeated. So there is no need for a second baptism of the Holy Spirit according to the scriptures. Furthermore, nowhere in the scripture were we ever exhorted to seek the baptism of the Holy Spirit. I haven't found that Now with this fact in mind, you can conclude that every believer was baptized by the Holy Spirit at the moment of salvation. For Paul says in Romans chapter 8, verse 9, You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. So if you don't have the Spirit of Christ in you, you are not his. I don't care what you want to say. And the whole context, and the whole context in this passage is talking about about the indwelling Of the Holy Spirit of God. So every believer is baptized by the Holy Spirit at the moment of salvation and is baptized once. And it never has to be repeated. Yet, First Corinthians chapter twelve, verse thirty, unmistaking, implies that not all believers had spoken in tongues. He says, do all possess gifts of healing? Do all speak with tongues? Do all interpret? And the implication is obvious. No. Not all, otherwise he wouldn't be asking. Paul is saying every Christian is baptized by the Holy Spirit once at the moment of salvation. But not every Christian has spoken in tongues. Not in the early church and then There is a gap of eighteen hundred years, right? Or more until the present time And the vast majority of believers in the world today don't claim to know anything about speaking in tongues So to say that to say that the speaking in tongues is the evidence of the baptism of the Holy Spirit is totally unwarranted, according to Scripture. It is not there at all. Once again, is incorrect theology. Brothers and sisters, if you are saved tonight You have already been baptized by the Holy Spirit. So don't allow yourself to be misled Observation number seven. Because of the Corinthians' abuse of the biblical gifts of tongues, divine guidelines were placed upon the use of these gifts in the assembly Guideline number one. Prophecy or preaching. Prophecy or preaching was to be preferred before tongues. First Corinthians fourteen, verses one to five and then nineteen Reads like this, pursue love and earnestly desire the spiritual gifts, especially that you may prophesy. For one who speaks in a tongue, keep in mind that that the word unknown does not appear, right? So, for one that speaks in a tongue speaks not to men, but to God. For no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the spirit. One, the other, on the other hand The one who prophesies speaks to people for their unbuild upbuilding and encouragement and consolation. The one who speaks in a tongue builds up himself, but the one who prophesies builds up the church. Now I want you to all speak in tongues, says Paul, but even more to prophesy. The one who prophesies is greater than the one who speaks in tongues, unless someone interprets so that the church may be built up. So he's he's not concentrated in the individual, he's concentrated in the church of Christ. Look at verse 19. Nevertheless, in church I would rather speak five words with my mind in order to instruct others than 10,000 words in a tongue or in a language that they cannot understand. The word 10,000 here is used with the idea of limitedless number of words, not a fixed limit of ten thousand. And then something might happen. Well, that's not the way to set up here. There is no end that you can speak in a language that you don't understand. There is no end. And it will not do you any good. I want to repeat that part. It will not do you any good. Well, what Paul is saying, preaching is superior because it edifies the entire body. That was its design. That was its in its intention. That is why it's a major gift. But when a man prays or preaches in a language that nobody understands, only he is benefited. Unless there is an interpreter. Not much has been said about the idea of personal edification, but keep it in mind that the gifts were not intended for personal enrichment, but for the benefit of all. Let's go back to verse 7 of chapter 12. To each is given the manifestation of the Spirit for the common good. Not the men individually, but the whole body is to profit. Now let's turn to 1 Peter 4 verse 10. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another. As good stewards. Of God's right grace. Now, personal edification will always be the natural byproduct of the legitimate exercise of one's spiritual gift. Nobody benefits any more from you teaching than you do. So you obviously gain the greatest benefit, but you see that is not the intention for you to study under yourself and keep it under yourself. But it is the it but it is to share with others for the primary purpose of the gifts are to are to benefit the body and not to benefit the individual. He places a lot of importance between the individual and the group. Let's go back to 1 Corinthians 14. Someone is going to say, what about verse 5? Isn't Paul encouraging everyone to speak in tongues? Now I want you all to speak in tongues? No, not really. He's not. Let me explain. For the sake of the emphasis, Paul was wishing for the impossible. He did the same thing back in chapter 7, verse 7, where he says, I wish that all were as I myself am. The implication here seems to be unmerit, or perhaps the gift of celibacy. But then he says, but each has his own gift from God, one of one kind and one of another. If they all become celibate, where will we have left us today? We would be we wouldn't be here. He knew not all of them were going to become celibate. He knew that he was wishing for the impossible, to make a point of emphasis with them. And the point of emphasis is simply this. God has a sovereign plan. In different words he's telling us that God has a plan for all of us and has a plan for his people He is the one that gives the gifts. He is the one that gave you your gift. Could be teaching, preaching, playing the piano, singing. We all have gifts He is the one that gave you your gift. Don't be jealous of somebody else's gift. Discover the gift that he is giving you and use it for the benefit of the group. Some of them had a gift of had a gift of celibacy. Obviously, most did not. Some in the early church had a gift of speaking in other languages that had not studied before, but most did not. Paul knew full well that not all believers had the same gifts. He said that back in 1 Corinthians 12 verse 30, do all speak in tongues? No. Therefore, Paul certainly was not challenging the wisdom of the Holy Spirit in distributing the gifts by saying, Well, if I had it my way, I would give in I was giving you all the gift of tongues. But you see the the Holy Spirit saw it otherwise. Do you think that Paul was talked in that way? I don't Not in your life. He's not questioning the wisdom of the Holy Spirit of God. Paul is simply making it clear. That he did not despise the genuine gift of tongues. And I repeat, genuine gift of tongues. There is a real question that if what was going on in Corinth was a genuine manifestation of songs. We won't disclose that tonight. That's for another day. But many, many scholars don't think that what was going on was happening in Corinth was a genuine manifestation of the gift of Sounds but a corruption. It's a very strong. Furthermore, Paul is saying if the Holy Spirit had seen fit to give all of you the ability to preach in other languages, that would have been fine with me. Well, let's continue reading the next phrase In verse 5. But even more to prophesy. So he again, prophecy is more important. Preaching is more important. I would rather see you all prophesy. Here is why. The one who prophesies is greater. than the one who speaks in tongues. And this is Paul. It's not my invention. It's just from the Bible. This is Paul. Paul states very simply, tongue is just, tongue just simply doesn't measure up to preaching. Not at the not in the same category. It's far inferior. That's his implication. Look at verse twelve. So with with yourselves, since you are eager for manifestations of the Spirit, try to excel in building up the church. Again, build up the church. Stop being concerned about edifying yourselves. Begin thinking about the whole church. Edifying the whole church. Get your eyes of yourselves and onto the whole body. The greatest need in the church is not for tongues. is for preaching. Why? Because it is God's meaning of edifying the entire body Look that, look what Paul says in verse 6. Now, brothers, if I come to you speaking in tongues, how will I benefit you? Brothers and sisters in the faith, suppose I can preach to you in Aymara, Quechua, or Spanish. What would you do? Unless somebody was here to interpret Aymara Quechua Spanish You wouldn't know what I was saying. You wouldn't know if I was lecturing you about the book of Romans or First Corinthians or Isaiah or if I was preaching from Revelation Or talking about Olympic Games. You would not know. How would you know unless somebody got up and interpreted what I said? So Paul said, if I come to you preaching in tongues, what benefit would that have been to you? But he goes on to say, unless I bring you some revelation or knowledge or prophecy or teaching, that is how you are going to get built up. Then in verse 7 and 8, Paul says the purpose of music is to communicate. If even lifeless instruments, such as the flute or the harp, do not give distinct notes, how will anyone know What is play? And if the bugle gives an in indistinct sound, who will get ready for battle? In verse 9 to 11, Paul again says the primary purpose of every language is to communicate. Verse 9 reads, so with yourselves, if with your tone you utter a speech that is not intelligible How will anyone know what is said? For you will be speaking into the air. No one knows what you are saying. No one has been benefited. There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning. There are many kinds of languages, and they were all, and all of them are important. But the point of each language It's not how important they are, but it is because they help us to communicate one with another. But if you do not know the me the meaning of the language, I will be a foreigner to the speaker and the speaker will be a foreigner to me. It's just like going to New York City and walking the streets. You cannot talk to anybody, you just literally. It happened to me. I If I come to you exhorting something that you cannot understand, how can I communicate it to you? Okay. In verse 14, Paul says, For if I pray in a tongue, my spirit prays, but my mind is unfruitful. What if I pray in a tongue, my spirit pray? If I pray in a tongue, my spirit pray. But my understanding is unfruitful. For who? For him? I don't think so. I think he knew what he was saying. I think Paul is saying my understanding When I preach or speak to you or pray to you or sing to you in this other language isn't benefiting you, it's benefiting me. And that is not God's intention. His intention is to benefit you. In verse 16, Paul goes on and says, otherwise if you give thanks with your spirit, how can anyone in the position of an outsider say amen? To your thanksgiving when he does not know what are you saying Brothers, people don't know if they should say amen or not because they don't know what we say what would they say. I remember back in the 50s and 60s attending to a Catholic school in Bolivia. Every day we had to attend the Mass, every single day. Seven days a week. The whole service was in Latin to begin with. Most of the kids did not know the language. All we did was memorize and repeat that like it's zombies. You look at the faces, no expression, their eyes, no expression, they were just That didn't benefit us at all. We were in the same situation as the one the Apostle Paul cited in verse 16. I leave that. Guideline number two, the limitation is placed in participants. In 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verse 27 and 28 reads, if any speaking a tongue Let there be only two, or at most three, and each in turn, and let someone interpret. But If there is no one to interpret, let each of them keep silent in charge and speak to himself and to God. Only two or three are the most are the most hard to speak in any one service and they each go in terms But I remember at the very beginning of my Christian life in La Paz, Bolivia, in 1972. It was 1972 January, attending a retreat. At the moment of praying, everyone started to pray in tongues. And that really confused me. And I had to stop because I couldn't concentrate and pray. You've really confused my life. Paul says here to pray in order one after another or to speak in order one after another And that is the way it has to be done. And let someone interpret. But if there is no interpreter Then just let them silent because it will be no benefit to anyone. I will benefit, I will benefit him. They can speak to that. There is another limitation and and this I want you to to pay attention to to this one. There is another limitation here that is mentioned in verse 34 and 35. The women should keep silent in the churches. For they are not permitted to speak, but should be in submission, as the law also says. If there is anything they desire to learn, let them ask their husbands at home. For it is shameful for a woman to speak in church. This is not me saying, I'm just reading. Paul here is indicating that women are forbidden either to preach, that is part of the context, or to speak in tongues. in the assembly. And the purpose I'm using this is the speaking in tongues in the assembly. And again, that is an element that needs to be considered by modern day individuals of the charismatic movement. Observation number eight, tongues will cease. First Corinthians 13:8, love never ends as for prophecies. They will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge, it will pass away That ends the message. Brothers and sisters, this is part number two. As you can see there is a l there is a lot of information. So release into it and um and perhaps you you can get more information and write it down or however it is that you want to do. But Thomas will cease, it said, the question is when will they cease? And how would we know they have ceased? based on the rest of the scripture. So we still have a one more part, right? But not today. Well, that will be our subject next time, God willing. I also would like to address next time the gift of interpretation, what it is. What does the phrase tongues of angels mean in 1 Corinthians 13, 1? Have you thought about what language the angels speak? Is the phenomenon of tongues limited to the Christian faith? I don't think so. I've I've heard people from India speak in tongues according to them, not Christians. So brothers and sisters, in case Just in case I would say, I don't believe that the biblical gift of tongues has been given today. This was not a message to teach you, to speak in tongues, or but to show you What it is that the people that come that will come to you don't understand or they don't want you to know. This is a very interesting presentation But now let's go to our Father in prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your work. And we thank you for your enablement as we seek to open it and interpret it in a way that will bring honor and glory only to your name. We don't seek to bring honor and glory to this church or to any individual. It may not be popular among men. But your truth and your stance for truth has never been very popular among the people of this world. And so we are not very interested in popularity with men. But we are great greatly interested in popularity with the So continue to enable us as we seek to talk about the gift of tongues. Next time. And when they cease, and how we know that they have ceased. And dealing with some of these other questions that perhaps will be of some assistance to your people We pray these things in Jesus Christ, our Lord, with thanksgiving. Amen.