Today or tonight We're gonna finish something that we started two weeks ago or three weeks ago. And the name is what the Bible says about tongues. This will be part three. No, I'm not endorsing tones. I'm just letting people know what it is that the Bible says because we as I did we come across individuals that will try to that will try to convince us that that is the way to go. So we bring in this topic For the simple reason that we need to know what the Bible exactly says about that. Okay. Let me begin with some background and just a little refresher of what we have covered so far. There are some nine passages of scripture That in some way or another relate to the subject of speaking in tongues. The passages can be divided in three categories. Category number one. I call tongues predicted. Deuteronomy 2849, Isaiah 28, 11, 12, and Mark. Sixteen verses seventeen to eighteen. Category number two Tongue's experience You find those in the book of Acts, chapter 2, verses 1 through 13. Acts again, 10, chapter 10, verses 46. And again, Book of Acts, chapter 19, 1 through 7. And category number 3, Tongues Corrected. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, 1 Corinthians chapter 13, verse 8, and 1 Corinthians, the whole chapter 14. Our procedure in handling these verses has been to make careful observations from the crucial texts. That would bother expound the essential meaning of that text And at the same time answer potential questions. Can you guys hear me? Is this working? Okay. In our study this far, we have made the following o s following observation. Observation number one. This is background. The biblical gift of tongues was the ability given by God to some to preach the gospel and languages that they had never known before. Or they have not even studied. We are here taking about known languages. We noted that the Bible, that the biblical gift involved not only known languages, but they were sovereignly given And it was expontaneous. It wasn't a learning thing. It happened. There was no seminar for which the apostles had to attend. So they can learn how to do it. The gift came as a result of the sovereign gift of God. Observation number two, God did not give this gift to every believer It is obvious from his comments in First Corinthians chapter twelve verses twenty-nine to thirty where he says, Have all spoken in tongues? The implied answer is obviously no. Observation number three, the gift was given for the purpose of being assigned to the Jews. And the sign was threefold involved judgment, judgment to the Jews, involved the transition of blessing the Gentiles Coming into the faith. And third, involve the authentication of the apostles' ministry themselves. Observation number four. Speaking in tongues is not necessarily a sign of spirituality. Jesus is never reported to have spoken in tongues. Uh don't try to to accept this or when people tell you that Jesus did, no, it never did. There is not a record of it. Besides that with the enemy. Now if Christ's likeness is to be our objective Then we know from the scripture that Christ's likeness can be achieved as we grow in grace by manifesting the fruit of the Spirit. When you examine the fruits of the spirit, which are which are produced by the Holy Spirit working in our hearts and lives, you will find that speaking in tongues is not one of them. Furthermore, the leading New Testament churches didn't mention the gift as a necessary part of their ministry. The gift is only spoken of in the epistles, in connection with the Corinthian assembly, which was a church plague. with divisions and strife in morality and pride. That is the famous Corinthian church. Observation number five, tones was not one of the major gifts. Prophecy was to be preferred because prophecy defied all. Observation number six, you may be baptized by the Holy Spirit and not speak in tongues All are baptized by the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 13. But not all speak in tongues. So If anyone would say to you, you must speak in tongues as evidence of the baptism of the Holy Spirit. is simply not following in scripture. It's ignorant in scripture. Observation number seven, because of the Corinthians abuse of tongues, Divine restrictions were placed upon its use in the early church. No more than three persons In a service, we're permitted to speak. And it must be done in orderly fashion. Not all of them at the same time. which often takes place in modern charismatic meetings. It must be an interpreter present and women are forbidden to speak in the assembly. I don't know if you ever have attended one of these services. You will understand what it is that I'm saying. Observation number eight, tongues will cease. And this is what tonight we're gonna be talking about. First Corinthians 13, 8. Love never ends. As for prophecies, they will pass away. As for tongues, they will cease. As for knowledge, it will pass away. It can be no doubt that the gift of tongues will cease. The only question is when Let's see what can we now discover in our examinations of the Bible. To begin with, please note that the text indicates the termination of three gifts: prophecies, tongues, and knowledge A casual reading of the text may lead one to the conclusion that these gifts will all end at the same time. However, a more careful examination of the Greek grammar and the words that are used here in these verses show that this is not the case. Concerning the gifts of prophecy and knowledge, the apostle writes, they will be done away with. Literally, the Greek implies they will be superseded by something that is going to come along that will be superior. In Greek, the same word is used for prophecy and knowledge. And in English it comes across if you note it shall be done away, shall banish away, but it is the very same Greek word Furthermore, the verb that is used here in both cases, it is in the passive The ruling Greek gamma grammar is that when a passive verb occurs in a sentence, the subject receives the action. That means here that something will cause prophecies and knowledge to become inoperative Something will literally come on the zin the scene that will supersede them. I hope you're beginning to see what's coming. Now 1 Corinthians 13, 10 reveals that reads like this, but when the perfect comes, the partial will pass away. We will return to verse 10 in a moment. But let's go back to verse 8 again. It is significant that when speaking of determination at tongues, the apostle Uses a different word. It is not the same word. And the word is pauhao, which means simply to stop. What Paul is communicating here is that nothing outside of themselves would be necessary for the cessation of tones. For tongues will cease by themselves before the perfect thing mentioned in verse 10 even comes on the sin. Now the question arises, what is the perfect thing? The identification of the perfect thing is a matter over which good men have de differed And I will share the two prevalent views. First of all, if prophecy is plural, that causes me to think that It is more than preaching because we don't usually say preachings If prophecies refer to the ability to foretell the future and give direct messages from God to men, And if knowledge refers to revelatory knowledge, such as we have in Scripture, then that what is perfect must refer To the completion of the canon of scripture. For with the completion of the book of Revelation in approximately 95 AD, The scriptures were completed and a solemn warning was placed as a capstone. That no man was to add or take away from the prophecy of this group And if anyone would do it, it would bring the judgment of God upon them This also gives meaning to verse 10. In a sense that until the canon was completed, we had only partial knowledge. The prophecies that were given only reveal partial amount of truth. The knowledge that came prior to that reveal only a partial amount of truth But when the entire New Testament was completed, then you had the complete thing. So the comparison here is between partial and complete. If, however, prophecies refer to preaching, and if knowledge refers simply to the special ability to comprehend and systematize or organize the world, then that which is perfect must refer to the eternal state Because we obviously still have preaching now. We obviously still have knowledge now. And we will have it. For all the time. Now for years I have labored trying to determine which view was correct, thinking that the issue of tongues was all bound up in a proper determination of what is the perfect thing But after much study I came to the conclusion that this this cessation of tones was nothing to do. has nothing to do with the identification of what of that which is perfect. The text says prophecies and knowledge will be superseded by which is perfect. Rather it is the canon of scripture. the whole scripture. Rather is the eternal state. You take your choice. You really can go wrong either way. But the important thing it says is tongues will cease and we get sidetrack on the perfect thing After reading and studying, I came to the conclusion that has nothing to do with it, grammatically and contextually. I see no connection between tones and that what is perfect. The context For that which is perfect, verses nine through thirteen, mentions only prophecy, verses nine, and knowledge, verses twelve. There is no mention of tongues. Why not? It's not being considered here. Because he has no relationship to the the perfect thing. So when did Tom cease? Well, I'm very glad you asked. Now now we're gonna get into the it is my conviction that biblical terms is at the end of the percent. And I believe that for the f I believe that for the following reasons. Reason number one The sign gifts of miracles, supernatural healings, and tones were all inseparably tied to the apostolic age. Remember the apostolic age. Which by the way has ended. This extraordinary sign gifts. were specifically given to the apostles as mark of authentication. Let's look at two passages that speak to that effect. Let's go to Second Corinthians twelve, verses eleven to twelve. Verse verse eleven reads, I have been a fool. You forced me to it, for I ought to have been commanded by you. For I was not at all inferior to these super apostles. Even though I am nothing but the signs of a true apostle were perform uh performed among you with outmost patience with signs and wonders and mighty works. That's Apostle Paul saying. He is equating his apostleship with the ability to perform the miracles which would have included Thomas. In fact, he says that back in First Corinthians, that he had spoken in tongues more than they all do. So for him was nothing out of the out of his control or his knowledge. Now let's turn to Hebrews chapter 2, verse 3. Here the writer says, How shall we escape if we neglect such a great salvation? It was declared at first by the Lord and it was attested to us by those who heard. Well, and who are those who heard? The primary emphasis must be to the apostles. And in verse 4, the writer says, while God also bore witness How did he how did he believe it? By signs and wonders and various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit distribute distributed according to to his will. I guess you get the idea. Now according to Ephesians chapter 2 verse 20, the ministry of the apostles And New Testament prophets laid the foundation of the church. But when the purpose for the ministry had ended, there was no further need for the gifts or the gifts. The gift of apostleship ended when the last apostle died Sometime between year ninety-seven to one hundred AD after Christ. Therefore It is to be expected that sign gifts, including tones, which were their marks of authentication, would also abs And that is exactly what we discovered in the New Testament. The last recorded miracle took place in 58 A. D. with the healing of Provius. You were talking about Provius this morning, Jim. Prubius father in Acts chapter 28 verse 7 to 10 From 58 A. D. to 96 A. D. , when the last New Testament book was completed, no miracle is recorded in Scripture. Remember that. Furthermore, the miraculous miraculous gifts like tongues and healings are only mentioned In the early portion of the New Testament, tongues is not even mentioned in the later New Testament books, even though Romans and Ephesians have sections dealing with the spiritual gifts. Yet they don't touch them. Because by then it was obvious they were out of the scene and did not play a significant role in the normal New Testament. in church, nor would it in the age to come. So I believe that tongues have ceased because they were a part of the upper Apostolic age. And the apostolic age has ended, as cease. Reason number two, the purpose of tongues has been fulfilled. Tongues was a sign of coming judgment to the Jews. Let's look at First Corinthians chapter 14, verse 21. In the law it is written, by people of strange tongues and by the lips of foreigners, I will speak to these people. And even then they will not listen to me, says the Lord Thus, tongues are a sign not for believers but for unbelievers, while prophecy is a sign not for unbelievers but for believers. We mentioned before there were many Jews included in this assembly, indicated in the book of Acts. So he is trying to explain to the Corinthian believers and he is the apostle, the proper understanding or the purpose for tongues, because they had totally misunderstood it. Moses had predicted in Deuteronomy chapter twenty-eight verse forty-nine that if Israel refused to heed God's word and walk after the after the way of their pagan Naples, God would send foreigners speaking in a different tongue. To chastise in judgment. He promised that way, way back, centuries before. And it came to pass. That prophecy was fulfilled in seven twenty-one before Christ. When the Assyrians carry off the northern kingdom of Israel, northern kingdom of Israel into captivity for her idolatry and spiritual adultery. Isaiah then 15 years later Repeated the warning in chapter 28, verses 11 and 12. And this time the warning was for the southern kingdom, Judah. But Judah didn't listen either. She followed in the ways of the northern kingdom. And when Judah rebelled and went into apostasy, She too was judged when God sent the Babylonians speaking in Babylonian in 606 BC, 596 BC, and 586 BC In three deportations and carried them off into captivity. But it wasn't true. When Israel rejected her Messiah and the leaders have him murdered The tongues or languages of Pentecost would have warned spiritually minded Jews that more judgment was to come. And this judgment fell in 70 A. D. , with the destruction of Jerusalem by the Romans, speaking not in Hebrew but in the foreign language to the Jerusalem Tongues were a sign of judgment to Israel. Once the judgment was being fulfilled, the most recent will have been In seventy AD, there will be no longer a need for the sign, and the sign was withdrawn. Reason number three. Why I believe the tongues have cease. By divine design, tongues would be a temporary gift of minor significance. Only First Corinthians even mention the gift amongst all of the epistles. Paul wrote at least twelve other letters and he never spoke of tongues again. John never is speaks of tongues. John wrote the gospel according to John 1, 2 and 3, John. And revelation. A lot of writing. He sure means a good opportunity. Peter doesn't refer to tongues. And yes, he will have preached in tongues in the day of Pentecost. He was there. James was absolutely well James has absolutely nothing to say about Ponce. He was the half brother of our Lord. So was Jude. And Jude doesn't mention Pong's either. Why is this the case? That's a good question. Because storms were from the very beginning ordained to occupy only a secondary and temporary purpose in the early days of in the early days of the church and then they were to stop. So it was an interim Reason number four. Why I believe tongues have ceased. With the completion of the New Testament, the use of tongues has a temporary source of revelation. was done away with. Not only were tongues a sign of unbelieving Israel's coming judgment They were also a sign of authentication for the ministry of the apostles. We mentioned that before. This validation came not only in the performing of miracles, including the preaching in language never before known. But it also included the messages which were spoken as they came In other words, the messages themselves were significant because they were direct revelation from God to man. They received divine revelation directly from God and communicated to the people they were preaching to Such a phenomenon, however, was rendered useless with the completion of the canon of scripture. With the closing of the canon, God stopped giving divine revelation to men. Now you may ask why. Because no more was necessary. Everything that we needed to know is here in this book. We are not lacking anything. This is so important. God decreed curse upon anyone who dared to add. or to take away from this world. But someone will say, yeah, but What you quoted before from Revelation 28, verses 18 to 19, that particular passage refers only to the book of Revelation. I disagree with them But whoever asked of it, the question. I think it's a capstone to all of the scripture But for the sake of clarifying the issue, that warning is given in two other places in the Bible. Look Deuteronomy chapter 4 verse 2, where it says, you shall not add to the word that I command you. nor take from it that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I commanded you We are talking about a principle here. You don't temper with the word of God. There is also a similar warning given in the book of Proverbs. Which is the book that speaks of wisdom. Proverbs chapter 30, verses 5 and 6 says, Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words lest we review you Lest he rebukes you and you be found a liar So Tong is a means of confirmation and partial revelation seized with the dead of the apostles and the completion of the New Testament. That's it. So when you when you hear somebody that that has to Well we're gonna get to this Let's let's not go. Reason number five. Why I believe tongues have ceased by the first century. Church history confirms that the biblical gift of tongues did cease. Remember in 1 Corinthians 13, 8. We were told that tongues will stop. Well, not only do the later New Testament writings fail to mention the gifts. But church historians have noted that the gift of tongues is no is nowhere alluded to. in any of the writings in the post apostolic writers. The reason there is no the reason there is no reference to tones is because they cease. And it was announced that there was this organisms. Now from the post-apostolic period until the twentieth century the only mention of tongues has been associated only with heretical groups who spoke not in biblical tones but in unintelligible Jewish The scriptures declare that tongues will stop, and the evidence of both the New Testament and history confirms that tongues did cease before the end of the first century. But after all of this, charismatics claim that although tongues did cease for centuries, it has begun again in the 20th century. This contention is based in a misunderstanding of Joel chapter two, verse twenty-eight. Let's go there. And it shall come to pass afterward that I will put out my spirit on all flesh, your sons and your daughters. Prophesy your old men shall dream dreams and your old and your young men shall see visions Charismatic explain that this passage was partially fulfilling Acts chapter 2, 17 to 21. But that is but that its greater fulfillment is in our own day They refer to it like this, the former and latter reign, which has nothing to do with the subject. at all because it's talking about in the millennium where the crops are going to be so productive that will be like they were getting rain constantly but just enough sunshine in between to produce a bumper cloud But enough of this. Let's go back to their interpretation. Such an interpretation is incorrect in the light of the contest The fame of Joel is the day of the Lord. That is the theme. The day of the Lord refers to a future esatological time. Period when God will first bring judgment and the blessing upon Israel and finally the nations of the world. And he will usher his son's kingdom to be established on this earth for a thousand years For instance, Joel chapter 2 verse 20 refers to the supernatural defeat that it is inflicted upon a great army from the north. I will remove them the northerner far from you and drive him into a parched and desolated land. his vanguard into the eastern sea, and his rear guard into the western sea. The sting and foul smell of him will rise for he has done great things. The near interpretation of that will be that God is going to drive the locust already mentioned in in a chapter. before. But the Farview is that he is going to deal with it supernatural An army from the north coming down from the Soviet Union against the Russia. Not out against Israel. And God Himself will fight Israel's battle and destroy their army. The destruction of spoken is mentioned in the book of Ezekiel. In verse 27 of chapter 2 of Joel speaks of the great awakening that will take place in Israel in the last days. Verse 28 says, and I will and I and it shall come to pass afterward. After what? After verse 27. Verse 27 refers to a future time of repentance and restoration for Israel. You shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the Lord your God And there is none else. And my people shall never again be put to shame. Referring to the great work of grace, he is going to do in Dermes in that day. So the context of Joel too is the day of the Lord and not act just two. But why then does Peter quote Joel two twenty eight to thirty two? In the day of Pentecost? Well, let's turn over to the book of Acts, chapter 2. Because he does quote From Joel. Acts two, sixteen to twenty-one reads, but this is what was uttered through the prophet Joel. And in the last days it shall be. God declares that I will put out my spirit on all flesh. And your sons and your daughters shall prophesy. And your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall bring dreams. Even on my male even of my male servants and female servants in those days, I will put out my spirit, and they shall prophesy, and I will show wonders in the heavens above, and signs on the earth below. blood and fire and vapor of smoke, the sign shall be turned to darkness, and the moon to blood, before the day of the Lord comes. The great and magnificent day. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Is and Dawah we preach here all the time. Let me explain why I believe he quotes this passage in Acts two. The context is that the gift of biblical tongue was just being given. Earlier earlier in the chapter And now according to Acts chapter two verse twelve the people were amazed. It says And they were perplexed, saying one to another, what does this mean? They obviously have not seen something like this ever before in their lives. And they wanted to know what was the cause for this. Therefore Peter was explaining what happened. Verse 14. But Peter standing with the eleven lifted up his voice and addressed them, men of Judea. And all who dwell in Jerusalem, let this be known to you, and give ear to my words. We are not drunk. As you suppose, since it is only the third hour of the day Because of this great miracle that is taking place here, it is not alcohol But is the source, but the source of it is the Holy Spirit of God. And in order to best communicate This to a Jewish audience, the apostle selects the most well-known passages in the Old Testament of the of the on the Holy Spirit. The passage in Job. I don't believe Joel 228 was fulfilling fulfilled in the Day of Pentecost. Instead, he was explaining. The basis of the miracle of Thomas. And the basis of it was the Holy Spirit and not alcohol. No wonders occurred in the heavens as he indicated it would. There was no blood. No blood fire or or vapor or smoke, neither was the sun turning into darkness or the moon into blood. Because it wasn't a fulfillment. But an explanation of the source of the miracles. And a promise that prior to the coming of the day of the Lord, these things will happen. Where to refer, of course, to the coming tribulation period, which is yet a future to us today. But someone may ask, how do you reconcile First Corinthians thirteen eight with First Corinthians fourteen thirty-nine? Well, First Corinthians 13 8 says song shall see where 1 Corinthians 14 39 says, So my brothers Desire to prophesy and do not forbid speaking in tongues. First Corinthians 14, 39 warns against forbidding. the biblical gift of tongues during the period when it was operative. The key word here is was operative. Which was the apostolic period. So Paul is saying it has a meaning and a purpose. Now during the apostolic period we shall not forbid it. However, when storms have ceased, then obviously Would be proper to make such a prohibition based on the evidence. So there really isn't any contradiction here. It's a matter of timing. Now let me comment on three additional items. Very brief. Comment number one: what was the gift of interpretation? If tongues was the ability to preach in other languages, never before studied, then the gift of interpretation is the ability to understand and translate in a language languages never previously studied. Because the gift was not needed in Pentecost, but was required in Corinth. Doesn't change anything. You see, some fail because you don't find the gift of interpretation. Acts chapter two. But because we do find it mentioned in the list of gifts in First Corinthians, that must mean that we have a different kind of phones. Why does it mean that? It doesn't mean that. Doesn't mean anything of that kind. Still it is in youth. Sure, there are variations with what took place on the day of Pentecost on Acts Church of the two And later occurrences of some of these gifts. So I don't believe that the gift of interpretation changes the kind of tongues we are talking about About they still are no known bandages. Comment number two, what about the so-called tongues of angels? in First Corinthians thirteen one. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have no Lord I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. In other words, could the tongues of angels be the static speech that the charismatics claim is the true gift? Well There is one major problem with that. Nowhere in the Bible do we read angels having a different language That resembles an unintelligibly intelligibly Jesus In fact, all we can find is angels communicating with human human beings in normal human language. So, when the angel came to Mary, he spoke in the language that Mary understood. He didn't speak in another language and gave her the gift of interpretation. There was no need for that. That was what was Paul Saying here then, well, I believe Paul is employing a common literary device called hyperbole. Hyperbole is ex exaggeration design for the purpose of emphasis. And the point is the Corinthians greatly admire eloquent In a speech. And Paul was saying, if you reach the height of verbal eloquence, if you don't have love, forget it. It will be as sanding brass and as a clanging as a clanging symbol. Comment number three The speaking in tongues is not nearly a Christian phenomenon. The Greco-Roman pagan religions in Corinth practice a corrupted version of the speaking in tongues called stuffic. utterance is what they practice. The practice of static utterances was common in Paul's day in many of the pagan religions The devotees would drink and dance themselves into a semi-hypnotic trance. and then bubble to the gods and stuff with stuff with spirits. This was though to be the highest level of spirituality in the pagan religion. Nothing could be higher than this. When they lost control of themselves and could bubble an uh unintelligibly utterance to the God So you see the connection between First Corinthians thirteen one and what Paul knew. had been happening amongst the pagans out there. He didn't want to get it in the church. He wanted out of the church because it was coming to it. Down through the centuries, the speaking and anesthetic utterances have often played a vital part in pagan worship involving Spiritism, Mormonism, and other pagan religions. So I think we have to realize that when we think of the speaking in tongues It isn't just limited to people who so-call are Christians. It can be extended to others far beyond the realm of Well, I have said enough. Amen. Let's go to our father in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for these great words, where the Apostle Peter tells us that we should be about growing in grace. by the adding of virtues to our lives. We know that your purpose for us Is that we should live to your glory and be conformed to the image of Christ. And we want to do that. We want to be conformed to the image of Christ. Try to think these thoughts after Him. So when we think your thoughts will flow through our minds, based and rooted and grounded in scripture. And when we act, we will seek to act In a way that will glorify our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, Father, we recognize that we fell far short of that idea. But that is our God. And we ask that you would produce that through us. For your honor and glory may not be, may not one And our congregation be misled by others that perhaps we try to convince them that there is something lacking in their lives because they may have not spoken in tongues. May them hopefully understand the biblical tongues It is all is all about that. The gift is not given now because it is not necessary now. It was never designed to be a permanent part of our life. church or a necessity for spirituality. None of those things. May our people now may our people know the truth And made the truth, make them free in Christ Jesus. And be the people. They have been created to be. In Jesus Christ we pray with thanksgiving