Please continue to stand, and you can follow along with me for the reading today, from uh the sermon reading uh from 1 Corinthians chapter 15. First Corinthians chapter 15, beginning in verse 12, and reading on through verse 28. Let us hear the word of the Lord. Now, if Christ is preached that he has been risen from the dead, how do some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty. And your faith is also empty. Yes, and we are found to be false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ. Whom he did not raise up, if in fact the dead do not rise. For if the dead do not rise, then Christ is not risen And if Christ is not risen, your faith is futile. You are still in your sins. Then also those who have fallen asleep in Christ have perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men the most pitiable. But now Christ is risen from the dead and has become the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. But each one in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterwards those who are Christ's at his coming. And then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father, when he puts an end to all rule and all authority and power For he will reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be destroyed is death. For he has put all things under his feet. But when he says all things are put under him, it is evident that he who put all things under him is accepted. Now, when all things are made subject to him, then the Son Himself will also be subject to Him who put all things under Him, that God may be all and in all. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. There's uh much that could be uh focused on in this section of the reading of God's Word. Of course, we see it is a passage that speaks significantly about the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ and the implications of that resurrection for God's people. I could Focus on a number of different matters that come up in this passage, but uh for today's uh message I'll just focus on a few verses Beginning in verse 12 and going through verse 14. Let me just read those again. Now, if Christ is preached that He has been raised from the dead, How do some among you say there is no resurrection of the dead? If there is no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ is not risen, then our preaching is empty and your faith is also empty. Paul wrote these words because some in the church at Corinth denied the resurrection. Of Jesus Christ. Did you hear that? Some in the church at Corinth denied the resurrection of Christ. How say some of you, there is no resurrection of the dead Well I've made a leap in that statement. Because initially it doesn't seem as though those who are denying the resurrection of Christ are actually saying that. The text indicates that they are saying that they are denying the resurrection of others. How do some of you say there is no resurrection? It certainly involves Christ, because if you're going to say it about others, you have to say it about Christ. And that point Paul elaborates on in this whole section What Paul is saying to the Corinthian church, if anyone denies the resurrection of others, he is denying the resurrection of Jesus Whoever is denying the resurrection of Christ and others Is making the apostolic witness a lie. And a lie, further, of every other passage in the Bible that speaks. Of the resurrection of Christ, as well as its Old Testament precursors. Just to say, you see, that there's no resurrection of the dead has some rather profound implication. The first of which is the scripture lies. The word of God lies Are there many testimonies in the Bible to the resurrection of Christ? How many testimonies are there in the Bible to the birth of Jesus? Two Luke and Matthew give accounts of the birth of Christ. How many resurrection appearances are documented of Christ in the Bible, in the New Testament alone? How many times did he appear to his disciples after his death? Many more than two. Many more. I calculated at one point about fourteen. But that isn't statistics can prove anything But that isn't the main point of Paul's argument here. It's just for you to ponder and think about it. Denying Christ, you see. Look over at 1 Corinthians 15 in our text, but look up just a few verses From there. As Paul begins, 1 Corinthians 15. Look at verse 5. Count the resurrection appearances in verse 5 and following That he was seen of Cephas. That's Peter. That's Peter's original name, one of his original names. Then of the twelve. After that he was seen of 500 brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain to this day. But some have fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. Last of all, he was seen by me as one born out of time. Justin, did you count them? But what about Mary Magdalene And Salome, those who ran to the tomb on the day of the third day after the death of Christ, on what we call the resurrection. What about them? That we read about in Mark chapter 16. What about the two who saw Jesus on the road to Emmaus in Luke chapter 24? Are we to assume that they too are liars and that the biblical account is false Denying the resurrection of Christ casts doubt on Christ as well and his truthfulness. When I say casting doubt is just a sanitized way of saying Jesus is also a liar. Listen to our Lord speak of his own resurrection before it happened Mark chapter 12, verses 39 and 40. He answered and said to them, A devil and adulterous generation seeks a sign, but there shall be no sign given to it But the sign of the prophet Jonah. For Jonah was three days and three nights in the whale's belly So shall the Son of Man be three nights and three days in the earth. Doesn't say resurrection, but you can't miss the concept. Well, how about specific use by Christ of the word resurrection? Four times before his death, Jesus told his disciples of his death and resurrection and used those terms. Matthew 16, verse 21 is one such example. From that time forth, Jesus began to show unto his disciples how he must go to Jerusalem. Suffer many things at the hands of the elders, chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and raised again the third day. Matthew 16, 21, Matthew 17, 22, Matthew 20, 18, and following. significant places where he uses the word. Are we to believe that Jesus is lying? The denial of Christ's resurrection and his appearances and his teaching Denies the miracle as well of Lazarus being resurrected from the dead in John chapter 11. As well as denying the fact that Christ raised Jairus' daughter from the dead. Well, maybe Jesus was just maybe he was just ahead of his time. Maybe he was bringing something new to the table when he talked about the resurrection of the dead. Maybe he wasn't just a Johnny Cum lately to this concept. Maybe he was a Johnny Cum lately. Who knows? Who cares? Right? No. The Old Testament speaks of the resurrection from the dead. It denies one of the major themes of the book of Ruth, the so-called Kinsman Redeemer theme where the next of kin raises up seed to a fallen relative. I don't have time to explain that, but I'd love to tell you about that. Because it's a brilliant picture of how Christ brings one who is dead back to life. Well, what about a passage like Isaiah 60, verse 1? Where the prophet exhorts God's people, saying, Arise, shine, for thy light is come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon thee. For behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people, but the Lord shall arise upon thee. And his glory shall be seen upon thee. The Gentiles shall see his light, and kings to the brightness of his rising What about Malachi 4:2? Unto you that fear my name shall the Son of righteousness arise with healing in his wings. Jonah, the story of Jonah, Christ uses to proof text his own resurrection. What about the story of Elisha healing the Shunammite woman, which Brother Dan read about this morning? Was he dead or wasn't he? That was prophetic. That was a precursor of what the greater resurrector was to do. In verse 14, Paul gives us, back to our text, in verse 14, Paul gives us further important, compelling reasons. Why Christians must affirm the resurrection of Christ. This translates from the theoretical now to you. The resurrection of Christ, whether it be his or ours in him, because of him, is not a subject that you can be indifferent to. For so much in the Bible depends upon the victory of Christ's resurrection. If Christ be not risen, then our preaching is vain. Everything I've said is worthless Everything I ever said is worthless. Everything any preacher ever said is worthless. That's what it means to say it's vain. That's one of the things it means. Secondly, not only is our preaching in vain, but your faith, your faith is in vain. Your faith is worthless. Everything you believed from the Word of God, whether it's been preached to you or you've read it or you've begun to understand it. Is worthless if Christ has not been risen from the dead. You are not to say, if Christ has not been risen from the dead, you cannot say I am united to Jesus in his death and resurrection. You cannot say, God is with me. Because you got a dead Christ, and that's all you got You aren't, you cannot, if Christ, if your faith is in vain, you cannot say, I am no Excuse me. I am a new man in Christ. You are still an old man. And your entire life is still enslaved to sin. The word that says vain here, or whether it's translated vain or foolish In the Hebrew, it is a word that translates the Hebrew word for vanity. Remember that word that's used so often in Ecclesiastes? All is vanity and a striving after the wind? Remember that? It is also the word that is most frequently translated for idolatry. Because what at its heart is idolatry. It's worthless worship Preaching without Christ, excuse me, without the resurrection of Christ is vanity. Idolatry, worthless, because it preaches of worthless salvation. Faith without Christ is vanity. Without Christ's resurrection is vanity because it trusts in a God you can't save. He can't fully save anybody. He can't redeem anybody. He's a God who can't raise even his own son from the dead. He can't bring victory over sin. He can't give new life to those dead in transgressions and sin. He can't accomplish our union with him He's a God who can't sympathize with your weaknesses. He cannot therefore then be your high priest, ever living to intercede. Faith without the resurrection of Christ becomes idolatry. Now you're beginning to see the staggering implications of what those brothers at Corinth were saying. And I used the word brothers in quotes If there is no resurrection of Christ, there is no salvation in Christ. Christ is reduced to just another idol As his words, as are all of his words and all of his miracles He is powerless. See, the resurrection is the affirmation by God that Christ has defeated death. But if he has not been risen from the dead, or if those who believe in him are not risen from the dead, then Christ is powerless over sin and death. He's unable to give anyone life And everybody who believes in him are dead men walking. But Paul, beloved Paul, goes on to scorn his own hypotheticals. As he brings to the table verses twenty and twenty-one and twenty-two of First Corinthians fifteen But now is Christ risen from the dead. But now is Christ risen from the dead. Not sometime in the future. Now Christ is risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man also came the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, So in Christ shall all be made alive. Yes. Hallelujah The states are high regarding the resurrection of Jesus. The unbelieving world mocks and sneers at the resurrection of Christ. Saying such things as I never saw anybody else resurrected, it therefore never could happen, or will happen, or did happen But you, Christian, for you, the resurrection of Christ is a matter of faith and trust in God's goodness, but it's also in God's word. Exercise your God-given faith and believe in the resurrection of Jesus. For there at the empty tomb, God did the impossible. And he brought life out of death. He brought light and its victory over darkness. He brought life eternal into your heart Through the unleashing of Christ, the life-giving Spirit, making you his new creation. Because Christ is resurrected, you now live. Now and forever Rejoice. That is the resurrection. Amen.