And we can remain standing for our Old Testament reading, and this is where our message will be from, from Psalm 121. You can find that on uh well I'm finding it on the few Bibles, and I'll tell you in a minute. You can find that on Page 612, I believe my pages are stuck here. 612. This is the second of 15 songs of ascent. These Psalms were believed to have been sung by pilgrims as they made their way up to Jerusalem. And so please follow along as I read from God's Holy Word. A song of ascent. I lift my eyes to the hills. From where does my help come? My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth He will not let your foot be moved. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep The Lord is your keeper. The Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. This is God's holy word. Let's pray for his blessing on it. Our Father in heaven, please grant us faith to lift our eyes to you. Cause us to trust your plans and purposes even in the midst of our various trials. Use your word to build us up in that faith. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. When you're going through something hard, where do you look? If you're like me, it might be to a screen. Right? So you pull out your phone or you get on your computer and you start scrolling and you might look at, well for me, sports highlights, or maybe you look at the comedian to laugh a little bit. Whatever it is for you, maybe news articles, we tend to go to these things to help us cope. Other times uh when we're not ignoring it or trying to numb it, we may just try to figure out how we're going to fix it and solve our problems. So we think we can just dig our own own way out, either by working harder or by reading another book or watching the YouTube video on the topic. We try to solve the problem ourselves. Now it's not as if those responses are always wrong, right? Perhaps a book will help you. YouTube videos are very often helpful. And sometimes if you're really wound up so tightly, maybe you really just need to watch a comedian and laugh and not take yourself so seriously. But none of these strategies are the primary source of strength. They should not be our primary source of strength. Instead, Psalm 121 gives us a very better place to look It urges us to look to God, knowing that He keeps His people eternally secure. But God's protection isn't merely stated in this Psalm. Instead, it's poetically described. After all the psalmists could have said things such as, I consider my troubles, or I look to God for help He said it in a very bland kind of way, but instead he says it in this beautiful, poetic kind of way. As Henry Law said, God's protecting care is portrayed in attractive colors May they win us to place all confidence in Him. That's my prayer for all of us this morning as we meditate on God's Word in Psalm 121. May it refresh us in this way so that we place our full confidence in Him. We'll think about God's care in two questions. I believe you have an outline there in your bulletins. First, where does our help come from? And then second, why can we be confident? in this. And then after that we'll consider how we're kept safe and secure in Jesus. So first let's ask the question, where does our help come from? Now, as I noted, this psalm is the second of 15 songs of ascent. They were thought to be sung by pilgrims who were making their way to Jerusalem. And so when the psalmist says, I lift my eyes to the hills, he may have two different images in mind. So first he may be referring to the hills that would have surrounded him as he traveled towards Jerusalem. And he looked at these hills and saw danger i in many ways. After all, the hills provided a good cover for people who would rob him. So the hills would be used for criminals to hide out and attack people on the way. That happened throughout the centuries, by the way. Jesus parable the Good Samaritan kind of assumes this would happen, that where people would get robbed on the way. In that parable, Jesus tells the story of a man going down from Jerusalem. Who fell among robbers. So that did happen. Well, while the psalmist may have feared dangers, he could also be lifting his eyes to the hills in a second way. The temple in Jerusalem was built on a hill. So Psalm chapter 3, verse 4 says, I cried aloud to the Lord, and he answered me from his holy hill. And so as the traveler neared Jerusalem, he could uh lift his eyes up in anticipation and see Jerusalem built on that holy hill Likewise, the Psalms frequently speak metaphorically of us lifting our eyes to God. So, for example, Psalm 123, verse 1: To you I lift my eyes, O you who are enthroned in heaven. And so this traveler would have approached Jerusalem with a certain degree of fear and anxiety, but also anticipation and confidence. As the psalmist lifts his eyes to the hills, he asks, From where does my help come? And he answers in verse 2: My help comes from the Lord, who made heaven and earth. And so this testifies to God's creative power. God made those hills that the robbers were hiding in. He made the hill that the temple was built upon But the psalmist here is describing more than just God as creator. Not just God as creator. A God who created the world and then just left it alone would be no God to place your confidence What the psalmist is proclaiming is also God's sovereignty over his creation, his sovereign rule over all that he has made. You see, the God who made the hills is still a very present help in time of trouble. Once the traveler lifted his eyes, he essentially had a vis-vis- Visual parable in front of him. He had a visual parable in front of him, a visual representation of what Psalm 125, verse 2 says. As the mountains surround Jerusalem, so the Lord surrounds his people from this time forth and forevermore. So whether one was looking apprehensively at the hills or hopefully to Jerusalem, he's confessing that God is his help. He looks not to the temple itself, nor to the hills on which the temple is built, but to the God who made the hills. He fixes his eyes not on the potential dangers or troubles. but the God who will watch over him even in the midst of these dangers. Indeed, the emphasis here in Psalm 121 is on God's protection rather than the actual troubles that we face. Now, what does this mean for us today? Well, this psalm is still for us today because all Christians are pilgrims. While we're not traveling to the temple in Jerusalem to worship, we're on our way to our eternal home, the heavenly Jerusalem. And there are many dangers along the way, some of which we're not even actually aware of at times. We all have a spiritual enemy prowling around, the devil. He prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour, who wants to undo God's good work in you. We face trials and hardships of various kinds. Therefore, we all need help. You need help. I don't, you don't, have the resources within yourself to meet all of life's challenges. And so Psalm 121 encourages us to place our confidence in God, committing ourselves to His care. And this confident profession has been really important throughout the history of the church. So as we look at verse 2, If your Bible is still open, you could flip ahead to Psalm 124, verse 8, which says almost the same thing as Psalm 121, verse 2. So one Psalm 124, verse 8, our help is in the name of the Lord who made heaven and earth. That psalm, that verse, Psalm 124. 8, was used in the early church. Often it was recited at the very opening of worship services. So that would be a call to worship. John Calvin revived that practice in the 16th century. And so this has been a very meaningful, important profession throughout the church's history. And so the question for us is the same. Where does our help come from? Where does my help come from? Do we find our help by looking to God? Or do we look for our help to arise somewhere else? You see, it's possible to place our confidence in our own strength or in our own wisdom. Have you ever said something like this? Maybe not out loud, but to yourself, I've done it before. I'm going to do it again. I've succeeded before, so I'm going to succeed again. But here we're invited to put our hope on a much firmer foundation, to trust God's help through trials and temptations. Now, if you're like me, in addition to real trials, you can add trials to your life. You can add imaginary trials to your life, and by this I mean worry. and anxiety. You worry about all the possible potential things that could happen to you, and you're weighed down by these unnecessary trials, borrowing trouble from tomorrow rather than trusting God today. And if, like me, if that's one of your own sin struggles, then this psalm invites you to look up to God for help when you begin to feel that fear or worry or anxiety gnawing at your soul. Of course, as we talk about this, we can also add that God in His kindness does send us help in many forms. So when we say our help is in the name of the Lord, that doesn't mean we don't accept other forms of help. He gives us friends, counselors Parents, pastors, deacons, doctors, and so on. So in saying God is our help, it doesn't mean that we don't lean on other people or other resources. It doesn't mean we cast them aside and say, I'm just trusting God alone. Instead, we actually receive these forms of help as coming from his gracious hand while we trust in him. And so the psalmist here asks and answers the question, where does our help come from? Our help comes from the Lord. The second question is why can we be confident of this help? And we see that answered in verses 3 to 8. The answer actually started in verse 2, because the Lord is the maker of heaven and earth. But verses 3 to 8 give us more reasons here we trust him. And there's a key description that you'll see that runs throughout these six verses. Six times God is described as our keeper, or it is said that he will keep us. So that is, he's going to watch over you. Like a good shepherd who watches over his sheep, who doesn't just let a sheep stray and then not notice. God watches and cares for you. Let's see how that's described here in Psalm 121. Look at verse 3. He will not let your foot be moved. And that's actually a very fitting description given Jerusalem's really rocky terrain. A pilgrim didn't travel these nice paved roads. He didn't hop in his car and have a nice Nice smooth drive. Though I there's some road work up there, and so I had a little bit of a bumpy ride the last mile here. But ordinarily we drive n like nice smooth roads here. This guy was on foot and he had tr rocky terrain that he might slip on. And so it's easy to picture a pilgrim losing his footing. And this image of not slipping is used to picture not just a man standing upright on his way to Jerusalem. But it's used to picture someone who's spiritually safe. It's significant here that also who is keeping this person safe from spiritually falling. The text says, he will not let your foot be moved. He will not. That is, God will not let you be moved. This is God holding on to us, not us desperately clinging on to him for dear life Deuteronomy 33, 27 puts it this way: The eternal God is your dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms. It's these everlasting arms that will keep you from falling. And we have this confidence that he will do this because God doesn't sleep. Look at the second half of verse 3 and to verse 4. He who keeps you will not slumber. Behold, he who keeps Israel will neither slumber nor sleep. And this the psalmist here repeats himself for emphasis. He doesn't just say God won't slumber or God won't sleep. He says God will neither slumber nor sleep. And that repetition emphasizes the absolute certainty of this fact. And it's also a stark contrast between this one true God and all the false gods of the nations. You might call to mind Elijah's confrontation with the prophets of Baal from 1 Kings 18. As these prophets limp around Baal's altar, crying out for Baal to hear him, Elijah mocks them. And he says either Baal is musing, or he's relieving himself, or he's on a journey, or perhaps he's asleep And you need to wake him out, cry louder. But Israel's God, our God, never needs to be woken up. He never sleeps, and therefore we can have confidence that we he will not allow us to fall. Of course, we may wander, we may wander at times, and you may wonder, doesn't it seem like my feet are slipping? Haven't I seen other people slipping? This doesn't seem true. Many of us can look at dark moments in our own lives. Perhaps even someone here is experiencing that right now. Moments of despair, depression. utter loneliness or exhaustion and discouragement, maybe even doubts creeping in. Does God really love me? Christians often use the phrase, maybe you've heard it, I fell into sin. Sometimes I think we use that to kind of make it sound like I didn't choose to do it. Oh, I just slipped all of a sudden. Didn't didn't know what happened. But but nonetheless we we use that phrase, right? When when we sin, I fell into sin. My foot slipped, in other words. What what's going on here? Well, we might remember what Asaf said in in Psalm 73, verse 2. But as for me, my feet had almost stumbled, my steps had nearly slipped, for I was envious of the arrogant when I saw the prosperity of the wicked ASAF continues, but when I thought how to understand this, it seemed to me a wearisome task until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then I discern their end. Truly you set them in slippery places. You make them fall to ruin. You see, it's not like God's people never stumble or struggle with sin. We get envious at times. I have the wicked. We're jealous. It's not that we never have moments of even despair or depression. But even in these moments when we feel like we're slipping away, God holds us fast. He doesn't allow us to completely fall off that relational path with him. And when we begin to wander, he's the good shepherd who goes after us and brings his sheep back, and he leads us ultimately safely to heaven, to our eternal home. So if you're a Christian here struggling with that, be assured of this. Even if you feel like you're slipping and sliding all over the place right now, God will not lose his own. Well, Psalm 121 continues to give us more reasons to trust God in verses 5 to 6. Verse 5 again repeats the refrain that God is our keeper, and this time in reference to the Son. So look at verses 5 and 6. The Lord is your keeper, the Lord is your shade on your right hand. The sun shall not strike you by day, nor the moon by night. This is yet another wonderful way that God is described in Scripture. Other passages speak of Him as a rock, as a refuge, as a stronghold for the oppressed, as a strong tower. You can just read through the Bible and find so many beautiful descriptions of God's care for us. Underneath him, as we've already read, are the everlasting arms. And Psalm 121, verse 5 gives another way to describe God to us. He is a shade, a shade to his people. And this image is a really comforting one. For one, our shadows are always with us wherever we go. And so this picture is of someone always with us. Likewise, a God is with us whenever scorching trials are beating down upon us. The imagery of day and night also makes that clear. So in Hebrew poetry, totality was often described by expressing it with a pair of opposites. So day and night, but you know, opposites. And so it means day and night and everything in between, morning, dawn, dusk, everything. God is always with you. The Lord protects his people 24-7 from all the perils of our way. Notice too that this is personal. This is the Lord is your keeper. Not the Lord is a keeper, not the Lord is just Israel's keeper in general, your personal keeper. If you belong to God by faith, then He is watching over you. And this psalm can still encourage God's people today, right? If you're a Christian, God is caring for you. Now, as I noted earlier, though, this doesn't imply that we won't face trials or difficulties. The very fact that the psalmist has to lift his eyes to the hills implies that there are troubles about, that he needs help. But we face them knowing that God is with us, watching us. Verses 7 to 8 then conclude the Psalm and again they mention God as our keeper, using the phrase three times The Lord will keep you from all evil. He will keep your life. The Lord will keep your going out and your coming in from this time forth and forevermore. Note the wide scope there of this verse. God's not just keeping you from some evil, but from all evil. He will guard your life not only now, but forevermore. Again, this is clearly not a guarantee we won't suffer, nor that we won't face physical death at some point. In fact, everyone who read the psalm clearly would have known and expected that they would die one day But this does promise that our final outcome is secure. By God's grace, we will make it all the way to heaven. Satan won't be able to snatch us out of his hands. We can lift our eyes up with joy, praising God, even when the path is But this isn't only a future hope. This isn't just a future hope. Notice the psalmist says that God will keep us from this time forth and forevermore. Yes, God will keep you forever, but this assurance begins right now. There's no end to God's keeping us, and we don't have to wait for the start time in the future. And it's true for all big events in life, major illnesses, major life events. But it's also true for the very smallest detail of your life. Of course, knowing this doesn't mean that we perfectly understand what God is doing. In fact, quite often we don't. And it's okay to admit that, by the way, if you're struggling with that. J. I. Packer once wrote, we may be frankly bewildered at things that happen to us, but God knows exactly what he is doing and what he is after in his handling of our affairs And Packer said we meet these baffling and trying situations by taking them as from God and by seeking God's face specifically about them. Another book I read recently that was encouraging is Grief Undone by Elizabeth Groves, and she's it was about her husband who passed away from cancer and that that journey they had. Her husband, Al. while he battled cancer, wrote this. God works in ways I don't understand. We see his goodness, and sometimes we simply look and see him without knowing anything more than that he is near And that he cares. That's sometimes all we can know. So I don't know what God is doing in your life or in your specific trials, but even the hardships can bring blessings. Sometimes the trials we face force us to lift our eyes to the hills in ways we wouldn't have before, to taste more fully that God is good, to drink more deeply of his streams of mercy. And even when we don't understand how God is working, we know that He keeps our going out and our coming in. We know that He is good and will bring us safely home. And since this is true, we can and should cast our concerns on him, knowing that he does care deeply for us. So this psalm here answers the question, where does our help come from? It also describes why we can be confident of God's help. Finally, let's just consider how we're kept safe in Jesus. You see, while the psalmists have every reason to be confident in God. We really have a more complete revelation of God's plan of redemption than he did. He kind of saw vaguely. He he knew that there was a Messiah coming, but he didn't he didn't know all the details that we know that The Son of God becoming man and suffering and dying for us and rising again to new life. And so uh now to be Clear, the psalmist did have hope in God's mercy and forgiveness, just as we do. So for example, Psalm 130, verses 3 to 4. If you, O Lord, should mark iniquities, O Lord, who could stand? But with you there is forgiveness that you may be feared. So that was the psalmist hope. It's still our hope. Nonetheless, we have this privileged position of seeing how God accomplished that redemption in Jesus Christ. How he reconciled us to himself once and for all, and how he has also now poured out his Holy Spirit upon the church to encourage us and build us in our faith As we begin to come to a close, let's just consider for a moment some of the encouraging ways the New Testament speaks of God keeping us safe in Jesus. So in John 16, 33, Jesus says, in the world you will have tribulation, but take heart. I have overcome the world. And in Matthew 28, 20, Jesus says, And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. First Peter 1 5 says that by God's power we are being guarded through faith for a salvation that is ready to be. revealed in the last time. And Jude chapter 24, or rather verses 24 to 25, says, Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority before all time, and now and forever. Just think about that for a moment. If we were left to ourselves, we would stumble. We would. If we could lose our salvation, if it if making it to heaven were dependent on our strength None of us would get there. Heaven would be empty. But God is able to keep us from stumbling. And notice he does it with great joy to present you blameless before his presence. With great joy, because Jesus has washed us in his blood. Romans 8, 35 to 39 also speaks strongly about our immovable hope. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword? As it is written, For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life Nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Nothing can separate you from God's love. And earlier in our service, Hebrews 12, one we read Hebrews 12, 1 to 3, and and chapter 12, verse 3 says this Consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself so that you may not grow weary or faint-hearted. And so when you're worn down by trials, look to Jesus. When you're about to give in to despair, look to him who suffered for you. When you are hemmed in by mountains of your own sin, look to the one who is able to save completely those who look to him. In Jesus, God has cast our sins as far as the East is from the West. In Jesus, we are eternally secure and no one Can snatch us from God's hand. In Jesus, we have a great high priest who is able to sympathize with our weaknesses and ever lives to intercede for us. So when you're going through something hard, Where do you look? There are all sorts of places I'm tempted to look at, to numb myself from the pain, to escape, to rely on my own strength. But Psalm 121 and the entire Bible encourages me and encourages you to look up, to lift our eyes to the hills, to look to our great and awesome God who abounds in compassion. Look to him, confident that he does keep his people eternally secure. Let's pray. Our Father in Heaven, our lives are filled with trials and spiritual dangers. At times we feel pressure or temptation like the sun beating down on us. Please continue to be with us and sustain us. Don't allow our feet to be moved. Keep us and protect us. Lead us safely home. We ask that we might even experience the joy of knowing that you are with us now. Grant us your grace to know you as our keeper and the shade on our right hand. Please give us all joy and peace in believing. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.