Open you up your copy of God's Word now to Matthew. Matthew chapter 12. Should be on page 972 of your Pew Bibles. We'll begin reading there at verse forty-three. We're jumping into the middle. Of an account as Jesus is speaking to the crowds Let's give attention to God's Word, Matthew chapter twelve at verse forty-three. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest but finds none. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. And they enter and dwell there. And the last state of that person is worse than the first. So also will it be with this evil generation. While he was speaking to the people, behold, his mother and his brothers stood outside asking to speak to him. But he replied to the man, who told him, Who is my mother, and who are my brothers? And stretching out his hand toward his disciples, he said, Here are my mother and my brothers, for whoever does the will of my Father in heaven. is my brother and sister and mother. Starting the reading of God's Word. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father in heaven, as we come to this passage, we ask for the powerful work of the Spirit upon our hearts. Lord, some of this is difficult to understand. And yet, Father, this is part of your will for our lives. And so we ask, Lord God, that you would move powerfully within us, that you'd help us to uh uncover sin where there is sin and Father that you would then Convict us even more powerfully this morning of all the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ, that He is the one who changes hearts. He is the one who leads us by his Spirit to do your will. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen. There's a sense in which this passage this morning is asking, who is your master? Who rules your heart and mind A few chapters earlier in Matthew's gospel, we read of those two demon-possessed men that met Jesus coming out of the tombs. in the country of the Gadarines. As we read that passage, we read that they were so, meaning the men were so extremely violent that no one could pass by that way. We learned that they were possessed by demons. Other accounts would refer to those demons as legion because there were many. At that point in their lives they had a master whose name was Satan. They were under his grip, under his rule. They were in his house. And then Jesus came and cast out the demons. So much so that he sent them into a herd of swine, giving us the picture that the master of those men had changed. Satan was no longer ruling. Christ had come. That should help us a bit as we come to this passage this morning And even ask ourselves that question, is Jesus my master? Is he truly my Lord? As we've noted before, these passages are asking that question: who is this Jesus? He's been identifying himself through healings, through his preaching, through his interaction with the Pharisees, those who questioned his identity. Those who tested him, those who even saw his supernatural healings, and yet Define them as being by and through the work of Beelzebu, the Prince of Dons, the Prince of the World. This morning we continue to ask that question. Who is this Jesus? And even deeper, is he my master? Is he my Lord? I want us to see this morning that Jesus must break into and fill the heart For one to desire the will of God. Jesus must break into and fill the heart for one to desire the will of God. We'll see that in three points this morning. First giving the keys to Satan, secondly breaking in the door, and finally doing the will of God. This passage is set forth before us in two sections, so to speak, which are set in contrast to one another. We need to see that. But more than that, we need to see, we need to even ask ourselves the question, do we desire to do the will of God? Well, first, giving the keys to Satan. The first half of this passage is really not a parable. It's not set forth that way. And it doesn't seem that we're to understand or interpret the first portion of this passage literally. It appears to be figurative. Jesus is illustrating a truth. As he is speaking, as he's preaching, he's illustrating and picturing for those listening the wretched, the sin-filled estate of those who reject him. He's setting forth a picture of that generation. That generation has already demonstrated the estate of their hearts. Again, as the Pharisees observed Jesus doing his supernatural healing, casting out a demon-oppressed man who is blind and mute, and restoring his vision, restoring his voice As he removes the demons, they ascribed that to Beelzebubul, the Prince of Demons. Not only do they do that, but then they command Jesus to show them a sign. Jesus calls them an evil and adulterous generation, and that's who he's addressing. That's who he's describing in the first portion of the scripture here. But I want us to be careful and not to think that Jesus' words were limited to that generation. He's using them as an example. But those who reject Jesus are in this generation as well. And so Jesus uses a figure, an illustration, a picture of how a heart that's gripped with lust for the world, a heart which refuses to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ as its master, looks He's giving us a picture of what goes on in the heart of one who would refuse Jesus as Lord and Master. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest but finds none. Then it says, I'll return to my house from which I came, and when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept. Put in good order, then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself Jesus is describing that there's been for this person, this generation, some kind of relief from Satan's power, his grip. As he describes the unclean spirit going out, an opportunity is opened. A person has been relieved in some way, a generation has been relieved in some way from an unclean or evil spirit. It's as if the person who is pictured as a house has been cleaned up. All trash removed, swept out, evil cast out in a sense But then nothing replaces the space that that evil spirit, the unclean spirit, had occupied The person's heart, the house, is left open. It's unoccupied by another, vacant, so to speak, and so what happens to the evil spirit who's looking for rest? And doesn't find any, he's unsuccessful in finding another home, another person to curse. Now it goes back and occupies the house, the person, and brings along with it seven others. The person has gone from one evil spirit now to eight. The house is now filled. Just consider the language for a minute used by Jesus. The demon refers to the person as my house. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came. Satan considers that person to be his dwelling place. The captive has not yet been set free. The freedom from the evil spirit was only temporary if we can even picture it as that. Evil Spirit considers that to be his house. And now it's swept, it's in good order, it's empty, it's a nice place to stay. Nothing to prohibit the residency of the evil spirit once again A place where the evil spirit can rest. That's what I was looking for. Nothing in the house, nothing in the heart which would stop the demonic spirits from carrying out their evil work. No goodness, no righteousness, no opposition to evil. That's the picture. And they dwell there. Seven more are brought. Seven a picture within Scripture of completeness, of fullness. The house can't accommodate another. It's full. It's completely filled. With now these seemingly permanent residents who are cursing that house or that heart. It seems to be the picture that Jesus is describing for us. We also know that Jesus did root out evil spirits. We've seen it. Up to this point, we really can't tell how many. But the passages indicate that Jesus removed many in chapter 8. We just read it about the Two demon-possessed men at the Gatarenes. Cast them out. Legion, many, gone. In chapter 9. Another person possessed by demons cast out the mute man speaks In chapter 10, Jesus gives authority to his disciples now to cast out demons. He gave them authority over unclean spirits. And as they return to the Lord, they return with joy, saying, even the demons are subject to us in your name. We have no idea how many Were they all saved? Were each one of those who had the evil spirit within them and having it cast out, were they all saved? Were they saved in the blood of Christ? Were they elect? Were they chosen by God? Did all of them truly come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior? Did the blood of Jesus really and truly cover their wretched sins? Scripture doesn't give us an express provision, an express statement, except possibly for this one. The first portion of our passage this morning suggests that not all who were relieved of evil spirits, the demons who had come to occupy them spiritually, were truly or finally saved in Christ. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself, and they enter and dwell there. The last state of that person is worse than the first. Brothers and sisters, the heart needs to be changed. Part of the teaching here is that the removal of an evil spirit in that day was not equal to the changing of a heart from stone to flesh. Scriptures are consistent. Consider Psalm 51: Create in me a clean heart. David knew that he needed to have a clean heart. Consider Joel. I will come about after this, it will come about after this that I will pour out my spirit on all mankind. The spirit needs to be poured out. Consider Jeremiah. I will give them one heart and one way that they may fear me forever. Or Ezekiel, I will remove the heart of stone from their flesh and give them a heart of flesh. Scripture is clear. In order for one to be saved, or a house, or a heart, needs not merely to be cleaned out, but filled with Christ. To be saved necessarily means that Christ, by his Spirit, as opposed to unclean spirits, dwells in the heart. It's not possible for the Holy Spirit to dwell in a stony heart. It's not possible for Christ to dwell in a heart still chained and bound to sin. In a sense, what we have before us this morning is exactly what Paul wrote about to those in Ephesus But that is not the way you learn Christ, assuming that you've heard about him and were taught in him as the truth is in Jesus to put off your old self. Paul taught, you must put off the old self, and here we have a picture of the putting off, the casting out, the spirit leaving. But Paul doesn't leave it there. And to put on the new self. There has to be this new dress put on, these new clothes Cast off, put off the old and put on the new, created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. And Paul doesn't stop there with just the put off and put on. Then he gives examples. Let no thief, let the thief no longer steal. But rather let him labor, doing honest work with his own hands. Put off, stop stealing, put on, work, labor. There's the picture then. See, Jesus had excised, he's removed, he's cast out a demonic spirit, and then this demonic spirit would be that which would further incline a person or encourage a person or engage a person in wicked and and sinful acts That's the picture we have when the evil spirit is is removed in that day and age Cleaned out. But the question becomes is what does that person now do? That person who's been cleaned out, so to speak, that evil spirit removed, what do they put on? What do they put on in place of the evil spirit that was further inclining them to sin? The picture given by Jesus is that that person leaves the house empty. Their heart is not filled with righteousness. Those who belonged to this generation had given the keys to their heart over to Satan. He was allowed to re-enter. Satan was welcomed back home. Christ was rejected, and the unclean spirit invited to take up residence and stay once again. That's the failure. to put on Christ Jesus. Do you see? There may be a difficult passage on its face to understand, but It's truly a simple idea. A generation. Those Pharisees, those scribes, those religious leaders of the day. had determined to reject Jesus Christ and invite Satan to stay That brings us to our second point, breaking in the door. We have to ask that question, don't we, on the heels of that first point. Why? Why would these reject Jesus Christ? Why would some determine to remain filled with evil, why would some choose Satan as master? Well, we must remember and begin at the point where we all begin as members of Satan's household. That's what Paul describes in his letter to the church at Ephesus. And you were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Did you hear that? A spirit That is now at work in the sons of disobedience. It's a description of Satan, the prince of the power of the air. That was a description of you before you came to trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. All begin there. All who descend from ordinary by ordinary generation from Adam begin in Satan's household. He is at work in your heart. All are held captive by sin. In Romans in chapter 6, we read about our old self. Paul is writing to those who've been changed, who've had their hearts changed from stone to flesh, and he writes, we know that our old self was crucified with him, meaning with Jesus. So that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. The one who has died has been set free from sin. We were all held captive, bound, chained to sin. That's where we start So how is one freed? How are those chains broken? How is one set free to Christ? Well, Jesus must break in. Jesus must break into the house. Jesus must break into Satan's house. That's what we've read even in this chapter in Matthew. As he's responding to the Pharisees who say, well, you've only done that. You've only cast out that demon because you are a worker of Beelzebuble. Jesus responds and says, How can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house. He's speaking of Satan. How can Jesus remove captives from Satan's house? And Jesus says, this is the only way. I've got to bind the strong man. I've got to bind Satan. I've got to restrain Satan so I can now go into his house and set the captives free. And Jesus did that. He did it on the cross at Calvary. You see, you have to remember that Adam and Eve aligned themselves with Satan in the garden. As Eve took Satan's word above God's word, as she trusted in herself at the urging of Satan, the serpent, as she casts off God's truth and listens to Satan's lies, she had aligned herself with Satan. She made a friendship, so to speak. She was in Satan's camp. She was in his house as soon as she broke God's law. But God promised to break this friendship. He promised to break that alliance. Told the serpent, I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and her offspring. Enmity is that friendship. Enmity is that alignment. That Eve had created. And God says to the serpent, I'm going to break it. I'm going to break that friendship. And so Jesus did so on the cross. See, that's what he was doing on the cross. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Jesus Christ on the cross was breaking that alignment with Satan And he was reconnecting those saved by grace with the Father. See, this is how Jesus broke in. That's how he created that enmity. That's how he brought about the division between the children of God and Satan by dying on the cross. By suffering God's just wrath for your sins, by rising from the dead and defeating sin and death. Jesus has broken into Satan's house. And set free the captives. He's broken the chains to sin such that death no longer has its sting. That's what Jesus came to do. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. Has Jesus set you free this morning? If you can say this morning, Jesus is indeed my master, he's my Lord, my savior And indeed what you're saying is he has set you free. He has broken in and he's removed you from Satan's house. But if not, if you're here this morning, if you're listening this morning and you cannot say that Jesus is indeed my master, he's my Lord Call us to pray. Ask Jesus to break into your heart. And separate you from Satan's grip. You may be thinking, how It's exactly what Jesus did for Peter. Even before Peter sinned against the Lord by denying him three times, Jesus tells him this. I have prayed for you. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan has demanded permission to sift you like wheat, but I prayed for you that your faith may not fail. And you, once you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Do you see Jesus intercedes with prayer? If you don't know Christ this morning as Lord and Savior, pray to him. Pray to him to intercede for you. That he would not allow Satan to sift you like wheat. Brings us to our third point, doing the will of God. And now we come to the second half of this passage. As Jesus' mother and brothers stand outside asking to speak to him, he replies to the man who told him, Who is my mother and who are my brothers? Stretches out his hand toward his disciples and said, Here are my mother and my brothers. Jesus was not being disrespectful. He was teaching. Now Matthew doesn't record this for it, but Mark and Luke do, that there was a crowd sitting around him at this point. And I think the implication is because of this crowd, uh mother and brothers cannot enter in because there are too many people. They're listening. They're being taught. He's proclaiming the kingdom. He's loving these that are listening. But it didn't mean that he didn't love his biological mother and brothers. So they called to him. And he responds. These, these who are listening, these who have ears to hear, these who have eyes to see, these Are my family now Jesus states, whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother. In contrast to those who reject Jesus, in contrast to those who would not receive his teaching and receive him as Lord, as master. Now these sitting at his feet, these here are my mother and my brothers, those who do the will of my Father in heaven. Will be part of my family. That's what he's saying. If a person is part of Jesus' family, a brother or sister of Christ, and that person has been adopted, brought into the family of God, for Jesus is the Son of God. And so In other words, whoever does the will of Jesus his Father in heaven will enter into that family and have eternal life. You may be thinking, I thought the only requirement was to believe. Isn't that what Paul and Silas told the Philippian jailer who asked, what must I do to be saved? They said, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ and you will be saved, you and your household. Is this another requirement in order to have eternal life? Does one need to do the will of the Father in order to enter the kingdom? This is where James helps us. I will show you my faith by my works. Now I might have misspoken there. James is really not helping Jesus. Jesus needs no help from James. But James is actually opening up these words of Christ, isn't he? Having faith, believing, sincerely believing in the Lord Jesus Christ and his atoning death. And justifying resurrection for your sins means that one will desire to do the will of Jesus as Father in heaven. That's what Jesus is saying. If I'm your Lord and Master, meaning Jesus, if I'm your Savior, then you will want to do the will of my Father. And those who were sitting at the feet of Christ were those who were hearing and desiring to know more. Teach me more, Jesus So what does it mean? What does it mean to do the will of God? It seems pretty important here Jesus clearly states that it's only those who do the will of his father that are his siblings, his mother, his brothers, his sisters, part of his family. So it's kind of an important verse. A very important truth. But what does it mean? It's seemingly critical for your life as as those who proclaim salvation in Christ this morning. And if that's so If you've been adopted, if you are calling upon Christ, then are you doing the will of the Father? What is it? Well, since this is set in contrast to the passage that goes before it, we would have to say, well, it's not opposing the will of God. It seems obvious, but this is exactly what was going on in the first portion of this scripture passage. Those who had invited the evil spirit back in, those who allowed wickedness just to dwell within, were opposing the will of God. So what does it mean? What is it to do the Father's will? Well, obviously you must know what it is In order to do it. Obviously, you must begin with understanding and grasping and thus knowing God's will for your life As one who has been washed clean in the blood of Christ, to do the will of the Father must one must know the Father And so Jesus here speaks of the revealed will of God. He's not referring to the secret will of God. Revealed will of God would be contained in this book. The Bible, all 66 books. That would be the revealed will of God, the special revelation. But Jesus is not speaking of the secret will of God, that which we don't know. The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our children forever, and that's what Jesus speaks of. He speaks of that which God has revealed. And so to know the will of God is a reference to God's revealed will. And you would find that in Scripture, obviously. In the second paragraph of the first chapter of the Westminster Confession of Faith, as it goes through listing all 66 books, It ends with this, all, meaning all those 66 books are given by inspiration of God to be the rule of faith and life. Where would you find God's will? Right there. In those sixty-six books, The Rule of Faith and Life. We might consider the Ten Commandments as just a small portion of God's revealed will. We might go to the Westminster Larger Catechism as it opens up the Fifth Commandment. to understand what the will of God is. The fifth commandment calls us to honor thy father and thy mother And the 127th question asks this, what is the honor that inferiors owe their superiors? It goes like this. All due reverence in heart, word, and behavior. Prayer and thanksgiving for them. Imitation of their virtues and graces. Willing obedience to their lawful commands, due submission to their corrections. Westminster Larger Catechism is just a tool to open it up for us, to understand God's will for our lives. Was Jesus saying that this was a condition for your entry into glory? Was Jesus saying that this was something you need to work toward? And once you get there, once you perfect it, Then I'll let you in. No, absolutely not. That's why I said James helps us. James is saying, I have faith, and I'm going to show you that faith by seeking to do the will of God. And Jesus is saying, obviously, the same thing. You may be thinking, well, I'm not perfect in my doing. Jesus doesn't say, well, you have to be perfect. Now he says this as he gives the parable Of two sons. Their father calls them to go to work in the vineyard today. He's testing the Pharisees who are listening. The father says, Son, go work in the vineyard And the first son answers, I will not, but afterward regretted it and went. The second son is commanded to do the same thing, and he answers, I will, but he didn't go. And so which one did the will of the father? And the answer is the first one. Do you see the imperfection in the first son? He says, No, I won't. But then he's convicted of his sin. And he goes. I don't know if the first son worked well, we don't know if he did all that the father had planned. We don't know. But he did submit himself. To the will of his father. He was convicted of his sin, and then he submits himself to his father's will. That's the idea. That's what Jesus speaks of here in this passage. Whoever does the will of my Father in heaven is my brother and sister and mother, and all of this, brothers and sisters, is by the work of the Spirit We read Deuteronomy earlier this morning. He read of all the blessings that would come upon the one who did the will of the Father. And all the curses. Brothers and sisters, we know that the only way that we can desire to do the will of God is by and through the work of the Spirit within us. He's got to change our hearts. That's why I said this passage is asking you that question, is Jesus your master today? This morning? And if so, if you can sincerely say yes he is, then you must be doing the will of his father Not keeping the Ten Commandments perfectly, no, but like Jesus striving after the will of the Father as it is if as if it were your food, your nourishment, your longing. That's the idea. It's exactly what Paul wrote in Romans 7, for I have the desire to do what is right, but not the ability to carry it out. For I delight in the law of God in my inner being. You see That's that's what Jesus was calling you to. As you submit Yourself, body and soul, to the Lord Jesus Christ. As He's working in your heart by His Spirit, then your desire is just going to completely change. Just like the first son. No, I'm not gonna go. But then you're convicted by the work of the Spirit. He said, Yes, Father, your will is good and right and perfect. Help me. Help me. Yes, Jesus Christ must break into and fill the heart for one to desire the will of God. We don't know what happened to those two demon-possessed men in the country of the Gadderenes, but we do know. We do know that Jesus sent the spirits out and they perished as the swine go and drown themselves in the lake, never to re-enter into those men. Jesus is the one who cleanses us and keeps us in the palm of his hand so that no, no evil spirits can dwell within. We long after his righteousness. Praise be to God. Amen. Father and our God, we are sinners saved only by your grace. And so we thank you and praise you for the way that Christ has worked, for the fact that he has broken into Satan's house, that he has removed us, who were held captive, and now he has set us free. Chained now not to sin but to righteousness. And so, Father, we ask for help. Give us a longing, a desire to do your will only. Cast off everything that's opposed to it. We pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.