Would you stand up please and as you do, find one of your Bibles, Exodus The book of Exodus, chapter six, one through thirteen, you'll find that on page fifty-seven. But the Lord said to Moses, Now you shall see what I will do to Pharaoh. For with a strong hand he will send them out, and with a strong hand he will drive them out of his land. God spoke to Moses and said to him, I am the Lord. I appeared to Abram, to Isaac. And to Jacob, as God Almighty, but by my name the Lord I did not make myself known to them. I also established my covenant with them to give them the land of Canaan, the land in which they lived as sojourners. Moreover, I have heard the groaning of the people of Israel, whom the Egyptians hold as slaves, and I have remembered my covenant. Say therefore to the people of Israel, I am the Lord, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will deliver you from slavery to them. And I will redeem you with an outstretched arm and with great acts of judgment. I will take you to be my people, and I will be your God, and you shall know that I am the Lord your God. who has brought you out of the under the burdens of the Egyptians. I will bring you into the land that I swore to give to Abraham, to Isaac. And to Jacob, I will give it to you for a possession. I am the Lord. Moses spoke thus to the people of Israel But they did not listen to Moses because of their broken spirit and harsh slavery. So the Lord said to Moses Go in, tell the Pharaoh, King of Egypt, to let the people of Israel go out of his land. But Moses said to the Lord, Behold, the people of Israel have not listened to me. How then shall Pharaoh listen to me? For I am of uncircumcised lips. But the Lord spoke to Moses and Aaron and gave them a charge about the people of Israel and about Pharaoh, king of Egypt. to bring the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt Please be seated. Brothers and sisters, today we have an interesting challenge here. We need to know, or we are gonna know. Who is Jehovah? We have heard about Jehovah, we read about Jehovah, we have talked about Jehovah. Many people have many comments about Jehovah. But we will try to to go through every one of them and go to the point. So, dear friends, we as members of society have many relationships in our lives But it is our relationship with God that gives meaning to those other relationships, such as marriages, families, friendships. work relationships, etc. , etc. , etc. If not for God and our relationship to Him These other ones would not be nearly as meaningful to us. So remember, if not for God And our relationship to him. That comes first in front of everything. Furthermore, we know of him. comes through revelation. What we know of him comes through revelation of him in the scriptures. Just as the things we know about our husband or wife. Comes about a self revelation, sometimes the in-laws Will tell you specifically all the negative. So it is with our relationship with God. But it is entirely a self-revelation. in his part. He has had to take the initiative to tell us about himself And he has done it in his word. And you are holding it right now. Just as a good marriage is a growing relationship between two people committed to one another. So a fulfilled Christian is one who is growing in his relationship to Almighty God. If he is not growing in that relationship, then that thing has stagnated and is beginning to sour. Remember that. So our on the things of God, sour on the people of God, and sour on God Himself. Yet the fault lies squarely on the part of the believer who is now on the fellowship. Because he has stopped growing. Moreover, the growth we are to experience must be practical. We all have to grow, but it must be practical. As well as intellectual or theoretical Just to know facts about God is not enough. We all know facts about God. We memorize, we learn when we're kids. Uh Brother Ron here teaches us and makes us memorize so many things. But that's not enough. That is helpful, that is foundational, but those have to be applied to our personal lives. So our knowledge of God must not only be intellectual, but experiential. That is part of our faith. What do you know about God? And here goes another question. How has what you know about God changed your life? Maybe hasn't. Maybe has not changed your life. And that brothers and sisters is the problem. I would like you to to think about this question as you listen into the message and and as you go home and and and and make a part of you of you weak. if it required. If it requires it alone. In the Old Testament we find that the first name that we encounter is Elohim. That's the first name we find is Elohim, which is translated in the Old Testament G-O-D, God. And when you come across God in that way in the Old Testament, that is the translation of the Hebrew word Elohim. And we know that it means the Almighty One, the Omnipotent One. That has all power, that has all power, who can speak the world into existence just by his word. It also refers to the fact that he is faithful. He kept his word both in judgment as well as in blessing. Today we're going to learn about a primary name of God that is used in the Old Testament, Jehovah. Translated in our English Bibles by the word Lord, all capital letters Whenever you see the word Lord or capital letters is the translation of the word Jehovah. Remember that. Sometimes because it is surrounded by other words for God in the sentence, the word Jehovah is translated God, but nevertheless still is capital letters. That would always give you that distinction Jehovah is the most frequented, most frequently used name for the true God of the Old Testament. Believe it or not, it appears over 6,800 times. In the Bible. Jehovah is never used in the Old Testament to refer to a pagan deity. Whenever a pagan deity is going to be referred to in the Old Testament, another Name is used, but never Jehovah. Jehovah is only used to refer to the true God of Israel. Furthermore, Jehovah was the most sacred name for deity known among the Hebrews. So sacred in fact that they came, when they came to the world in the reading of scripture, they would not even pronounce it. But instead they would substitute another word in its place and everyone simply understood. The word Jehovah is derived from the Hebrew word Abba, which means to be But when this word is used of God, its meaning is intensified So instead of just to be, it refers to eternally of being. No beginning, no end. So Jehovah refers to the self-existing who has no beginning and no end. But has always existed. Therefore, Jehovah identifies himself as God, sovereign on all ages, contemporary of every period of time in history. In Exodus 3:14 we read, and God said unto Moses, I am that I am. And he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I am, had sent me unto you. Although the name Jehovah appears in the Bible as early as Genesis 2, verse 4, as the title of the Elohim or the God of the Patriarchs. Its full significance was not revealed until Exodus chapter 6, verses 2 and 3. And God spoke And God spoke unto Moses and said unto him, I am the Lord. And I appeared to Abraham. into Isaac and unto Jacob by the name of God Almighty. But by my name Jehovah was I none known to them. Prior to this time, the patriarchs were familiar with the name Jehovah, but their experience with God was largely with him as the one who provides for his own But here in Exodus chapter 6 verse 3, God tells Moses that he is now about to reveal the aspect of his character. That it is depicted through the name Jehovah. The name Jehovah is used in two specific ways in the Old Testament. And both of these distinctive uses are mentioned in the passage. First, Jehovah is uniquely the redemption name for God. When we bring the subject of redemption, that involves three important attributes of God. First, Jehovah always represents the holiness of God Turn over on your Bibles to Exodus 15, 11 that reads, Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome and glorious deeds, doing wonders? Brothers that explain sometimes about who Jehovah is by the way his personality, character, traits, and his attributes are presented. He is absolutely holy And that is a great contrast to the deities of the peoples of the ancient world. For the gods of the hidden were known to the for their sensuality, which was incorporated into the various pagan religions. But Jehovah, the God of Israel, is absolutely holy and separate. And separate from sin. The second characteristic of Jehovah that comes naturally out of the first is that since Jehovah is a holy God, he himself hates sin. And he must punish sin to be faithful to his own personality and character. Jehovah cannot in any way compromise with evil. Instead, in faithfulness to his own character, he must judge it. The first illustration of this in the Bible is found in Genesis 3. In Genesis 3 it is, was Jehovah or Elohim? Two names. And being put together to let Jehovah, proceeding who pronounced judgment upon Satan for tempting Adam and Eve. And upon Adam and Eve for rebelling against God. Now let's go to Genesis 3, verse 14 and 16. And we read, the Lord God said to the serpent, because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. Brothers and sisters, this is the very first reference on scripture of the coming of the Redeemer. This passage is called the The proto-evangelia, the first mention of the gospel, way back there immediately right after Genesis. And to the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you And to Adam he said, Because you listened to your wife, and you ate of the tree that I commanded you, that you must not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. Through painful toil, you will eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles. It shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. So Jehovah is the one who brings judgment because of sin. First of all, upon the evil one and then upon Eve and then upon Adam. It is Jehovah who thus who does that because of disobedience. And from this point on throughout the Old Testament, you will find that it is always Jehovah who brings judgment upon sin. There is a vivid example of this in Jehovah's dealings with Pharaoh and the people of Egypt. Let's go to Exodus chapter 5, verse 1, where we read. Afterward, Moses and Aaron went and said to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord Jehovah, the God of Israel, let my people go. That they may hold a feast to me in the wilderness. But Pharaoh said, Who is the Lord Jehovah? That I should obey his voice and let Israel go? I do not know the Lord Jehovah. And moreover, I will not let Israel go. That's a brave man. When Moses returned to God to deliver Pharaoh's insolent reply, Jehovah simply said to He shall know that I am Jehovah, he said. That is all he said. No further explanation needed He wants to know who Jehovah is. I will reveal myself to him. And he proceeded to do that through a series of plagues that were simply judgment for sin. And Jehovah unleashed these plagues upon the nation of Egypt, first upon the cattle, then upon the crops. Then their homes, their health, and their gods, finally his judgment was brought to a climax on the night of the Passover. Once again, he said against all the gods of Egypt, I will execute judgment because I am Jehovah. Jehovah hates and punishes sin. There is a third characteristic of Jehovah. He is absolutely holy. He hates and judges sin, but he loves sinners and he provides for their redemption. In his infinite wisdom, Jehovah was conceived, has conceived the way that sinners may be saved, yet without ever sacrificing his own holy standards of righteousness. In Genesis 3, it is Jehovah who comes seeking sinful men, looking for Adam in the garden, saying, Adam, where art thou? It is Jehovah that provides a covering for Adam and Eve sin, by giving them for coat skins, which were the result of sacrifice animals. So God was teaching us right there in the garden, as it were, without the shedding of blood there is no remission of sin. And that is the key to the plan of redemption. With these facts in our minds How glorious Isaiah 53 becomes when we see the suffering servant of God. The fulfillment of what it was implied in Genesis 3. 21. When God killed those animals and made them a sacrifice to cover the sins of Adam and Eve. Let's turn to Isaiah 53. Isaiah the prophet, writing some eight hundred years or so before the birth of Christ. Hundreds of years before the dead by crucifixion was made was the means of capital punishment, says in verse 3. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised. And we esteem him not. Certainly, he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteem him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. In other words, he's saying we thought, and people thought, that he was dying for his own sin. But as Isaiah says, he was peers for our transgressions, not for his own. He was without sin. And that one without sin was Jesus. Jesus our Christ. He was Christ for our iniquities. The punishment that brought us peace was upon him. It is by his wounds that we are healed. Oh, we like sheep, we are gone astray. We are turning each one on our own way, and Jehovah laid on him the iniquity of us all. So, sin is in no way an excuse. That is removed. God's holiness is in no way compromised either. It is totally met in the person of His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. So all throughout the Old Testament, whenever we come across the name Lord, all in cups That is the name Jehovah, and we may be reminded that that identifies the God, that it is self-existent, the God who is holy. who hates sin but loves his people and provides for their redemption But there is a second way that Jehovah is used in the Old Testament, mostly associated with what we already study. But it goes beyond. Jehovah is employed in the Old Testament to depict the covenant relationship that God establishes with his people. Turn with me to Genesis seventeen one. When Abram was ninety-nine years old In verse 1, when Abram was 99 years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. Now if we go to verse 7, we read, and I will establish my covenant between me and you and your offspring. after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. See brothers and sisters, it's Jehovah who is making the covenant with Abraham. And it says in essence, not just with you, Abram, begins with you. But this covenant will extend to your descendants. And there's two lines of of reasoning here. The first one would be his descendants in the flesh. which be the nation of Israel. The A Abrahamic covenant has some specific promises to the nation of Israel and we are not going to touch that. We're gonna go to the one to the second one. The other line of reasoning here which is far more important to us believers in the New Testament is that Abraham has a spiritual descendants as well. Turn to Galatians 3. 16 Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. He does not say and to offsprings Referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring who is Christ. Now let's look Galatians 3. 29. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring Hers according to promise. That promise that goes back all the way to Genesis chapter 17, 7. Chapter 17, verse 7, thousands of years before. Now with that in mind, let me say this. Our Bible is divided into two main sections The Old Testament and the New Testament, or the Old Covenant and the New Covenant. It is by the name Jehovah that He establishes this covenant. With sinners that He has redeemed. A covenant is an agreement. A covenant is a disposition. The old covenant is described in Exodus 20. After Jehovah has redeemed his people out of the out of Egypt. He said, if you would like to be my particular and peculiar treasure, if you would like to be a kingdom of priests, if you would like to be a holy nation. These are my requirements. And he proceeded to give them the requirements. Then he laid down his moral law and the Ten Commandments. And Israel entered into a covenant with Jehovah. The old covenant was designed not as a final solution to man's sin. But as preparatory to prepare men for what God intended to have as a new covenant all alone. Nothing was wrong with the Old Covenant, but had limitations. And and I'll explain why the limitations. Animals were used as a sacrifice to cover sin. Couldn't expiate thing, couldn't take it away. You can only cover it. Those animal sacrifices were only looking forward to the coming Redeemer, who will come hundreds of years later. Whom we know would be our Lord Jesus Christ, the one that Isaiah spoke about, the one promised. Way back to Adam in Genesis 3. Now we know that the people of God in the Old Testament were primarily Jews, although some Gentiles were included Miserable f miserably failed on the part of the deal of the old covenant. So the Assyrians came, like Jim was saying this morning, the Assyrians came and carried the northern kingdom into captivity, never to return. And the Babylonians came and carried the southern kingdom. They did return. But then it was the great disperser in seventy AD with the destruction of the temple And the Jews and the Jews still are basically dispersed, even though a remnant is in the land. They are all over the world. So this part is still open. It's not closed. In Jeremiah thirty-one We find Jehovah promising to make a new covenant with his people. This covenant he will fulfill from beginning to end, says in Jeremiah 31, verse 31 to 40. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers. On the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. My covenant that they broke Though I was their husband, declares the Lord, for this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days. declares the Lord. I will put my I will put my law within them and I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people Is this covenant that he had reiterated again and again in the New Testament? For that let's go to Hebrews chapter 8, verse 8, where we read. For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will establish a new covenant. With the house of Israel and with the house of Judah. Not like the covenant that I made with their fathers. This covenant, brothers and sisters, will be superior because it would be ratified by the blood of God's own Son, the Lord Jesus Christ And that blood is superior to the blood of animals which were only a cover. Now the terms of that new covenant have been extended unto Gentiles who believe in Jesus Christ. And for that This part is talking about us. He invites us. Come and enter into this new covenant that he is extending into all the world. The moment that you accept Christ as your Savior, you were brought into this covenant relationship with Jehovah, which gives you a spirit. Heritage, which goes back all the way to Abraham and obviously beyond all that the way back to Adam. Thousands of years. That gives you a quite a spiritual heritage. Jesus on the Last Supper Held out the cup to his disciples and said, This cup is the new covenant of my blood, which I will shed for you for the remission of sins. It is Jehovah the Redeemer who gave for our sins in order to bring us back to God the Father. The Bible teaches us that sin has dislocated us from God. Have you ever been, have you ever had a dislocated joint? Some of you have for the comments. I remember seeing my son Miguel playing soccer with a dislocated elbow and he was a goalie. I had never seen anybody play with so much pain, but he would not leave the field. Just like that, sin has dislocated us out of our relationship with the true God. And that brings you pain, spiritual pain mental pain, and as well as all even brings us physical pain Sin has deprived us of our has deprived us out of the right and privilege of being God's family. In other words, our birthright was stolen. Remember that. Sing has estranged and alienated us from our Creator. Sin has doomed us to eternal separation from God in a place that the Bible calls hell. But God in his grace and mercy has determined to redeem a people out of all out of all mankind for his glory Therefore, in the Council of the Godhead was decided that the Son of God will come to earth to pay the awful price of sin. So he came. Jehovah Jesus, Jehovah in the flesh, and Jehovah the Father took our sins and placed them on Jesus. And he took our place. Peter said he put them on his own body on the tree. Imagine that. The one who was born without sin is paying for everything that we did, we do, and we will do. Now God declares the work for man's salvation is finished. Finish in Christ. And whoever and whosoever may come, will you come? Will you receive Jesus to be your scene bearer? That is what every individual must do to experience forgiveness of sin and be able to go to heaven. Will you take him as your Lord? These are questions that I'm asking you and hopefully some of them still need some answers Jesus said this, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them. They follow me. Do you hear the voice of God? Will you repent of your sin? Would you ask Christ to be your Savior? The first evidence of the work of grace in the persons Life is a contrite spirit, a conviction not just that you are guilty, but that you have offended a great and righteous God. That is what true conviction of sin is all about. Just to feel guilty, that you have not measured up to your own standards or of righteousness or somebody's else. Or your family or your friends or anybody else. That is not enough. That is insufficient That is not genuine repentance. Many people have been sorry for their sins Perhaps die and gone to hell. So being sorry is not a solution of anything. True repentance is when we realize as an individual that you have offended a holy and righteous God and he must judge your sin and he will do it. Either in you and you will be separated from him forever or on his son who die in place of his people. Well, this is Jehovah, the self-existing one, who is absolutely holy, the one that hates sin. But loves his people. The one who will forgive and redeem all who came to him through the marriage of Jesus Christ. And now in capital letters, alone. For he says, My sheep hear my voice and they follow me. And now I have a question for all of you brothers and sisters that are sitting here over here or the ones that are watching on the internet or will be watching on the internet later. The question is, is Jehovah your God? After you have heard this ten-page explanation of Jehovah, my question to you is, is Jehovah your God? The Jehovah that we're talking about. Not the Jehovah that you think, but the Jehovah that we're talking about. And with that we miss we we finish this. Now let's bow our heads in prayer. We thank you, glorious Father, that you soul of the world that gave your Holy Son Jesus, who bore out sins in his own body, on the tree that he might bring us to thee. We thank thee for the privilege of calling thee our God. And we recognize from your word That is only granted to those who repent of their sins and place their full faith and trust and confidence. For the forgiveness of sins and eternal salvation in Jesus Christ alone. Jesus that said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father. But by me. Only those who come to Jesus Christ for forgiveness of sins and eternal life will be permitted. Entrance into your heaven. If there is someone here tonight or is watching the service via the internet whose heart you have spoken to. Very distinctly and very differently. And are under conviction of their own sin. Just as each of us were before the time you entered into our lives and regenerated us. In the quietest of this moment, he or she simply pray, God forgive me of my sins. Or I will perish. And Lord Jesus be my God, be my Savior. Enter into my life. Make me your child. Thank you, our Lord Jehovah. It is through Jesus, our Lord, that we pray. Amen and amen.