Now let us turn to this second reading from 1 Timothy 6, verses 1 through 10. Now you might want to keep your finger in Hebrews 13 as well, because I'll be referring to that. 1 Timothy 6, 1 through 10. Let us uh rise as we hear the word. That as many bondservants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honor So that the name of God and his doctrine may not be blasphemed. And those who have believing masters Let them not despise them because they are brethren. Rather serve them, because those who are benefited are believers and beloved Teach and exhort these things. If anyone teaches otherwise and does not consent to wholesome words, Even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which accords with godliness, he is proud. Knowing nothing, but is obsessed with disputes and arguments over words, from which come envy, strife, Reviling, evil suspicions, useless wranglings of men of corrupt minds and destitute of the truth Who suppose that godliness is a means of gain. From such, withdraw yourself. Now, godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and clothing, with these we shall be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation and a snare. and into many foolish and harmful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition. For the love of money is the root of all kinds of evil, for which some have strayed from the faith in their greediness, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows Thus far ends the reading of the Word of the Lord. Please be seated. Continuing in our study in uh first P in First Timothy, Paul has uh Beginning in chapter 6, he has again warned Timothy of the danger of false teachers, which has been an ongoing theme through the book of 1 Timothy. And uh you recall that the Lord, that Paul uh uh uh commissioned Timothy to go to Ephesus. And to be there to remain at Ephesus and to be there to continue Paul's work at Ephesus. And he was particularly concerned for false teachers and whatever influence they may have on the body. And here he's he starts off talking about that in 1 Timothy chapter 1 and he continues it on and off throughout the book. And now we come back to chapter 6 at the end of the book. And again, he's talking about false teachers. And he tells Timothy that uh they should be a especially aware of the false teachers who believe that a certain outward piety or certain godliness as a means of gain or of great gain. And he's got in mind their material grit gain. uh someone who is using religion for greed, for money, for power, for ego, or for fame. And uh remember uh there the there are people who have names attached to that kind of thing in the Bible There are names to the kind of person who is looking at the Christian religion and the trappings of the Christian religion as a way to increase their own con their own material contentment. You might remember the story of Simon Magus in Acts chapter 8 as one such example. Apostle uh Paul uh makes no bones about the danger that these people present and uh he says that if If you discern that there's a teacher who sees, has his uh understanding of what constitutes godliness, if he's nicked up mixed up uh worldly gain with godliness that you're to flee that kind of teacher and seek for one who is who understands uh what he begins to say in verse six That godliness with contentment is great gain. And the great gain that Paul has in mind is the the the the great gain of um uh of all the blessings that come, uh all the spiritual blessings that come because of faith and union with Christ. He goes on to say uh in first uh uh uh Timothy six, verse six That the word contentment is also the word that is translated sometimes sufficiency Our sufficiency, our contentment is in is great gain if it is in the things of God. Notice how that particular word gets used. uh in uh in the scriptures, particularly Paul, first of all, 2 Corinthians chapter 9 verse 8. He writes, God is able to make all grace abound to you, that you always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every good work. As God loves cheerful giver. That's the verse 7. All sufficiency in all things Grace abounding to you, so you have all sufficiency in all things. That's not talking about material wealth, that's talking about spiritual matters. Spiritual wealth. Philippians chapter 4 is kind of like a statement that I know you've all thought about and read about. The Apostle Paul writes in verse 11. uh for uh uh Philippians chapter four, he says, not that I speak in respect of want Not gain, but want, lacking. I'm not speaking to you out of the perspective of the fact that I may lack. He says, I have learned in whatever state I am to be content therewith. I know both how to be abased and how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full. and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through God, which strengtheneth me Now the key to what Paul is saying, what he said in First Timothy six, six, godliness with contentment is great gain, and what he has just said in Philippians And what is the idea of contentment? What is a Christian content Sorry, about. W what in what does our contentment lie? Now I'd like you to also now go to Hebrews chapter 13 and look at this section. We just read it. And you begin looking at verse 5. I want you to begin looking at verse 5. And he, the author of Hebrews, writes. Let your conduct be without covetousness, be content With such things as you have. It sounds very much like what Paul has just said about contentment. Whatever you have, be content. The devil in all this discussion is the word covetousness Covetousness, particularly for the things that are worldly. Coveting whatever it is that we hold up as important, as we hold up as valuable, oftentimes material things. Let your conduct be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. And then he adds, for God has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. What is it that you as a Christian value most? That gets at the question of contentedness, and it gets at the question of anything you might covet. Should it not be that what you value most Is that God is with you. That through the work of Christ, God has fulfilled his promise, one of his covenant promises, that I will Be your God, and you will be my people. I will walk with you. I will be with you in the moments of great joy and also in the times of great trial and despair. Let your Hebrews chapter 13, let your own English says conversation. King James English says, conversation be without covetousness. Be content with such things as you have. The word conversation in the King James does not mean speaking. It's a word that means your total being, your total outlook, your your your what describes your behavior. We might call it, if we were Paul, we might call it, let your walk be without covetousness. And be content with the things you have said, because God has said, I will never leave you nor forsake you. And what I have said is that that is one of the greatest things that Christians must value. The presence of God with them at all time. Now, go to verse 6 in Hebrews. It says, if you have this perspective, That God says that I will never leave you nor forsake you. If that is your perspective, then verse 6 also speaks to you. So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper. The Lord is my helper. I will not fear what man shall do unto me. The greatest source of your contentment is knowing that God is with you. Is knowing that the Lord God is your helper. He's on your side He is our greatest source of contentment. What makes you content in the Lord? Is it not what he offers and gives to you? What God gives to you is a gift or gifts that can never be taken away What God gives to you are gifts that are eternal. They're gifts of forgiveness. They're gifts of redemption. They're gifts that redeem your soul from the grave forever. The gift of peace. By peace I mean being reconciled with God. Again, it matters what your perspective is. You know, if you want to search after the things of the world and accumulate all of those things to yourself. Go ahead. Go ahead. But you will never be content. You will never have anything long-lasting. You will never have anything eternal. You've got, if you're a Christian, you've got eternity. With God. As your helper, as your redeemer, as one of the great blessings you have been given. Jesus wrote extensively on this matter. It's nothing new to you. Matthew 16, verse 26. What is a man profited if he gained the whole world and yet lose his own soul? What shall man give in exchange for his soul? What if you gain the whole world and yet lose your soul? Is that a rich man? Does Jesus call that a rich man? No It's not a rich man who loses his soul. What can you give in exchange for your soul? As if Jesus is reminding us there's nothing that we can give. that will preserve our soul. There's nothing of the even the highest value will not do it In verses 7 and 8, back to 1 Timothy, we read, We brought nothing into this world, and it's certain we can carry nothing out. Go ahead, accumulate all of your riches, but when you die, you're not going to take them with you. And when you were born, you didn't have any to bring with you. They will not go with you. You will not have them. They will be gone. And you see, those things that are worth worldly are not only Covet not only bring covetousness, but they bring idolatry because we begin to desire them more and more And we worship them more and more. And as a consequence, the concept that God is your helper Means less and less to those people who think that their worldly possessions is their helper, that their worldly possessions are eternal. That these are the things they can rely upon. These are the things, these worldly things, these are the things they can rely upon in the greatest time of stress, whether it be death. Well whether the stock market crashes tomorrow. In nineteen twenty nine there were people jumping out of windows in New York because they put their trust in their possessions, in their stocks. And in one day they were completely wiped out. That's it's it's There is nothing more precious for you to know that in Christ God is your helper and that he is with you. And that everything else is of no value. Listen to how Psalm 49. It's a long section, but I'm going to read it. I want to read verses 1 through 20 of Psalm 49. You can follow along. Hear this, all you people, give ear to all you inhabitants of the world, both low and high, rich and poor together My mouth shall speak of wisdom, and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding. I will incline mine ear to a parable. I will open my dark saying upon the harp. Wherefore should I fear in the days of the evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about? They that trust in their wealth Here we get to it. They that trust in their wealth and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches, none of them can by any means redeem his brother. Nor give to God a ransom for him. For the ransom of the soul is precious, Apparently a whole lot more precious than riches. Worldly riches. For that he Should live forever and not see corruption. For he sees what wise men die. That wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person. But they leave their wealth to others. Their inward thought is, their homes shall continue forever, their dwelling places to all generations. They call their lands after their own image names. Neither men being in honor abideth not. Nevertheless, men being in honor abideth not. He is like the beast that perishes. This, like their way is folly Yet their posterity approve their sayings. Like sheep, they are laid in the grave. Death shall feed on them, and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning, and their beauty shall And their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling. And then the psalmist writes, This is them. Now this is me. He says, but God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave, for he shall receive me. Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased, for when he dies, he carries nothing away. His glory shall not descend after him. Though while he lives he blessed his soul, and men will praise thee when thou doest well to thyself He shall go to the generation of his father, and they shall never see light. Man that is in honor and understandeth not, It's like the beast that perishes. Who wants that for their funeral message? That would be a powerful funeral message, wouldn't it? Striving for material gain leads to coveting, which leads to worship of idols, which leads to spiritual death. This Is the snare of the devil. As 1 Timothy 6, verse 9 puts it. Instead of endless striving for worldly gain, Christ said, Matthew six 24 Therefore I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what you shall eat, or what you shall drink. Nor yet for your body what you shall put on, is not life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold, the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do they reap Nor gather into barns, let your heavenly father yet your heavenly father feeds them. Do you not much better than they? Which of you? By taking thought can add One cubit unto his statute. And why take you thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field. How they grow and toil not. Neither do they spend. Yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, Shall he not much more clothe you, though you of little faith? Therefore, take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink For wherewithal shall we be clothed? For all these things the Gentiles seek. And your heavenly Father knows that ye have need of these things. Seek first the kingdom of God. And his righteousness and all these things will be added to you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. The Lord is my helper. And when you understand that, you will have contentment in the Lord's provisions. You will abandon contentment or seeking contentment from worldly gain, but revel in the fact that the Lord is your helper. Christ helps us as our Redeemer. Christ helps you In the work of the Holy Spirit, who is the helper, and He sanctifies us. Makes us more and more alike God. When we conflate 1 Timothy 6, 6 with Hebrews 13, 6, We see that contentment with God's provision makes Jesus' help of the utmost value to us. Content with the world causes us to see the world as our helper and not Jesus. That's a hideously false Place to put your trust. This is why Hebrews, excuse me, this is why 1 Timothy 6, 9 and 10 add these thoughts. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men. In destruction and perdition. The love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith and pierce themselves through with many sorrows. Where is your priority? Is it on the temporal or is it on the Eternal. On the material or on the spiritual? Where is your heart? On God and Christ, and the content that they bring to us now and forever, or on material possessions. The endless pursuit for them, which will end in eternal corruption and in the grave, and in drowning in perdition Lord our God. Let's think for a minute about this message and ask you, Lord, to apply it to our thinking. For Lord, apparently in Timothy's day, Paul was not speaking in the abstract, but he was actually talking about some who had left the body for the pursuit of worldly gains, thinking that godliness with contentment is great gain. And Lord, we also understand that this kind of message has Always been on the surface or nearby the message of the truth of the gospel that our greatest contentment is in Christ. And that at times even people from within your church have gone the direction Of embracing these thoughts and even to the point of identifying the Christian message with the pursuit of wealth And also attributing to it happiness and contentment Lord, we deplore these things and ask you, Father, to bring about correction to the church where it is needed. And we pray, Father, that you will also keep our minds fixed upon the things which you say bring contentment and are eternal. But the Lord is our helper. He is our shepherd, and in him we shall not want. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.