And now let us turn uh to the text from which the sermon is based, from first Timothy chapter six, verse seventeen through nineteen And uh you can follow along with me as I read the Word of God. Command those who are rich in this present age not to be haughty, nor to trust in uncertain riches. But in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Let them do good that they be rich in good works. Ready to give, willing to share, storing up for themselves a good foundation for the time to come, that they may hold on eternal life Here we come in our studies of 1 Timothy chapter 6, almost to the end of the book. We come to Paul's further additional destruction uh instructions to those who are Rich in the things of the world. And this has been a theme that has been going on now for quite a few verses in 1 Timothy chapter 6. Stretching back to verse uh 16 of this chap uh stretching back all the way back to verse 7 of this chapter And we have discovered that according to the Apostle Paul that Christians face dangers from Riches, uh the the riches of the world, um uh material bla riches And it's not that Paul is hereby commanding Christians to have nothing to do with riches. But he is speaking very clearly about the effect that the desire for riches can have on a person's heart. And sometimes uh that desire can be so intense that uh that uh they will the that the person having that desire will even uh fall away from being uh securely in the faith. Uh we have learned, for example, that God says to the people in chapter 6, the Christians, that we ought to be content with whatever God provides. If it means it's riches, that's good. If it doesn't mean it's riches and it's poverty, that's also good. Whatever the situation one finds themselves in materially, contentment with what God has provided is called great gain. We learn, too, that material treasures really have no place in eternal life. You know, you don't need money to go to heaven or to hell. Uh there there's there's no use for it. It doesn't have any value in either place. Um and you can't take your money with you. It has no eternal value for anyone, believer or unbeliever. A person who claims to be a believer, and after all, Timothy is writing this to believers in the church at Ephesus. If you are one who is a believer and has a desire to be rich, you need to be careful because the devil is out to snare you and to use your riches. Use the desire for riches to drown you, to drown out and suffocate the spiritual welfare, your spiritual welfare. And then this section also tells us that the love of money is the root of all evil. Verse 10, it can cause some to stray from the faith. And so tonight the Apostle Paul is continuing to talk about this matter of material riches and the place that We as Christians ought to view them. And there are three, in verse 17 alone tonight, there are three very strong commands. Three very strong commands that Paul gives to Timothy that are linked to the matter of being rich. The first of those commands is that They uh are not to be high-minded. And uh this would be equivalent to being proud Or being conceited or being ri or being haughty. Um For some reason, material uh riches uh in some people's minds uh means that uh they think better of themselves and they think worse of others who are not as materially blessed as they are. Um Of course, when Paul says do not be proud or conceited, he's pinpointing what is a heart attitude. Pride, the Bible says, goes before the fall. Excess pride is not a virtue. If we're going to have pride, if we're going to have pride and boast in anything, we ought to boast in the Lord. We ought to be proud of who God is and what God has done. Not in any of our accomplishments. And what we don't often see is that the exhortation not to be proud or conceited What we don't often appreciate is that a person who is proud or conceited because of their riches tends to uh uh do several things. He tends to have at the center of his life the pursuit of riches It's it's something, isn't it interesting that there never seems to be enough riches. The parable of the the rich man who had those great big barns And uh he had a bumper crop, you know, and he said, Well, you know, I just fill more barns and I'll put my Put my crop in there and we'll all eat and be merry and have a grand old time and I'll have more and I'll and I'll have security, I'll have wealth. And uh the scripture says, you fool, don't you know? Your life could be taken from you this very night. Um so the person who has uh uh uh a desire for riches uh tends to want more and that wanting more leads to being proud and it leads to being uh uh having the desire for riches to be your God. It's the thing you begin to want to worship. It's the thing you trust. It's the thing, the accumulation of riches is the thing that you're counting on. Counting on for your ability to live this life and to live it in in brand style. If the question has to be faced For a person who is rich is who is at the center of your life? Or what is at the center of your life? And if it isn't God, if God isn't at the center, then you you're you you're worshiping an idol. Anything else? If it's not God, you're worshiping an idol. Now, in addition to that problem with The desire for riches. And uh there's also another problem. If you're proud, I said earlier, you might tend to look down on others. Now you just read, we just read Luke 16 And if there is ever a story in the Bible that speaks about the trouble with riches, it's Luke 16. Because, you know, that that man in Luke chapter 16 was rich. He had everything. And Lazarus, the poor man, the poor man was just nearby his place, just looking for crumbs to eat. And not once, not once did that rich man do anything to help him. Not once. And Later in his life, they both die. They both go to different places. The rich man to hell, the poor man to heaven. And then the rich man wants help from the very man he wouldn't give help to previously. So God, you see, if we focus on uh uh not keeping uh if we if we fail to keep this command That we not be high-minded and that we continue to look for riches in order to be proud, in order to be better than other people, in order to be secure, or for whatever reason It will inevitably lead to not giving glory to God and not loving other people, not caring for other people who are less fortunate. So that's one of the commands. The second of the command is also structured in the negative. One is they should not be high-minded. The second command is That they should not trust in uncertain riches. They should not trust in certain riches. And of course There you get more of the idea of what your trust is, what you're worshiping. There you get somewhat of idolatry. And at the very beginning of Jesus' ministry, he gave a very long section of scripture about the question of trusting in riches. He said in Matthew chapter 6 and verse 19 and following, that we should lay not up for ourselves treasures upon earth. And then perfect logic, perfectly true statement, lay not up for yourself treasures on earth where moth and rust corrupt. You know, if you you know this to be the case, you know, if you have some sort of beautiful piece of clothing A beautiful wool that comes from uh you know far, far away, you know, nice uh wool from Scotland or w wool from some other place where it's beautifully woven and it's and you have this beautiful dress or you have this beautiful shawl or this scarf. And you know if you aren't careful with it and you don't take protection for it, you know, one day you're going to open that thing up and it's going to have holes in it. And you're going to look at it and you're going to say, where'd that come from? And and that happens. It happens easily. Even with today's modern pesticides, you can't keep up with the moths And their hunger for your scarf, your wool things. You can't keep up with the bugs. Little things like bugs can ruin um expensive things Um where moth and rust are corrupt. Or if that's not the problem, thieves break in and steal. And then he went on to say, but lay up for yourself treasures in heaven. Don't lay up treasures on earth Whatever those treasures may be, the material pleasures of this world. Lay up treasures in heaven. Because moths and rust cannot corrupt, and thie not steal. No man, continuing on, he says no man can serve two masters For either you will hate the one and love the other, or else you will hold to the one and despise the other. You can't serve God and mammon. If you have a desire to love the material things of the world you're and you claim to be a Christian, you're going to be in perpetual conflict. Spiritual conflict. Because you can't love God, you can't love the things of the world. Can't love them both. Can't love them both at the same time. He goes on to say, for you will hate one and love the other. And I think all of our experiences are that of course the sinful man loves everything but God And Christians have the conflict. We don't need that conflict. Especially when we realize that, again, those material pleasures are temporary, they're not eternal, they have no value in eternity. And they have potential to sway us away from worshiping God. As that text goes on, it talks about some of the material pleasures, Matthew 6. that people think about. I say to you, take no thought for your life what you shall eat or what you shall drink. Or for your body, what you shall put on, is not life more than meat? Is not the body more than raiment? Behold the birds of the air. They do not sow, neither do they reap, nor do they gather into the barns. Yet your heavenly Father feeds them Are you not much better than they? Which of you, by taking a thought, can add one cubit to his stature? Why do you worry about raiment? Consider the lilies of the field. How they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. Yet I say to you that even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore if God so clothed the grass of the field Which today is and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Take no thought, saying, What shall we eat But where shall we drink? Or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For all these things the Gentiles seek, and your heavenly Father knows that you have need of these things And then he comes to the clinching verse, seek first the kingdom of God and its righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Take no thought for tomorrow. For tomorrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. So we see again that take no uh Paul commands in this verse with regard to riches, he commands don't be haughty. About the fact that you have many. Do not hope in certain riches, in uncertain riches. And that's another thing he adds to this whole equation about riches. He says they're uncertain. They're uncertain. There's no guarantee that whatever you're doing to gain riches is going to produce the next day. Those of those who had money in the stock market or in retirement accounts know full well how volatile uh uh those kinds of uh instruments are in trying to accrue wealth. Um bank accounts, uh uh Uh stock market investments, gold. There's tremendous volatility. And you you ask why is there so much volatility? I thought the government had this all controlled Why is there so much volatility if it's all controlled? Well, we're clever individuals, and when it comes down to wanting to make money, we find ways to get around the control It's called sin. And it's sin motivated by greed. And there's no amount of uh uh way government can control greed In sinful human beings, and we all got it. The third okay um Consider this statement that I uh really have come to appreciate from Jeremiah 9. Verses 23 and 24. Thus says the Lord: Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, nor the mighty man in his might Let not the rich man glory in his riches, but let him that glory glories Let him that glories glory in this, that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord, which exercises loving kindness and judgment. Isn't that something? Let him who glories glory in this that he knows me, the Lord. Finally, in this text, there are two don't commands. Now there's a do command Okay? Again, don't be high-minded. Don't trust in uncertain riches. But, and you have to supply the verb. But do trust in the living God, who gives us richly all things to enjoy. Do trust in the living God. There's something Just in the sense of how God is pictured here or described, the adjective that goes before him is the word living. God is alive, right? We are alive And that's not unimportant because that which is alive can connect to others who are alive. You cannot, if you're alive, you can't connect to a stone sculpture. But God can connect to us. Put your trust in the living God. He can connect to us He can hear, he can sympathize, he can understand, he can provide, he can act According to his invincible will, he can show mercy, he can love, he can die for us. If we make riches our hope in life, if we make it our God, we can be we certainly will be able to touch and feel riches, but riches are not. alive. Then they have no power to make a person live. They have no power to intervene in the midst of discouragement and trial. You may have riches in abundance But they cannot make you live. They cannot save you from death. God is the one whom we are to put our trust in because, as and this is not the only reason, but in the text. One of the reasons we are to put our trust in him because he's living and he gives us richly all things to enjoy. Notice The riches of the world versus the riches that God gives. The m things of the world that the riches of the world which are can be destroyed, taken, stolen, corrupted, versus God and His blessings, which are bestowed upon us richly Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. God should give us Excuse me That's wrong. Forget that. Riches should give us riches give us nothing but death. But God's riches in Christ gives us eternal life. Extravagantly rich gift. What is the richest gift you will ever get in your life? I know you know it's Jesus It's life eternal in Jesus. And God gave that to you. And God is not in the business of taking away what He has given. And not only does God give us extravagantly rich gifts, but he gives us richly all things that we need. Acts chapter 17, verse 24 and 25. God made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth. He dwells not in temples made with hands, neither is worshipped with men's hands as though he needed anything, seeing he gives to all life and breath and all. That's even to the unbeliever. Light and breath and all things. Consider what God has given to us. He who spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us? all things. And God gives us all these extravagant riches to enjoy. these gifts and to enjoy him. A confession, shorter catechism, what is the first, what is man's chief purpose in life? To glorify God and enjoy him forever to enjoy what he has provided, to give him thanks for what he gives. In Ecclesiastes chapter 5, verses 8 through 19, the preacher writes Behold, that which I have seen. It is good and beautiful for one to eat and drink. And to enjoy the good of all his labor that he takes under the sun all the days of his life, which God gives to him. It is his portion. Every man also to whom God has given riches, wealth, and power to eat thereof, to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labor. This is the gift. And I uh again I would uh uh remind us, all of us, that uh The lesson tonight is uh an explanation of who it is we should trust and why. Amen. Let us pray. Most merciful God, we are grateful for your for your word, the word which Is not the product of the mind of sinful men or even of godly men. It is the product of men who were moved by the Spirit, who wrote the Word of God. And Lord, we are thankful that you have provided us with these truths. We pray now, Father, you will provide us with ears to hear. Not only ears to hear, but hearts which seek to be obedient to you And Lord, that in so doing you might fulfill your promises to richly give us in Christ all things. We have already begun to experience that. And Lord, we desire to know you most of all. To rich to boast in you, and to be content with whatever riches you give to us. For we know, Lord, that Material riches are not of any enduring value, but keep us focused, Lord, on desiring the riches that come from your hand. the riches of knowing Christ, the riches of faith, and rejoicing in God's grace to us in Christ. Jesus. In his name we pray, Amen