If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now, back to Matthew's Gospel. We're not going to Joel tonight. I'm going to continue in Matthew's Gospel where we read of the triumphal entry. Matthew chapter twenty-one. I believe that's on page nine hundred and eighty-one of your pew Bibles. And I'll begin reading at verse one. Just give attention to the very Word of God. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethpage, to the Mount of Olives, then Jesus sent two disciples. Saying to them, Go into the village in front of you. And immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her. Untie them and bring them to me. If anyone says anything to you, you shall say, the Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet, saying, Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you, humble, and mounted on a donkey, on a colt. the foal of a beast of burden. The disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt, and put on them their cloaks, and he sat on them. Most of the crowd spread their cloaks on the road, and others cut branches from the trees and spread them on the road. And the crowds that went before him and that followed him were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord! Hosanna in the highest. And when he entered Jerusalem, the whole city was stirred up, saying, Who is this? And the crowd said, This is the prophet Jesus. from Nazareth of Galilee. As far in the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated. And you pray with me. Heavenly Father, we pray now that you'd work upon our hearts powerfully. By your Spirit, your Holy Spirit Lord God, certainly you'd give us understanding of this passage, deeper understanding, more complete understanding, and that you would convict us. Lord God of our sins, remind us of the promises that are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. Guide our worship tonight in the preaching of your word. Help us, Lord. We want to hear from you. We ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, if Jesus were knocking at your door tonight, would you let him in? Would you recognize him? Given a choice. Would you open the door, shut the door? What would you choose? In a sense, that's what was going on in the Garden of Eden. As both Adam and Eve had a choice to make. Would they take from the fruit of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil? Or would they take and eat from the tree of life? They had a choice. Which one? Listen to God or listen to Satan? Open the door to Jesus or shut the door and relish your sin? In a sense, that's what's being set before us tonight as we read of and study of what's been referred to as the triumphal entry. of Jesus into the city of Jerusalem. We've been studying this passage, these chapters which have been calling us to follow Jesus. Even this morning we were studying these passages. We've seen that the disciples were interested in the kingdom of heaven and they were wondering about their positions within it as they thought that they were following. Jesus. And now Jesus has said, we're going up to Jerusalem, and that in fact is exactly what's happening in our passage tonight. They're going up to Jerusalem. We just finished in this morning the passage with regard to the blind men who couldn't follow Jesus until nonetheless they were given sight. to do so, and in mercy, the one that they identified as the son of David, the king, has now granted them that vision, and they apparently have adjoined the crowds who are following Jesus up. Tonight, as we study these 11 verses in the 21st chapter of Matthew's Gospel, I'd like us to see that Jesus Christ comes. As a benevolent, humble king, offering to bear the burden of your sins Very simply, Jesus Christ comes as a benevolent, humble king, offering to bear the burden of your sins. We'll see that tonight, or three points tonight, three truths tonight. First, the king is humble. Secondly, the king is exalted, and finally, the king is rejected. Well, as we go through this passage tonight, I'd like you to be thinking upon that question. Would you recognize Jesus if he were knocking at your door? And would you let him in? Well, let's begin. The king is humble. This ascent into Jerusalem tonight continues in this passage. The Son of David is going up. Hendrickson writes, the week of the Passion, which was followed by the resurrection, begins here. I think he's right. Verse 1. Now when they drew near to Jerusalem and came to Bethphage, to the Mount of Olives The identity of Jesus as king is becoming clearer and clearer. He calls his disciples, two of them, to find a donkey and a colt with her for the purpose of riding up and into the city. Again, this was foretold by Zechariah, a portion of which we read tonight, from chapter 9. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem, behold your king! Your king is coming to you righteous and having salvation, is he humble and mounted on a donkey? on a colt, the foal of a donkey. And prophecy is used by Matthew here. As he takes Jesus' words to his disciples, go into the village in front of you. Immediately you will find a donkey tied and a colt with her, untie them and bring them to me. And so now Matthew takes those words of Jesus and says, well, he was actually referring back to the prophet Zechariah. And the prophet Zechariah opens up to us as Matthew knew that this was the sign of the coming king. This is the sign that the one who was to be seated on this donkey entering into the city would be indeed the king. It actually appears undeniable now. The identity of Jesus, which continues to unfold becoming clearer and clearer and at this point with regard to his kingship as he rides into Jerusalem, the capital of Israel, the city of God, the city of worship, as the Lord and as king, even as foretold By the prophet Zechariah long ago. And while generally we would all agree, I think, that kings or rulers have power. Power to do their will, power to govern, power to command, power over their subjects. But here we see a supernatural power at work in this Jesus. The Christ. You see, he sends his disciples off with mere words to secure transportation up the mountain. Go into the village in front of you, and immediately you'll find a donkey tied, a colt with her, untie them, bring them to me. Now you remember that Jesus had no place to lay his head. He didn't have a farm, he didn't have land, he didn't have animals, nothing. So he's telling his disciples, go into this village, this one here, and you're gonna find this. When you arrive. And just untie them, bring them to me. So the amazing truth of Jesus' power as king, the disciples went and did as Jesus had directed them. They brought the donkey and the colt, put them on their cloaks, and he sat on them. How is that possible? They weren't the disciples' donkeys or donkey and colt. And Jesus anticipates that someone may say something. Well, of course. That's my donkey. What are you doing? Jesus said, You shall say to them, the Lord needs them, and he will send them at once. That's it. Just those words. That was what the disciples, two of them were equipped with. Not even a knife to cut the rope. Just go, use these words, and you'll return. Luke records its owners, meaning the owners of the donkey and the colt, said, Why are you untying the colt? The disciples said the Lord has need of it. That was it. Owners of the donkey or the colt, they submit, they acquiesce. Upon those words, the Lord needs them. They release their animals. That's the power of the King. It's the supernatural power of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of David, power to command even strangers. Long distance, power to direct the hearts of those whom he had made. We don't consider that too often. But that's the power of Christ, the power of the King. And yet Even with this supernatural power, even possessing this might, this one, the Lord, the Son of David, the King, comes humbly. Say to the daughter of Zion, Behold, your king is coming to you humble, mounted on a donkey. Can you envision that? A king riding on a donkey Now many of us have lived in a land where a king is ruling. But I think we can agree that this is not what we expect. The ruler of a land, a president, to arrive in the city of a destination in this way on a donkey. This is not what we would expect for the planned entrance by the king. The one who was returning home, so to speak. Remember, it was Jesus who told his disciples to get this ride for me. This is the one. It was Jesus' plan, a donkey and a colt. Moreover, this was God's plan, his father, for the Son. The king to ride into Jerusalem. Because that's exactly what he conveyed to the prophet Zechariah. This took place to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet. This entry was ordained and established and decreed before time began. This was Jesus' desire to fulfill his Father's will, his intent And this was the way I want you to ride into the city. What might you expect? Today, as a president or a king, a ruler of the land enters into an important place, a city, we have huge aircraft bringing presidents and rulers and kings along with their caravans of cars, not just one, but multiple. Even Secret Service, men and women running alongside, red carpets rolled out, military assemblies, bands are playing, media, television, broadcasting what's happening, much attention, ceremony, pomp. And even praise. But what does Jesus the King do? He rides in on a donkey. There are no bands. There's no red carpet. Indeed, there's really no welcome by the people of the city. There are no grandstands that have been set up. There's no podium for him to speak from In fact, the entrance planned by God, executed by Jesus is in a sense uninteresting Not worthy of reporting in the local tabloids of the day. Nondescript, very plain. If it were not for the crowds that surrounded him. It surrounded Jesus on his way up to Jerusalem as they enter the city. It's possible that no one within the city would have noticed his entry, for it was humble. That's the description that Matthew uses, isn't it? He comes as a humble king. Consider for a moment the animal, a donkey. Encycloped Encyclopedia Britannica online gives this definition to a pack animal. Any domesticated animal that is used to carry freight, goods, or supplies. The ass, or donkey, is the oldest known pack animal, having been in use possibly as early as 3500 BC. I think that's the idea. As the as Matthew uses this phrase quoting or at least alluding to Zechariah, a beast of burden. Did you notice that? This is how the animal is referred to a beast of burden. Because the Lord Jesus, the King The Lord of Lords was about to bear the burden of the people of God. Jesus was about to carry the weight. Of all who would be called sons and daughters of the Most High. He was headed to the cross Where he would speak to those who would trust in him, saying, Come to me all You who labor and are heavy laden and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. You will find rest for your souls. My yoke is easy, my burden is light, because He had just taken their burden. And so the donkeys This pack animal, this beast of burden, this one representing and symbolizing Jesus coming as a servant, as a suffering servant, the one who has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows Who's been stricken, smitten by God and afflicted, pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities, upon him the chastisement that brought us peace was laid on him. You see now while he rode on a donkey. It was a picture. It was a symbol. It was a description of his heart. The heart of Jesus the King. He didn't come with flowing royal robes, with a sword at side, and military commanders and machines of war. No, he came as a humble contrite servant of God in compassion. He came to display the grace and mercy of his father. never pointing to himself, but always pointing to the one who sent him, who sent him to save. This is the humble king. And now let's take a look at the king exalted. That's our second point. So here in contrast to Jesus' presentation of himself on this beast of burden, Matthew now records the current attitude of the crowds. The ones who've been following Jesus. Look at verse 8. Most of the crowds spread their cloaks on the road, others cut branches from the trees, spread them on the road. Crowds that went before him that followed him and followed him were shouting They were shouting, Hosanna to the Son of David, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, Hosanna in the highest. It was present exaltation for Jesus as he's entering and riding up into the city. It's something curious as he instructs his disciples to secure a donkey and a colt and he begins his ascent and he's projecting his humility and yet there are crowds going before him and after him shouting, Hosanna! Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Hosanna in the highest, they're placing this carpet of green palm branches, likely, although we don't know. Their coats on the ground before him. Hendrickson writes again, Hosanna means save now or save, pray, and the attitude of the people toward God was perhaps Something like this. We beseech thee, O Lord, save now, grant victory and prosperity at this time because of thy goodness. The appropriate moment has arrived In this instance it appears that this word hosanna is being used as an exclamation of praise, of exaltation. But the crowds were recognizing Jesus as the Son of David, and as we learned this morning, meaning our King. The one who has promised to come, the one who will give our national identity back to us once again, he'll sit upon the throne, he will de throne the Roman rulers and give us back that which we lost as a result of our neglect of God. I think that's the thought. But as we know, all will desert Jesus as he goes to the cross. See, once persecution arrives, once is understood that this one came to serve in death The Hosanna's will go silent. It could be that this joy was merely temporal. It seems that way. It could be that the crowds failed to recognize the significance of the donkey and the colt. It could be that this is an example of what Jesus preached about as the seed that fell on the rocky ground. This is the one who hears the word and immediately receives it with joy. Yet he has no root in himself, but endures for a while, and when tribulation or persecution arises on account of the word, immediately he falls away. Seems to happen to these because they're nowhere present at the cross No one is shouting, Hosanna in the highest, at the cross, as Jesus dies. The king will be exalted, though, truly exalted, and that exaltation will not be dependent upon men, but he will be exalted by his father. As he reaches the end of this road, as we know that end would be the cross, we know that that end would be the tomb, we know that that end will be his exaltation as he ascends to glory, and therefore we know that God has even today highly exalted him and bestowed upon him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. He has been exalted truly by his father While we know that this aug exaltation by the crowds will not last once persecution raises its head. We still have it. There was exaltation, there was joy, even if it was short-lived, there was recognition, even if only for a few hours or days. that this one was the promised one, that he would truly rule all things, and they didn't grasp that. But they rejoiced Do you rejoice like that? In recognition of your king? Do you take off your coat so he can sit down? So that as he rides, the hooves of the donkey aren't getting dirty? Do you take your time and follow him along with the assembly? That's at least what was going on that day. We have to ask ourselves, while their joy was seemingly misplaced. Ours isn't. How are we showing our joy in Christ? That brings us to our third point. That the king is rejected. Well finally Jesus makes it to Jerusalem, doesn't he? When he entered Jerusalem, verse 10, the whole city is stirred up. The city of David. That's where he has now entered Zion. The city of God. The place where the temple was built. Solomon's temple was built. They call it Solomon's temple because he was the builder. And as Solomon dedicates the temple, we read this, the Lord said to him, I've heard your prayer and your plea, which you have made before me, I've consecrated this house, meaning the temple you have built, by putting my name there. Forever. My eyes and my heart will be there for all time And so I think we can say it's the it's the city of God, at least the picture of the city of God, that Jesus has just entered into Jerusalem, the place where God Himself had placed his name. And we can think of the tabernacle, can't we? That that structure that was before the temple out in the wilderness. And God said to Moses, You shall put the mercy seat on top of the ark, and in the ark you shall put the testimony that I shall give you, and there I'll meet with you, I'll speak with you. About all that I'll give you in the commandment for the people of Israel. This is the meeting place of God with his people. The temple was that as well. The temple represented the dwelling place of God amongst his people. And the temple was in Jerusalem and the center of Israelite worship, the center of life The temporary representation of the Garden of Eden recreated. The dwelling place of God. And now Jesus, the Son of David, the Son of God, returns. He returns to his earthly dwelling place among the people of God. Remember, God had left Jerusalem. Because of the neglect of the people and sent them all into exile and now, now they're back, but God wasn't And now Jesus is entering into that place where he had left, so to speak. And this is all in human terms, isn't it? The sun returns to those who were named as the people of God, the Israelites, the Jews. And they were already there in the city of God. Unlike the blind men outside of Jericho who were close to the city of destruction, these city dwellers, these Jews had the privilege of being present in the place where God had put his name. The privilege of being physically close. to God in his city city and the Son now returns and the question is how is he received The whole city was stirred up saying, Who is this? These are the people within the city. The ones closest to the temple. Who is this? It's an amazing question, if you think about it. The Son of God, the Messiah, the King, the one who made all things, the one who is recognized by the blind men just outside of Jericho, who's now entering into the city where he's placed his name. The one who's headed toward the temple, toward the place which represents his home, his dwelling on earth, the city which was supposedly full of those who loved God Who knew God as their God and who worshipped him alone, and now he returns as the one who's already been set upon the throne. He returns into the city. And those supposedly closest to him receive him this way. Who is this? In other words, what right do you have to come here? Who do you think you are? This is our city, this is our temple. What do you think you're doing? Under whose authority do you come? Who is this? Those outside the city, those who are supposedly far away from God, the blind, the lame, the captives, have proceeded and followed Jesus into the city, leading And shouting Hosanna. And yet those who were supposedly the closest who were supposedly the first, who were supposedly the most favored, even now begin their rejection of King Jesus. Later on in this chapter, we're given the parable of the vineyard tenants The ones who wouldn't give the owner of the vineyard his due. Even though he sends the messengers and asks and asks and asks, give me a portion of the proceeds They constantly say no until the sun is sent. And they recognize him. And they say, This is the air. Come, let us kill him. And have his inheritance. Do you see that in the question, who is this? This question has been central in Matthew's Gospel since the first chapter. Who is this Jesus? It continues even to this point. Even as Jesus is entering into Jerusalem during the final week of his earthly ministry, the people who are supposedly closest to him are yet asking, Who are you? Those that should have been looking for the one promised, even from the garden, by the Lord Himself, who said that He would crush the head of the serpent while the serpent was crushing his heel. The one promised in Moses' prophecy, one like me will come. The one promised as the eternal king, the son of David, all pointing to the Messiah, the Christ, the Savior. The one who these were supposedly waiting for, anxiously waiting for, and supposedly able to recognize, and they don't, at least on the surface. They don't. How do you respond to Jesus? Would you open the door? In Revelation, as John records the words of God to the various churches, To the church in Laodicea. He's told the words of Amen, the faithful, the true witness, the beginning of God's creation, I know your works. You are neither cold nor hot. Would that you were either cold or hot So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. That's not where the letter ends, though. It continues, behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I'll come into him and eat with him, and he with me. Would you open the door? Jesus is offering himself to you tonight. Just as he entered into Jerusalem, a humble, compassionate, suffering servant, a supernatural king, the Savior, the only one who can save you from your sins. He continues even tonight to offer himself to you, not as a sword-bearing warrior or king, but as a benevolent, kind, humble, compassionate, loving king, the one who's willing to give you life. True life, if you would just ask for it. Come buy and eat. Come buy wine and milk without money. Without price, listen diligently to me and eat what is good. Delight yourself in rich food I will make with you an everlasting covenant. My steadfast, sure love for David. You hear he's knocking Will you open the door for Christ? Spirit must work. He must convict you of your sin. He must change your heart from stone to flesh. That you might believe upon this one to see him, to know him. As your humble, benevolent, supernatural King who sent to suffer in your place. That you might have life and have it in abundance. And so he calls tonight. Open the door. Recognize him as that one whom the Father has sent to save you from your sins. Yes, Jesus Christ comes up as a benevolent, humble king, offering to bear the burden of your sins. Just like Adam and Eve had a choice, which tree? Tree of the knowledge of good and evil or the tree of life? Those in Jerusalem had a choice to recognize Jesus as the one sent by the living God to save them from their sins. Or to reject him. He's calling tonight. Will you trust in him so that you can be saved from your sins? And have everlasting life in the city of God, which is coming. And He will usher it in. Praise be to God. Amen. Heavenly Father, we praise you for your word. It is a lamp unto our feet, a light unto our path, and we thank you for Jesus Christ, our benevolent, humble King, our Savior, the suffering servant. Who came on a donkey representing the load that he is willing to and has borne for sins. Committed by your sons and daughters. Oh Lord, lead us to trust even more fully and completely in this risen Ascended and coming Savior, even Jesus Christ. We thank you, we praise you, we ask all these things in Jesus