Amen. If you would turn now to Exodus, continue our study there in chapter four. You'll find that on page fifty six of the Pew Bible. This portion of the scriptures of God we see that uh Moses has been standing before that bush which was burning but not consumed, called to go and deliver The Israelites from oppression in Egypt now is engaged in much conversation with God Himself. This passage follows on the heels of that. Let's give attention to God's Word. Exodus chapter 4, beginning at verse 18. Moses went back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said to him, Please let me go back to my brothers in Egypt to see whether they are still alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace. And the Lord said to Moses and Midian, Go back to Egypt, for all the men who are seeking your life are dead. So Moses took his wife and his sons and had them ride on a donkey and went back to the land of Egypt. And Moses took the staff of God in his hand. And the Lord said to Moses, when you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles that I have put in your power. But I will harden his heart, so that he will not let the people go. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son At a lodging place on the way, the Lord met him and sought to put him to death. Then Zipporah took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin and and touched Moses' feet with it and said, Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me. So he let him alone. It was then that she said a bridegroom of blood because of the circumcision. The Lord said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. So he went and met him at the mountain of God and kissed him. Moses told Aaron all the words of the Lord which he had said sent him to speak and all the signs that he had commanded him to do. When Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the people. Of Israel. Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses and did the signs in the sight of the people, and the people believed. And when they had heard that the Lord had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, they bowed their heads and worshipped. God's word. Amen. Please be seated. Could you pray with me? Father and our God, we come this morning to somewhat of a difficult passage We need the Spirit, Lord. We pray that the Spirit would guide us this morning. In understanding and Father, seeing how we may have sinned against you, and in clinging to the blood of Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Children, have you ever been told to wash your hands before you eat? Probably. The Pharisees were so concerned with the disciples of Jesus not washing their hands that they approached. Jesus Christ, and asked him, why do your disciples not walk according to the tradition of the elders, but eat with defiled hands, not just Not just dirty hands, defiled hands. You see, the Pharisees and the Jews would not eat unless they washed their hands properly. Now that meant not just getting rid of the dirt. It was a ceremonial washing that was taking place because they had been in the marketplace. They had been amongst The unclean. They had been amongst the Gentiles and felt that they needed to ceremonially wash themselves before they They had many traditions that they observed. Washing of cups and pots and copper vessels. And so they challenged Jesus. Why don't your disciples wash their hands? Why do they eat with defiled hands? Now you think Jesus might have answered their question with regard to washing, but what he said was, this people honors me with their lips. But their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me. What Jesus was saying was their attempts to clean themselves were vanity. They couldn't clean themselves. They were seeking to do those things outwardly that they thought might be pleasing. But never taking care of the inward. All of their worship, if we can use that word, was outward for show Nothing was happening inwardly. That's a bit of what we have this morning in this passage as Moses is on his way back to Egypt. Seemingly in obedience to God's command. Now remember, Moses had fled from Egypt. He had been adopted into Pharaoh's house for forty years, but he had to flee because he killed that Egyptian. And because he was rejected by his own people. He fled certain death in Egypt, and he became a shepherd in Midian, 40 years in field training. But now he's been called, called by God in that bush which was on fire yet not consumed. As God speaks to him, he's been called to deliver the people of God, to go back to Egypt and pull the people out of oppression, of bondage. A picture of being pulled out of sin. Now, in the last verses we read of Moses' opposition to going. He had no fear to tell God that he didn't want to go. Four times, basically telling God, don't send me. But now that conversation has come to a conclusion. And now we see that Moses has returned. He's gone back to gather his things. Today I'd like us to see That the Lord delivers his people to serve zealously with their whole heart. Very simple idea, very simple truth That we find in Scripture. The Lord delivers his people to serve zealously with their whole heart. Three points this morning: delivering for serving, secondly, serving superficially. And then finally, Finally, serving zealously. This passage teaches us much about how we are to serve the living God. Well, first, delivering for serving. Why was Moses going back to Egypt? This passage begins with some interesting exchanges, first between Jethro, Moses' father-in-law and Moses, and then between Moses And God, well first it's Jethro a Ruel, Moses' father in law that he speaks to Look at verse 18. He went back to Jethro, his father-in-law, and said to him, Please, let me go back to my brothers in Egypt and see whether they are still alive. Jethro said to Moses, go in peace. Remember, Egypt represented death to Moses, and now Jethro said, Go in peace. A bit of irony right there, but that wasn't the strange thing. Moses didn't mention anything about those supernatural events that he had been witness to. He mentioned nothing of meeting God, the God of creation. He mentioned nothing of being called to deliver and rescue the people of God. He mentioned nothing of that bush which was consumed by fire and yet not burned Wouldn't it have been reasonable for Moses to come to Jethro and say, guess what happened to me at work? He'll never believe it. But Moses mentioned nothing of what he had just seen and heard. But seemingly makes up an excuse for returning to Egypt. That's not what the Lord had said. Nothing about seeing whether they were alive. He said, come. I will send you to Pharaoh, that you may bring my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. Well, Moses' statement to his father-in-law raises that issue. What was the purpose? Why was Moses going back? We'll deal with his statement to Jethro and then to the second point, but but why was Moses being sent back? What was the purpose? It was clearly not to observe whether or not they were alive. And you'd must say immediately, well, it was for the deliverance of the people of God. Yes, we see this idea, this concept, this deliverance, this release throughout Scripture in Isaiah 49. The prophet asked the question, can the prey be taken from the mighty or the captives of a tyrant be rescued? Can they? And God says, I will save your children. Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken, and the prey of the tyrant shall be rescued. See, that's the purpose. Rescue, deliverance. Think of Jesus Christ. Truly, the one who brings the release of the captives, who fulfills Isaiah 49. Isaiah writes of that in chapter 61, the Spirit of the Lord God is upon me because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captive. the opening of the prison to those who are bound. Jesus, the true deliverer. Indeed, he's bound the strong man, hasn't he? Satan has been bound. And Jesus is in the process of plundering his house. He's releasing the captives even as we speak this morning. Even as his word is going out this morning, more captives are being released from Satan's stronghold. And here we know in this passage, as Moses is being sent, that the people of God would be delivered. God's promise, his foretelling, would come to pass. We know the rest of the account. The Israelites will make it out of Egypt. And through the Red Sea we know it. And we know the account of the cross, don't we? That Jesus would die so that he could be buried, so that he could rise from the dead on the third day to defeat sin and death. And thus to release the captives, the children of God, from their captivity to sin and death. God delivers, even as he sent Moses The Lord had come down to deliver their people from their captivity, from oppression, from misery and sin. But this passage causes us to ask the question, why? What was supposed to happen as a result of the release? Release was really not in question. now appears to be why? Why were they being released? It wasn't the ultimate goal. What was the purpose of the release, of the deliverance? It causes us to look at that second conversation, the one between God and now Moses, the second time. No burning bush this time. We'll deal with the words of God more fully under the second point, but here I want us to focus on what appears to be the centerpiece of God's words to Moses at this point in Midian. God told him that he would put all the miracles that he had shown Moses before Pharaoh, but he would also harden Pharaoh's heart and he would not let the people go. Then he wanted Moses to say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me. I think that's the centerpiece. Serve me. Much of what the Lord said to Moses was repetition. But here these words appear to be central The purpose of the release, the purpose of the deliverance of the Hebrews, let my son go that he may serve me. It wasn't new. Moses had already been told by God. That they were to go a sacrifice in the wilderness service, serving the Lord. That was the purpose. Yes, release deliverance from oppression. So that they could serve, so that they could worship The destination is important. But it's always important that Christians know the purpose. Not just the destination. And the purpose may be defined as the end or the ultimate goal, the highest goal, the the real reason for pursuing the task. And if you've been saved, if you've been delivered from your sins today, if you're trusting in Christ Your very soul to the Lord Jesus Christ this morning. If you've been able and able to come to a saving faith in Jesus, then you have to ask yourself the question: why? Why were you saved? Why were you justified? Why were you adopted? Why are you being sanctified? What is the purpose of your salvation? What's the ultimate goal of your salvation? Well, you'd say, well, to glorify God. Yes, that's right. But is there another way in which He is glorified as a result of your deliverance? Is there a purpose for your salvation which also leads to the glory of God? Is there a significant goal in your coming to faith that is worked out here in this world? Or is your salvation, your deliverance, it? Now you've been saved. Not to have good health, not to have wealth, not for prosperity, you've not been saved for physical comfort. If the Lord is pleased to give you these things, praise God. But despite the many, many false preachers and teachers of the prosperity gospel. The gospel which promises healing, health, and wealth in your best life now, you've been saved not for your comfort, not for your pleasure, but to serve. Ultimately in worship. That scripture verse in Isaiah 61 that we love to read To memorize. The Lord Jesus Christ was sent to proclaim liberty to the captives and the opening of the prison to those who are bound. That's one reason why he was sent. But we rarely get to verse four in that chapter. And this is how it reads, they, meaning those who have been delivered, those who have had their captivity opened. They shall build up the ancient ruins, they shall raise up the former devastations, they shall repair the ruined cities, the devastations of the many generations. Do you see? Delivered, released. For a purpose to serve, to rebuild. Isn't that what the Apostle Paul tells us in Chapter 2 of Ephesians. We love those words. For by grace you've been saved through faith. It's not of your own doing, it's the gift of God, not the result of works, so that no one may boast. For We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. The greatest of good works of service. Yes, brothers and sisters, the Lord Jesus Christ is delivering So that we can be serving. That brings us to our second point, serving God outwardly, or serving superficially Last week we heard of Moses' hesitation or his reluctance to return to Egypt. He raised those four separate but related objections to his return. Think about the amount of time Moses spent in resisting the will of God. And during that time, Moses wasn't moving closer to Egypt. He wasn't inclined in that direction. He was stuck in disobedience, not wanting to move. And God was long-suffering. But now, Moses is headed back. Back in Midian. There seems to be this switch that's been flipped in in Moses He goes immediately, seemingly, to gesture his father-in-law. He asks for permission to go. No hesitation, no reluctance, no truth, but no delay. There seems to have been a change. Instead of hesitation, there's willingness to go. He packs up, he leaves. Verse 20. So Moses took his wife and his sons and had them ride on a donkey and went back to the land of Egypt. And Moses took with the staff of God in his hand. He's got it. He's packed up. Wife, sons, donkey, staff. Appears to be a significant change in Moses' attitude, at least outwardly. And that seems to be the point problem. Now we get that second conversation with God, this time in Midian Look at that. It begins at verse 19. Much of what God says here to Moses is repetition. It's been said before. And so you have to ask, you have to scratch your head and say, why? Why does God, in a sense, follow Moses? I know that's really not the case, but that's kind of kind of the impression we get. He follows him. Why does he now interject himself when it seems that Moses is is going, he's headed back. He's doing what God has asked him to do. It would appear that something's going on in Moses' heart which is not quite revealed to us here, like Balaam Met on the road by an angel, and his donkey speaks to him, and he can't see the angel, and the angel's ready to slay him. And seemingly Balaam's doing what God has told him to do, but there's something wrong with Balaam's heart. Maybe something similar here with Moses. First, the Lord encourages, go back to Egypt for all the men who are seeking your life or death. And now he rehearses the task again. When you go back to Egypt, see that you do before Pharaoh all the miracles I put in your power. I'll harden his heart. He will not let the people go. And then he reminds Moses of the purpose. Let my son go that he may serve me. Now, if it weren't for the next verses where God meets him on the way, we might conclude that this was just mere repetition, a fixing of the task. The work and the obedient heart of Moses. But these verses indicate that Moses' obedience He's beginning to head back to Egypt may not have been with a heart of obedience Consider the words that the Lord ends with. I say to you, let my son go that he may serve if he does he speak these are the words that are supposed to be spoken to Pharaoh, if you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. If you, Pharaoh, do not obey, then death. If the Son of God is not permitted to serve, then death. Now we have to consider what happens next. Remember, the Lord's anger had burned against Moses at Mount Horeb. As Moses questioned his return, but there was no mention or suggestion of death. But now in verse 24, Moses is on his way. Donkey's packed, mom and children are with him, the staff. And he's at a lodging place on the way. The Lord met him and sought to put put him to death. And we're asking ourselves, what is going on? Zipporah, his wife, took a flint and cut off her son's foreskin, and touched Moses' feet with it, and said, Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me. So we let him alone. This passage lacks some clarity There are different takes on it by different theologians. But one thing is clear that Moses had failed to circumcise his son That which was commanded. That which Abraham was commanded to do as the covenant. As for you, you shall keep my covenant, you and your offspring after you throughout their generations. This is my covenant, which I shall keep between me and you and your offspring after you. Every male among you shall be. circumcised. So strong was God's language that circumcision is equated to the covenant Any uncircumcised male who is not circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin shall be cut off from his people. He's broken my covenant. Significant Circumcision was significant, and yet this child of Moses, who was clearly more than eight days old, was uncircumcised at that point. Moses is headed back to Egypt to deliver God's people according to the covenant, and he had not ensured that his son was part of the covenant yet. And an uncircumcised male couldn't serve the Lord. What was Pharaoh told? Let my son go that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son. By not circumcising his son, Moses had kept his son from serving the Lord So Zipporah takes things into her own hands and, in a sense, rectifies the situation. She does the circumcision. God leaves Moses alone But what's also clear is that this thing that was going on in Moses' heart was hidden. This lack of circumcision, this refusal to circumcise his son. For whatever reason, some theologians think it was because Zipporah didn't want it. I don't know. Clearly, Moses had failed. But it was hidden. Like the heart, not open for all to see. The circumcision, the uncircumcision, was hidden, but to God the heart was wide open. And Moses' heart was wide open to God, and now God was ready to slay Moses for his failing to keep the covenant Do you see? Outwardly Moses was headed back, on the way at a lodging place, donkey, family, staff in hand, going, superficially obedient. But his inward obedience was and appears to have been lacking. How could he go and lead the Israelites out of Egypt? How could he be the deliverer? How could his very son serve without circumcision? How could Moses lead the people of God to worship, to serve the living God, if he was not willing to do so with his whole heart? Super superficial service was a a problem. It was a problem for the Pharisees, wasn't it? In vain they do worship me, teaching his doctrines the commandments of men. You also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. It's a problem not only for Moses and the Pharisees, but brothers and sisters, it's a problem for us. Superficially. The free dictionary defines it as being near or on the surface, displaying a lack of thoroughness or care, only outwardly apparent rather than genuine or actual. When we serve or when we worship superficially, we lack care We're doing it outwardly rather than inwardly. And brothers and sisters, we do that when we come to worship unprepared. Think of Eutychus or Eutychicus. I don't know how to pronounce his name. He's the young man that fell asleep as Paul was preaching. Out the window. Now, I don't know how Paul's preaching was that day. But he doesn't seem to be prepared for worship He sank into a deep sleep. He was likely tired, not well rested. There's a sense in which we can't serve God well when we're asleep. even if not literally asleep, but spiritually asleep. We must awaken ourselves, brothers and sisters. It's certain that the Spirit must do that, but we must take part. Get rest. Prepare your hearts to read. Receive the word, pray, to sing, to listen. We worship superficially when we come to worship only to say that we did it. Checked off the box. Much like Moses, loading up the donkeys and his his family and the staff. He was compliant with the letter of the law, the command. Brothers and sisters, we do the same thing when our bodies are present, but our hearts are not longing or desiring to be in the house of God. Thinking about our acceptance by God being conditioned upon putting time in the pew. We worship superficially. When we come to worship, all our minds and hearts are set on other things. Think of those in Nehemiah's day. The people of God were so set, not on the Sabbath, but on other things, that he had to close the gates. He had he had to close the gates, the physical gates. And even then As he closed the gates and ordered that they should not be opened until after the Sabbath, traders and merchants of every kind spent the night outside. Just waiting. When is the Sabbath going to be over? Brothers and sisters, we need to take care of ourselves and our homes, our weekly needs on the other six days of the week grocery shopping, filling up the card, doing homework, finishing that report for work. God is gracious. He gives us six days, but the Sabbath is so Such a blessing. Pray for the Spirit to purge your heart of weekly cares and concerns on the Sabbath. How do we fix this? It's a serious problem. How do we engage our hearts fully and completely in serving the living God? That brings us to our third point, serving zealously. Now remember why the Hebrews were to be delivered. Why was Moses going Yes, to deliver them from slavery so that they could serve, so that they could worship. His covenant promise of being brought into that land flowing with milk and honey has that idea within it. It wasn't just, hey, we're going to the land so we can enjoy the milk and the honey, it's going to be great. No, that was a place reserved for the pure and perfect worship of God. Like the garden. What other concerns did Adam and Eve have yet caring for the garden so that they could then worship God? A promised land. Being a picture of the garden, a place where all their cares would be met. could be delivered into the dwelling place of God to worship. Well, the first step then, first step in sincere and zealous worship and service is is knowing how precious it is to God. And this passage should make it clear to us that our serving Him is a precious thing And that it must be sincere. Jesus was zealous for his father's house As he found those selling oxen and sheep and pigeons and money changers within the temple, what did he say? Take these things away. Take them away. His disciples then remembered it was written, Zeal for your house will consume me. Purge God's House of all these worldly things. Not that they were bad things, but they didn't belong there. It takes away from the purpose of God's service, of his worship. Zeal for your house will concern me. God is jealous for his worship, isn't he? Later on in Exodus, if we get to chapter 34, I hope we do. Because they're going into the promised land as he's told them this is the place they're going, take care lest you covenant with the inhabitants of the land which you go, lest it become a snare to your midst. You shall tear down their altars, break their pillars, cut down their asharim, for you shall worship no other God for the Lord whose name is jealous. Is it jealous? God will not share his worship, not with the NFL, not with anyone. He is the only one who is worshipped and to be worshipped. To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. The only one. God is jealous for his worship. It's precious to him. And he wants the entire heart. Moses seems to have had a divided heart at this point, merely outwardly obedient yet inwardly not willing to serve in the way God had commanded in order to serve. Ordained. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your strength, with all your mind. How? How do we do this? I think this passage reminds us that it takes blood, doesn't it? Takes the blood You see in this passage these strange words of Zephora as she as she circumcises her son and then takes the foreskin and touches Moses and feet with it and said, Surely you are a bridegroom of blood to me. She did satisfy that requirement for circumcision, but she was also doing something else, at least representatively, wasn't she? She touched Moses' feet with the blood, with that which was removed, that which was circumcised. Circumcision is that picture, isn't it? Something must be removed. Our sin. Our sin nature. Our longing after the world. Our seeking to lift up our will above God's. It must be removed. Circumcision pictures that removal, but it also pictures blood, doesn't it? So she touches his feet. The foreskin that blood Blood. So Moses could serve zealously. He needed the blood. He needed to be washed clean. He needed to be pointed to Christ. We need his blood. We need the blood of Christ. He is the true bridegroom of blood, isn't he? In order to serve sincerely, in order to be zealous for God's house, and in order to to serve in such the way that God desires, we need to be washed in that blood. We need to have that that sin cut off from us, that bondage that we have to sin, so that we can serve. Consider these last three verses in this passage, which helps us thou understand. Understand how we can serve zealously. When those God has called to proclaim his word, the under shepherds of the Lord Jesus Christ, the true shepherd, call The flock to worship. Isn't that what Moses and Aaron were doing? They went and gathered all the elders of the people of Israel. Verse 29. They gathered them. I want you to hear what God has told us. Gathering the people. That's part of that zealous worship, isn't it? Being called to it, being invited to come, hear what God has to say Hear the voice of Jesus. When he's brought out all his own, he goes before them, and the sheep follow him, for they know his voice. I want you to hear what Jesus has said. calling you. That leads to zealous worship. Oh, my Savior. I want to hear from him. Yes. When those who have been given the Word of God, then carry it out and proclaim it faithfully Not just being called to worship, but then telling people faithfully what God has said, what Jesus, the Lord, the King of kings, has said. Aaron spoke all the words that the Lord had spoken to Moses. All of them, not leaving any out. Faithful in his preaching Paul recognizes that in his letter to the Romans, uh the church at Rome. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed in? How are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching all of these rhetorical questions Pointing to emphasizing the need to hear the preached word. And when God shows Himself present in the midst of His people Working to make hearts inclined toward sincere, heartfelt, zealous worship. Aaron did all the signs in the sight of his people. The presence of God was being made known in a sense by those supernatural wonders. That God had given them the authority to do. God shows himself present in the midst of his people. And then God demonstrates his loving-kindness, doesn't he? And the people believed, and when they heard that the Lord had visited the people of Israel and that he had seen their affliction, what was the result? Of all of these things, they bowed their heads and worshiped. This might be one of the Simplest, clearest examples we have of the People of God, hearing from God, seeing his loving kindness toward them and immediate worship Ensues. Immediate, sincere, zealous, heartfelt worship. They bowed their heads And worshiped. Brothers and sisters, worship is supernatural. It's supernatural. It is not commonplace. We cannot do this on our own. It takes all these things. It takes the blood of Christ. It takes the work of the Spirit. Takes the word of God. And I want to remind you also this morning that worship is exclusive. It's not for everyone. It's for sinners called by God and saved by Jesus Christ. Yes, the Lord delivers his people to serve zealously with their whole heart. It's a good thing to wash your hands before you eat. But they don't defile you. The Lord Jesus Christ has cleansed us in his blood to worship the triune God. Zealously. Praise be to God. Amen. Well, Father, we ask now, help us. We are a weak, we're a frail people. We are inclined to stray. And so we thank you for the great shepherd of the sheep, the Lord Jesus Christ. Help us to worship you, Lord God, sincerely, heartfeltly with our whole hearts. O Spirit, we pray. Lead us in this. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.