Word of the Lord for the people of the Lord. Bear in mind uh Paul here is is is uh communicating When I call to remembrance the unfaint faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee, that in thee also Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. For God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But be thou partaker of the affections of the gospel according to the power of God, who hath saved us and called us with a And holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Savior Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death and hath brought life, immortality Life and immortality to light through the gospel, whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles. For the which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Hold fast the form of sound words which thou hast heard of me in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus That good things, hmm, that good things which was committed unto thee, keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us. May the Lord add a rich blessing to the reading of his word. We see not because we hear not. Let's look at something Why worry? It was amazing this morning that that we were blessed to have Reverend Stephen Roberts come here and Go through the real story of the church. And in much of that, he struck down fear. You know, the fear or or the confusion that may uh befuddle you on a day-to-day basis uh that could could cause you to be anxious about what's happening or what's gonna happen. Well, we we we we have a luxury in that we have 66 books within one book telling us what has been occurring, what will occur And what we can look forward to beyond the foolishness and the folly. Well, I come to you this evening. I can't say that I'm gonna be brief, but I'm gonna try to be as short as I can. You know, not just his statue. Y'all can laugh. I'm not a tall guy, so the point being is why worry? Why worry Brother Alex and I were going through some tracks, as were a number of the other men here in the church, and one of the things we saw was one on anxiety. And short little blurb and it was sweet and to the point It got me to thinking about worry and and and and what is worry? How is it defined? I mean, because when we start talking about things, we we need to know what we what are the building blocks that we're playing with. Uh what is worry? How is it defined? As a verb, worry can be described as giving way to anxiety or uneasiness, allowing one's mind to dwell on difficulty or trouble. As a secondary definition, I thought was rather hilarious in one respect, uh they said uh of a of or as a dog or a carnivorous animal that tear at or gnaw on or drag around with his teeth. You know, so I kinda envisioned us In the midst of our anxiety, dragging around some of the issues that we need to let go of Okay? Now while you while you' disse dissecting that and gnawing on it, think about something. It can also be used as a noun, a state of anxiety, worry and uncertainty over actual or potential potential actual or potential problems I would submit to you most of the things that we worry about, they never come to fruition. So Although we we we we are troubled by the limited amount of time we have, and we cluddle our lives with so many things that consume time We still play with time. Dealing with things that we have a either have power over or don't have power over. And I would submit to you those things that, you know, rightly dividing, you know, what things you should deal with and what things you should let alone. You know. And and and that's where we're going tonight The why, you know, because I said why worry. The why. By definition. Why? For what For what reason? For what purpose? If you will, for what cause, reason, or purpose A question concerning the cause or reason for which something is done. Why are you doing this? Let's get back to the idea of worry or anxiety and let's look at some state of mind wherein one is concerned about something or someone. A state of mind that may range from genuine concern, as in Philippians 2, 20, 28, or say 2 Corinthians 11, 28. To it may range to the obsessions that originate from a distorted perception of life, which is like Matthew 6. 25 through 34, Mark 4, 19, or Luke 12, 22 through 31. Jesus did not prohibit genuine concern. About food or shelter, but he did teach that we should keep things in their proper perspective. We should make God's kingdom our first priority Everything else will fall in place after that. Matthew 6 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. Think about something What is the root of fear? Anxiety? Worry, if you will. I would submit to you for your chewing on More you, more us, less God. Too much you or me, too little God. You or me over God, as Pastor Taylor had preached and teeth taught for so many on so many occasions, big us and little God. Like we get that backwards. We're discussing. All of us. Got it backwards. Psalm 27 says, The Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? Well, I will submit to you the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools don't want knowledge or wisdom or anything like that. Okay? We're gonna go back to that. But yea, though we walk through the valley of the shadow of death. Says, I will fear no evil. What is that? I mean, what is that true? Is that what we're supposed to be doing? So why are we fearful about things that we have no control over? And the things that we do have control over, we abdicate or we allow somebody else to try to take care of it, or we try to Get somebody appointed to deal with something that we're supposed to be doing for ourselves. Ephesians 1, 3 through 6, blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who have blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Now, in Christ says in heavenly places in Christ. Now, if you're born again, you're in Christ. And you've been given the Holy Spirit. Now I submit to you, we need to give them the Holy Spirit We need to be filled with the Holy Spirit, not just the part that we got when we got saved. Filled to run and over. That's a constant filling. You can't use up all of what God has for you. So quit trying to think, oh, I don't want to I don't want to bother him You know. He said drink, but I you know, I I really don't wanna I got a brother down here, he looked like he might need a drink. You know, say, hey, he can get a drink, you can get a drink, I can get a drink, all of us can get a drink, and he won't be In need of any water. His water supply is unlimited, if you know what I mean. All spiritual blessings are in Christ. He procured them for us through the finished work at Calvary. Be not mistaken. Now, all of that's available through him. Him alone. Everything that God has for us as a believer in the Lord Jesus. In order to receive the blessing, we must be united with Christ. And I can look out across here and see that, yes, we all claim unity with Christ. God has not given us a spirit of fear Remember that just like a well manicured lawn And this is just time that you start seeing whether somebody got a well-manicured lawn or not. If you got strong root structure and grass It can crowd out weeds. I've seen zoizagrass do phenomenal things with you know with very little care You crowd out fear, you won't have fear. Crowd it out with God's word. Crowd it out with a love for God. Let's get back on task here Let's turn our attention to the sermon text. Somehow Paul was reminded of Timothy's genuine faith. His faith was sincere. It was true. It was real. And it didn't hide behind some kind of mask. Okay? Or under a bushel. It it it was out there where where people could observe it. And that's what we should there's far too many undercover Christians. Oh, they'll come to church and and act like they saved, but on a job where God gave them a job, and that's their mission field But they won't say any if you if if you if you ask any of their workmates or or the the the people on the job, hey is so-and-so a Christian? It's like if anybody is a Christian at a job, there shouldn't be any doubt in anybody else's mind what they are If they've been there more than a couple of minutes. Because I don't know about you. I can't have a conversation with anybody for very long without and I'm not, please, I come with all humility. No condemnation for nobody. And I'm not saying that I'm an example, but I'm saying to you, because of what God has done for me, I cannot have a conversation with anybody for more than a few minutes without asking them. Do you know Jesus? What do you know about them based on the answer that they might give? Because people say they know Jesus, and you start asking them questions like Oh, okay, you know you know that Jesus existed. You and you don't think that he's alive now? Okay, well, you know where I'm going. Getting back to Timothy, his face was strong. But he was not the first one in his family. You notice that the scriptures actually said that his mother, Eunice, was a Christian. Grandmother Lois was a Christian. Okay? Now, there are no second generation Christians. That's not where I'm going. But Timothy had come to know and believe great truths of the Christian faith. And I can't help but believe much of it was because of his grandmother and his mother. Okay? Because it's interesting how mothers, because they they they've got you captive for nine months, or somewhere thereabouts, and they can be and they can be infusing you with all sorts of things. Okay? Then boom, here you are, and sometime mama may need to go and do something else, and grandma got you. He said, oh, I got you now. I got you captive. You know, they can and they and they can and they can give you something that that that you don't even know you're getting it And see, that's the way we need to be intentional about passing on the greatest thing that we have to our offsprings. Okay? But at any rate, here we are, a couple of generations, a third generation in that family to trust the Savior. Scripture does not say whether Timothy's father was Ever converted. I don't know whether he was or he wasn't. But I know grandma and and and his mama was. Okay? Although salvation cannot be inherited from from believing parents or believing grandparents, you know, through your DNA or whatever you want to you know think about. In God's good pleasure, he's shown us in his word that he saved some households. Okay? Notice the faith is not said to have dwelt. Notice the faith is said to have dwelt in Lois and Eunice. He said the faith dwelt in them. Not their visiting, not their own loan. Not just because somebody else said something that kind of excited them for a few minutes. The scripture says that it faith is said to have dwelt in lowest and units. I would submit to you, that's what should be happening with us. But faith should be dwelling in us, just like that grass. If faith is blades of grass, like that Joy I was telling you about, fear ain't gonna hook up on the ground because the grass has got all the ground taken. And if it does somehow get a little hook in there, you could come along and just pull it up like that It i i it's not gonna be like you're gonna have to wait for the harvest to pick out the wheat from the Stuff that ain't wheat. And the reason I say it like that is because there's a whole bunch of stuff on the on the farm ground that that's not what the the crop that the farmer put down. Okay To bring things to mind, John 15, 7 comes to mind. If ye abide in me, if ye abide in me and my words Abide in you, in us. We can you shall ask what you will, and it shall be done unto you. Now, some people try to pervert that. Abiding is the secret of a successful prayer life. The closer we get to the Lord, the more we will learn to think his thoughts after him. The more we get to know him through his word, his words abiding in us, the more we will understand his will. The more our will agrees with his will, the more we can be sure of his working all things together for good, for our good. Say all things gonna be good because Lord knows that our foe is still out there crouching around looking for who he can devour So there are going to be some things that will come along in our lives that may not be so godly. But it's what are you going to do with that? What are you gonna do with it? Ephesians 1, verse 11, in whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose. Of him who weth all things, hm? After the counsel of his own will. Why am I following that up from the Ask What You Will? Let's go back to Timothy. He had a faith that was genuine. Like Lois and Eunice. Genuine Paul was persuaded that Timothy, that Timothy's faith would maintain him, be sustained, if you will. based upon the work of Jesus and Timothy's uh profession Even in spite of the trials that undoubtedly Paul knew he was going to face, anybody that's paying attention to what's going on around them would know it's going to be some rough times. If they only knew Saul or Paul, if they only knew him, they would know that there's there's a whole bunch of havoc being wreaked. Because of the family background And his own faith, Timothy was advised or urged, or encouraged to stir up the gift of God which was in him. We're not told what that gift was. I mean, you can kind of surmise based upon his ministry But we're not told specifically what that gift was. But remember, this gift was given was was in Timothy through the laying on of hands That gift was given to Timothy at the moment that Paul laid his hands on him. Paul was the channel by which that gift was conferred on Timothy. You know, Paul realized he wasn't the gift giver. He's just a conduit. That's what we are. We're conduits. We've been blessed. Be a blessing unto somebody. Continue to spread the word. Facing martyrdom Hall Takes the time to remind Timothy that God has not given us a spirit of fear Why worry? I ain't saying don't worry, be happy. I say, but there's no need for you to worry God has not given us a spirit of fear. There's no time Fulfillfulness is what Paul was indicating to Timothy. There's no time for for worry There's no time for anxiety. There's no time for timidity. I thought that was funny when I thought that up. It's like Timothy, timidity. But anyway, yeah. But at any rate, we shouldn't be timid. We should be bold, holy bold proclaimers. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but God has given us a spirit of power. Huh? He's giving us the spirit of power. Unlimited power. Unlimited strength, I would submit to you. How many of you got bank accounts and instead of paying your bills you leave the money in the bank It's like, if you got all this power, how come you're not using it? You see all these people dying around you, walking dead? Aren't you concerned at all about them? And I'm not saying worrying about them. You got the answer. Don't be afraid to give it to 'em. Granted, there's a whole host of 'em and they gonna receive it And they might try to kick you in your posterior, you know, while while you're walking away. But the fact of the matter is, I'm saying to you, don't be fearful. Don't be fearful. God has not given you a spirit Now, the believer can serve patiently, enduring much, even suffering, and we should be aware of that That's in the plan. That's in the plan. Just as assuredly as gold, if you want it purified, it needs to be burned. If you want coal to turn into diamonds, it needs to be placed under pressure If we want to be precious in God's sight, then we should not be fearful of suffering And I'm not a proposal. I'm telling you, you don't have to look for it. You don't have to go, nobody's saying go search it out. Just keep living, it's gonna come to you. But what you w what I'm saying to you is when it comes, he's already said it's coming. Just because you haven't seen it, if you haven't faced Boko Haram. But all of us have bokoharam things in our lives. Some of them are so simple, it's like, wow, are you fearful of that? Yeah. Just all kinds of things that we as Westerners are fearful of, particularly Westerners in the United States. We got it so good that we don't realize it Why is everybody in the world trying to come to the USA? Some people haven't figured it out that this is a pretty special place But we have the most special of special Don't keep it to yourself. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but God has given us a spirit of love. You know what the word says the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom. They don't like it. I know when I was walking like that I didn't I didn't I didn't like instruction. Somebody that seemed to be walking with the Lord, or someone that seemed to be righteous or more righteous than me. It's like wasn't using God as a righteous comparison, uh using some other Joe down the street, you know But we it's our fear of God that starts us on the path of true knowledge. He's the one that we need to be fearful of. What am I getting at? Although we God didn't give us a spirit of fear, a spirit of fear about the wrong thing would be a nice way to say that. Because if you have a fear of God, it's because of God that you have that fear of God. And if you use that fear, You are going to be inclined to not use fear against anything else Because you realize that you are properly aligned with our Creator. What am I getting at? It is our love for God to cast out our fear And make us willing to give ourselves for Christ no matter what the cost. Now in in 1 John, let's look at something. I want to take you over to 1 John 4. Just two verses there. 1 John 4, verses 18 to 19. There is no fear in love But perfect love casteth out fear. Like that grass, the blaze of grass I was telling you about. If it has a good root base and it's taking up all the soil. No wee! Now am I saying emphatically no weeze? No, no, I'm not saying that. I'm not saying that because we don't know perfection on this side I'm saying, generally speaking, you are going to be properly aligned because you have placed your fear in the proper place In the proper perspective, as Matthew was talking about, about food and clothes and all that, you putting that, hey, I need some new Jordan It's like when was the last time you gave anything to church? Oh no, no, no, I got ten pairs of sh tennis shoes and I need a level fat. You know? And I'm not trying to get in anybody's pocket. It's like, hey, di if if shoes ain't your thing, try it on for size, whatever it is. I mean, you know, it could be pocketbooks, it could be cars, it could be it could be any number of things. So don't get stuck on what somebody else's problem is. Think about what what what your particular situation is. There is no fear in love, but perfect love. Perfect love. Who's got perfect love? Ha! What you say now? Perfect love. He's a personification of perfect. Of course, he's in a league all his own. Nobody close. So we we're not confused about who they're talking about right here. That love will cast out fear. Because fear has torment. You don't want us torment. That's what anxiety will do to you. Keep you hope all night. How the how in the world? How in the world There's a story about a guy in a boat, sleep, and everybody else worried. And it's like, hey, aren't you worried? It's like, worried about what? Hey, will you calm down, Wynn? I'm tired of you blowing. It's like, if you were with him, why in the world are you, I mean, do you really understand what you got? If you were him, why are you worried about somebody or what somebody's thinking about you? Hey, news alert. Everybody don't love you. And yes, they're talking about you. Do not dismay because they're talking about you. Why don't you just give them something good to talk about? In other words, listen to what I'm saying. Give them something good to talk about. I'm not talking about you. I'm talking about Jesus. Okay? Because if you are a living, breathing disciple, Then yeah, you gonna get talked about. But the worst thing they can wind up saying is that oh oh That person believed in Jesus. Or they might distort it and say, yeah, you're a hypocrite, and you can agree with them. Yeah, I'm a hypocrite. You got me dirty rice, bro. I'm a hypocrite But I come up in this place and I try to deal with that hypocrisy through the power of the Holy Spirit. That hypocrisy that I become aware of, that I work Not for salvation, but I work to eradicate that in my life because I don't want other people casting dispersions on my Lord and Savior based on my idiosyncrasies. In my lunacy. Okay. Now let's look at something. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. He loved us. We didn't wake up one morning and say, oh, I want to love Jesus. All by ourselves. If I eat the right vitamins and eat the right foods, maybe nutritionally I'd come to that conclusion. It's like, no, dude, I don't care what you eat. It ain't gonna happen. Thank you, brother. It ain't gonna happen. No, it ain't gonna happen. God has not given us a spirit of fear. But God has given us the spirit of sound mind. He's given us a spirit of sound mind. Now, first of all, I want to put out a disclaimer. I'm not talking about somebody that's mentally unbalanced for whatever reason. And there are a whole host of reasons someone can be mentally unbalanced. Because some people would have you believe when somebody is mentally unbalanced that they can't be walking with the Lord. And I say hogwash. My brain has not been used to its fullest capacity, and that's probably part of it that hadn't been used yet to be able to articulate the the the the uh ins and outs about somebody as to w what their mental capacity is or their mental condition. What I'm talking about is God has given us a spirit of self-control That part, that aspect, a spirit of self-mastery. In other words, using the Holy Spirit, not self-esteem or pulling yourself up by your own bootstraps. Because where did that energy come from for you to even have the inclination to reach down and pull your bootstraps? It's like, what's up with that? You know? It's like I don't know what is up with that, but you know, they'll say things like that, you know, and you're supposed to just kind of eat it. We are to use discretion, not act rashly. Just ah, you know. You know, we we're not supposed to be hastily. Why why does somebody act hastily? That old time thing, I don't want to waste time, you know. But it's like, wait a minute, hold up. Is this something that's life-threatening? Is this something that's got to be done right now Is this something that you couldn't spend some time thinking about if you don't feel like you're adequately prepared to answer? It's nothing wrong with saying you don't know Of course, now if pride got you, oh you gotta know everything. Oh, I'm the handsome man, you know. I just just answer, ask me, and I'll give you an answer. You know, right, wrong, or indifferent. That's the thing you gotta watch out for 'Cause some people they'll seem so convincing that they sound like they know what they're talking about, and then when you go check it out, it's like Where in the world did you get it? Well, I just wanted to give you an answer. You know, you you said you want an answer. And I I you know I wanted you to think highly of me. It's like highly of you. It's like, Lord, have mercy No matter our circumstances, we don't want to make foolish mistakes because of rashness or hastily responding We are on God's time. If you believe in His sovereignty, then Let the whole isn't it interesting that he's told our brothers and sisters, go and speak for me, and I'll tell you what to say. The Holy Spirit's gonna tell you what to say. Don't even get prepared. The whole I don't know if this ever happened to you all. But I'm gonna I'm gonna leave it with this that that happens And he'll give you, if you have been walking with him, he will give you something that you couldn't have weared any better than that. And it will be on point to answer that person. If he's sovereign and who says love to come ask me something, who did that? Lord or Lord saw Cliff and say, oh yeah, man, I'll ask Cliff. It's like, well, who put that in him? Oh, he did. You know, he knows the cliff's a bright guy, so he's gonna come ask Cliff. It's like, no Because Lord may have been prompted to ask somebody that May to somebody else not be anybody. But he just felt the need to ask them. And ironically, the person may have the answer if God's in it Because the Lord knows I have gotten some answers from some of the strangest places. If a donkey can talk, then come on now. The man riding it riding the beast didn't have enough sense in the beast. Why are you doing this? I'm trying to save your hind parts. No matter what our circumstances, we should maintain balanced judgment In sobriety before the Lord. If we're walking with the Lord, it's like having a good bank account. You can draw, you there's ATMs all around the place. If you got money in the bank, guess what? And it's hooked up to the ATM. You got money. You got money. But if you ain't got no account. . It don't matter you got ATMs all over the place. We got accounts with our father. And he said, come come with you all the time you want. Come on. Come on. You can make a withdrawal anytime. 247365. And we walking around scratching. Well I ain't even talking about where you're scratching, but you walking around scratching. And he got your answer for you. And we too we too bashful or shame or whatever reason. There's a whole host of reasons. But we won't go to our Father. Don't you realize what you got? You got a daddy that loves you. And Lord knows sometimes we ain't lovable More times than not, let's call it a spade a spade. Get all our righteousness with nothing but filthy rags Blows my mind to think that he even thinks about me. But he done pull me out of some. some funky situations. I gotta I'm gonna read something to you. I know this is a bit unusual, but some of you know that I I Charles Spurgeon is is a guy that that that I admired some of his writings. From May 26th, the morning of May 26th. Cast thy burdens upon the Lord, and he shall sustain thee. It's something that in the midst of me talking with Alex and And so forth. This this touched me. May 26th morning. Worry, if carried to excess, has the nature of sin in it. The precept to avoid worry is repeated frequently by our Savior. It is reiterated by the apostles. It is a principle which cannot be neglected without involving transgression. We labor to make, to take on ourselves Our weary burden as if he, God, the Holy Spirit, Jesus Christ, We're unavailable or unwilling to take it for us. Just cast your burden on the Lord. This disobedience to the principle This unbelief in his word is all and out sin, is sinful. More than this, worry often leads to acts of sin He who cannot calmly leave his affairs in God's hands is very likely to be tempted to use wrong means to help themselves. This sin leads to forsaking God as our counselor and restoring instead to you resorting instead to human wisdom. And Lord knows we don't need to do that. This is going to the broken cistern instead to the fountain. Remember I said about the fountain? Drink! Drink! You can swell your belly with the drink. And nobody else is gonna be at a loss to get a drink for themselves Anxiety makes us doubt God's loving kindness, and our love for Him grows cold. We feel mistrust And grieve the Holy Spirit, so that our prayers become hindered in our consistent example, Lord, and our life one of self-seeking. Thus, lacking confidence in God leading us, causing us to wander from Him like lost sheep. If we cast our burdens as it come, as they come to us, we cast them on him. We are careful for nothing. Because he undertakes to care for us. It will keep us close to him and strengthen us against such temptation. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Isaiah twenty-six, verse three May the Lord had a rich blessing. To us That we might be wholly bold examples of living epistles unto this dying world Jesus we pray. Amen