Now we're going to read from the New Testament. Remain standing and turn with me to Mark's Gospel chapter 1. We're going to read verses 40 through 45. In the early chapters, in fact in the early verses of his gospel, Mark is introducing his readers to the Lord Jesus. And as Mark introduces the Lord Jesus, we meet him Uh in Galilee, around the town of Capernaum, and we discover that Jesus is causing a sensation. People are coming from all over Uh crowds of people and uh sometimes a crowd is just a crowd. Mark zooms in on one individual because uh Jesus deals With crowds, yes, but Jesus deals with individuals. Uh I'm so uh well you listen, here's God's word A leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling, said to him, If you will, you can make me clean. Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I will be clean. And immediately the leprosy left him, and he was made clean. And Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that you say nothing to any one, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded for a proof to them. But he went out and began to talk freely about it and spread the news so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town. But was out in the desolate places, and people were coming to him from every quarter. That's God's word. Let's pray God's blessing on it. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, and now we pray that you would give us ears to hear your truth and hearts to receive it with gladness, with faith, and with obedience. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Will you please be seated? And uh think with me about the picture that Mark describes for us, because Mark has been painting for us a picture of the Lord Jesus so that you and I can have an understanding of who he is. And in the verses just before the passage that we read, Mark describes for us and summarizes some of the things that Jesus is doing. Mark tells us that Jesus was casting out demons He tells us that Jesus was healing those who were sick. He tells us that Jesus was uh teaching in the synagogues. Here's uh the Lord Jesus And Jesus is uh ministering to people's physical needs. He's healing their sicknesses And uh he's ministering to their spiritual needs as well. He's casting out demons and he's instructing them, he's teaching them in God's truth. The Lord Jesus is concerned uh for uh for our souls and for our bodies. Uh he's very compassionate. If I were to give you a a pop quiz, j you remember pop quiz some of you maybe have pop quiz If I were to give you a pop quiz uh now and if I were to ask you is Jesus uh able to heal uh people who are demon possessed, you would say, Well yes, Mark tells us that he is. Uh if I were to say, was uh Jesus able to heal uh people who were sick? You say, yes. Yes, of course he was. Uh Mark records that for us. And then if I were to say to you, uh do you believe that uh Jesus is able to help you? You might say, well uh I well the the right answer of course is yes, but you know sometimes In our hearts, sometimes we have some doubts about that. Does Jesus really care. Yes, I know that Jesus may be able to do all kinds of things, but does Jesus care about me? And Mark gives us this account this morning that we're looking at. Uh Mark gives us this account. He zooms in on this uh one leper. You see, we've got all these crowds of people, flocks of people, you might think of all the uh different people that come to your mind when you think of people who uh who have an interest in Jesus or a need for Jesus or uh who who might uh go to hear God's word priest, you might think of crowds and crowds of people but Uh Jesus deals with us individually. Jesus sees people in in the crowd. You you look at a crowd and you see a sea of faces, don't you? Jesus sees individual people. He doesn't And he doesn't just see our faces. He actually sees into our hearts and he sees our hurts. And here we have an individual. And this individual is coming to to the Lord Jesus and uh uh he asks Jesus for his help. And what Mark records Mark records it so that you and I can be sure that Jesus is not only able to help us when we come to him seeking his help, but he is willing to help. Jesus is compassionate. So I want us to walk through our passage this morning. We just got a we just got a few verses, I guess a half dozen verses. And we're going to see in the first three verses, verses forty, forty one and forty two, we're going to see Jesus responding to A need. And yes, this man he had a serious need. He was a leper, and we've already been introduced to the idea uh of of leprosy. Now leprosy, there were different kinds of diseases that are described in the Bible under the name of leprosy. Yes, some of them were not too uh serious Others were were much more serious. And Luke, Doctor Luke, you remember Luke was was a doctor. Doctor Luke in his gospel, uh chapter five, verse twelve, tells us that this particular man was full of leprosy. Okay, he he had the bad kind. He had he had leprosy. He had a real bad if there were different kinds of leprosy and some that really were not too serious. This this Poor individual. He had the bad kind. And the bad kind meant it was a it was a degenerative uh neurological disease. It it meant that your nerve your your nerves, your ability to uh feel uh pain became impaired and and then with that there were uh physical uh physical deformities and and physical limitations so that your your limbs would become uh distorted and uh ulcerated and and uh you you'd lose your ability to do all all kinds uh it was just this was bad. And of course not only the fact that this uh uh the physical symptoms but uh well people were not going to People were going to stay well back from you if you were identified as a leper and in fact you had to self identify as a leper because if you had leprosy Uh your public duty was to uh uh not go near anyone or even to shout out uh that you were a leper so that people would know to stay well back from you And that was not all. Not only were you separated from interacting with other people in a normal way, you're you were separated from your family, from your your friends. Uh think of the people that you care about. You you couldn't get close to them This is this is real serious social distancing that's going on here. But there was more than that. You were ceremonially unclean. That meant you couldn't gather to to worship God with his people. You couldn't you couldn't come to church. You couldn't go to the temple. You couldn't go into the synagogue. You were ceremonially unclean. So there was that separation from being able to worship God with his So this This man's life was ruined because of what happened to him. And you might think of things you now you may not have the kind of disease that's been described here, but you might think of things and and you might say, that ruined my life. Does anybody care Does Jesus care about uh what has hurt me in such a way that it shaped how I live my life, or or the thing that has scarred me so that uh My whole uh attitude, my whole conduct has been shaped by it. Does Jesus care about that? Well this uh here's a man coming to the Lord Jesus. And just listen, Mark tells us about him uh coming uh to Jesus. Uh Verse forty, a leper came to him imploring him, and kneeling said, If you will you can make me clean. So Uh now this remember this man was supp he was supposed to stay well back from Jesus or anyone else for that matter. Uh but no, he this this individual was not uh going to observe the uh the custom that kept him back from other people. He was desperate for uh help from the Lord Jesus and he came to the Lord Jesus and Mark says he was imploring uh Jesus. This is a s this is a serious appeal and this man Well, this man's got nothing to lose because he's desperately sick and he's ready to well, he's ready to to sort of uh violate custom in order to to to get to Jesus and have Jesus help. And sometimes That's sometimes that's what we have to get over, isn't it? We're uh We're not ready to acknowledge that we have needs. We're uh and and uh I I know my heart And uh it's not always easy for me to to say I need help. You'd think it would be easy to to say something like that, to uh come and acknowledge a a need. But actually it's not so easy at all. We like to project an image that we've got it together. Uh and we like to project an image that we're, well, we're really not too badly off. Thank you very much. We've got everything under control. Well this man absolutely did not have everything under control. And he had there's no pride in this man. He's ready to come and throw himself before Jesus and say to Jesus, If If you are willing, please heal me, please make me clean. So here's someone who's coming to Jesus out of a sense of of real desperation. There's nowhere else for him to go accept to the Lord Jesus to have the the kind of help that the Lord Jesus uh uh will give. The the the scripture tells us the scripture tells us that our God The living and true God, the God who reveals Himself to us in the Bible, the God whom we proclaim from faithful pulpits, that God is a God who is compassionate. He is a compassionate God. In the prophecy of Isaiah chapter 66, verse 2. The Prophet tells us that God's eye is toward the humble and contrite of spirit. God's I is on the person who is humble and contrary. There's a couple of Hebrew words there that get translated into English. Someone has translated one of those words as as being that God's eye is on the person who is overwhelmed by need. And and what uh you know, the the people who catch our eyes, the people who the people that you see on your screens, okay, the the celebrities uh that that that everybody's talking about, and you can think of the big names, you know who they are. God actually sees the the the kind of the little people people like me people like you he sees he is particularly attentive to people who are needy, to people who recognize their need. You see, there's that idea not just of people, the people who are, well, what does the Bible call them? Hypocrites? The people who who are messed up inwardly but who put on their smile and put on their Sunday vest and say, I am just fine, they're hypocrites. And we know that Jesus didn't care much for them, but Jesus who is Jesus is God. Jesus shows us who God is. Jesus sees people like this. And so here comes this man and he says to Jesus, if you are uh if you are willing, uh heal me. And uh how does Jesus respond to that? Well you say Jesus healed him. And that's right, Jesus did heal him, but uh Mark tells us that Jesus looked at him and had compassion on him. You see, there's there is the heart of God. Before God acts, and here God through Jesus, God uh uh as God the Son is going to heal this man But before God acts, God fails. God has compassion. Now I tell that that's important because uh God will act in different ways in the lives of needy people according to their various needs. But God is a compassionate God. God looks on needy people, hurting people. He looks on the people who are contrite of heart. He looks on them with compassion. I love that. And in this case, uh, Jesus heals the man. I will, says Jesus, I will heal you. Be clean. And Jesus uh No, John John Calvin says maybe the the way the man put his qu so the man came to Jesus and said, If you will heal me. And John Calvin said, Well well maybe the man asked the question like that because uh Jesus doesn't promise that he's going to heal everyone who comes to him. And you've probably prayed for healing at some point. And sometimes God heals because he's able to heal. And sometimes God does other things because he's a compassionate God whose wisdom is greater than ours. We go to the doctor and the doc we think, well doctor, I need this. And and the doctor says, well actually no, I'm gonna, here's what you need. And you say, well okay, you know best. Uh and and uh our God, who is the great physician, he knows sometimes we need healing, sometimes we need uh grace to endure, sometimes we need to learn certain lessons But you know there are some things that God has promised. And let me just uh let me just remind you of those things that God has promised. Here here God promises that uh uh Well, John three sixteen, you know that verse, don't you? Uh God uh has uh God so loves the world that He's given us His only begotten Son that whoever believes in Him shall not perish but have everlasting life. So there's a promise right there. And uh you can come to to God, uh you can come to the Lord Jesus as someone who's a sinner and say You promise that if I believe in you, that if I believe that you're the sin bearer, the one who atones for my sins, that I'll have everlasting life. That's a promise that that that uh that God makes to us in the Lord Jesus. In in that same chapter of John's Gospel we're told that uh whoever believes in Jesus is not condemned. That's that's a promise that God uh that God makes to us. Jesus tells us in John's Gospel six. Uh chapter six verse thirty seven, Whoever comes to me I will not cast out. So there there's a promise. Jesus says, Come to me. And yes, sometimes that involves us doing what this man did and and kind of acknowledging that we So here's Jesus uh uh responding to this need. And then do do you notice what Jesus does next in verses th uh forty-three and forty-four? Jesus sends the man off to the priest. Let me just read those verses for us so we can have them in our mind. Jesus sternly charged him and sent him away at once and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone But go show yourself to the priest and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded for a proof to them. Alright, so so the man has just been healed of his uh leprosy. What what does he want to do? Well he wants to go he wants to go and find his family, doesn't he? And he wants to go to Uh he wants to go to to to his friends and and uh he wants to uh oh all kinds of things that he wants to do now. Jesus said, nope. First thing you need to do you need to go To the priest, show yourself to the priest. And uh why is he to do that? Well, he has to do that because You see, if he were to go to his family, the family they're gonna they're gonna have the door barricaded against him. Uh and and if he tries to uh go to where his friends are, his friends are they're gonna run the other direction Uh he needs to go to the priest because the priest the priest is the the the professional who's able to examine him and say, Wow You really are you're clean there's no trace of of leprosy here and I don't know how then it would be done whether the priest would make a a public declaration or whether the priest would give him a uh a a clean bill of health and give 'em a certificate and say here wherever you go just show this and and there's the uh you you've got a uh it's like getting the you know the the the the the negative COVID test or something. Hey I don't have it. I'm I'm alright and and so this this man you see he's he's able to go and he's he can mingle with people and he can go places Uh now that he can't go before he needs to go to the he needs to go to the priest. He needs to have the priest examine him. Now you'd say, well that's that's kind of old testament stuff, isn't it? And uh there's it it is true, the writer to the Hebrews uh talks about that some of that Old Testament ceremony and uh about how that which uh is is a part of the Old Testament has become obsolete. Uh Hebrews eight thirteen has become obsolete. obsolete outdated it's and is passing away. So uh so that well Jesus is observing he's respecting uh the Old Testament ceremony that's passing away but But you see the important thing is it's not just enough for the man to say, Hey, I'm I'm clean, I'm I'm okay. And and he he would have been quite right in saying that, but He needed to go and have someone in authority attest to that and say, Yes, this this man is clean Why do I point that out? Well I point it out for this reason. Uh our relationship with Jesus, it's very personal. We've been saying that, haven't we? It's uh it's Jesus crowds, yes, but individuals. He deals with individuals, he deals with us personally. We need a personal knowledge of Jesus. We need Jesus as our personal Savior. But what's personal is not private. And sometimes sometimes people say, well, I'm trusting in Jesus, but uh I don't tell anyone I'm trusting in Jesus, but I don't hang out with other Christians. I I I'm I'm safe, but I never go to church because not important. Actually, actually no. If you know the Lord Jesus, that deeply personal relationship with the Lord Jesus is something that also should be public. You need to tell people. And uh well uh in our New Testament setting you need to tell the elders. Because and I know that here at Trinity Reformed Church you know about church membership and you know that uh to be a member of Jesus Church is to uh have elders who will talk with you about your knowledge of the Savior uh who'll who'll look at your life and and uh ask the question, uh are you are you living the way a Christian should live? And when someone is received publicly into membership, it's kind of like the like the this individual who's been cleansed getting that uh certification that allows uh that that allows him to say, I'm uh I'm healed, I'm cleansed, but you don't have to take my word for it. I I've I've talked with the elders. The elders have uh examined my life and they see in my life the marks of a Christian. That's that's an important thing. And and here's someone who's who's going to the uh religious authorities and and they're examining him and uh after he's been examined he's he's able to go out and and say uh yes I'm I'm I'm officially cleansed. Uh we it is important. It is important for us. It really is important for us to uh be able to confess our faith Uh before elders who are able to to talk with us about that, who are able to say, Yes indeed. Praise God. Uh you uh you're not just saying the words, but your life shows the the marks, the signs of someone who's been touched by the Lord Jesus and healed by the Lord Jesus. And Jesus says offer a offer a sacrifice as well, and it's a I guess a sacrifice of uh thanksgiving for what has uh what has happened uh to him. And uh well what does uh what does Paul say in Romans? And you know how Paul in the first uh Oh, the first eleven chapters of Romans he describes uh the gospel of grace, how Jesus came into a world that is sin sick and corrupt, where the uh knowledge of God's truth is suppressed where people engage in all kinds of immorality and idolatry and how there's uh no wholeness, no soundness in us, we're corrupt Uh we've all sinned, we've fallen short of the glory of God, but remember Romans 3. 24, God has put forward his Son as a propitiation and atoning sacrifice. uh for our sins and and then he goes on to talk about how our salvation is all of God's grace. We didn't do it, Jesus does it for us. We receive by faith what Jesus has done for us. And then we come to chapter 12, and Paul says, Therefore, in view of the mercies of God, present yourselves as living sacrifices. This is your reasonable service Isn't that marvelous? Because of what God has done for us, we present that that offering. We say we give ourselves over to the Lord. And we say here Here I am. Here I am as a a living sacrifice. And uh this this man is going to offer offer his sacrifice. We who know we've t we've tasted the sweetness of the goodness of God and we present ourselves as living sacrifices to to serve, to walk with the Lord Jesus. And Jesus says offer the sacrifice as a as a how does he put it? As a uh uh a proof to them. So there's there's going to be proof that he's healed. Actually some translations say it's a as a as a uh a warning to them because the religious authorities were kind of they were saying Jesus It's just some kind of strange track. Don't don't pay attention to him. And uh here we've got someone showing up on the doorstep of the priest and saying, actually guess what? Jesus was able to Uh Jesus was able to uh to heal me and make me whole. So there's that's kind of a rebuke to maybe the religious authorities. Uh certainly a warning that uh Jesus is all that he says he is The uh God's God's people, Jesus Church is a a proof to the world, to an unbelieving world, that that Jesus is at work, that Jesus Christ cares for people. You're your and again remember what we've said, your your faith, it's a very personal thing, but it's not a private thing. It's something that uh in It's something that you share with others and and publicly you share it with others. That that fellowship, that that's a testimony. The fact that you love one another The fact that you serve one another for Jesus' sake. The fact that you care for people who are needed. Thank you for your food pantry ministry. And I I'm sh I know that has been a blessing to to many people who've gone out from here with with with bags of of food and supplies. It's been a blessing to people who've been prayed for. It's been a blessing to your brothers and sisters at Knox. We have been encouraged by the witness of your service and it's been an encouragement to us to be able to get aboard something that you you've put in place. Thank you for that. But the Bible says that that kind of thing, Christians doing that kind of thing, that's a proof to the world. That Jesus is alive and working in his church, that the church is indwelt by the Holy Spirit of Jesus and is active. uh in serving others. Now we need to we need to finish out our passage. There's one other thing that we need to see this morning that's important for us to see because there's a a kind of an odd twist At the end of uh uh verse uh at the end of our passage in verse forty five, someone someone has said that when this uh man, this poor uh person who's crippled and disfigured and and he if he was full of leprosy as Luke tells us that he was, he was probably not a pretty sight And uh yet he came to to Jesus even though he was disfigured and even though maybe he didn't much like being out in public where other people could just kind of you know how people will stare. Sometimes at that point when he comes to Jesus, that's him at his best, and then we come to verse forty five and we see him at his worst because Jesus Uh says uh don't don't be don't be going around telling uh people uh about this, uh about what I've uh done uh for you And uh y we we wonder why why did Jesus tell him that? Why why is Jesus not saying, Well go and show everyone so they'll all uh know what's going on. Well the answer to that is is in verse forty five because uh the man did exactly what Jesus told him not to do and you know what Jesus is very patient with people And and I you know here's this here's this man and and he's he's experienced the the kindness of Jesus and yet yet he still goes on to to mess up and and that that's kind of us, isn't it? We we experience the goodness of Jesus and We still we still mess up. This man w he he messed up. He he let the news out and suddenly uh people are are flocking to the the Lord Jesus And says, Mark, the result of it was that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town. So now Jesus is not able to go into the towns because the town's just it's it's just gridlock. They people it's wall-to-wall people. They're they're all they're all flocking and and it's just not it's just not a not a good situation. And and so Jesus now he can't go in the town, he's got to be outside. Jesus has Jesus has just traded places with a leper. Because previously the leper was the one who couldn't come into the town. And now Jesus can't go into the town. Forever he's in the town. And he's getting settled back into his new life and there's Jesus now. Jesus is uh well he's off uh He's off out in the to out of the town and and it's just a little bit it's probably a little bit tougher uh if you're away from the town with all the the facilities and all the stores and all the the stuff that uh towns uh have but things are kind of uh situation's been reversed, hasn't it? And of course that that is what Jesus does for us. There's already been a a something strange already happened. Normally if you're a leper and you touch someone They become unclean. You stay unclean. They become unclean as well. Here is Jesus, who is the very spotless Lamb of God. And when he touches the leper, Jesus doesn't become unclean, the leper becomes clean. That's that's an amazing exchange. Jesus uh Jesus gives that man his And uh that that's that's marvelous. But now here they've they've uh uh and that's what Jesus does. Paul tells us, doesn't he, in 2 Corinthians 5, 21, that that Jesus who knew no sin has become sin for us that we might become the righteousness of God in him. Jesus, who had no sin of his own, took our sin, as Peter tells us uh in his letter, he bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. He died so that we live. He took our sin so that our debt uh might be paid and our sins atoned for. Jesus trades places with us. He went to the cross, he put himself under the wrath of God so that you and I can be free in him there is no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus and here Uh here is Jesus who went to the cross. And Isaiah the prophet tells us that on the cross Jesus had no form or comeliness that we should admire him. He was like one from whom men turned their faces. He was hideously disfigured, his body was contorted, his limbs were convulsed, his flesh was torn. His body was broken. He was a horrible sight. And he traded places with us. And he did so, as we know the writer of the Hebrews tells us, he did so outside the gate. He was outside the city. And the the unclean place where criminals, not lepers this time, but where criminals were executed. Jesus went there and Jesus suffered the agonies of God's judgment for us. Jesus and only Jesus is able to do that. And the writer to the Hebrews says, and and did you notice that Mark tells us people still went to him outside. They they got up out of their cities and towns and went off to find Jesus wherever he was, the hillside, the lake side. The writers of the Hebrews said Jesus suffered outside the gate to sanctify, to purify the people through his own blood. So he cleanses not lepers now, he cleanses sinners. And the writer then says, Therefore let us go to him outside the camp, bearing the shame that he endured. Do you hear what he's saying? He's saying yes, Jesus, Jesus may have been crucified outside the camp. Yes, the the the the the the the religious people, the respectable people would have nothing to do with the Lord Jesus. They did not care for him and his message of salvation. They the Uh the the Greeks, they the idea of a crucified Savior was the greatest nonsense they'd ever heard, and that the Jewish people they were they were offended by it, and the writer of Hebrews says, but we will go, we'll go to him. We'll go and bury the we'll go to him and identify with him because he's the one who purifies us, he cleanses us. And we have confidence, we have confidence that Jesus is able and Jesus Jesus is willing. So we come to him. Let's pray together. Our Father, we thank you for your word. It is a sweet word to our taste, but I pray that it would be our meditation day and night, that our hearts might be encouraged and that we would be glad. Because you are good. You care for needy people. And we pray that we would know the grace that is in the Lord Jesus. We ask it in our Savior's name. Amen. Now we are going to uh lift up our voices in praise. Uh hymn number four hundred forty-nine in the hymnal, as when the prophet Moses raised the brazen serpent high, the wounded looked and said Straight were cured. The people ceased to die. Will you rise to give praise? 449 in the hymnal. Present people sister. Healing virtues. Oh looks to him with mighty faith is safe from endless loads Or something as so generous was his Enjoy eternal life Not to condemn the sons of men who weapons in his hand are Seen the voice of terror. It came to race our fallen state is a host of Faith leads us to the mercy seat and bids us fear no more. Beloved people of God, lift up your hearts and with joy receive the Lord's benediction. May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with you all, now and always. Amen. He gave us his son.