If you'd open up your copy of God's Word to Proverbs, we'll continue our study there tonight in Proverbs 3. We're in the middle of this particular text, and I'll start our reading tonight at verse 13. I think you should find that on page 627 of your Pew Bibles. Proverbs chapter 3, beginning at verse 13, let's give attention to the holy word of God. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom, and the one who gets understanding. For the gain from her is better than gain from silver, and her profit better than gold. She is more precious than jewels, and nothing you desire can compare with her. Long life is in her right hand, and in her left hand are riches and honor. Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace. She is a tree of life to those who lay hold of her. Those who hold her fast are called blessed. The Lord, by wisdom, founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge the deeps broke open and the clouds dropped down the dew. My son, do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. And they will be life for your soul and adornment for your neck. Then you will walk on your way securely. And your foot will not stumble. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. Not be afraid of sudden terror or of the ruin of the wicked when it comes. But the Lord will be your confidence and will keep your foot from being caught. As far in the Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Father, we ask now that you would add your blessing to the reading of your word. That you would send your Spirit, Father, to give us insight. That He would give us true understanding. That his knowledge, Father, would be poured out upon us. And that, Father, by and through this passage tonight, we would gain much wisdom. Help us, Lord. We're weak, we're frail. Guide us tonight, all for your glory and honor. We ask this in Christ's precious name. Amen. When Solomon came into power, when he became king You may recall one of the first matters that was brought to him for his judgment. But these two women, two prostitutes, both had children. And both stood before King Solomon, and only one of the children of the two were left. The other one had died. But both women claimed that they were the mother of this child, this one that was alive. Both were claiming that the other one was lying. And this matter was brought before King Solomon. And he understood that each one claimed motherhood. And so he said, Bring me a sword. And he said, divide the living child in two, giving half to one and half to the other. You understand and you remember what happens. The true mother cries out and says, Do not put this one to death. Give the child to the other woman. And the other woman said, No, no, please go ahead and slay the child. King Solomon knew right away that the true mother was the one who called for the baby to live. And as all Israel heard of Solomon's wisdom, they perceived that the wisdom of God was in him. Tonight we come to a passage that's all about the wisdom of God. We've been doing a brief study in Proverbs, specifically chapter 3. We know that Solomon, King Solomon, wrote this. When he was king, when he was the son of David, the king of Israel. We've already seen in this proverb that the Word of God restores and refreshes. We've seen that wealth Which God gives is to be used to honor Him, and we've also seen that discipline is a blessing. Tonight Tonight I want us to see that only true divine wisdom leads one on the path to blessed eternal life. Only true divine wisdom leads one on the path to blessed eternal life. We'll see that tonight in three points. Kind of wisdom, secondly the value of wisdom, and finally benefit of wisdom. This passage is so important for Christians tonight to grasp, to hold, to meditate upon. I'm hoping as we go through it tonight, you're going to agree with me that it is such a passage that we can come back to this time and again and meditate. Upon what the Word of God teaches us about His wisdom. Well, first then, a kind of wisdom. There are two kinds of wisdom, two kinds of knowledge, two kinds of understanding. Those words wisdom, knowledge, and understanding have slightly different meanings, but we can place an umbrella over them and say we're really kind of talking about almost the same thing. There are nuances, but for tonight we're going to lump them together. The first kind of wisdom, knowledge, and understanding is a divine. The second is worldly. Those are the two kinds, and the only two kinds that we have. Since the age of enlightenment, which occurred primarily in the 16th and 1700s, divine wisdom, knowledge, and understanding has been pushed aside. And worldly or human understanding and knowledge has been placed upon the throne. It has become king in this world. But tonight, as we open the Word of God, there is nothing within this passage about worldly wisdom. Indeed, as scripture refers to wisdom and knowledge which has cast off divine wisdom As it speaks about human or worldly wisdom, it speaks of these things in terms of foolishness. In Romans chapter 1, we read, For although they knew God, they did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became foolish Futile in their thinking. Their foolish hearts were darkened. As they cast off the knowledge of God. Their f thinking was futile. Their foolish hearts were darkened. So tonight, as we look to Proverbs 3, we're not going to be considering worldly wisdom. We're going to fix our minds upon divine wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. It's that kind of wisdom, knowledge, and understanding that this passage speaks of. That's the focus. Only divine wisdom, only divine knowledge, only divine understanding is true knowledge, true understanding and true wisdom. It's important for us to be able to separate the two. It's critical for Christians to understand the battle that we are in. Because the world would have Christians to believe that the only true knowledge is that knowledge which is divorced from or separated from divine knowledge. The world is seeking to suppress and cast off and destroy the knowledge and wisdom of God. It sounds impossible, and indeed it is, and yet we are still engaged in the battle, the battle for true knowledge and understanding which only comes by and through God Himself. So then, what is this divine wisdom? That's how this passage opens for us tonight. Look at verse 13. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom and the one who gets understanding Well, where is this wisdom? We've defined it as divine, divine wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. You may be thinking, well, it's found only in the Lord, and that would be right. Indeed, the center of these verses appears to be verses 19 and 20. There's a bit of a chiastic structure to the verses that we've read tonight And the centerpiece appears to be at verse 19 and 20. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth. By understanding, he established the heavens. By his knowledge The deeps broke open and the clouds dropped down the dew. This is speaking of creation. Those two verses are just a reference to how God made all things things by his wisdom. And that is the centerpiece of this passage. It tells us that that's the kind of wisdom and knowledge and understanding that we're fixing our minds upon. It tells us that this wisdom existed before creation. The Lord by wisdom founded the earth And then if we read further in the Word of God, we read about Jesus Christ, the one who became to us wisdom. From God. As we go through this passage tonight, we're going to be linking together the wisdom of God with our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to know that right now. But as we think upon the creation and the Lord by wisdom founding the earth, making all things of nothing We see it time and again in John 1, all things were made through him. And it's speaking of the word, it's speaking of the Son of God. In Hebrews in chapter 1, we read that in these last days he has spoken to us by his Son, whom he appointed heir of all things, through whom also he created the world. Wisdom, knowledge, and understanding that are within the Lord, specifically within his son, are not separate from the Lord, but very part of his nature and being. That's what makes this wisdom so much different than what we think of in terms of worldly wisdom. Think of your high school biology class. I don't know if you did this. I think I did. But in order to learn about frogs, we dissected a frog. That means we took a dead frog, and then we opened it up to see the organs with inside. We were learning how the frog lived when it was alive. We learned how it ate when it was alive, how it breathed when it was alive. But that knowledge was not in the student. It was not part of the student's nature or being. That knowledge, understanding, was outside of the student. The student had to bring that knowledge into the student's mind. You had to learn. But not so with the Creator God. He has knowledge, understanding, and wisdom within himself. His knowledge, wisdom, and understanding is not outside of him. As the Lord created, he did so with pre-existing, if we can use that word, pre-existing knowledge and understanding and wisdom. So he then is the giver of wisdom and knowledge as it originates with him. Proverbs 2:6, for the Lord gives wisdom. James 1:5. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach. I'm hoping you're beginning to see a bit of the incomprehensibility of the wisdom of God. That his wisdom is completely different from What we have is knowledge and wisdom and understanding. Because God's wisdom is part of Him. The wisdom and knowledge and understanding that we have comes from God. It's outside of it. We're given it. And we just cannot put our arms around completely the wisdom, knowledge, and understanding of God. In Job thirty-seven We read God thunders wondrously with his voice. He does great things that we cannot comprehend. As Job is being admonished. He's asked, can you like him spread out the skies? Do you know the cause of the lightning of his clouds? Job had to answer no, because he couldn't comprehend the depth and the breadth and the width of God's wisdom and knowledge and understanding. So we've got to go back to the question, and where can we find the Lord's wisdom? Where can you find this divine wisdom? And the obvious answer is yes, in the Lord. And so that brings us right back to his word, doesn't it? We can find this wisdom, this knowledge, and understanding within the revelation of himself. And we see the revelation of God within what we call the Bible. And we see the revelation of God in His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. In Proverbs 2 again we read this, My son, if you receive my words and treasure up my commandments within you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understand, are you seeing what he is saying? That the wisdom of God, the understanding of God is encapsulated within his word, within his commandments. You see the same thing in Deuteronomy. In chapter 4, see, I have taught you statutes and rules as the Lord my God commanded me. This is Moses speaking to the people of God that you should do them in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. Keep them and do them, for that will be your wisdom and your understanding. See, it's in God's Word that we see and read and learn of His wisdom, of His knowledge, of understanding. Indeed. The word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For since in the wisdom of God the world did not know God, through wisdom it pleased God through the folly of what we preach to save those who believe. This is where we find wisdom. This is where we find divine wisdom. It's found in Christ, who is the Word. For the Jews demand signs, the Greeks seek wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. The power of God and the wisdom of God. A passage that we read in First Corinthians. At the end of chapter one states this, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. And Paul can write that as he writes about the wisdom of God. As he writes that the wisdom of the world is foolishness. As Christ is and has become the wisdom of God. And then he writes, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. And the question for us tonight is as we realize that, as we recognize that worldly wisdom is is No wisdom at all. But the true wisdom resides in God, and true wisdom is Christ. What are we boasting in tonight? What are you boasting in tonight? This passage calls us to boast in Christ and in Christ alone. We have nothing to boast about within ourselves. It's only Christ. Brings us to our second point, the value of wisdom. And this portion of Proverbs 3 begins with that announcement. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom. Immediately, the inspired writer is telling his readers, us tonight, through the Spirit, first that wisdom and understanding is not within you. A created man is not like his creator. You are not born with understanding, wisdom, and knowledge. Not divine understanding, wisdom, and knowledge. Secondly, that one must look for wisdom and seek for understanding. And wisdom is not gained without effort. That understanding is not free for all merely to pick up on the side of the street. And third, that there is much value in finding wisdom. You're not born with it. You have to look for it, and there's much value in it. That the effort expended in gaining understanding is worthwhile. The one who finds wisdom is blessed, the one who gains understanding is happy. And that's all contained just in that first verse. Blessed is the one who finds wisdom. And now the writer of the Proverb now goes into detail. About the value of this wisdom. For the gain from her is better than the gain from silver and her profit, better than gold. Think of that. In our corrupt hearts, we tend to look at the things that have been made, the creation. And place a very high value on things that are made, such as gold and silver, money, our stocks, our bonds, jewelry, diamonds. We tend to look away from the things above and fix our sight on the things that have been made. How do I know? Well, a bit of self-examination will reveal the truth to all of us. But in addition to that, we can certainly consider what the world calls us to value. If you're watching a football game, a baseball game, what happens? See advertisements. The advertisements are constantly telling you to buy things, get things, value these things. Cars, well furnished homes, growing bank accounts, retirement reserves Expensive jewelry, diamonds, precious metal, the world values all these things above spiritual things. We're constantly given the message And in our corrupt hearts we tend to believe that. We value the creation. That is the great and grave problem, valuing the things of the earth greater than the wisdom of God. If we created a list of all the problems, we'd be here all night long. But just consider this that the things of the earth will perish. But the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. The day of the Lord will come like a thief, and then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies burned up and dissolved. Everything. Burned in fire, and there will be nothing left. All these things, precious metals, jewelry, diamonds, stocks, bonds, retirement accounts, homes, cars, whatever is created will come to an end and be no more. The things, the created things of this world are all temporal. None of them have any lasting or real value. That's not to say that the things of this world are useless or have no value. But it is to say that in comparison to the things above, to the wisdom, knowledge, understanding of God, the things of this world are of no comparison. Look at verse fifteen. Nothing you desire can compare with her. Fill in the blank. What is it that you desire? What is it that you value in this earth? And then as you think of divine wisdom, divine understanding, divine knowledge, nothing can compare with that. So what is the value of God's wisdom, knowledge, and understanding? How can we say? How can Solomon say that nothing you desire can compare with or First, we must understand that God's wisdom, understanding, and knowledge is infinite. There's no boundary to it God Himself is without boundary, without end. He is not circumscribed by space or time. And so then as we consider part of his nature, part of his nature is his wisdom, knowledge, and understanding, we must also understand that It is also infinite. There's no boundary to his knowledge. No boundary to his understanding. No boundary to his wisdom. Just think of an airplane for a moment. Think of all the wisdom that was used in making an airplane. Those large passenger planes that carry a lot of weight into the sky Think of how heavy your luggage is if you're going on a week-long trip. And then multiply that times 200. And an airplane is able to get off the ground, it's able to fly in the air. It's an amazing feat. It took a lot of wisdom How valuable was that wisdom, knowledge, and understanding that designed and fabricated and put together that aircraft and the pilot that flew the aircraft? It's quite an amazing Every single time a plane takes off, all that wisdom, all that knowledge, all that understanding is coming into play and keeps it in the air. Well, the Lord is keeping it in the air. Now consider the one who made those who designed the aircraft. Consider the one who made those who put the aircraft together. Consider the one who made the pilots who piloting the aircraft who knit them together in the womb of their mothers. Consider the one who designed the laws that allows the plane to fly. Consider the one who made the aluminum That wraps the plane and gives it power to the engines. God's wisdom. Goes so far beyond our human understanding. Goes far beyond our imagination, but that just gives us a comparison The true value of God's wisdom, knowledge, and understanding goes far beyond that illustration. It's so deep, so valuable It's impossible for us to value it. Look at the list we have. The gain from her is better than gain from silver, a profit, better than gold, more precious than jewels, nothing you can compare, nothing you desire can compare with her. Long life It's in her right hand, in her left hand are riches and honor. Her hands are full We've been given the ability to know and understand to an extent created things, finite things. And so God is using our knowledge of finite things to begin to allow us to understand the value of His wisdom. In order to convey the truth about his wisdom, that it's so much greater than anything we can desire or think of in this world. But since divine wisdom is part of God and it cannot be separated from God, and as we as finite creatures are unable to truly grasp it, the value of it God's wisdom is not something that we can assess a value to. As finite created beings, it's just not possible. But we can look to his works to try to grasp even more of the value of his wisdom. Think of the creation. God said, let the earth sprout vegetation, plants yielding seed, fruit trees bearing fruit, and which in there is within their seed, each according to its kind. Just think of the wisdom. The knowledge and understanding of creating a seed from nothing. And then being able to put that seed in the ground and watching it grow and no one really knows how that happens God does. Think of how God created the sun and the moon and hung them in their places. And the star is without number. We still have not got the ability to number all of the stars that God has made. But that's just the creation. Now think of what he's done to your heart. God knows the wickedness of men. Great in the earth that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. But what has he done to the heart? I sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleannesses. From all your idols I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you. I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh, and I will put my spirit within you. And cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God Think of the wisdom to send his son. Knowing of the wickedness of our hearts. Knowing of his plan to clean us, to cleanse us, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. That's the wisdom of God. Yes, it's the love of God. But do you see the plan of redemption that God has devised and and how He has implemented it and put it into Practice. It's even greater than the creation. Such that there is Therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. In all of the works, all of the works of God we immediately see and gravitate to Toward recognizing and acknowledging his power, but do we consider his wisdom and knowledge and understanding with all of these things? Do we meditate upon his wisdom? As we consider his works, does that cause you to bend your heart before the Lord your God in praise it should? It should. And then Solomon writes this: My son, do not lose sight of these, keep Sound wisdom and discretion. He has just ascribed to us the wisdom of God. He's shown us a glimpse of the value of the wisdom of God. The preciousness of the wisdom of God, and then he calls us as if he needed to, because he did. Do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom. Presents a question to us tonight, doesn't it? What do you have your sight set upon this evening? Paul writes in Colossians 3: if you've been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above. Set your mind on the things that are above, not on the things that are on earth. That's much of what this passage is all about. What do you have your sight on tonight? Is it Christ? Is it the wisdom of God? What is it that you're seeking to keep? If the Lord God put the man in the Garden of Eden, he called him to work it and keep it. There's a sense in which he was calling Adam to keep it free from sin. Proverbs 4, we read, keep hold of instruction, do not let go, guard her, for she is your life. That's the idea. There's nothing more valuable than the wisdom, knowledge, and instruction, the the understanding of God. And that's how Paul could write in in his letter to those at Philippi, I count everything as lost because of the surpassing worth of knowing. Christ Jesus my Lord, he knew that Christ was his wisdom. He knew that Christ was his understanding. That I may know him in the power of his resurrection and may share in his sufferings, becoming like him in his death. Paul cast off everything. And said, is of no value to me. Only Christ. Do you think of wisdom that way? Do you think of Christ that way? Do you make tireless efforts to gain this wisdom, to gain Christ? That's what this passage is calling us to. Tireless efforts to grasp, to keep, to set our sights upon, to hold, to find it. Tonight the call is to meditate upon the value, the infinite value of the wisdom of God, which is in Christ himself, who is the wisdom of God. That brings us to our third point, the benefit of wisdom. As you see it here tonight, we can think of many benefits that we enjoy. Benefits of education, benefits of employment, benefits of a savings account, stocks, benefits of having a home, of family, benefits of retirement. But this passage is so full of the benefits of the wisdom, the knowledge, and understanding of God. Look at verse 17. Her ways, meaning the ways of wisdom, of divine wisdom, are ways of pleasantness. And all her paths are peace. Think of that for a moment. Pleasant, pleasing, agreeable. Swebster's has Think of Rehoboam, who was Solomon's son, who took the throne after Solomon. He did not take the counsel of the wise, but he took the counsel of the young men who as the people were asking him how he would treat them, he told them that he would treat them harshly. My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add to your yoke. My father disciplined you with whips, but I will discipline you with scorpions. Do you see he did not use wisdom? He did not receive the wisdom of the older men, but took the foolishness, the foolish counsel of the young men. And so as he did not use wisdom, his answer was not pleasant, but harsh, for it lacked wisdom. But wisdom is also the one whose paths are all peace All of wisdom's paths are peaceful. Every single path of wisdom is full of peace. We might say here that all the paths of Christ are peace. For in him all the fullness of God was pleased to dwell. Colossians chapter 1, verse 19. And through him to reconcile to himself all things, whether on earth or in heaven, making peace. By the blood of the cross. Outside of Christ, men are at war with God. But in Christ, who is the wisdom of God, there is peace. The war is over in Christ. You are a friend of God. And so that's the idea. That's where peace comes from. It comes from Christ. And then there is security, verse 23. Then you will walk on your way securely and your foot will not stumble. Are you seeing the benefits of wisdom? The path of wisdom is secure. The path is is headed to glory. The path of that Christ has established for the children of God, the path is sure. It's a path of assurance. There are no doubts on the path of wisdom that leads to eternal life and away from eternal death. And there's no stumbling. Your foot will not stumble. In Adam, all men, women, and children are inclined to sin, they're inclined to stumble, we're inclined to fall. But in Christ, the wisdom of God, the chain to sin has been broken. And as we meditate upon the word of God as it is laid up in our hearts by the Holy Spirit, then You, as the follower of Christ, will not stumble. It doesn't mean that you won't sin, but you won't fall. All of these, pleasantness, peace, security, sure-footedness, describe the blessing and thus the benefits of wisdom. But it doesn't stop there. Look at verse 21. My son, do not lose sight of these. Keep sound wisdom and discretion, and they will be life for your soul. How often do we think of wisdom, knowledge, and understanding as being life to our soul? Probably not very often. In fact, we probably think little regarding life for our soul. We think a lot about life for our bodies and the need for food and drink and clothing. We need these things. But what about life for your soul? What about our spiritual being? Is it possible for the physical to exist outside of the spiritual? The answer is no. We are body and soul. We can't remove one from the other. We need to feed our souls. We must have it. Without it we're spiritually dead and thus really dead. And so it is important. We need wisdom and understanding and knowledge to feed Feed our souls, it's life for our souls. Wisdom brings life to the soul. The Word of God enlivens His people, it nourishes our souls, the Word of God builds up our souls, it gives us spiritual muscle and endurance and perseverance, just as food and drink. help the body to fight off diseases. The wisdom of God, known by and through his word, fends off spiritual diseases. It's both offensive and defensive and should cause you to think of Christ tonight. If wisdom and discretion are life for your soul, and if Christ is the wisdom of God, then you must not lose sight of Christ. You must keep Christ, for He is life for your soul. There's one more benefit that we see here. And it's in verses 24 through 26. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your asleep will be sweet. You see, there's sweet rest, and there's no fear as you gain wisdom and knowledge and understanding. So many times we are in turmoil. What's going to happen in the future? Well, I still have a job. What about that sickness, that illness? Will I even be alive next week? What about my neighbor? We haven't been getting along. If you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. How often is our sweet interrupt uh is our sleep interrupted or disturbed The Lord is telling us that as we pursue wisdom, as we pursue understanding, as we pursue knowledge, that this will be one of the benefits. Do not be afraid of the sudden terror or the ruin of the wicked when it comes. The Lord is not saying that the wicked will not come to ruin, he's saying in fact they will, but as you gain wisdom and knowledge and understanding, as you look to Christ, as you set your As you set your sights upon Christ Jesus, then you won't be afraid of the terror that will come upon the ruin of the wicked. How is this? Verse 26, for the Lord will be your competence and will keep your foot from being caught. You see the you see what Solomon is doing? He's saying the wisdom, the knowledge, and understanding can't be separated from the Lord. They're one and the same. And that's why, as we read in the New Testament, Christ Jesus is indeed the wisdom of God. They can't be separated. The Lord will be your confidence Brothers and sisters, is he your confidence tonight? Are you seeking his wisdom and knowledge and understanding and understanding that the wisdom of God is in Christ Jesus, that he is indeed the wisdom of God and As you lie down, are you sleeping sweetly? If you're not, you might be asking yourself the question tonight, am I truly seeking the wisdom of God? Am I seeking to gain him? Am I tirelessly seeking after it tonight? Yes, the only true divine wisdom leads one on the path to blessed eternal life. Solomon did not cut that child in two. He never intended to. The Lord had given him the wisdom because he understood the hearts of those women. Brothers and sisters, the call for us tonight is to find wisdom, is to get understanding. to understand that the wisdom, knowledge, and understanding of God is more valuable to us than anything here on this world. And that this will indeed be life for your soul. We need to be those who ask God through the Lord Jesus Christ to lead us in this important work of gaining wisdom, knowledge, and understanding. Praise be to God. Amen. Our Father in Heaven, we are so negligent at times At times we get tired. At times we don't understand the value of seeking after you through your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. At times we don't value your word and see, Father, how it is full of riches for us. We pray that you change our minds, Father. Help us to meditate upon this passage tonight. And help us to seek Christ, who is your wisdom. Indeed, he is the wisdom of God. We thank you, we praise you for this passage, and we ask, Father, lay it up in our hearts. And help us indeed to practice it in our lives. We ask this all in Jesus' name. Amen.