Continue to stand as I read for us 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verses 6 through nine 6 through eleven Let us uh now hear the word of the Lord. However We speak wisdom among those who are mature. Not the wisdom, yet not the wisdom of this Nor the rulers of this age who are coming to nothing. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery The hidden wisdom which God has ordained thee for the ages for our glory Which none of the rulers of this age knew, for had they known, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I has not seen, nor ear heard, nor have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for those who love him. But God has revealed them to us through his Spirit. For the Spirit searches all things, yea, the deep things of God. For what man knows the things of a man except the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so, no one knows the things of God except the Spirit of God. Now we have which we have received not the spirit of the word Excuse me, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit who is from God, that we might know the things that have been freely given to us by God. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. In our text today, we see the Apostle Paul asking the Corinthian Christians to reflect and evaluate the ministry that he had with them, among them. These verses help us understand the strength of the faith that Paul had in the Lord as he conducted his ministry. Paul, you see, was not depending on the fact that he was such a great orator to get his point across. Nor was his confidence in the so-called wisdom of the philosophers of the age, or in the great rulers of the day. There wasn't anything dynamic about his external appearance. He wasn't charismatic in the meaning of that word today. Paul simply preached the excellence of God's word. And he focused that word on Jesus Christ and him crucified. And having done that, he trusted that God would use the Holy Spirit to apply the Christ-centered message to the hearts of sinners. This was Paul's method of ministry. And this is what in God he placed his confidence. He believed that what Christ had previously promised the disciples in John chapter 14 through 16 That the Holy Spirit would come and convict sinners whenever the word of God was proclaimed. He believed that. And he acted on that belief. So confident was he in the Holy Spirit's help that Paul believe the Spirit would alleviate his greatest concerns about his own ministry, namely That in all things that he did, that God would get the glory, number one, and number two, as verse five puts it So that your faith, in other words, his audience, the faith of his audience, so that your faith would not stand in the wisdom of men. But in the power of God. Everything he taught was in order to see the Spirit work that kind of work in the minds and in the hearts of God's people. That the Spirit would bless the Word of God and the people of God Would not have their confidence in the wisdom of the world or in the wisdom of men, but they would have their confidence in the power of God This is what drove Paul in his ministry. The wisdom, the gospel, you see, is the epitome of wisdom from God. He tells us in our text that the Word of God, the gospel is the wisdom of God, and even more intriguing, it is a mystery. Hidden from the ages. And so as we look at this message that Paul says he proclaimed among the Corinthians, We find it characterized in two different ways. It's first of all wisdom. With some qualifiers to that wisdom. And secondly, it's mystery from God, hidden from the ages. In verse 6 of this chapter, he says, We speak wisdom among them that are perfect, yet not the wisdom of this world. There's the qualifier. nor of the princes of this world that have come to naught. The wisdom of God in verse 6 is what Paul Believed he was declaring in his message. He immediately places the wisdom of God in the sharpest possible contrast with the wisdom of the world. We've already seen Paul doing this in chapter 1 from about the 18th verse on. of 1 Corinthians. There we see the wisdom of the world is diametrically opposed to the wisdom of God. As that wisdom is expressed in the gospel, in the Bible, in the ministry of Jesus Christ. You see, the Bible's wisdom is of God, and therefore that wisdom is holy and infinite wisdom. While the wisdom that come from men is wicked and finite. And wicked and finite wisdom are fundamental, basic, limiting factors. That work against the truth and work to cancel out the gospel, the wisdom of God. The content of Paul's wisdom can be expressed in a number of different ways, but it surely is what he says in verse 2 of chapter 2. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. That's what he preached That's what he taught. That's what the wisdom of God revolved around and centered in and focused on. Jesus Christ crucified and resurrected. The world, by its wisdom, does what with the crucifixion of Jesus Christ? It considers it foolishness. It considers it foolishness. The preaching of the cross, 1 Corinthians 1. 18. Is to them that perish foolishness. But to us who are saved, it is the power of God. And then again, a little bit further in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 25, he goes on to say, Paul goes on to say, the foolishness of God is wiser than men. And the weakness of God is stronger than men. There is a huge chasm between the wisdom of men and the wisdom of God. It's a chasm that cannot be breached. It is amazing to me that the Apostle Paul Who is formally a man of the world, educated in the world's wisdom, formally It's an amazing thing that he reveals that he now embraces God's superior wisdom. And he proceeds to make the wisdom of God in his preaching to be his only confidence. Paul can do this only because God enabled a blinded Paul to see the truth. Before the bar of the wisdom of God, the wisdom of men, whether they be philosophers or the powers that be, That wisdom is flawed. It's limited. It's biased. As Paul wrote about in 2 Timothy chapter 3, we read earlier. There are men who follow the world's wisdom, are ever learning, but never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Isn't that a frightening thing. Doesn't that just distress you? That with all the money we place into education in our culture and all the various different values that go with a a good university education, no matter how high a person goes. It ain't gonna save them. You can have all the wisdom of the world, and that doesn't get you to salvation. The wisdom of God will get you there. And it gets you there at a very beginning, at a very beginner's level. Do you know Jesus Christ, crucified and resurrected for your sins? That's the beginning. That's what Paul preached. That's what Paul taught. And of course he elaborated on that, but always Jesus was focal. He was the focal point in what he had to say, in what he taught, what he proclaimed, even to the Corinthian church. So, first of all, Paul says that what he proclaimed, he characterizes as the wisdom of God. Secondly, He characterizes this wisdom of God, verse 7, as a mystery, even a hidden mystery. Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory Boy, that is some verse. That is a powerful verse And um and uh you know we could spend a lot of time unpacking this verse and and we will touch some points. But I want you to think about that verse. I want you to go home and meditate on verse 7. This verse immediately rouses our curiosity. Mystery Suspense. Fascination. You know, mysteries always evoke those kinds of things. Paul says, we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery. First of all, notice the minute you begin speaking about something, even if it is a ministry, you start shedding light on it. You start unpacking and revealing the mystery. When Paul says we speak, what is that? That's the word. What Paul's ministry was about was proclaiming the Word of God. We speak what he calls a mystery. And then he further goes on to call it hidden wisdom. And we find out who hid it. In verse 7, God ordained it. We find out when God hid it. From before the world, we find out why God did it. And this is the most surprising of all. Why did God Have men speak the wisdom of God and the mystery, the hidden wisdom which he ordained before the world? For our glory, for our glory Obviously, you can't read that verse without coming to a conclusion or an implication that God is the one, and his will is the one who is behind all the hiding of information. God is revealing the mystery to some in the wisdom, not of the world, but in the wisdom of God. And he is obscuring the mystery to others. He's hiding it from some. This, brothers and sisters, is what I'd like to call a divine in-your-face display of God's sovereignty. A divine in-your face display of God's sovereignty. You read this and your natural nature goes, ah. And worse, this is repulsive to the natural man because it really puts us all in our place. And it tells us again, Joan, who is the creator and who is the creature? And you can you can rant and rave about all this all you want And you can say it is not fair, it is not right, it is not good that God does these kinds of things, but you aren't going to win the argument. It is what it is It is what it is. God has hidden in a mystery Truth, saving truth, from some that he doesn't want to hear. And he has revealed Truth to those he wishes to hear and understand the mystery of his saving work. This goes hand in hand with what Jesus said when he was confronted by his disciples with a rather simple question. Matthew chapter 13. Why do you teach the masses in parables? Why did you just tell this story about the parable of the sower? Now you all know the parable. And Jesus went on to make this, to give this answer. Verse uh 11 of Matthew 13, he answered and said to them, Because it is given to you, unto you, it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven. But to them it is not given For whosoever hath to him shall be given. And he that hath more abundance, and he shall have more abundance. But whoever hath not From him shall be taken away even that he hath. Oh, gee, God, you're so unfair. You've heard that, right? This is so unfair. Once again, it's only unfair if everybody deserves salvation. If nobody deserves it, who are we to claim it to be unfair? It goes on in that passage. Jesus says in verse thirteen of Matthew 13, therefore I speak to them in parables. Because they can see, because they seeing see not. They see, but they see not. They hear, but they hear not. Neither do they understand. And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Isaiah, which says, by hearing ye shall hear and shall not understand, and seeing ye shall see and not perceive. For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have closed, lest at any time they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and would understand With their heart and should be converted, and I should heal them. Finally, but blessed are your eyes But looks at the disciples. Blessed are your eyes, for you see, and your ears, for they hear. For verily I say to you Many prophets and righteous men have desired to see the things which you see, but have not seen. And to hear the things which you hear, but have not heard. But did not hear. And what does Jesus do after saying that He explains the parable of the seller. Two twelve men. And that's it. That's it. He explains the wisdom of God, the hidden Wisdom, the mystery of God, hidden in the parable of the sower. As we think about this, about God's word being wisdom and God's word being mystery. We need to also very much appreciate who is this message of the gospel for? Who is this wisdom of God? Who is the audience? Who is the recipient? And he gives an answer, verse six, among those who are mature. Among those who are mature. The word there for mature is sometimes perhaps translated different ways. It's those who are complete, those who are perfect, those who are mature. Now here we have a little bit of a conundrum because obviously Paul is talking here to the Corinthians. the Corinthians at Corinth, who were going to find out are anything but complete and perfect amateur spiritually on one level However, though their sanctification is lagging, their justification is not. And in the sense that we are declared holy by faith in Christ Jesus, I think that's the sense in which this mature completeness and perfectness is mentioned. We are already in God's sight, by faith in Christ, holy. And yet we are not yet Perfectly righteous in terms of every aspect of our life being holy That comes only with glorification. But we're still we're we're in, we're we're we're called mature, or we're called as Paul will call the saint the people at Corarth, he will start off by addressing them as saints. We know they weren't. By any stretch of the imagination, they had multiple sinful problems. They weren't saints as you think of holiness, but they were saints in the sense that they believed. And that was their status before God. So he says that this message is for those the message about Christ being crucified, this this wisdom of God, this This message that has is a mystery that's been hidden from the beginning is for any believer. Any believer who is growing in grace and being sanctified. Here in this passage he's referring to the Corinthian Christians, but it's for all those. Who are given by God to hear and see and understand the mystery of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Anyone that God has prepared to hear the message about Christ crucified, any believer growing in grace and being sanctified. is who this message is for. In 1 Corinthians 2, the mature and complete and perfect are The Corinthian Christians. They are the ones who to whom it's been given to hear. They have understood. They have professed their faith And it really struck me, the last phrase of verse seven. As Paul says, this mystery is hidden from the ages by God who ordained it before the ages for our glory. The mystery hidden from the ages that believers now understand solely because God ordained it so that we would understand. Most amazingly of all, this hidden mystery is for our glory. I really don't know how to fully understand all that. I hear it. I believe it. But can you imagine God doing deliberately Working out the situation so that you would hear the gospel, understand the mystery hidden from the ages, because He gave you the Holy Spirit to help you understand. Can you understand how that is for your glory? I can readily understand how it is for God's glory. But it's harder for me to understand how it's for m how it's for my glory. I don't understand that. I confess to you, I don't understand it. It's striking. But I believe it. I accept it, and in some way God will show me what I don't understand now fully I guess we could say it's it's it's for our glory in the sense that The greatest blessing we can have is to know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, both here and forever. That's a glorious thing God has enabled you as a Christian to hear and to believe the mystery of his gospel. He has done so because of the work of the Holy Spirit. And again, it's the work of the Holy Spirit that Jesus told his disciples That the Spirit would come and the Spirit would do. And again, John 14 through John 16 speaks about what the Spirit does in relation to helping us to understand the wisdom of God, the gospel of Christ. The mystery hidden from the ages. It's the Spirit who helps us to know. Let's just look at a couple of verses. John 14, 16 through 18. I will pray the Father, he will give you another comforter, that he will abide with you forever, the Spirit of Truth. Whom the world cannot receive, because it sees him not, neither knoweth him. But you know him, for he dwells in you And shall be in you. I will not leave you comfortless, but I will come to you. So God has given us the spirit of truth. That assumes that the Spirit of Truth is going to help us to know truth because he's dwelling in us. John 15, 26, when the comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father again, even the Spirit of truth. which proceeds from the Father, he shall testify of me. So the Spirit witnesses about Jesus to us. Who he is, what he did, what he continues to do. John 16, 12 through 14. I have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. Howbeit, when the Spirit, once again, three times, the Spirit of truth is come, he will guide you into all truth. With the Spirit, mysteries are understood. With the Spirit, the wisdom of God In the idea that focused in Jesus Christ is revealed And is truth to us. How should we how should what should we think about all of this I mean, it's good to talk about these things and to know these things, but what does it mean? What practical effect does it mean that the Holy Spirit That God has revealed wisdom that was hidden from the ages past His wisdom has been revealed unto you through the work of the Holy Spirit for your glory. What does it mean? Well, it must mean something. And I think what it means is how we react to this. For the first thing this ought to do in a believer's heart is to be humble. Is to be humble. And the second thing it ought to do is to be encouraged. To be encouraged God has hidden mystery from the ages to be revealed unto you for his glory and for yours. Truly, these are blessings from God. They're way beyond our ability to understand them. But we believe them and we embrace them because the word says so. And that's because the Spirit's working in your heart. Nothing in all creation Nothing in all creation is privy to God's mystery but you And every other believer in Christ. Think about that As Peter said in 1 Peter 1, verses 10 through 15, of which salvation the prophets have inquired and diligently searched. Peter's reflecting on this mystery. He says, of which salvation the prophets, Old Testament prophets, have inquired and diligently searched Who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you? Searching what and in what manner of time the Spirit of Christ, which was in them, did signify. They wanted to know. The Old Testament prophets wanted to know. when God was going to bring the Christ and when the when this amazing redemptive work was going to happen When God was going to be the Spirit that reveals truth and opens up their eyes to understand the mystery of God's wisdom hidden from the ages. They wanted to know, but they didn't see it. As Peter goes on unto whom it was revealed that not unto themselves, but unto us did they minister these things. which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down. You hear all that? Preach the gospel. Christ crucified. With the Holy Ghost enabled you to understand, sent down from heaven, which things angels long to look into. That's why I said, only you are privy to the secrets of the mystery of the gospel of Jesus. Jesus Christ. Even angels don't understand it. Therefore, gird up the loins of your mind. Here's a therefore. This is the case? This is what it's there for. This is what it means. I said be humbled and be encouraged earlier. But now he says, gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Continue to hope in God's grace in Christ As obedient children, not fashioning yourself according to the former lusts and ignorance But, as he who called you is holy, so you be holy in all your conversation, in all that you do. You see, wisdom and mystery were the mature To God be glorified, Amen. Most merciful God, our Heavenly Father, as we hear these words, Lord, we pray that In each of our hearts there would be an explosion of wonder at uh The extravagant way in which you have revealed truth to us in Jesus Christ. Lord, Give us a greater understanding of the great God that we serve. Lord, that We might live for Him with out of thankful hearts. And that we might rejoice, O Lord, that You in your infinite wisdom from the beginning of time determined that we should know. And only because you did so do we know. And do we have life in Jesus, your son? We praise you and thank you for Him, and ask you, Lord, that each day and each step in each way Of our lives we might live for your glory and praise. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen