Please remain standing. Turn to Hebrews chapter ten, beginning at verse eleven, and reading on through verse eighteen. And uh the text of the sermon today will center on verse 16 of Hebrews chapter 10. Listen now to the word of God. And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins. But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins forever, sat down at the right hand of God. Even that time waiting till his enemies are made his footstool. For by one offering he has perfected forever those who are being sanctified. But the Holy Spirit also witnesses to us. For after he had said before This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws into their hearts and in their minds, I will write them. Then he adds, their sins and their lawless deeds, I will remember no more. Now, where there is remission of these, there is no longer an offering for sin. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seated. We look at uh verse sixteen as we begin our our uh message this morning. Uh This is the covenant I will make with them after those days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their hearts And in their minds I will write them. Their sins and iniquities I will remember no more. Now if you uh are really careful and you were listening earlier, you will remember that that statement in verse 16 is a direct time we said that God was speaking to the Jews. in Jerusalem about 600 BC through Jeremiah the prophet and he was he was telling them of a greater day that was coming. He was making a promise to them. Now that's even in the midst of the fact that they were rebellious, they weren't listening to him, they were following other gods, they refused to repent, they wouldn't listen to Jeremiah's exhortations to repent Nevertheless, God promised a better day, a better day coming, a day that would be spiritually so much better for God's people. Even to the point that the Lord in that promise says, I will put my laws in their heart. I will put my laws in their hearts. In their minds, I will write them. And their sins and iniquities I will remember no more. Now the writer of Hebrews quotes that in our text this morning. And he says that the Holy Spirit, verse 15 Also witnesses to us. And by us there, he's referring to his listeners. The audience that he is writing to. But it it the us is broader than that. It also refers to anybody who reads this word, to any Christian. These words are important. Because what God promised in Jerem third Jeremiah thirty-one, God has Accomplished in the work of Jesus Christ. And It's that all-encompassing work of the Lord Jesus Christ, the blessings that flow from Christ's ministry that we want to pay attention to. this morning. And there's something else about this verse, Jeremiah 31, that is quoted here in Hebrews chapter 10. As a matter of fact, it's interesting to note that Jeremiah 31, 31, and 32 are quoted before. In Hebrews. They are quoted in Hebrews 8, verse 8. And so when you see a particular Old Testament passage being quoted, You know, it's something you'd sit up and take notice of. But the fact that it's been quoted twice in the book of Hebrews really is speaking to us. We have here what we should understand to be literar in a literary way, a bracket. Hebrews 88 is one side of the bracket. Hebrews 1016 is the other side of the bracket, and on both sides of the bracket is Jeremiah 31 You understand? Everything that's in between there, everything in between that bracket is meant to describe how God fulfilled this promise in Christ. And when you start, you know, we've been going through this very section of Scripture. And when you start going through this section of Scripture, one thing comes right up and hits you and smacks you across the face. At least it did me. It smacks you across the face and that is that Our Savior, Jesus Christ, has done and fulfilled everything He has brought about a salvation that accomplishes everything that's necessary for sinners to be made right with God. And God predicted this in the book of Jeremiah. Seven hundred years roughly before this actually occurred, he said, I'm going to make a covenant with And as a result of that covenant, I will write my laws On their heart. I will write my laws on their mind, and their sins I will remember no more. Really powerful stuff. So let's take a look today And see how God's promises in Christ have been kept, and how God has blessed us in Christ with something So much better than has ever been seen before in the realm of human history This is the covenant, verse 16, that I will make with them after these days, says the Lord. I will put my laws in their hearts and in their minds, I will write them. God says to the people in Jeremiah, now being fulfilled, to the Hebrews and to the Christians indirectly as well. He says, I will make a covenant with them. Now God has made covenants with his people all throughout the Bible, but this one is a new covenant. And this one has something added to it or a part of it that has never been seen before. It has been hinted at, but it's never been done In all the previous covenants that God made. God is making a covenant. He promises to make a covenant with them who has to be a a reference to all believers, the audience of Hebrews, you as you read this, and this new covenant, God establishes a new relationship with his That's always been the case. But the people God is establishing a new relationship with are to be holy as He is holy. God wants a holy people. And how do we know what God deems as being holy in his Well, we do have what's called the moral law, the Ten Commandments, as a brief summary of what constitutes holiness in God's sight. Because as you recall, Jesus summarized the holy life when he said the first commandment is you shall love your neigh you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength, and you shall love your neighbor as yourself. That constitutes fulfillment of his law. That also constitutes holiness in the sight of God. When you fully understand Now the problem is with all of us as human beings, we cannot do that on our own. We cannot. We might try, but we can't sustain it. We might try to do it, but our efforts will be imperfect. We cannot love another person because we fundamentally love ourselves most. And we don't always think about it that way, but every time you sin, you love yourself more than you love God. And if you happen to sit against a brother or a sister or a neighbor, you love yourself more than your neighbor. or your brother. But God wants his people to be holy. This is should come to no surprise to you. He wants his people to be Be loving him. He wants his people to be loving others. He wants his people to live a life that brings glory to him. Listen to First Peter chapter two, verse nine, when he's talking about uh the church of believers that he's writing to, most of which are in today's the churches were in today's Turkey Modern-day land of Turkey, he says, you are a chosen generation, a royal peace priesthood, a holy nation. a holy nation, a particular people, that you should show forth the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light You are talking to the church, talking to the believers in those various churches. You are a holy people Prior to this, in 1 Peter 1, verse 16, he says, Be ye holy, as I, God, am holy. Holiness is a big thing with God. Leviticus, and it's not just Peter saying it, but as far back as Leviticus chapter 19, and maybe even before that, it says it directly. Speak unto all the congregation of the children, and say to them, You shall be holy. For I, the Lord your God, am holy. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 14. Follow peace with all men and holiness, without which no one shall see God. Do you realize that? Here we are, we have a problem. We're not holy in and of ourself, and yet we have that passage from Hebrews. If you don't follow after peace and holiness, you won't see God. But you will see something else. What you see will not be pleasant. Again, not a pleasant thought. But it's not all hopeless Because you see, what God has done in order to fulfill this demand of holiness is he has given to us a holy one And that Holy One's name is Jesus. He is the Son of God in human flesh. And the mo and the important thing about him is Is that he came and dwelt among us, and throughout his life he kept the law of God perfectly. The one human who did it. The one God man who did it wholly. Perfectly. He did it to the point where he obeyed his father. Die for us. He obeyed his father, gave up his right of self And all that he was, is, as God incarnate, gave that, in a sense, up so that he could die. On the cross, gave up the privileges, the prerogatives of being God in the flesh To die for us sinners. That starts the process of becoming holy in God's For what God says is anyone who believes in Christ, they have Christ's righteousness. Imputed to their account. God takes Christ's righteousness and places it on you. And he declares you by faith in Christ to be holy. But God doesn't end it there. He said in this promise, and this is what is unique about this new covenant that's promised and now is being fulfilled in Hebrews. He says, uh I will make these people my people Holy, because I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds I will write them. What happens is that the Ten Commandments are not on papers, on tablets of stone. But God takes and writes them into the believer's heart and into their mind. You can't get away from that as a creature. You have a sense Of what God's law demands, because it's written on your mind and your heart You cannot run and hide from it. There's nowhere on earth you can escape it because you can't escape yourself. It's who you are. And it's what he is doing in the people's lives, bringing them to an understanding that they are to be holy. Assumption is that holiness cannot happen in your life if you retain your old mind and your own heart and your old heart. The heart is described in Jeremiah 17 as deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it. Matthew chapter 15 verse 19. This is not just me saying it. Jeremiah says it. The Bible says it. Jeremiah Matthew 15, verse 19, out of the heart proceeds evil thoughts. Murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, and blasphemies. You see, the old heart has to be changed. The old heart has to be changed. And we need to have a new heart. And faith in Christ Jesus does that. Everyone who has faith in Christ Jesus has a new heart. He's a new creature. Or she is a new creature. Being recreated in the image of Christ the Holy One, with God's law on our heart. He not only gives us the law on our heart and on our minds, but God in this new covenant brings in an even greater element. Into our lives. He brings, which is not just, it's not here, but we know this is the case. He brings the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit to minister to your hearts. You got the status in Christ of being holy before God. And you've got the Holy Spirit alive in your heart to the point where the scriptures, 1 Corinthians chapter 6, say, you're the temple of the living God. Right? That that that and the and Pentecost at Pentecost uh 50 days after the death of Christ, what happens? The Spirit is unleashed. Upon the church. And that Spirit comes. And the Spirit, God says, I will put my laws on your heart. The Spirit works with our new heart. To acknowledge God's work and to cause us to want to keep His laws and to want to be holy in His To give God all the glory, to get away from living for ourselves, to be now living for the glory of God, just as our brother Jesus did. Loving God with all of our see with the Holy Spirit's help we can approach loving God with our heart, mind, soul, and strength. We won't ever do it perfectly. But we will one day in glory do it perfectly. We will love our neighbor as ourself. We can begin to do that now. Do you realize That this pouring out of the Spirit of God to help us to live in accordance with God's law So that we might give glory to him. Do you realize how restricted the Holy Spirit's activity was in the Old Testament? There is no such pouring out into people's lives. There are only a few people mentioned in the Old Testament who are said to have the Spirit with them. Only a few. One is David. There are a couple of others who are said to have the Spirit with them, but only to perform certain tasks. There wasn't this Probably with David there was, but in the others there wasn't this tremendous work of the spirit Placing the law of God upon people's hearts and bringing about renewal, recreation, recreation, excuse me, not recreation, holiness Before God. See, this is this is astounding God commits in this promise, in this promise, back in Jeremiah, he commits actually his son to do the work of redemption. He commits the Holy Spirit. to do the application of the work of redemption. In us rebels. Isn't that something? Isn't that amazing? And and you see we've been going through all this in the past couple of weeks and we've been looking at the ways in which God's promises are being fulfilled in Christ. And I've come to the conclusion there isn't anything about Christ that's lacking There isn't anything about him that that that needs more attention to. He's done it all. He's satisfied everything. that there isn't going to be any other redemptive work of God on behalf of people. This is it. Christ is it. He's all in all. He's accomplished it all. And he has been elevated to heavenly glory where he has sat down. His work is done. His work of redemption is done. And his spirit is still working in our lives, making us more and more holy. But it's the Spirit of God that's at work. He says, my their sins and their iniquities I will remember no more. How can God, who knows everything not remember anymore our sins and iniquities? That's an amazing question. Well it's not that God couldn't remember if he wanted to It is that God no longer can see your old heart. Because the blood of Christ covers your old heart. Christ's death for you, and God's subsequent declaration that if you believe in Christ, you're justified. You're perfect. You're righteous in my sight. You're holy in my sight. God is not going to go back on that. He doesn't see you. Any longer. He doesn't see you as the miserable sinful wretch that you once were. He sees you as his holy child in Christ. Isn't that something? Isn't that amazing? He declares us holy in Christ. No blood of animals ever got that kind of declaration. You see, brothers and sisters, it's because that God does not remember your sins and iniquities anymore. It's because of the work of Christ and the subsequent work of the Holy Spirit in justification and sanctification. that every Christian has this be true about them. What am I referring to? Roman Romans 8 verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus has made you free. From the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin condemns sin in the flesh. that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. Isn't that something? Isn't that amazing? This is what you got. This is what we got as Christians. And it ought to make us all rejoice. And it's because God has fulfilled his promises. In Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Merciful God, our heavenly Father, we are grateful for your word. We're grateful for you, Father. For your infinite wisdom, for the beauty of your saving plan in Christ Jesus, for the grace of the gospel. For the new creatures, Lord, that you're creating in our lives. Nothing we did could merit it. Nothing we could do could repay you. Nothing could come close, but you give it to us as your gift. Lord, we do pray. We do pray, Lord, that we would be so Captivated by the faithfulness of our God, by the fulfillment of his redemptive work, by the promises of the covenant that have been been fulfilled for us in Christ, that we no longer have that w wicked, desperately wicked, deceitful heart But we have a new heart where your laws are written on our heart. And where, Lord, we have a new spirit Where we desire, Lord, to love you and serve you and to bring glory to you instead of ourselves. Lord, continue to help us, Lord, to apply what this means in our life. May the Spirit do His work and help us, Lord, to grow in our Not just our knowledge of you, but also to grow in living for you. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.