If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to Matthew, we'll continue our study there this morning in Matthew 23. It should be on page nine hundred and eighty-four of your pew Bibles. And we'll read the entire chapter this morning. Let's give attention to the very Word of God, Matthew chapter 23. Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, the scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat. So do and observe whatever they tell you, but not the works they do. For they preach, but do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear. and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. For they make their phylacteries broad and their fringes long, and they love the place of honor at feasts, in the best seats, in the synagogues, and greetings, in the marketplaces, and being called rabbi by others But you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers. And call no man your father on earth, for you have one father who is in heaven. Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ. The greatest among you shall be your servant. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. For you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Woe to you, scribes. And Pharisees, hypocrites. For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte. And when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves Woe to you, blind guides, who say, if anyone swears by the temple it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he is bound by his oath. You blind fools, for which is greater the gold of the temple that has made the gold sacred. And you say, if anyone swears by the altar, it is nothing, but if anyone swears by the gift that is on the altar, he's bound by his oath. You blind men. For which is greater, the gift of the altar that makes the gift sacred. So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and by everything on it. And whoever swears by the temple swears by it and by him who dwells in it And whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you tithe mint and dill and cumin, and have neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice and mercy and faithfulness These you ought to have done without neglecting the others, you blind guides, straining out a gnat and swallowing a camel Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and the plate, and the outside also may be clean. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. For you are like whitewashed tombs, which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So you also outwardly appear righteous to others, but within you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate the monuments of the righteous, saying, If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in shedding the blood of the Prophets. Thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your fathers, you serpents You brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes Some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town, so that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth From the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barakiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. See, your house is left to you desolate. For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Amen. A sprawl on the reading of God's word. Please be seated. Would you pray with me? Our Father in heaven, now we come. And ask that you would open your word to us by your Spirit. Holy Spirit, we pray, move powerfully among us. Help us to understand this passage and not merely understand it, Father, but plant it within us. And help us to do all that you have for us within this passage. Grant us these things, Lord, all for the glory of Christ Jesus. We ask this in his name. Amen. Who are you following this morning? Seems to be an important and critical question as we come to this particular passage. Who are you following As the Israelites were wandering In the wilderness there came a group of men led by a man named Korah. If you're familiar with this passage in Numbers, it's referred to as Korah's rebellion. And he approached Moses and Aaron and said to them, You've gone too far. For all in the congregation are holy, every one of them. Korah was seeking to remove Moses and Aaron from their places of leadership amongst the assembly. And the problem was, not merely did Korah make this statement, but brought with him 250 chiefs of the congregation, men chosen from the assembly, well-known men. They were following Korah in his rebellion. And so if you know this passage, you know that the end of this passage finds Korah swallowed up by the earth. Everything, his household, and all the people who belonged to Korah. Meaning all the people who followed Korah were swallowed up by the earth. They went to their graves that day. They went alive down to Sheol. That was a result of following a man who opposed God and his will. As he had sent Moses and Aaron to lead the people into the promised land. In a sense that brings us to our passage this morning. As Jesus Christ is on his way to the cross. But before he gets there, he's continuing to minister to those who will hear him. This morning the question of authority continues in this text We've seen it in the passages that we have recently entered into. Jesus' authority has been questioned and continues to be questioned. And this passage, in a sense, brings it to culmination. The Pharisees wanted nothing to do with the authority of Jesus. We saw that as they brought questions to Jesus, each of the three questions, asking that question Where did you get your authority from? Is it valid? Is it true? Is it authentic? And now, as Jesus has answered that question and asked the Pharisees themselves that question about Psalm 110, about the Messiah, about the Christ. And they confess that the Messiah is the son of David. And then he asks the question, how is it then that David can call him Lord? We know the Pharisees had no response. We saw last week that Jesus, the Godman, selflessly used his authority to glorify the Father and bless the children of God. Brings us to our passage today, this chapter 23 in Matthew's Gospel. And we have a headline of sorts in those first four verses. As Jesus is now teaching the crowds and his disciples about the scribes and the Pharisees Do and observe whatever they tell you, but not the works they do. For they preach, but they do not practice. Seems to be a headline that Jesus provides to those who will listen to him before he gets into the particulars of the works of the Pharisees and the scribes. They've been seated by God as teachers, as leaders, having a role akin to that of Moses, or being a teacher, a prophet. But they drastically differed from Moses in the way that they lived before the people of God. They did not use the authority that they had been given in a way to please God, but to displease God. Their authority was not used to bless the people, but to curse the people of God. As Matthew unfolds this headline, that truth is going to be set forth in much detail. In short, these religious leaders, these Pharisees and these scribes, were wolves in sheep's clothing. Matthew uses the seven woes. To describe just how bad they were, how they had turned everything away from God and toward themselves. They were rotten apples, looking sweet and delicious on the outside, but as the peel is removed, completely rotten on the inside. But then Matthew ends the chapter by turning to the people of God. His focus is now away from the religious leaders, and we might think that That the behavior of the Pharisees and the scribes would cause Matthew to have his readers spew compassion for the people who've been misled. But that's not the case. Because the people themselves had rejected God. They rejected Jesus Christ. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen? Gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing. So everyone, the religious leaders, the people of God, all that Jesus came for. Stood in opposition to him and to righteousness. We might sum up this entire chapter This way, that all people of God are called to run from the wolves and hear Jesus Christ, such that their houses will be filled with righteousness. All people of God are called to run from the wolves and hear Jesus Christ, such that their houses will be filled with righteousness. This morning we'll see that in three truths. First, wolves are sheep-like and not Christ-like. Secondly, people are responsible to receive Christ. And then finally, houses are desolate. without Christ. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to continue to ask yourselves Who am I following? Who am I following? Well, first, wolves are sheep-like, not Christ-like. Notice how Jesus begins. The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses' seat. So do and observe whatever they tell you. It's an interesting statement for Jesus to make at this point due as The Greek lexicon defines this word, carry out an obligation, do it. Keep the law, keep the law. Even Jesus had said, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of God, but the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. And observe. Again, the Greek lexicon to persist in obedience. That seems to be what Jesus is saying. Do and observe whatever they tell you. The scribes and the Pharisees again have been set in the role of beating teachers of Israel. That's how he refers to Nicodemus. You're the teacher of Israel. And so they sit on Moses' seat. It's an interesting way to describe the Pharisees and the scribes. They sit on Moses' seat. Remember that the law was given through Moses. And so as Jesus to clarifies or characterizes the Pharisees and the scribes as sitting on Moses' seat, that's really what he's doing. He's saying the scribes and the Pharisees were given the work of teaching the law. They were to be experts in the law. They were to bring the law to the people of God We also know that Jesus could not be saying, and was not saying, that the Pharisees and scribes got everything right as they taught. Consider the Pharisees as they challenged Jesus on the Sabbath. They were wrong in their understanding of the Sabbath, and Jesus had to set them straight. And as he spoke to his disciples, he tells them to beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and Sadducees. As he spoke of the leaven, he was speaking of their teaching. And so Jesus cannot be saying that the Pharisees and Scribes got everything right. And so that do and observe must be limited or qualified. Do and observe as they teach in accordance with the law of Moses. It all seems to be set up so that they would take heed to the warning that he gives next. Do and observe whatever they tell you, but here's the critical part, not the works they do, for they preach, but they do not practice. So what were the works of the Pharisees and the scribes that Jesus was mentioning? That while they were to listen to the teaching, as long as it was in accordance with the Word of God They were not to follow their example. Well Jesus mentions four categories here as the as the Primary teaching here within this chapter, or at least the most words ascribed to it. First The first category was the Pharisees and the Scribes. Their works had no mercy. They tie up heavy burdens, hard to bear, lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves were not willing to move. than with their finger. This is the opposite of mercy. Indeed, this sounds like the oppression of the Egyptians. They ruthlessly made the people of Israel work as slaves. Hard service in mortar and brick. Heavy loads. Placed within them, ruthlessly making them work as slaves. They tie up heavy burdens hard to bear. As the Pharisees called for obedience to tradition, to extra-biblical demands, they were tying up heavy burdens which no one could bear. Nor should they have been called the bear. Their works were not works of mercy. Secondly, they They sought to self-exalt or self-glorify. Look at verse 5. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. And so we can think of those deeds which we would consider to be deeds of good works. They do all their deeds To be seen by others. The motive behind their good deeds was not the glory of God. No, their intention was self-glory. Their motivation was self-exaltation. Stated in another way, the reason the Pharisees and the scribes pursue or did good works was solely for others to see them doing them and think well of them. They were pointing to themselves. They were pointing to themselves rather than to God. Stealing the praise and the honor and glory do God alone. But you are not to be called rabbi. That's what they loved. They loved the place of honor at feasts and the best seats at the synagogues. They were looking for people to be looking at them. Not God. Jesus sums up his observations. He actually summed them up back in the Sermon on the Mount. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. See how the Sermon on the Mount just works its way out through the entire Gospel of Matthew. And here Jesus sums up this self-exaltation by the Pharisees in verse 12. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. No mercy, self-exaltation, and then third, the Pharisees were blind leaders For you travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte, and when he becomes a proselyte, you make him twice as much a child of hell as yourselves. Jesus characterizes the Pharisees as hypocritical, blind men leading others. to their destruction. You shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces, for you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Think of that, just the the visual of shutting the doors to the kingdom of heaven, not allowing anyone in. Remember again Jesus' words, whoever causes one of these little ones to believe in me to sin, it would be better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned. Pharisees and scribes were blind. They were blind guides. They were blind fools. They reduced God to second place in all things. They failed and refused to give the Lord the honor and praise due his name alone and called for the honor to be given to creation. If anyone swears by the temple, it is nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he's bound by his oath. They focused on the creation, not on God. They focused upon themselves, just like Nicodemus. Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. They were blind, blind to the truth of God's word. They were blind or refused to see or hardened in their hearts against the word of God, such that they taught lies as truth. Misleading others away from eternal life. Yes. No mercy, self-exalted, and blind leaders. And finally, they were full of hypocrisy outside and inside. For you clean the outside of the cup and the plate, but inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. Jesus equates them to whitewashed tombs. Think of that. The outside of the tomb looking nice white, but inside, full of dead people's bones and uncleanness. That's the picture he's giving us of the Pharisees They looked good from the exterior, at least that's how they looked according to their false teaching. So good that people were following them wrongly. They were not concerned to honor God within their hearts, but were concerned to show others how particularly they kept the traditions of men. They were not righteous in the sight of God, but were self-righteous within their corrupted and defiled hearts. They were not alive to God But we're living to and for themselves. And what does this teach us Wolves are sheep like, yes. It teaches us, it teaches us this morning how to identify, rightly identify those wolves. Paul admonished the elders from Ephesus. He told them that I know, I know that after my departure, fierce Wolves will come in among you. Not from outside, but from among you And so Jesus is teaching those who would listen to him, us this morning, how to identify those wolves. It's by their fruit, isn't it? By their works. And so as you review this chapter, as you read this chapter again and again, you're being taught how to identify those within the church. Or false teachers. But more importantly, I think The emphasis here is actually on Jesus Christ. It's so difficult for us to grasp the perfection and the glory of Jesus. Unless we first have something, someone, that we can truly understand and set in contrast to our Savior. Here the Pharisees and the scribes are just that. Those that we can identify with. Sinners. Set in complete contrast to the purity and the holiness of Jesus Christ. Unlike the Pharisees, Jesus was and is full of mercy. The Pharisees laid up heavy burdens without mercy. Jesus Christ said, Take my yoke upon you, learn from me. For I'm gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls Unlike the Pharisees, Jesus sought his Father's glory constantly, so much so that he veiled his own glory. He didn't count equality with God a thing to be grasped, but emptied himself. Humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Unlike the Pharisees, Jesus taught and teaches the truth. The Pharisees blindly led many away from eternal life with their false teaching. But Jesus cried out, He stood up on the last day of the feast, the great day, if anyone's thirsty, let him come to me and drink. Jesus opened the kingdom by proclaiming the truth, by proclaiming that he was and is the way, the truth, and the life. And unlike the Pharisees, Jesus is pure inside and outside The scribes and Pharisees hid their sin-stained, filthy hearts, but Jesus opened up his heart for all to see. For our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin. One who is in every respect has been tempted as we are yet without sin, a high priest, holy, innocent, unstained, separated from sinners, you know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no Sin. You see the contrast? Do you see the purity of Jesus Christ brought forth As we think upon the Pharisees and their filthy hearts. And now we see Christ. In his purity, in his innocence, in his holiness. This passage calls us this morning to see more of Christ. In his purity, in his holiness, as the Pharisees are set forth in complete opposition to that. Praise be to God Brings us to our second point. The people are responsible to receive Christ. Up to this point, the focus, the primary focus of this chapter has been on the Pharisees, on the scribes. Well, seven woes, which we could have spent a whole lot more time on this morning. And we come to the end of this chapter. In a sense we are coming to the culmination of Jesus' dealings with the scribes and the Pharisees. There's a sense in which we could collectively see, oh those wretched, those wretched, hypocritical, heretical, false, rebellious Pharisees. There's a sense in which we can sit back and point the finger at them and say those religious leaders who were constantly and outwardly opposing and attacking Jesus Christ in the sense at which we are able to look into their hearts and see how they hated Jesus and his ministry. And there's no doubt There's no doubt that these were the ones who should be cast out of the presence of God Almighty I believe that none of us here would be arguing, but the Pharisees are on their behalf And now as we come to the end of this chapter, as Matthew continues to be moved by the Spirit, he asked his reader to consider another group. Now he doesn't write about the religious leaders, he doesn't write about the Pharisees, he doesn't write about the chief priests, the scribes, the Sadducees, or the Herodians. No, he writes about the people of God, the Israelites, the Jews. In general, the finger pointing now is at a much larger group, the people of God, so to speak. And so the proclamation changes. There's a transition. The audience, those being spoken against, changes. The focus is now off the Pharisees. And now squarely on the people of God is as if Jesus said yes. The Pharisees and Scribes, in a sense, are the foundation of the problem of this nation of Israel, the religious leaders are far gone to the point of no return. They've done their damage and will suffer will suffer for their unrepentant sin in hell. And so I will send forth truth tellers in their place. I will correct the false teaching, the misleading, the crooked paths that these false teachers have laid down. Therefore, verse 34. I send you prophets and wise men and scribes, some of whom you will kill and crucify. Some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town We see the mercy of Christ here, and that he continues to send truth To the people. Not through the Pharisees and scribes, but directly to the people. I will send you prophets and wise men and scribes. It teaches us that we have a responsibility to consider what we are being taught. It teaches us that we have a duty, each one of us, to hear Jesus Christ. That He has sent prophets and wise men and scribes and truth-tellers, and thus we have an obligation to judge whether or not we're being taught the very word of God or not. We have a responsibility. Our salvation depends on it that you would rightly discern whether the teaching you're receiving is from God's word or from men. You have a duty, an obligation, to reject false teachers and to hear Jesus Christ, to truly hear Jesus Christ and respond to him. I will send you prophets and wise men and scribes. You have a responsibility to hear and heed God's word as it's opened to you by those whom Christ has placed in that office. Are you? Are you doing that this morning? That's the call from Christ, isn't it? Even in Isaiah in chapter 5, as Jesus cries out, Come everyone who thirsts. And then he asks the question: why do you spend your money for that which is not bread and your labor for that which is not satisfied? Why? Why do you follow those who don't teach the truth? Why do you follow those who are lying, who are seeking to tickle your ears? Why do you spend your money for that which is not bread, your labor for that which is not satisfied? And then he says this, listen diligently to me, and eat what is good and delight yourself in rich food. That's the way he describes his word. That's the way Jesus describes his own teaching is that which you can delight in, that which is good, that which is like rich food. So who are you following? Who are you listening to? There are many voices out there, even voices within the church, that are false. Who are you following? Christ is calling out to you even now. Listen to me. Listen diligently to me. And eat what is good and delight yourself in rich food. Brings us to our third point. That houses are desolate without Christ Everything had been turned upside down. All that the Pharisees were was opposed to Jesus. But that was exactly what the people wanted. For they did not reject the Pharisees, but they rejected the Jesus Christ, how often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings, and you were not willing? You see, this passage comes to us right after Jesus said, I send you prophets and wise men and scribes. I'm sending you the truth. And I wanted to gather you together under my wings, and you were not willing. Christ has been rejected by his people. Which brings us to this terrifying statement by Jesus Christ. See, your house is left to you desolate. I tell you, you will not see me again. Until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. These last few words of Jesus in this particular chapter should be terrifying. To those who have not yet trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ. That was the situation. Jesus had been reaching out to the Israelites, the Jews, the people of God had been sent to them particularly to draw them back. to God, in a sense, the last Old Testament prophet and as well as the first New Testament prophet, if we can put it that way. We have this picture of Jesus coming to his people, the Jews, with open arms. Calling them, repent, turn back to the living God, be saved. The Son of God, the Son of David, the Messiah, the Christ, the only Savior has arrived. Believe upon me. But Jerusalem, the center of the people of God, the capital city, the place where God had placed his own name, would not return. You were not willing. And so their house, their house would become desolate Your house is left to you desolate. Now if we remember Earlier on in Matthew's gospel, as Jesus had entered into Jerusalem, the first place he goes, according to Matthew, is the temple, and he cleanses it, and he speaks about the house of God. Here there's a contrast, isn't there? Your house is left to you desolate Jesus was not speaking about the house of God. Jesus was not saying that God's house would become desolate. No, as the Israelites had entered into the promised land as they were entering into that place where they would dwell with God Himself. And so the sense here is that this one house, a house where God dwelt Among his people would remain, but their individual houses would be desolate Jesus identifies a separation as he states that your house will be left desolate. The house of God would continue, and would continue to be occupied by his people. And Jesus was stating that these people, these Jews, these Israelites who had rejected him would be removed from the house of God and be sequestered in their own homes, which would become desolate. What does that mean? What does it mean that your house would be desolate? Webster defines that word as deprived or deprived of inhabitants, uninhabited Laid waste, in a ruinous condition, neglected, destroyed, solitary, without companion, afflicted That was the prophecy, wasn't it? If you will not listen to me, but walk contrary to me, I will lay your cities waste. And will make your sanctuaries desolate. Your land shall be a desolation, your cities shall be waste, that's Leviticus 26. They were told that this would come to pass. And so now Jesus was saying, this will be the result of your rejection. So now we're starting to see the idea of the houses of the Jews, the Israelites, the people who rejected Jesus as being desolate. In this context, it must mean that they would be without Christ, that their dwelling places, their very lives, would be without a savior. They would be without the only savior of the world. They would remain in their sins within their homes. That's the terrifying idea. That their homes would be sin filled homes Their homes would be homes of disobedience. Their homes would be rebellious houses. That's what it means here to be desolate. To be devoid of Christ, in other words, without righteousness or filled with unrighteousness and thus desolate. The house that is desolate or completely and utterly unrighteous is filled with opposition to the living God has only one end, only one purpose, and that is destruction. Isn't that what we saw in the verses that use this word desolate? A house is marked for destruction. That's what it means to be desolate in this context without Christ, without the only Savior, without the Son of God. Does that concern you this morning? This morning, Christ's arms have have been opened to you. You've heard him call. Come to me and be set free from your sins. Hear me and delight in my righteousness and my goodness and my precious blood. Be washed clean from your sins and receive my holy garments. Of purity. You've heard him. He's called to you. His arms are open and ready to receive you if you confess your sins and plead for forgiveness. Are you ready? Will you come to him? Will you seek Christ while he may be found even today? You see, if you don't, if you refuse his offer, if you've seen his open arms ready to receive you and you reject them and you reject him, there's only one end for you. Your house, your very soul, your life will be desolate. It will be empty without Christ. And you will be suffering eternal and unending destruction in the fires, the torments of hell, just as Jesus warns The Pharisees and the scribes, you serpents, you brood of vipers, how are you to escape being sentenced to hell? And so the call remains. The offer is open. Go to Christ. Plead with him for a new heart, a seeing heart, a tender heart, a humble heart, and believe upon him to your salvation. If you do, if you sincerely plead with Jesus for forgiveness and turn from your sins and believe upon him, you will be saved. Your house will no longer be filled with unrighteousness, but filled with Christ. So the call is open. Will you come and be saved from your sins? Yes, all the people of God are called to run from the wolves and hear Jesus Christ such that their houses will be filled with righteousness. Korah rebelled. And it ended in his death. But the real problem was that 250 others followed his word. And call here this morning is to run from the wolves, run from the Koras, and run to Christ. The only one has the words of truth and the words of life. Praise be to God. Amen. Father in heaven, we thank you for this passage. You are so good to us. We thank you for giving us this contrast And showing us more of Christ. We thank you, Lord God, for sending us prophets and wise men. We thank you for sending us your word, and most of all, we thank you for sending us Christ. And we ask even now, help us. Help us to identify those wolves and to run from them and to run to Christ. Help us to receive His word and heed His Word, lay it up in our hearts. Holy Spirit, we pray. And Father, we ask. Never, never leave our houses desolate. Fill them. Fill our houses with Christ. Fill our homes with the righteousness of Christ Jesus. We plead with you even now. Help us. We ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.