Please continue to stand. Turn to the scripture reading for the sermon. First Corinthians three. First Corinthians three. And verses one uh through four. I know it says seventeen, but I'm just gonna read through four. Let us now hear God's word. And I, brethren, could not speak to you as to spiritual people, but as to carnal. as to a babe in Christ. I fed you with milk and not with solid food, for until now you were not able to receive it And even now, you're still not able, for you are still carnal. For where there is envy, strife, and divisions among you Are you not carnal and behaving like men? For when one says, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos Are you not carnal? Thus far ends uh the reading of God's Word. Uh please be seated. And let us pray. As we come now to the time of uh the exposition of your word, Lord, we pray that uh you would uh attend to that uh teaching, that your spirit uh would speak uh uh through the word to the hearts of your people. It would provide blessing and instruction, correction, uh and uh and and rebuke where necessary, um so that Lord your people uh would um uh demonstrate uh uh uh faithfulness to you. That they would not fall into the trap of um the ways of the world They would not be deceived, but Lord, that they would seek in all things to follow what your word says. And thereby be blessed and thereby give glory to your name. We pray these things now in Jesus' name. Amen. After a long period of Paul dealing with the issues of what is wisdom What is godly wisdom, comparing that to worldly wisdom that we've seen in chapter 2 of uh of 1 Corinthians in our study on this book? We now have come to Paul beginning to address some serious issues in the life of the church. Now, again, all of a substantial amount of chapter two Paul has spent talking about the wisdom of God and the wisdom of the world. Contrasting the two. Also in chapter 2, Paul adds to this discussion the role that the Holy Spirit plays in the alliance of God's people. In um in um helping to uh lead us and guide us Helping to address the needs of our heart, helping us to rid ourselves of sinful behavior, and instead seek to live for God's glory. So you've got a lot going on in chapter two. And in some ways, all that material about wisdom, which we looked at for several weeks, you might think that You might be inclined to think that, well, that's a subject that's more appropriate for Christian philosophers. I mean, after all, they're always interested in what is wisdom And uh the uh the the the issue about the spirit, uh you might you might be inclined to think that Well, um the spirit, uh we know we know all about the spirit and he's he's very essential in helping us to do discerned from false spirits, all the false spirits that are out there. And you might you might think that this is this is pretty heady stuff. That Paul is pointing out, and I agree, it is it is important material and it's significant material. But in chapter 3, it starts coming home to bear in the life of the church. That discussion about wisdom, that role of the Holy Spirit, starts showing up in a very concrete situation. That is happening at the Corinthian church. And most troubling, most troubling is that in the Corinthian church there are divisions. There are uh there are there are divisions that are impacting The ability to fellowship with one another, and or impacting the way in which the church witnesses to the world And um and Paul wants to address that. And uh and he hits the whole thing pretty hard. He starts off Several times in this section, this section, verses one through four, he starts off calling the very people that that he says were saints as he addressed them in chapter 1, he nevertheless says that they are carnal. That they're living as though they are carnal people. And I want to explain that word a little bit more in just a few minutes. But I also want us to think about what are the evidences here in these four verses that demonstrate the carnality, or, if you want another word, the worldliness. Or another word, the fleshliness of the Corinthian church. Because that's what this word means. uh carnality. You are carnal. Verse one. I Paul says I could not, and and now I want to speak about some of the evidences of this carnality that Paul talks about. He says I couldn't speak to you as unto spiritual. I couldn't talk to you as if the Holy Spirit was guiding the discussion. Because the reason I can't do that is because you're carnal. You're fleshly, you're worldly, you're too involved with the values of the world. Which are not the values of Christ. You're too connected with sin, the sins of the ways of the world. He says that furthermore, I can't talk to you not only because you're spiritual, but because you're also babes in Christ. Um uh at best, at best, these are Christian babies. Um I think you have to give them that they're Christian because of Paul saying that your babies But I think you also have to see that they're not living as mature Christian beings They're not their their profession of faith is not what it should be. It's influence by the ways of the world, by the thought patterns of the world, by the attitudes of sinful life. Which they don't have to go very far to find it. It's all around them. Just like it's all around you. You don't have to go far to see what the world believes in It's plastered all over the newspapers. It's in your eyes when you see it on TV, and it's in your face when you actually go out. And see some of the things that are going on in the world. Sin. Sin in its great various applications. You're, he says to these uh believers, you're you're you these Christian days, you're you're you should you're only good enough for milk right now We we gotta uh you can only take milk. You can't take meat. You're not ready to eat meat. We're not ready To uh to to to demonstrate your growth. You know, a child goes through this this the the the the the the the growing up process in which you know for a period of time there's meat and there's wo there's milk and that's all there is and that's all the child needs for a while But there comes a time when the child has to eat more and more solid food. There's many of you who have children. You know this process You know the process of trying to get your children to eat solid food after they've been on milk. You kind of slowly wean them off of the milk and you start giving them ground-up liver with applesauce like we did with my son. And surprisingly enough he ate it uh for a while. And and but then later, you know, as the child grows, you you get more substantial food, right? You get meat You get you get and and God's word is kind of like that too. You know, there there are there are uh things that are ready for babies and then there are things that are ready for adults Grown up. And the idea is that in Christ you should be moving from being a baby to an adult in Christ, the mature Christian, not an infant. And the the church at Corinth is acting like babies because they're carnal, because they've let the values of the world seep in to their fellowship. We've adopted some of those values. More evidence of this phenomenon going on at at uh At um at Corinth. Now, I want to point out that in verse 1, the carnality has the word uh the Greek word sarx. which is the customary word for fleshly. And in this instance, it it refers to sinfulness. Now, in verse 4, there's another use translation of the word carnal, but it isn't sarks that is being used. It's another word And we read in verse 4, for while one saith, I am of Paul, and another, I am of Apollos King James, New King James reads, are you not carnal? Are you not carnal? The King James, however, reads More literally, are you not men? Are you not men? The generic word for man doesn't use it That may seem like a small thing, and in some ways it it maybe is a small thing, but what Paul is saying here with that word, he's expanding what he means by fleshly. He's saying you're behaving like the rest of humanity, like those outside of the church. You're not supposed to be behaving that way, sinfully. You're behaving like the sinful world. And what is it? What is it that he says is an evidence that they're behaving like the sinful world? Well, it's this matter that they're saying, I am of Paul and I am of Apollos. Well, that's interesting. Um, these are both two men who are well known Their biographies are in the New Testament. We find as we look at those biographies, of course, Paul is the more dominant character But we find that both men were teaching Christ, that both men were professing Christians, they both were recognized leaders in their churches. Or the churches they served, and they were highly versed in their understanding of the Bible. The Holy Spirit had taught them well and taught them both Yet for some reason, which isn't explained, segments of believers in the church at Corinth are picking one man over the other. Some like Paul more than Apollos. Some like Apollos more than Paul. And that picking is not just the only problem. It's okay to have favorite teachers, you see. But what these what this picking has done is started to pit one against the other. has started to pit the gifts that these men have over against each other so that part of the congregation is getting the benefit of one of the teachers And the other part of the congregation is getting the benefit of the other teacher. Do you understand that? There are div and this is, Paul says, this is evidence of carnality. Now, this is how the world, worldly values. Well That too isn't precisely explained how this is worldly values, but we do know that God has given to the church Various leaders and gifts to the church. Why? Why does he give those gifts to the church? What's his purpose? Why does God give so many different gifts to the church? Described in 1 Corinthians 12, in Romans Romans 12 and in Ephesians 4. Why does he give gifts to the church? What's his purpose? He has manifold purposes, he has many purposes, but listen to what the scriptures say. are some of the purposes. In 1 Corinthians, and this is all toward the question of why is the vision worldly? as it's being practiced at current. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12, later on, beginning at verse 5. As Paul talks about spiritual gifts, he says, there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it's the same God which worketh all in all. And the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man To profit with all. It's for your spiritual profit that God gives gifts. And he gives it in different men. In different ways to the church. It's to profit everybody spiritually, bless everybody in the church. God has a desire and a perspective that when he gives gifts to the church, they will be used to edify the body of Christ. No matter how many gifts he gives, no matter how many teachers he gives to the church, the purpose is for their edification, and with edification Usually comes praising and glorifying God as well. So that the church is that body of Christ with Christ at the head, the body inextricably tied to Christ and link to one another, so that they grow together in unity and knowledge and understanding of Christ. That one part of the body supplies something to the another part of the body that is lacking and needs to be blessed. If you go still on 1 Corinthians 12, verse 12. Well, picking up, I'm sorry, that's not right. In Ephesians 4, verses 11 through 16. We have Paul addressing this question again of why does God give so many different gifts to the church He gave some apostles, he gave some prophets, verse 11 of Ephesians 4, and some evangelists, and some pastors and teachers. And then he tells you why. Verse 12, for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come in the unity of faith and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the fullness of Christ So that we henceforth be no more children. There's multiple purposes, but clearly, clearly, God's purpose in providing so many different gifts to the church with different names, different functions, different titles is for the edification of the church. So that the church is unified, unity in love and in the word And in Christ. That is not a worldly value. The world's value is in always in the peripherals. The world tends to look not so much at what somebody Always the same, unless it conforms to what they're thinking But they also tend to look at appearance, effectiveness of delivery, of whatever you teach. How well you ring my bells, so to speak This is fleshly. This is carnal. This is as men think. This is the wisdom of the world on display. And you don't have to go far outside of our culture to see this. What do we got going on in our own government? Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives At war with each other. There's no unity. There can't be They don't understand the whole picture. So consequently, they gravitate to one aspect of things. But not necessarily true. And they magnify those. And then everybody who believes like them, they become enamored with that. And then you have a reaction to that And that's the way of the world. Division, division, division. Not unity. There's no common bond. The common bond for believers is faith in Jesus Christ. And we ought to be able, as believers, with the Holy Spirit, at work in our life. We ought to be able to live together and love one another and listen to one another, especially when those gifts are God given. There's no doubt that Apollos is not God-given. There's no doubt that Paul is God-given. And what does the church do? They behave like babies, they behave like worldly Christians. And they systematically pick one over the other. Why don't you want both? But they pit one against the other. And they don't. And consequently, when you pit one against the other, you start denigrating one. over the other. And you stop listening. And then what happens is everybody who's with Apollos Is on this side, and everybody who's with Paul is on this side. And we can't get out of our chairs to get across the aisle. Because we're not we're not friends anymore. You see? That's Carnality. That's the ways of the world. It's not the ways of Christ. It's not the ways of the world. I mean it's not the ways of Jesus and his kingdom. Yeah, I I'd be wrong if I didn't tell you that that I don't prefer Cornelius Van Til over R. C. Sproull. And I'd be wrong if I didn't tell you that I don't prefer John Murray over Meredith Klein. But you know what? I can appreciate both of those I'd all prefer And I'm not living attacking one or the other. You understand? That's what's happening at Corinth. That's what's going on in the world. Now, to conclude this, you might say, and you'd be right in saying, Pastor Taylor, this isn't our problem We aren't struggling with that. We got other problems. But this isn't our problem. We're pretty united. Right? But I remember I remember fourteen or so years ago when that wasn't the case Was it was it that long ago? Whatever. You know, you know what I'm referring to. I remember when there was the followers of camping And followers of Taylor and the Reformed faith on another side. And that wasn't a fun time And we weren't involved in unity. And there were reasons why there were differences. But and there were good reasons in some cases. But that's where carnality goes When it becomes so much of an issue that you're having trouble fellowshipping with each other And I can also say, and maybe maybe history will prove me wrong at this. I hope they do. I hope it does. But as you all know, I'm leaving. And there will be, God willing, another person that'll come. To take my place. And I don't want to hear Down in Stanton, but there are people up here in in Trinity that are saying, well, Pastor Taylor didn't do it that way. I don't like this because Pastor Taylor always visited people. This guy doesn't, you know, I don't want to hear that. It may be that you need to address that, but I don't want to be I don't want to be on one side of the dilemma. I don't want the unity of this church Messed up because you're thinking carnally. It isn't about Pastor Taylor, and it isn't about whoever is the next person here. It's about God at work in His servant. Be thankful for that work among you And where there needs to be improvement, help the next pastor. Don't compare them to me. He'll probably be a whole lot better. Don't compare him to me. He needs to be compared to Christ. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you. For those who have gone before us, the Apostle Paul and his writings, nor did he is he didn't do this on his own. You're the one who speaks through Paul. He's just a man, but you used him, and your spirit speaks through him. And Lord, today what the Spirit said from your word, may it address all of our hearts And may it help us, Lord, in our future relationship with those whom you have given to the church To build upon the unity of the body and the knowledge of Christ, so that we all, we all might be the perfect man in Christ. Christ, that we all might rise to the stature of having our Lord's uh virtues. being displayed. We'll never be perfect. We'll never be like him. He's the only righteous, perfect, holy man. But Lord let us live to To glorify him and let us, Lord, be careful about the ways of the world. They are often very, very subtle And we often get sidetracked. Preserve, O Lord, the unity of the body of Christ, both here and around the world For Jesus' sake we pray, amen.