Good morning, beloved of the Lord Jesus. If you're able to remain standing, let's turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. Our sermon will be from Hebrews twelve, verses eighteen through twenty nine. Hebrews 12, verses 18 through 29. This is the infallible, inerrant, very God-breathed out scripture. This is God's word to us this very day. Before we read, let us pray for the illumination of the Holy Spirit. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful that you're the true God, that you're the triumph God, and that we can approach you with confidence and receive mercy and find grace to help us In our time of need, we thank you that you have enthroned your beloved Son at your right hand. And we wait for all of his enemies to be made a footstool for his feet. We praise you that death, hell, and the devil and all sin and misery will be soon placed completely under his feet and the former things will be passed away until we Realize and experience that day as pilgrims on the way, we look to you, Lord Jesus, the conquering King, the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. the one who is enthroned on Zion's holy hill. And we ask that by your Holy Spirit you'd pour your Spirit upon us now to open our ears to hear, our hearts to receive, our minds to understand, to draw us closer to yourself by your power and your grace. Let your word go in our ears into our hearts and then out through our lips and our lives for your glory and the good of your church and world. We pray in Jesus' name and all the church responded with a resounding Amen. This is God's word. For you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire, and darkness, and gloom, and a tempest, and the sound of a trumpet. And a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them. For they could not endure the order that was given If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels in festal gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all And to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking. For if they did not escape when they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns us from heaven. At that time his voice shook the earth. But now he has promised, yet once more, I will shake not only the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase yet once more indicates the removal of things that are shaken, that is, things that have been made, in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. For our God is a consuming fire. Thus ends the reading of God's word. You may be seated. Beloved, as we approach this passage, it reminds me of why I love the privilege of planting churches. of praying for the planting of churches and of seeking to serve these planted churches is because I love to see new places where God in Christ can be worshipped Where sinners can draw near with confidence through the blood of Jesus and find the forgiveness of sins, where they can find welcome from the Father. through Christ, the forgiveness of sins, and they can praise God for who he is and for what he's done in Christ. You think about every church plan is a new opportunity to have an embassy of heaven A place where there's an outpost of the new heavens and new earth. A place where people can come from that area and come into the very presence of God can approach Even another dimension, the very Mount Zion itself with Jesus enthroned on it. Now, young people, I want to ask you to think with me about something. It is something the scriptures teach here that we may not think about When we go to worship, the author of Hebrews wants us to be captured in our imaginations so that when we go to worship, we'll realize that even though we're going to a building Say like this building here, we're truly, when we're coming to seek the true God in Christ, we're coming to Mount Zion. We're coming to a worship service already in progress Now, we began worship at 10 a. m. , but this worship service of a myriad of angels upon angels with God seated on the throne and the Lamb enthroned at his right hand and these angels singing with praises and praises and all the perfected saints who have gone before us. who are with him praising him. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive honor and glory and wealth and power and riches and blessing and glory upon glory When we enter into his worship in the way that we have here this morning, though what we see is a mere building. We've really approached Mount Zion itself. We've come into another dimension. A place where heaven and earth are united. Through a mediator who is Jesus Christ our Lord. And so I want us to all, as we're being captured by this in our imagination, that we would come with fuller, greater, deeper joy. knowing that we're coming into a foretaste of heaven itself. Because as long as we continue along our journey in this pilgrimage, this fallen age, this world characterized by sin and misery, everything around us is shaken. Everything around us can be shaken. There is nothing that will ultimately remain apart from God and his kingdom people forever and ever. He, the true God, will be God to a perfected people. In a perfected world through a perfect mediator. That's really what the book of Hebrews is about. You could summarize the whole book of Hebrews in one sentence in this way: that the perfect God. Will dwell with a perfected people in a perfected, unshakable world through a perfect mediator. And beloved, when we come to worship, we have the privilege of enjoying that already in spirit and truth through the Word. And that's what the author of Hebrews is wanting us to see, to embrace, to be grateful for. For the two main verses that I would highlight for you today The two main verses I'll also come back with a proper application at the appropriate time are these, verses 28 and 29. Let us be grateful. Why? For receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken, and let us offer to God acceptable worship in reverence and awe, for our God is a consumer. Fire. From the very beginning of Hebrews, Christ has been at the center of the author's purpose in this word of exhortation, in this inspired sermon, if you will, in this letter. From the very beginning, we're told that long ago In times past, at various times and in many ways, God spoke to our fathers through the prophets But it opens up in saying, in these last days he spoken fully and finally in a son. And you know who this son is? You know who this meteor is between God and man? He's the one who is the heir of all things. He's the one through whom God created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. He is the one who upholds the universe by the word of his power. And here's the good news for us, such a powerful God. After making purification for our sins, he sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. So the author of Hebrews goes on keeping our attention on Christ, and then he begins contrasting the old covenant or the time of promise with the new covenant. And the time of fulfillment. And so he says: in the old covenant, the angels gave revelation, prophets gave revelation, but Christ is superior in God has spoken finely and fully in his son. In the old covenant, God spoke through Joshua and He used Joshua to leave the pe lead the people into a rest in Canaan. In the New Testament, he's led us to our ultimate rest through one greater than Joshua, the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he goes on to say, in the old covenant, God provided sacrifices and a priesthood so that God's people could approach him. In the new covenant, he has provided his son as the final high priest and the one who's not only the high priest who goes into the Holy of Holies on our behalf, but the one who is also the Lamb of God. Who lays down his life and sheds his precious blood, not the blood of bulls and goats, but the blood of the Lamb, the perfect God man. In the old covenant, he says That God provided sacrifices graciously so that people could approach him. But in this last days, in the new covenant, in the time of promise, he's provided the very blood of his Son. That once and for all, through a sacrifice, has satisfied, propitiated God's holy and just wrath, and has cleansed our consciences so that we can worship Him truly in spirit and in truth. And then the author says this, and this is the context we're moving into now. He says, you need endurance, though, in this shaking shakable world, in this difficult place. in this time of trial and testing. And so he says, put aside every weight and the sin that clings so closely. and run with endurance the race that set before you looking to Jesus, the author and perfecter of your faith. Who for the joy set before you endured the cross, scorning its shame for all of us who believe and sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. What the author wants us to see is Jesus throughout this sermon. He wants us to see Jesus throughout our enduring difficult days. He wants us to see Jesus As one who's been exalted and one who is enthroned at God's right hand. And it is through Jesus that we come into worship this morning. And every opportunity to worship for its Jesus who is at God's right hand and who's receiving this constant praise and adoration and exaltation. In heaven. And this is our privilege, beloved. We get to enter into that. A worship service already in progress. And that is what should make us grateful. It's what should make us worship God in reverence and awe. Well, in our verses here, in verses 18 to 29, there's also a contrast between the old and the new worship And that is what he wants to focus us on. But I wanted you to see the bigger picture of contrasts between the old and the new covenant. And now there are contrasts that he gives us here, starting in verse 18. Now, I have noted, I want to note, I want to highlight five contrasts that he makes. Perhaps there's more. There probably are. But the five that I've noticed are first the contrast of God's presence. God's presence with his people. You notice first in verse 18, we're told, you have not come to what may be touched, a blazing fire and darkness and gloom and tempest. the sound of a trumpet and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be given to them, for they could not endure the order that was given If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said, I tremble with fear. So what the author is saying is when God came down in his presence in the Old Covenant, it was characterized by fire. It was characterized by gloom. It was characterized by darkness. It was characterized by rumbling. It was characterized by the whole mountain shaking. It was limited in who could access his special presence. It was restricted. He was absolutely to be understood and recognized as a God of consuming fire. He was absolutely to be recognized that his presence was the thrice holy presence of God Almighty That he was the true holy, holy, holy God. And when he came near to that mountain, there was trumpet blasts. You can imagine a trumpet sounding until you have to put your ears, your fingers in your ears. It's so piercing and loud. And Moses, the meteor that's provided, he's so terrified that the people ask, Moses, you speak to us. And so God came near in his presence to his people in worship at Sinai. And what the author wants us to see is that this was the holy, holy, holy God. And why was there such rumbling? Why was there such restriction to his access at this time? Why? Two primary reasons. One, because God is holy, there was no one there who had perfectly kept his commands, who had perfectly obeyed him. and loved him and worshipped him perfectly and sat down at his right hand. There was no advocate united to our humanity at this point. Our thrice holy God was very kind in providing a temple and providing sacrifices, but Christ had yet to come. He was present in promise, but God was present in his fullness of his wrath against sin. Because he's holy. And he cannot look upon sin. The people of God were terrified of the presence. It wasn't a joyful scene because of their consciences, because of their sin. Beloved, what is horror? What is terror ultimately? It's not just things that can scare us and frighten us horizontally. It's ultimately knowing that we're under the wrath of God and that our sins deserve his punishment. And while God graciously, graciously provided lands and goats and sacrifices and a high priesthood and even Moses as a mediator, all of them were tainted by sin. And so there could not be a complete, full, and final approach to God while sin still remain. There couldn't be a final full approach to God until there was one who would come and fully and finally live perfectly, worship God in spirit and truth and then lay down his life completely for his people. And so the contrast here in the Old Testament is this was terrifying. God's presence was shaking everything. But then he says in verse 22, so beautifully, you hear the whole tone change, but now. But he says, But you in Greek it's telling you that there's a change of tone here, the way he says it. He wants you to hear the trumpet. It's so piercing. It's loud. It's terrifying. It's horrifying. And now, but now You have come to Mount Zion. His presence now is one where there's an advocate There's a mediator. There is the Son of God united to our humanity at God's right hand who's been enthroned. Who has completely and fully and finally laid down his life for sinners. And he rules and reigns over heaven and earth. And he sits enthroned as a savior for sinners. And so the contrast is great, isn't it? Between having one in the Old Testament where God is coming where the consciousness have not been clearly fully cleansed by the blood of Lamb And those like us today who can be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken and that we can offer God worship in spirit and truth through the blood of the Lamb. And we can know that we're forgiven. We can be assured of His love. We can know his grace. And so there's a big difference now between the the worshiping God and knowing his presence is near in the old covenant and worshiping God now, knowing his presence as the very presence of Christ, the very presence of grace, the very presence of a Savior, and the one whom You ready? When he was on the cross, beloved, when Jesus was on the cross for us, when he prop propitiated and satisfied the just wrath of God Almighty, when he became our substitutionary atonement The Lamb of God, who's also the high priest, he said, My God, my God, why have you forsaken? He experienced the consuming wrath of the fire of God. He consumed, he was consumed the wrath of judgment. He was the one who we confess that descended into hell in experiencing God's wrath for us. He was the one, if you remember on the cross, when he said it's to finish, everything shook, shaking everything around him, because the presence of God had come near in his wrath. upon one whom he had placed all of the sins of his people upon his back. It was the will of the Lord to crush him. By his stripes we're healed. And so now the presence of God is lovely. The presence of God is gracious. The presence of God is welcoming. You can think about the approach in the Old Covenant. The approach was terrifying. And now the approach is welcome. In the old covenant, the approaching God was restricting. No trespassing. Now you know how it feels to go up to a neighbor's house. Perhaps you're going to evangelize. Perhaps you're going to bring them something, a goodie for Christmas time, or just show neighborly love. And you see on the sign, no trespassing. We don't want you at this house. Restricted. That's not the sign that hangs on God's door with Christ on the throne. The sign that hangs now is not restricted, it's welcome. It's come to me, all you sinners, who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Put my yoke upon you, for my yoke is easy. And my burden is light, and you will find rest for your souls. Welcome. Welcome. And that's, beloved, how we show our gratitude. in receiving a kingdom that can never be shaken, a world where Jesus is restoring and will restore fully and finally one day when the former things will have been passed away, all the sin and the misery. The pain, the heartache, the disappointment, the discouragement, the despair, the despondency, the depression, death itself, the loss of loved ones. All that'll be passed away. We live between the it is finished on the cross and it is the it is done of the restoration of all things We live between the it is finished on the cross and the it is done of Revelation 21. 5. And that's a hard road that we must endure. But here's the thing, we can be grateful. We could come Well-being, welcome into heaven itself, and to receive a foretaste of all the joy and the grace and the kindness of God even now You see, because there's another contrast that we want to note, and that is, very importantly, the mediator. You notice, in the old covenant, God was gracious to sinners. When he called them out of bondage in Egypt, the first thing he says to them in the law was, I am the God who brought you out of Egypt. out of the house of slavery. In other words, he tells them he meets them with his grace. He meets them with the triumphal indicative, if you will, of his grace. He meets them with the gospel and he says, this is the way I want you to live. And in meeting them, he provides them with a mediator. In fact, he provides them with Moses Who is a sinner like ourself, who God would equip to lead the people in worship and who would lead the people to worship in presence of God. But here we have this mediator in verse 21 who says, I tremble with fear. Moses also is tainted by sin, though he was chosen by God. And though God shows his grace in the old covenant by providing a mediator. He was not a perfect mediator. In fact, if you remembered in chapter three of Hebrews, look there with me if you will, there's a wonderful contrast that I noted earlier. that is worth being reminded of in Hebrews 3 verses 1 through 6. It says, Therefore, holy brethren, this is Hebrews 3 verses 1 through 6, brother Therefore, holy brethren, you who share in a heavenly calling, consider Jesus, the apostle and high priest of our confession. who was faithful to him who appointed him, just as Moses also was faithful in God's house. For Jesus has been counted worthy of more glory than Moses, as much more glory as the builder of a house has more honor than the house itself. For every house is built by someone, but the builder of all things is God. Now Moses was faithful in God's house as a servant. To testify to the things that were to be spoken later, but Christ is faithful over God's house as a son. and we are his house, if indeed we hold fast our confidence and our boasting and our hope. So while Moses was a faithful servant in God's house, in the old covenant, in the time of promise, We now have another mediator. And that is the Lord Jesus, the very Son of God, united to our humanity. The one who was sent by God to live a perfect life on behalf of sinners, to die, a crushing death. experiencing the very wrath of God for our sins, the one who was raised on the third day in the same body, who ascended and was glorified in his body as God man, as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords at God's right hand. Again, the thing the author of Hebrews wants us to understand is that while the mediator, the Lord Jesus, went through a time of humiliation, he was tempted in every way that we've been tempted, yet without sin. Yet now that mediator, the one who is the God man, is enthroned at God's right hand as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords. And what are the implications of that now for our worship for worshiping him, knowing that we're not coming through merely a servant, Moses, but we're coming through the Son Himself. Look at verses 22 to 24 We're told that we've come to Mount Zion, the very city of the living God in our worship, beloved, the heavenly Jerusalem. It's the place where we one day will enjoy the fullness of the unshakable kingdom in the new heavens and new earth. But it is a mountain that already spiritually We access in our worship through the mediation of Christ, through uh through coming in his name And we're told we come to the heavenly Jerusalem, we come to innumerable angels in festival gathering. The angels are constantly rejoicing in God and His faithfulness They're rejoicing in the mediator, in his exaltation. They're rejoicing in the completed work of Jesus Christ. But more. Verse 23. We come to the assembly of the firstborn. who are enrolled in heaven. And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. You see, God hasn't changed. He's the same. He's still the judge of all As verse 29 says, he's still a consuming fire. What has changed is this. We have a mediator whom he's provided, who is the perfect beloved Son of God, the very Lamb of God. The high priest, the prophet, and the king. And so we're told that when we come to the assembly, there's not only angels, but there are those who have gone before us, who've experienced God's faithfulness. Who have through death experienced the great healing of being made perfect and experiencing the bliss and perfection of the presence of God in heaven. In the heavenly Jerusalem, in the heavenly Zion. And so, beloved, the author writes this to give us uh a foretaste of heaven now. He's saying, continue to endure, because if you come to the mediator, you see that God loves you, you see that God has kept his word to you, and you see the angels that you one day will see with your own eyes. No longer with faith, but with eyes of sight. No longer will you approach the King through the Lord Jesus with just mere faith. You will see Eyes with your own eyes, your glorified eyes, your perfected eyes, just as they experienced hardship and trials and tears and suffering. So now through death God has turned death into a doorway of hope to enter into this blessed kingdom. By his stripes we're healed. So whether he returns and we don't experience death, or whether he turns death into a window and doorway of hope into our heavenly Zion. He has conquered death as our mediator. He has conquered death and sin and the evil one Who would constantly accuse us. And so what we're told here, notice, beloved, we come to God and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And then verse 24, he saves the best for last. And to Jesus. Now, if you're like me when you're reading that, you're saying, he's come to Mount Zion. Mount Zion is not filled with darkness and smoke and fire. Mount Zion is a lovely place. It's a heavenly Jerusalem. I've read about it in the Psalms. I read more about it in Revelation. Oh, it's a beautiful place. I can only imagine. Oh, and look, there's angels all around me Oh, and look! There's the perfected saints who went before us, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, awaiting our homecoming. Oh, there's my believing loved ones and believing friends who've gone on ahead of me. This is going to be a day of reunion. But then verse 34 says As much as I can't wait to see them, I get to see Jesus. And even now we see Jesus, we worship Jesus, for it is Jesus. the mediator of a new covenant that we can't wait to behold in all his glory, his beauty, his kindness, his love, his grace, his mercy, his power. And that is what we're doing in worship. We're coming by faith to this mediator, to this new covenant. And to this sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Beloved, when Abel's blood is spilled. The first martyr of the Christian church. Remember when Eve Names Cain. She's been told that the seed of the woman, her seed, would come and crush the serpent serpent's head. And she names Cain thinking this perhaps may be Messiah. This may be the Christ. But the first supposed Christ becomes an antichrist, the first murderer. And then the first martyr, in Abel's blood, cried out for vengeance! Vengeance is mine, says the Lord. I will punish with my full and whole wrath in my vengeance. But what's being taught here is this blood of Jesus, the sprinkled blood, speaks a better word than the vengeance that cries out from the ground. This is the blood of forgiveness. This is the blood where Jesus has laid down his life, where he said, I'm the good shepherd. No one takes my life from me. I lay down my life on my own accord. I lay down my life because I love you. And I lay down my life to secure my sheep away home. To save you, to gather you, to cleanse you. To cause you to be forgiven. And so, beloved, when we come, we come to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to this sprinkled blood. And beloved, look back with me at what this blood does in chapters nine and ten. Let's be reminded of this blood. And remember in the contrast that we started with with the presence of God and how There was no clear consciences, not completely. They still knew that they had sinned against God, and they knew the terror of meeting God in all of his holiness. And in chapter 9, we're told, listen. In verse 9, or chapter 9, verse 12, I should say, talking of Christ coming. It says, He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves. but by the means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our consciences? From dead works to serve the living God. You see, that's the cleansing of our consciences, beloved. That's the knowing that our hearts are pure and clean. That's knowing and being reminded that that pure and precious blood of Christ has been shed so that God will uh Cause our sins to be cast away from his presence as far as the East is from the West and to receive us as if we have never sinned because we have the perfect righteousness. of Christ, to receive us as if we have paid our eternal debt in hell because Christ was our substitutionary sacrifice. Remember in chapter 9, verse 21 what it says Where it says in chapter 9, verse 21, in the same way he sprinkled with the blood both the tent and all the vessels used in Old Testament worship. Indeed, under the law, almost everything is purified with blood. Without the shedding of blood, there is no forgiveness of sins. And then look at the end of chapter 9, where it says in verse 26. The second part. But as it is, he's appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself And just as it's appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment, so Christ, having been offered once to bear the sins of many, will appear a second time, not to deal with sin. But to save those who are eagerly waiting him. That's the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. It speaks the better word of forgiveness and not vengeance. For vengeance has been poured out on Jesus as our substitutionary atoning Lamb. Look another place in chapter 10. We read it earlier, but it's so important to read it, I think, regularly and remind ourselves of how God views us in Christ. Where it says in verse 12 of chapter 10, when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. And then it says in verse 17, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more. And then look down at verse 21 of chapter 10. It says, Since we have a great high priest over the house of God, let us draw near with a true heart, in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean. There it is. From an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. Let us hold fast the confession of our hope without wavering, for he who promised is faithful. And so, beloved, there's a contrast here between the old covenant, mediator Moses. And the new covenant mediator who is Jesus. And when we come into worship, another reason why we can be grateful when we come to the Father through Jesus in the power of his spirit. We come to Mount Zion We come to a heavenly kingdom. We come to the unshakable kingdom. No matter where we are, we're two or more gathered in his name. Where we come through the Lord Jesus as our mediator, we can know that we can approach him with boldness, with confidence. We know that he has laid down his life to shed his precious blood to wash away all of our sins, and so that we can have assurance. That our sins are forgiven and we can come and receive mercy and grace to help us in our time of need. Now, beloved, I want to ask you something. When you think of worship, when you think of coming to worship, do you think of coming with that kind of joy with with with that in your imagination. When you hear there's a call to worship in the morning, you hear there's a call to worship in the evening. Do you come with all eagerness and earnestness and joy and say, I'm coming to the Father through the Son to experience Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem, even now with all of God's people And I'm going to be assured of his love for me. And I'm going to grow through his word to me, through his speaking to me, through his encouraging me. We should want to be grateful for receiving this kingdom in Christ that cannot be shaken, this new heavens, new earth. But we want to come worshiping God. In reverence and awe. Through the Lord Jesus, for our God is a consuming fire. And what does this mean? There's at least two things I would want to point out there is when we come to worship God, we want to offer to Him acceptable worship. Acceptable worship uh very clearly revealed here in throughout scripture is worship that comes through the blood of Jesus. It's worship who comes through the mediation of Jesus It's worship that comes in the name of Jesus, not in our own name, not in our own works, but in the complete joy and grace and forgiveness that's found in Christ alone. It's a worship that is according to God's word. We find in verse 25 very clearly that we're not to refuse him who is speaking. Beloved young people, when you come to God's worship, did you know that when the Bible is read and the Bible is rightly properly preached, that it is Jesus Speaking from the right hand of the Father to you by his Spirit. That's why Paul says in Romans 10, the faith comes by hearing, and hearing by Christ Himself, the very Word of God. And so it's to be according to the word. The worship, of course, is to be grateful because of living in this new covenant, this time of fulfillment. this final chapter before the fullness of all things. But there's something else I want to ask you about. If your neighbor was to note the way you go to worship, would they think you're going to Sinai or Zion? In fact, would your family think he's going to Sion or is he kind of dragging his feet and going to Sinai here? So the other question there is to ask ourselves, uh, are do we give the impression sometimes to our own family and to others that we are going to a God that we are scared of in the wrong way? In other words, are we demonstrating or showing something that may need to be healed by God's grace? Where we realize that perhaps we've been coming in our own name, through our own works Perhaps there's a reason for us to fear God in a way like Sinai. Perhaps he is a terror to us, beloved. Look at Jesus, the author and perfector of your faith. Jesus is the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. He's the one who's died for sinners. He's the one who will cleanse your conscience. He's the one who will give you free and welcome, not restricted, but welcome, joyful access to the true and living God, where all your dreams will come true in Him. Where everything that you've ever tried to worship here that's left you unsatisfied, that's left you high and dry, everything that you've Tried to worship, every person you've tried to worship, every person you've put too far up on a pedestal, everything that you've lusted after and wanted too much, and it hasn't brought you any happiness, only sadness. Look to Jesus. We were made to worship. We were made to worship God. And come to Zion through the mediator, knowing you're forgiven with joy, with gratitude. With gratefulness, knowing that you're an heir to the kingdom that's unshakable. You'll live forever with him. This is only a foretaste of what is yet to come. But welcome others, not to Sinai, but to Zion, as you've been welcomed by a Savior of sinners. Welcome, welcome your neighbors, your family members. Tell them about this gracious God who's forgiving. Tell them about this gracious God who sent his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him will would never perish, but have everlasting life. That he didn't send his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world might be safe through him. And that the one who does not believe on him is condemned already because he's not believed in the one and only Son of God. You see, the reason why we fear to go to worship sometimes is perhaps we just don't have. We've not Our hearts, our minds, our minds have not been perhaps captured by the Word of God so that we understand we're coming into a worship service already in progress that's glorious and beautiful with Christ that is on the throne. Well perhaps we're living in sin. Perhaps we're coming functionally like we're coming to Sinai because we aren't honestly walking with God in grace, in forgiveness, and repentance. Or perhaps we don't know God in Christ, that we only know Him as a consuming fire. Well, beloved, he is not a consuming fire to those who come to him in Christ. Let me explain what I mean by that. That consuming fire came down upon Jesus on the cross for sinners. Jesus was consumed. He was the one with who said, My God, my God, why am I for So that we could be received in love as part of the family, to be reconciled and to have peace and joy with God. You see, on the day of Pentecost, after the Son of God united to our humanity, sat down at God's right hand. You know what he did? He poured out his consuming fire upon his church. With his Holy Spirit. And the church was not consumed. Purified, filled, empowered. And the way that consuming fire works now, you ready? He takes our unbridled passions for lust and wrong things. worship that's misdirected, that's horizontal, that's beneath us, and his spirit takes the heart and he Turns that, transforms it by God's grace through Christ through his word into zeal and passion for his holiness. Zeal and passion for worship. Zeal and passion for service. Zeal and passion for evangelism. So he doesn't consume us in a judgment. He consumes us in love to swallow up all the remains of sin. Swallow up all those wicked desires and misdirected worship services we try to have during the week. So that our gaze will be upon Christ. So beloved Of Trinity Reform. When we come into worship, we come through a mediator who has loved us before the foundation of the world. He's laid down his life for us. Let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that can never be shaken, where we know the king. He's our elder brother. He's the one who's been tempted in every way as we have been. Yet without sin. And he's the victor at God's right hand, and nothing shall separate us from the love of God in Christ. If God be for us, who can be against us? This God who didn't spare his own son but freely gave him up for us all. How will you not with him graciously give us all things? Nothing can separate you from the love of God in Christ. And so come gratefully, come boldly, come confidently To the heavenly Zion, to the place even now, by faith, through worship, through the mediator, through the forgiveness and grace that God shows to you in Christ And remember, let us worship him in Christ, according to his word, with acceptable Reverent worship. Not fearing him in terror, but fearing him because we love him and honor and respect him. There's a difference, isn't there? Not fearing in terror of judgment, but fearing him in reverence and awe, fearing him in love as a heavenly father and as our kind and merciful King And let us offer up to him acceptable worship with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. Amen? All right. Let's pray together. Our Father and our God, we're so grateful for the Lord Jesus, and we are so very grateful that we can come to you through the Lord Jesus our mediator, through his precious blood. Thank you that you provided your presence with your Old Testament people. But in your New Testament time period, in this time of fulfillment in which we live, we have so much more privilege. Because we're welcomed with open arms in Christ who's accomplished our salvation fully and finally on the cross, and who's been raised on the third day and seated at your right hand, who's been enthroned as the King of Kings. And Lord of Lords as mediator, as prophet, priest, and king. And we thank you, Lord, that although in the old covenant you loved your people, your believing people, in giving them Moses, but in the fullness of time Even Moses knew his his calling was to only point forward and upward to Jesus Christ. We thank you in the fullness of time you've now enthroned our mediator. mediator, our gracious mediator at your right hand, and he has completed our salvation. We look forward to the day when he will restore all things. Until then, help us to uh worship you with gratitude, worship you properly in a way that shows uh our true sonship, our adoption the the fact that we've received your grace and help us to welcome other sinners, Lord. Uh forgive us when we make uh when we feel like we're going to Sinai or when we feel like we're uh perhaps giving the impression that we're going to Sinai for worship. uh help us to know that we've been welcomed at Zion and we want to welcome others to Zion as well. Help us we pray and let you get all the glory and the praise in Jesus' name. And all the church responded with a resounding Amen.