Amen. Please be seated. Now for the reading of God's Word from Acts chapter 5. The reading of God's Word. The sermon passage for today, Acts chapter 5, verses 33 through 42. Acts 5, verse 33, through the end of the chapter, verse 42. And here we are, here is the aftermath of yet another uh harrowing situation for the apostles. They You know, this is the second time that they've gotten in trouble for preaching the gospel with the authorities. The authorities have uh come against them for preaching in the name of Jesus Christ, and they have they have not liked the disruption that it seems to be causing. You know, in the first place, I think it was chapter four, when um Peter and John got arrested the first time and they got strictly charged to stop teaching in the name of Jesus Christ. Well here On a second occasion now, the apostles are arrested, uh kept in custody, you know, overnight. They're brought before the council again, even though, you know, even though the angel had let them out of the prison. But they're brought before the council a second time, and a second time they are charged not to preach in the name of Jesus Christ. And yet a second time they also refuse to comply. So here's what happens next. You know, this Council charged with authority, this council that's able to do things like arrest people and put them in custody. Um, are they going to be happy about having their authority questioned and undermined and having the apostles refuse to uh uh to to uh submit to what they are requiring, they are not. And so this is what we read next In Acts chapter 5, verses 33 through 42, we read the next section, and here is what comes next. This is God's word. Please give your attention to the reading of it. So Acts chapter 5, verses 33 through 42. God's word. When they heard this, they were enraged and wanted to kill them But a Pharisee in the council named Gamaliel, a teacher of the law held in honor by all the people, stood up and gave orders to put the men outside for a little while. And he said to them, Men of Israel, take care what you are about to do with these men. For before these days, Theudis rose up, claiming to be somebody. And a number of men, about 400, joined him. He was killed. And all who followed him were dispersed, and came to nothing. After him, Judas the Galilean rose up in the days of the census and drew away some of the people after him. He too perished. And all who followed him were scattered. So in the present case, I tell you, keep away from these men and let them alone. For if this plan or this undertaking is of man, It will fail, but if it is of God, you will not be able to overthrow them. You might even be found opposing God So they took his advice. And when they had called in the apostles, they beat them. And charged them not to speak in the name of Jesus and let them go. Then they left the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy. to suffer dishonor for the name. And every day in the temple and from house to house They did not cease teaching and preaching Jesus as the Christ. Well, of course you can understand why the council reacts the way they do in our passage, can't you, in verse 33 again, as I sort of alluded to not too long ago, there in verse 33 they're enraged They want to kill them. Is it any surprise that this is the way the council reacts to the actions of the apostles? This council, these men on this council. They're not the kind of men who are accustomed to being defied. They're not the kind of men who are accustomed to being told no. These are the kinds of men who and this is the kind of counsel with such authority that if they are told no, if they are defied, they have ways of compelling compliance, don't they? After all, these are men who, back in verse 18, did have the ability to arrest the apostles. Using force to enforce their will, keeping them in custody. They arrested these men back in verse 18 We also see here in our text a little bit further ahead in verse 40, what else did they have the authority and the power to do? They had the authority and the power to beat the apostles. They sent them away beaten. They sent them away hurting, inflicting force and punishment upon these men. These men of the council, they have power and authority on their side, and they know how to use it And they are not accustomed to being told no. They are not accustomed to being defied. Yet what have the apostles just done in the presence of this particular council again? The apostles have now for the second time held firm, held fast, refused to submit to the order that has been given They'd already been warned back in chapter 4, verse 18, don't teach in the name of this Jesus as the Christ. The the apostles back then, Peter and John, had already refused to obey the order at that point, and the church in the aftermath of that incident had also refused to listen. to that order. They had continued, continued on in the name of Jesus Christ, continuing to preach and to teach and to gather Well then here they get arrested another time. Now the apostles this time in chapter five getting arrested the second time. Once again, in the presence of this council brought you know uh brought before this council of multiple men Being charged once again in authoritative tones, do not teach in this name anymore. What do they say? They say once again, for a second time, no to this council. The apostles cite the will of God over and against a council that is probably accustomed to thinking of themselves in the will of God. Those who are overseeing the temple, those who are overseeing Jerusalem, this Jewish council, they would have thought that they are the leaders who represent the will of God. And the apostles have just told them to their face, no, and told them that it is because of the will of God that they cannot submit to this counsel. Again, they make that point very clearly in verse 29 of chapter 5 We must obey God rather than men. The apostles are saying that for us to keep preaching the gospel, it's a matter of Obeying God, and therefore, in this case, refusing to offer obedience to men. Refusing to obey the men who are on the council because they are the ones. Standing in the way of the will of God. Now you can again understand why the council reacts the way they do. Again, what do we read in verse 33? They are enraged and they want to kill these men. The Apostles. You know, um when men are in positions of power and authority and they are accustomed to getting their way, and you steadfastly refuse to do that which they are telling you to do. Sometimes that can cause them to get angry, right? And especially if they have power and authority and force on their side. You know, it's kind of scary sometimes. They're able to use that power and force and authority. And here the apostles are, you know, in many ways, very boldly, courageously standing up. against those who are compelling them to stop preaching Christ. Another thing that the apostles do here that would also similarly in or enrage the the council is the apostles here turn their tables turn the tables on their accusers, you know. Um that here the council has them in a situation where the council would charge the apostles with wrongdoing and you know and try to press them and compel them to admit their wrongdoing. Yet in just that setting the apostles speak back. No, we are not the ones doing wrong. It is you. And again, this is Uh one sure way to get people upset who are accustomed to being in that position of being the accusers and accustomed to being in the position of being the powerful ones who have the authority to make you do what they want you to do. Defy them. Refuse to uh to agree with what they say to you. What a sure way of enraging people who are in that position. And yet, again, here's where the apostles are. The apostles are not on some kind of formal council in the land of Jerusalem in any way that is recognized by the Roman government. You know, this is the Jewish council. This is a very official authoritative body it is viewed as. And here they are putting the pressure on the apostles, and what do they do? They speak back with a clear word of no. We are the ones serving God and you are the ones that are not. Again, is it any surprise that they react the way they do? You know, um again, when when people in positions of power and authority are defied, they often turn to anger. They often turn to rage And rage often expresses itself in force, sometimes even in the way of violence. And this is what we're seeing in this passage. We're seeing in verse thirty-three how, you know, these men, do they have any reason why they should want to kill The apostles? Surely, just saying no? Just saying no and refusing to comply with something they want them to do? Is that any reason To kill them? That's surely an overreach of power and an overreach of authority. And yet so often the knee-jerk reaction of those in power and authority who are told no. You know, they sometimes answer more out of being offended um for their their personal dignity and their personal sense of um of you know wanting people to follow what they have to say Sometimes they react more out of that than out of any sort of truth or justice to the matter that they are dealing with. And this is what how we see the Jewish Council acting. in this case. Can you imagine what it must have felt like though to the apostles? Um hearing the rage of the council, hearing um that they want to kill them? Here, you know, they get excused from the proceedings for a little while and they don't they don't get to hear what's being said inside of those proceedings. Can you imagine um what those moments must have been like? Do you think They might have been somewhat excruciating. Um, you know, um uh put ourselves in that situation. Uh wouldn't it be kind of uh an anxiety-ridden moment? Um This council really wants to kill us. They're very angry by what we've said. What are they going to do behind those closed doors as we've been excused from their presence What are they going to do? What are they going to say? You know, again, um expressing that they want to kill them. Um, you know, it's this is a council that probably has a way to kill them if they want to, right? I mean Look what they did to Jesus. Jesus is someone they had nothing on. They had no reason to put him to death, but they found a way. So again, even though it's not just The apostles might expect in this instance that it's possible that they could still end up meeting their death in this occasion. And so the apostles should have known that again, crossing this council not only once, but twice. Crossing this council twice. You know, they they know by now that the council is not happy with what they're doing, is not happy with their preaching of Christ. The stakes appear to be high. This is a council that has authority and power. They were able to arrest the men. We see later in the passage they are able to beat the men. They are able to inflict harm upon them. They are crossing the will of a council that is powerful and authoritative, and the stakes appear to be high. And yet Right at the moment that this is what is taking place, right at the moment when it seems like the apostles should be knocking on death's door, we see something happen in our passage that's actually sort of surprising, isn't it? Isn't it kind of surprising what we read in verse 34? You know, the council ready to kill the apostles, the council filled with murderous rage. Yet within that council we hear one voice speak up, a singular voice, a singular voice that causes the council to avoid the course they are on. To stop the direction of their thinking and their rage and instead to let the apostles go. What do we see in these verses? We see the man, Gamaleo. Mentioned there in verse 34, Gamaliel, a respected teacher in their midst, a Pharisee, a teacher of the law. One man stands up in the midst of the council. He's respected. Though he's just one man, people are going to listen to him. He has a strong reputation. He's honored by the people. And what does he do? He doesn't add more fuel to the fire of the murderous rage of this group. He speaks up. He speaks with the voice that you could say is really the voice of reason. Calm, cool, wise advice. He brings down the heated tone of what is taking place. He dissipates the rage. He allows things to get to a point. Where the apostles are even let go. And what is the wisdom that this one man supplies? Again, in this case, Gamalio brings the voice of wisdom. He mentions these other incidents There were these other movements, there were these other figures, leaders of the people in recent history Revolutionaries who had come before the apostles had been around. Others who had seemed to disrupt the power of the authorities in the location, in the setting in Judea. But each and every one of these movements, each and every one of these movements led by this individual ended up coming to an end of its own steam. What did the council have to do to stop these men? Not a thing. Each and every one of these movements basically brought it brought on its own end by the way that um they were conducting themselves in what they were doing. So here Kamali will mention some names here. Theudas in verse 36 and then verse 37, Judas the Galilean. Um these may or may not be attested to in the Jewish historian Josephus. Um there's some discrepancy between The accounts we have here and similarly named individuals in Josephus. And there's some question as to is Josephus talking about the same two guys? Because there were actually more than just these two in the history of um first century Judea and you know in earlier. Um there were more than just these two guys. But is Josephus talking about the same two guys? Or is he talking about two different guys with the same names? Um is Josephus making some mistakes in his recounting of the facts. But one thing we see, you know, these these individuals, basically they would stir up these movements These movements would basically be revolutionary movements. They would take up arms oftentimes, seeking to act violently against Roman authority. And every time these movements sought to act violently against Roman authority, the reaction from Roman authority was oftentimes equally violent and equally forceful. So these men would often, you know, again, they would lead these these movements to try to cast off Roman authority with violence Roman authority would respond with similar violence, but such violence as put them to an end. And this is what Gamaliel is talking about here in verses 36 and 37. He's saying We don't have to do a thing with these movements because if these you know if these individuals truly are supported by God, again, there's no way that you can stop them. If this is a movement that is truly of man, it is bound to fail. But if it is a movement that is truly of God, there's nothing you can do to stop it, and you'd be wasting your energy. You'd be wasting your energy fighting against something that God is on the sight of. You know, Gamaliel is no fool. Sometimes we can waste all our energy trying to oppose something, some cause, and we end up wasting our energy because, you know, um we are fighting against something that is bound to come to an end Already on its own. And Gamaliel is wise in this way. He understands that, you know, what is he letting happen? What is his advice? His advice in this case is basically to let God decide the matter. Let God and his providence decide the matter. We don't have to intervene. We don't have to work against this movement. If it truly is of God, let God establish it himself. And again, that's very wise advice. We saw there in Genesis 50, we saw how Joseph had resolved not to put himself in the place of God. Joseph had resolved not to make a judgment about how his brothers had treated him, but resolved to receive and accept The providence of God. Here in Acts chapter 5, Gamaliel recommends a similar course. Let God decide the matter Or much the way that Martin Luther would sometimes talk, saying, let God be God. It's a remarkable piece of wisdom we see here. And this wisdom, what does it do? This wisdom that is brought on the part of Gimaliel, it is accepted In verse 39, we read of the council taking his advice, listening to what he said. His wisdom wins the day. Now, it's true that the apostles do get beaten at this point in verse 40 and do get charged again not to speak. in the name of Jesus Christ. But at the same time, look at what this wisdom has done. This wisdom of this one man has derailed the murderous intentions of the council. And so at least at this point they are not set upon killing the apostles. But instead what do they do? They let them go in verse forty. They do charge them not to speak again, they do beat them. But at least at this point they are not killing them. But the amazing thing about this situation is not only the advice that comes that spares the apostles' lives. But isn't it even more amazing what they do next? What do the apostles do in verse 41? We see them leaving the presence of the council. And how do they leave the council? Do they back down from what they've been called to? Do they resolve to do it more under the radar in the future? What do we see them doing instead in verse 41? We see them not grieving what it is that they have suffered, but we see them in verse 41 instead, rejoicing. That they were counted worthy to suffer dishonor for the name. They rejoice because to suffer for the sake of the name of Jesus Christ is one way of advancing the mission of that name. To suffer for the name of Christ is a more blessed thing than to not suffer at all. Now, of course, that's something that's very paradoxical. That's not what we we'd expect. Yet we see the truth of it. We see the reality of it here in this passage It's a greater thing to suffer for the sake of Jesus Christ than to not suffer at all. And the count and the the uh the apostles here rejoice. They rejoice because they've suffered dishonor for the sake of the name of Christ. Suffering dishonor for the name spreads the name. It's one way of spreading the name. It's one way the name gets spread. So what do we see in this text? What do we see in what's taking place here? What does God show us here? What has God given us by giving us this passage But one thing that we see very clearly is God's commitment to sustain the mission of His gospel and the mission of His church Even if it should be sometimes in ways that are unexpected and surprising. After all, who would have thought that the salvation of the apostles in this case would have come from someone within the council? Remember, the council was enraged. They were ready to kill the apostles. And then they were ushered out of the presence of the council as the proceedings were to continue. Who would have guessed and who could have guessed that God would have raised up from within that council such wisdom as we hear from Gamaleo? And this is instruction to us, dear congregation, because don't we sometimes act like the church and its uh ongoing mission is so dependent on our efforts and our wisdom? That it's up to us to keep it going. Aren't we inclined to act in those ways, as if it all depends on us to keep it going? And yet here in this instance, what does God do? Because the church is God's mission and not ultimately ours, God has his way of sustaining his church Even if it should be in a surprising way. Again, he sustains the church in this case, not through the wisdom of the church itself, but in this case he raises up wisdom from a surprising source. Wisdom from a surprising source from the outside saves the apostles, saves their lives. That's because God is the one who keeps the church going. God is the one who sees to it that his gospel will spread. And here God did it, even in a surprising way. Again, a Jew on the council, one whom you would think would be spitefully against the mission of the apostles. Is the one who saves the apostles and is the one who saves them to preach another day. And as they continue to preach, it is God who has saved them. It is God who has saved them. It is God who has also saved those who would hear through the word that they would go on preaching at this point. So we ought to understand from this passage, we ought to recognize that God is able to sustain his church. And he's committed to sustaining his church, even sometimes in surprising ways. Another thing we see in this text Comes to us from the Apostles' response. In verse 41, the rejoicing that they do, rejoicing, that they were counted worthy to suffer, dishonor for the name of Christ. Again, the amazing thing is that they they rejoice over their suffering. Now, why would you rejoice over suffering? It really doesn't make any sense, does it? Yet they do it. It must be that there's something about that name and something in the spread of that name that is so worthy That even to suffer for it is a glorious thing. And this is what happens here in this text. Again, the mission of the church sometimes proceeds in ways that are surprising as well. Not only is the church sustained in surprising ways at times, but God also sees to it that the mission of the church proceeds in surprising ways Even to suffer for the sake of the name is to advance the name. And that's the amazing thing, again, about this church that Christ is preserving. And Christ is sustaining that even in suffering they are bearing witness to his name. Now that's not any kind of glory or pomp that the world tends to recognize, you know, a gathering of people who suffer for the sake of some cause That's not anything that anyone in the unbelieving world is is prone to see as amazing or worthy of their allegiance or worthy of them committing their lives to it. But it is the way Jesus Christ works. It is the way Christ works in this world by his gospel. He advances his name even if it should be through the suffering of his people. That's because of the nature of what he brings. He brings a word that confounds at times the wisdom of men. It confounds the wisdom of men that God should have mercy on those who are his enemies. And because that is what the message is, it should not surprise us if God brings it to people in surprising ways. Well, beloved, let's take to heart what we see here in this text. Let's take to heart the fact that God is committed to his church, the fact that God is able to sustain his church. is able to keep going the mission of his gospel, even if it is in surprising ways. And the reason is because it's all for his glory, not for ours. And so, therefore, it is accomplished in his way rather than in ours. Well, let's be quick to submit to him, to submit to his providence, and to submit to his calling in Jesus Christ. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we give thanks to you this day for what you've shown us in your word today. Thank you, Father, that you uh continue to sustain the mission of your gospel in the midst of your church, and thank you that you're able to do so even at times in ways that appear to be surprising and appear to be to our ears and eyes paradoxical, things that don't seem to w be the way we would do it. Yet this is how you have acted, and this is how you have spread the good news of your salvation in Christ. You have spread it through the suffering of the apostles. You sometimes spread it through our suffering. You sometimes spread it through hard providences in our lives. Help us to be quick to submit to those things and to reflect your glory and honor when you so call us. Father, we give thanks to you that you have great purposes in this world that you are at work accomplishing. Through what Christ has done, we ask you to continue that purpose through us and help us to be faithful in that which you have for us. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.