If you'd open up your copy of God's Word now to Matthew, we're going to continue our study there this morning in the Sermon on the Mount I believe you'll find that on page nine hundred and sixty-four of your pew Bibles. I'm just gonna be reading one verse this morning. Matthew chapter five at verse forty eight. Let's give attention to God's word. You therefore must be perfect, as your Heavenly Father is perfect. Father, we pray as we come to an important verse critical To our salvation. We pray, Father, by the Spirit, that you would open it to us, that you would convict us, Lord God, of sins, but then of all of your promises which are yes and amen in Christ Jesus. Guide us this morning, Lord God. Give us not mere understanding, but help us to know, Lord God, that Christ, only Christ Is your perfection. We ask this in his name. Amen. When you hear the word perfect, what comes to mind? Maybe a perfect game in baseball. I think there was one recently Maybe at the bowling alley, the perfect game. I think it's 300, meaning that you get strikes at every single frame. Maybe, maybe it's the perfect steak grilled to just the right pinkness with the best seasonings. Maybe it's a hundred on your math exam. Or an English paper with no sparing spelling or grammatical errors. Everyone would acknowledge that perfection is difficult to achieve. But most would think that according to their own standards, perfection is within reach. And that becomes the problem when we consider the words of Jesus today. You must be perfect. For so many think that I measure up. So many think that according to their standard of perfection, their standard of goodness, their standard of worthiness, of making the grade. Actually apply to their eternal life. But they don't Because God's standard of perfection is not ours. It's only when one measures him or herself against the perfection of the Lord Jesus Christ that it becomes clear I can't do this on my own Jesus is preaching this what we call the Sermon on the Mount, and it is important to remember that as he preaches, he is describing the kingdom of God. We've got to keep that in our minds as we continue to go through it. As he spoke of The Beatitudes, what we now call the Beatitudes, he was describing the hearts of those who are following after him and the hearts of those who are in glory And now he's been teaching and preaching on God's nature in the form of the law. You shall not murder. You shall not commit adultery. You shall not swear falsely. Do not resist the one who is evil. Love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you. And now today, he tells us, he tells his disciples, you must be perfect. Today, I want us to see that it is only the perfection of Jesus which enables the children of God to enter into his presence. It is only the perfection of Jesus which enables his children to enter into his presence. We'll see that in three points. This morning, the perfection of God, the perfection of his children, and then thirdly, the perfection of Jesus. This is only one verse. But I would suggest to us this morning that this is critical for us to understand and grasp. If we want to live and dwell with God forever. Well, first the perfection of God We come now to what seems to be the end of Jesus' preaching on the law of God. This last verse before he transitions into another aspect, another portion of the Sermon on the Mount. The transition is so evident that those who put the chapter breaks in broke the chapters here between five and six, thinking that that Jesus was kind of ending this particular portion and now moving into something else. It may even be that Jesus was summarizing a significant portion of the Sermon on the Mount here in this verse. But how is it to be understood? Is this to be understood as a stand-alone verse or command? You must be perfect? Or is it a summary? Or is it just connected to those verses which immediately precede it? Love your enemies. Jesus chose not to use that introductory phrase that he had been using. You heard that it was said, he doesn't use that here. So it doesn't seem to be that this verse stands on its own. And then we've got that Greek word, that little Greek word, um, which means therefore. We know that this verse was not intended to be on its own. The therefore tells us That this command to be perfect flows out of that which comes before it The only question is, is it just to be applied to verse 43? You've heard it to be said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemies, but I say to you, love your enemies Or does it apply to all of the commands, beginning with verse 21? You've heard that it was said of those of old, you shall not murder. Does it apply to all of them or just this last one? Well, clearly it relates back to verse 43 through 47, because those verses speak of the Father. Just look at that for a moment. I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your father. Who's in heaven? For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. So Jesus' reference here in verse 48 to the Father seems to connect it directly To this command to love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. But if this call to be perfect is related to this command to love your enemies, then Why wouldn't it apply to all of the commands? In a moment we'll discuss the perfections of God, but here we see that his perfection Extends not merely to a single attribute, but to all of his attributes, all of his nature. And if that's the case And why would we limit this verse, this verse that calls us to be perfect, to just this one command to love our enemies? In fact, the Old Testament tells us so very clearly that we are to be blameless. Think of what I just read from Genesis 17. As God enters into covenant with Abram, who he changes to Abraham. He begins by saying, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. The idea is, you're in my presence. And this is the way you must be in my presence. I am God, walk before me this way In Leviticus chapter 19, we read, speak. This was God telling Moses to speak. Speak to all the congregation of the people of Israel and say to them, You shall be holy. For I, the Lord, your God, am holy Moses virtually repeats the same when he tells the Israelites, you're going to be entering into the promised land, and you shall not be like those who are occupying it right now. You shall be blameless before the Lord your God. You see, Jesus was not announcing a new command As we've seen in the past. He was merely reiterating that which had already been given to the people. You shall be blameless, you shall be holy, you must be perfect. Now we're beginning to grasp the scope of this command to be perfect We know that it applies not just to this command to love your enemy, but at least in part applies to all of the commands that Jesus has been unfolding for the disciples to this point. And then if we remember the backdraw to all of the Sermon on the Mount, he's been preaching and teaching not a code of conduct This wasn't a law class that Jesus was putting on for the disciples. No, he was describing the attitude of the heart. That is read to God, a heart that has been following after himself, after Christ, the heart of those who are disciples of Christ. He was describing the hearts of those who were dwelling with God. And so as we consider this call to be perfect, yes, the law is a guide, but this call is so much more than a call to keep the law. Jesus is preaching the absolute, the unchanging, the rock solid requirement that those who desire to live eternally with the living God must be perfect. That's the heart of the matter. That there will be none in the kingdom of God who are not perfect. Again, this sermon is all about the kingdom, the beatitudes describing the citizens of the kingdom, and this verse is a summary of the beatitudes. It's a summary of the law. This qualification of perfection is unwavable, it's unmovable, it's unalterable. Perfection must be met. This heart condition must be satisfied. Now at this point you might be thinking like the disciples were likely thinking, wow, the law has just been explained to me in such a way that they had not previously understood, although they should have. And now this call, this command to be perfect. You can imagine What they were thinking. How perfect? In what way are we to be perfect? And so Jesus doesn't keep them in suspense, does he? He tells them so very clearly, you must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect. Well what is the perfection of God? That's the standard. Jesus doesn't leave it unclear, he doesn't leave it undefined. He tells himself very clearly, here's the standard. You must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect. Well, what is the perfection of God? We can consider some verses that help us. Deuteronomy 32. The rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are justice. A God of faithfulness. Without iniquity, just and upright is he. Psalm 18. This God, his way is perfect. The word of the Lord proves true. You see, perfection is not merely applied to his justice, his faithfulness, his uprightness. It's applied to his word. It's absolute truth, it's perfect truth. John Calvin writes that Psalm 145 really contains all of God's perfections. You may want to look at that this afternoon. Just open up Psalm 145, read through it. At verse 8, we read: The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. The Lord is good to all. And his mercies over all that he's made. He's righteous in all his ways, kind in all his works, near to all who call upon him. Do you see? Do you see, are you getting the picture of the completeness? Of God in all of these attributes, his righteousness, his kindness, his slowness to anger, his steadfast love, his goodness The Apostle Paul writes in Romans in chapter 12 as he was telling those who were listening to him, don't be conformed to this world, but be transformed That you may discern what the will of God is, what is good and acceptable and perfect. The will of God is perfect. You see, his perfection is not just one thing. It's not a divisible attribute. It applies to all of his attributes. The Westminster Confession puts it this way: there is but one only living and true God who is infinite in being and perfection. Infinite perfection. You could just take that paragraph in the Westminster Confession and say, oh, these are these are the attributes In which He is perfect. His wisdom, His holiness, His freedom, His graciousness, His loving kindness, His mercy is long-suffering. Job puts it this way in chapter 11. Can you find out the deep things of God? Can you find out the limit of the Almighty? And it was a rhetorical question, and the idea is, no, no, he's so perfect. He is perfect in all of his attributes, and we can't even dig deeply enough. To understand his perfections. That's the standard As we think about this call to be perfect, we see that Jesus Christ sets forth that standard of perfection. You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. The level of perfection was to be as perfect as God the Father, in a sense, we'll unpack that in a minute. That seems to be the eternal aspect of this command. You must be perfect as your father is in order to enter into glory with him. But there's also this temporal nature to this command, this life nature. We have the for the next life nature, the eternal nature, the perfection of God your Father. in order to enter into glory nature. And then we have this idea that as he was speaking to his disciples, he was telling them that you must be perfect today. In order to be citizens of the kingdom which you've been placed into today, you must submit yourself wholly and completely to the king. Remember, he's talking about the kingdom. And he's talking about the king. As you represent the king, remember there are to be salt and light. They're to be lawkeepers, but they're to be ambassadors for the king, and they're to be projecting his nature and his glory to all that they come in contact with. In this world. And so as we understand this passage, we've got to put it into two different time frames. One for eternity and one for today. That brings us to our second point, the perfection of his children. We've seen a bit of the perfection of God, and now we need to understand the perfection of his children. We need to unpack this verse a little bit. You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly father is perfect. So how were the disciples to take this? How are they to reach for the perfection of God in their own lives? How are you to take this passage this morning and attain to it As Jesus directs his disciples to be like God in any way, we must clearly understand this passage, for there are significant errors that have been made. One is that some would believe this means I need to become divine. Others would say I must be actually perfect in this life. And we also need to understand that there are two different time frames in which to apply this passage. The first is for today, which we'll discuss in this point. And the second is for eternity, which we'll discuss in the third point. But first I want to get to those errors. Because this is so critical for us to understand. And the first error is that Jesus was teaching his disciples that they needed to become divine exactly like God. He was urging them and telling them and commanding them that they had to be divine and we know that That can't be the case because God is singular, there is no other God, and his attributes, while some of them are communicated to us, many are not And we know that no attribute of God is attributed to us in a hundred percent or perfectly, even as a follower of Lord Jesus Christ, is is taken into glory. He or she will not be changed into a divine being. None of us will be converted from being a creature to being the Creator A human being will always remain human. We will not be converted. Indeed, even as we think of God's perfections Wilhelmus Ablackel puts it this way. His perfection consists in his self-sufficiency, his self-existence. Thus, he writes, there's no common ground between the perfection of God and of his creatures except in name. He's referring to his self-sufficiency. We're not that. And so Jesus was not calling his disciples to become divine in any way. Or to have the same perfection that only the divine has. It's not possible. So let's not go in that path. There's a second path that people have gone in, and that's called perfectionism. Perfectionism, at least in part, according to some streams, would be the complete eradication of sin. It's this second giving of the Holy Spirit, wherein the Holy Spirit somehow erases from you original sin. And then causes you never to sin again. Some kind of a complete or perfect sanctification in this life. An absolute purity of heart. Now. But as we look to the scriptures, we see nothing of that within them. This complete elimination of sin in this life, this purity of heart, complete purity, isn't spoken of anywhere in scriptures in this life. We only need to go to Romans chapter 7 as Paul states so very clearly, I do not do the good I want, but the evil I do not want is what I keep on doing. No one loves God with his whole heart, soul, mind, and strength. perfectly in this life, not one. The elimination of sinner perfectionism is a heresy. And Jesus doesn't refer to it in this passage. Well, what was it then? For the children, for the disciples, to be perfect in this life. What does Jesus mean? You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. There's no question that He's calling them to that. There's no question that that command has been repeated in Scripture. You shall be holy, for I am holy. To be perfect then in this life doesn't mean to be self-sufficient as God is, but in a sense to be complete That word perfection or perfect has a sense of completeness to it It's being tied to the Father. And so thus, at least in part, it must mean to be complete. So tied, so connected to the Father that you are complete. And so it must mean to be filled with Christ. It must mean to be nourished by Christ, to be supplied by Christ, to be filled by Christ. She says, I am the vine, you are the branches. Whoever abides in me and I in him, he it is that bears much fruit. We know it's not perfect fruit. But that's the sense of completeness. Being in the vine, being connected to the vine, being nourished by Christ Jesus. That you're complete. That you don't need anything else outside of that vine. That's what Paul is thinking about, I think, as he writes. If then you've been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above, where Christ is seated at the right hand of God. Set your mind on things that are above. I don't need anything else but Christ. I'm complete in Christ Jesus. It's an active striving. It has to be in this life. That's what the writer to the Hebrews wrote, strive for peace with everyone and for the holiness. without which no one will see the Lord. It is a striving. Because you've been connected To the vine, you've been joined to the vine, you're receiving that nutrition. You're not setting your mind on the things of the world, but on Christ. You're being fed by Christ. And so as the Apostle Paul writes, he counts everything in this life as rubbish in order that he might gain Christ, to be found in Christ, that he might know the power of his resurrection, of his share in his sufferings. And he says, I press on. Not that I've already become perfect. Do you see the striving in the language of Paul? He says, I'm not perfect. I haven't attained these things yet, but I'm counting these things around me, these things of the world, my accomplishments. As rubbish so that I can gain Christ, and I'm still pressing on to gain, you know, I'm reaching forward to that which lies ahead. I'm pressing on to the goal for the prize of the upward call of God in Christ Jesus. That seems to be the idea in this life. From a human perspective, it must be that which you're seeking. You're pressing on toward, you're striving for, because you have Christ. He's your all-in-all You may even be asking yourself, well, how is this happening to me? Am I indeed am I indeed striving? Am I moving closer? Again, the writer to the Hebrews in chapter twelve writes, For they disciplined, meaning earthly fathers, disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to him. them but he, meaning God, disciplines us for our good that we may share in his holiness. You see, he was recognizing that that we haven't attained to that perfection, that holiness yet But it's through the discipline of God, the chastisement of your heavenly Father, that you are moving closer and closer To that holiness that you're striving forward for, that you're pressing on toward through his loving hand. That's how. Praise be the Lord that he cares for you so much that he's doing this for you and to you, even today. That brings us to our third point, perfection of Jesus. Now at this point, we're moving on to that second time of application. That first time was the application for this life. And now we must think how does this passage apply to eternal life? Psalm 24 reads this way: Who shall ascend the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his holy place? He who has clean hands and a pure heart It seems to be exactly what Christ is saying here in verse 48. You must be perfect as your Heavenly Father. is perfect. In order to enter into the very presence of God, one must be blameless, undefiled, totally and completely devoted to purity We can think of the Old Testament sacrifices, the animal sacrifices If you opened up Leviticus and you read through all the descriptions of the animals that were to be used for sacrifices, those who were acceptable to God, they're all blameless. They're all perfect, so to speak. They are without blemish. You see the representation. You couldn't bring a blemished animal and say, please use this as my sacrifice. The priest should reject it But God wouldn't accept it. For a sacrifice to be acceptable to God, it had to be free of blemishes. To ascend the holy hill of God, one must have clean hands, meaning free from iniquity or blamelessness. So as we consider eternal life, this entering into glory, dwelling with God forever, there's this now requirement, this requirement for purity, absolute purity perfection and no and now we know we have a problem. For we've learned even this morning that the truth is there's no one righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. They've all turned aside. So there should be no question this morning. This idea of I can attain to perfection so that I can enter into glory. I can live with my God forever. It's a false hope. No one born of Adam is thus righteous and holy and perfect as is required. None of us may look to ourselves. That much is crystal clear. We must look to another. If this command is to be fulfilled, if we are to be perfect, we must look to another. It must be that we must Turn sharply and quickly and consider the perfection of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me be clear as we speak of the perfection of Jesus. We know that he has two natures: divine and human. And some of us may be thinking, oh, he is perfect in his divine nature. And that would be true. That would be correct But that's not what Jesus is speaking about this morning. That's not what you must rely upon this morning. That's not what you must depend upon this morning. You must depend upon the perfection of Jesus and His human nature. And when we talk about the perfection of Jesus and his human nature, we're not merely speaking of his keeping of the law. That may be where your mind goes. Oh, he kept the law perfectly. And he did. Yes, absolutely. In him there is no sin. 1 John 3, 5. We can truly say that Jesus did that which Adam refused to do, and that is keep the law personally and perfectly. But the perfections of Jesus go way beyond his keeping of the law. Let's just think about them for a moment. Certainly we can think about his keeping of law. He did it perfectly. There was no thought Of breaking the law. There was no desire within Christ's heart to transgress the law of God. He loved the law of God. But let's go beyond that. Think of his will to do his father's will. He was so enamored with his father's will that he tells his disciples, who were curious as to whether or not Jesus had received something to eat from the Samaritan woman. Jesus said to the my food is to do the will of him who sent me and to accomplish his work. That's his desire. That was his heartfelt desire. That's what he was focused upon That's part of the perfection of Jesus. I'm not so concerned about this. I'm not so concerned about this. This is my food is to do the will of my Father. Think of his longing to be in constant and intimate communion with his father. Quite possibly, we might see the clearest perfection, the completeness of Jesus in this. Throughout the gospel accounts, we see time and again Jesus secluding himself away. To engage in communion and fellowship with his Father. Prayer, the times of prayer by Jesus are emphasized as the gospel writers record his works. Mark, in his first chapter, speaking of Jesus rising very early in the morning while it was still dark, he departs and goes out to a desolate place and there prayed. So much so, and for so long the people were looking for him. But that was his desire. The first thing Rising early, going out, separating himself from the world, so to speak, to be in intimate communion with his Father. You can think of the prayer in Gethsemane. The multiple times in which Jesus asked for the cup to be taken away. from him so that he might remain in communion and union with his father. That might be the centerpiece of his prayers. And that centerpiece was his longing, his central focus, his desire To remain with his father. That's perfection. We see the desire of Jesus to give glory to his Father as He heals. As he heals the leper, he tells them, Go and show yourself to the priest or make an offering for your cleansing, as Moses commanded for a proof to them. He didn't say, Go tell the priest I healed you. Go tell the priest that I touched you and remove the leprosy from you and tell him how great I am. No, he says, go keep the law. Keep that which God has commanded. Honor my Father. Bring glory to him. And then his deep and earnest love for the people of God. Think of Jesus as he's riding up to Jerusalem, he's drawing near to the city, and now he begins to weep over it. Why? Here are his words. Would that you, even you, had known on this day the things that make for peace. They didn't know him. They didn't know why he was sent. They didn't know why he was there. They didn't know they had a problem with their sin and they were neglecting God. They were worshiping false gods. And Jesus weeps over them. His love for the people demonstrated so powerfully and fully and completely on the cross. So much so that as Jesus is dying, and he sees his mother, and he sees John, and he tells them, Woman, behold your son, and he said to the disciple, Behold your mother. He was concerned for his mother. And his brother. Even as he was dying, even as his blood was flowing out Even as the wrath of God was being poured out upon him, he was concerned for the temporal lives of his mother and the apostle John. The perfection of Jesus' love. He loved his disciples to the end. And Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, it is finished. He had completed his work. But his work involved his love for all the people of God. All of these just bits, just glimpses into the perfection of Christ. Stephen Charnut, a Puritan, puts these things this way. All the attributes of God are glorified in Christ. Since Christ was so loving, tender, holy, religious, we must conclude the Father is of the same nature. Do you see what he was saying? He was saying Jesus was reflecting The nature of God, all of God's perfections are in Christ. That's the idea So this morning, brothers and sisters, as you're contemplating, as you're thinking through, as you're meditating upon this call to be perfect. As your heavenly Father is perfect, and you so desire to ascend the holy hill of God Your longing is to enter glory and dwell with the triune God forever. You must have Christ. You must be in Christ. You must belong to Christ, He must be your perfection As Paul writes to the church at Ephesus, and he describes the church, the body of Christ. It's the fullness of him who fills all. Do you see? You must be filled with Christ. Christ must dwell in you richly. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. You must not merely receive the nourishment from the vine, but Christ must be your all in all so that his perfections are filling you. Do you see it's only Christ There's nothing you can bring. There's nothing you can offer. There's nothing you can point to that you have done, that you have thought, that you've believed. It's only Christ. He must fill you. Indeed, it is only the perfection of Jesus. Which enables the children of God to enter into his presence. So many think that they measure up But it's only when you know and grasp the perfections of Christ. That you can see that there's no way that I measure up. But praise be to God that He's given us His Son. And that all of his perfections are in his son, and he graciously gives them to you this morning. Praise be to God. Amen. A Father in Heaven, help us in our weakness Cast away any thoughts, Lord God, of perfection in this life, of perfection in ourselves, and help us to grasp tightly and completely. The fullness, the perfections of Christ. Oh Lord, we thank you and praise you for them. Help us, Lord God, to meditate upon this passage, to meditate upon Christ, and to be so very thankful for all of his perfections. We praise you, Lord, and ask all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.