If you turn in your copy of God's Word now to the Gospel of Matthew, we'll continue our study there in chapter 25. So we're working our way through that. I think it's on page 988 of your Pew Bibles. Jesus has just finished two parables. And now he tells his disciples of the judgment that's coming. Let's give attention to the very word of God. Matthew twenty-five at verse thirty-one When the Son of Man comes in his glory and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on the left. And the king will say to those on his right, come. You who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry and you gave me food. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and you welcomed me. I was naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was in prison and you came to me And the righteous will answer him, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry and feed you, or thirsty and give you drink? And when did we see you a stranger and welcome you, or naked and clothe you? And when did we see you sick or in prison and visit you? And the king will answer them. Truly I say to you, as you did it to one of the least of these my brothers, you did it to me Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels For I was hungry and you gave me no food. I was thirsty and you gave me no drink. I was a stranger and you did not welcome me, naked and you did not clothe me, sick and in prison, and you did not visit me Then they also will answer, saying, Lord, when did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick or in prison, and did not minister to you? Then he will answer them, saying, Truly I say to you, as you did not do it to one of the least of these, you did not do it to me. And these will go away into eternal punishment But the righteous into eternal life. Let's try on the reading of God's word. Amen. Please be seated Father and our God, we we come now to what might be a difficult passage, judgment. And we ask, Lord God, that you would give us tender hearts this morning to receive all that you have for us. Use your servant, weak and frail, fallible as I am. To proclaim the power of your word according to your most holy and perfect will. Guide and direct our hearts now. We ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. What have you done for Jesus? In a sense, it seems that that is the question being asked by the text we have before us this morning. Think of Cain and Abel. And what did they do for the Lord? As we read that passage this morning, Abel And brought the firstborn of his flock and their fat portions as an offering to the Lord. And Cain brought an offering of the fruit of the ground. And the Lord had regard for Abel, but not for Cain and his offering. You see, we think that as we come to chapter 25 of Matthew's Gospel, that this idea of separation is new. But it actually began with the first two born of Adam and Eve. There was immediate separation. The Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. Remember, the Lord said to Cain, if you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. It seems to lead us right to this passage in Matthew 25. Jesus, as we know, has left the temple. He's on his way to the cross. And on his way he continues teaching his disciples as Matthew records it, this segment 24 and 25 is the last discourse of Jesus, the last significant teaching of Jesus, as Matthew records it. to his disciples. And as they left the temple, the disciples are asking as Jesus tells them that Not one stone will be left on another. They're asking, okay, when will these things be? What will be the sign of your coming? And the end of the age. So, in a sense, Jesus has been answering that question since they asked it at the beginning beginning of chapter 24, and continues, in fact, here at the end of 25. In essence, he's been telling his disciples to be spiritually awake, to prepare for his return, to be ready. The parables that he used express that so clearly with the ten virgins, the five who were prepared and the five who weren't prepared for the bridegroom to come. And then with the parable of the talents, Jesus was saying that as the king goes away, as the master goes away, the servants are to be at work in preparation for his return. And we see that two out of the three were at work, and the third refused to work. The two who were at work were praised by the master. They enter into the joy of your master. The third who refused to work was cast into the outer darkness. Preparation, being spiritually awake, being ready for the return of the king. And so now Jesus here in this passage describes just that very thing, the return of the king, his return. And as he does, the text tells us very clearly that he'll be separating the entire world, all nations, into two groups, the sheep and the goats. The sheep or the righteous will go into eternal life, and the goats, or the cursed will go away into eternal punishment. That's a quick summary of what we have before us. If we were to summarize the teaching, I would put it this way: Jesus will return to grant life to faithful servants and to send rebellious sinners to hell. Jesus will return to grant life to faithful servants and to send rebellious sinners to hell. We'll see that in three points or three doctrines this morning. First, the Lord will return to judge. Secondly, the sheep will be given eternal life, and then finally the goats will earn eternal death. As we go through this passage this morning, I'd like you to keep in mind that question, what have you done for Jesus? Well first the Lord will return to judge. Now as Jesus is describing his return For the disciples who've asked that question, he puts it this way: When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. So far so good, according to the disciples. This is in keeping with their question. When and then what's it going to look like? This was their expectation. Yes, you're going to retake the throne. You will sit on David's throne They've already been told this in a sense, and in chapter 24, they will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, and he will send out his angels. But then comes Jesus' next statement. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he will separate people from one another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. So, while we don't have the disciples' minds before us, we can speculate as to their thinking. All nations? Jesus is going to return to judge? This is not what they were thinking. Up to this point, they'd have been told that the temple would be destroyed, not one stone would remain on another. that Jesus would return and they've been asking when? When will these things come about? They were not asking what kind of return would this be? No, they assumed based upon their faulty understanding of scripture of the Old Testament, what we now have as the as the Old Testament, that Jesus' return would be merely him sitting on David's throne. And it would look just like David's kingdom, his earthly kingdom. They understand the scriptures at that point stating that the Messiah, the Christ. Would be ushered back in to sit on David's throne and remove the Romans from their power and restore the Israelites to their rightful position of self- rule and government through Jesus' throne. That's their mistake. And then they're thinking that Jesus says as you take that throne, which one of us is going to be here and here? What's it going to look like for us? That was their understanding of Jesus' return. And so they're only asking when? When? What should I do in preparation for that? They thought they knew what it would look like. They thought they knew what the eternal kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, was But they didn't. And so now Jesus tells them. He explains that his return would not be to re-establish David's earthly throne. But that he would be ushering in the true kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven, through judgment. When the Son of Man comes in glory and all the angels with him, he will sit on his glorious throne. Now we have to be clear. As he uses that title, Son of Man, Jesus is referring to himself He's used that title throughout. Well, Matthew, as he records the gospel here, has used that title throughout for Jesus. Jesus refers to himself that way. In chapter 9, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins, he's referring to himself as he's healing the paralytic. Daniel saw that one came like a son of man to the ancient of days as he has the vision, and now Jesus picks up that title, uses it for himself. And so the Son of Man is Jesus. And he, Jesus, will return to sit on his glorious throne. And then Jesus transitions to speak of himself as the king. The Son of Man is Jesus, is the King. It's not a different person. It's one and the same. The Lord Jesus Christ. So as the disciples, if they were really listening that day to Jesus' words, to his teaching, they would have been shocked to hear that description of his return. Before him will be gathered all the nations, and he's going to separate the people one from another as a shepherd separates sheep from the goats. What? That wasn't their expectation. Well, judgment might have been their expectation, as they were thinking of the Romans, as they were thinking of the Gentiles. They'll be judged. Everyone outside the Jewish ethnic family would be judged. God would pour out his vengeance upon them. So they're not expecting this kind of judgment that Jesus speaks of. Jesus speaks of a different, a categorically different kind of judgment. A judgment, a divine judgment for all. Every single person, Jews and Gentiles alike As Joel puts it, let the nations stir themselves up and come to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. This is exactly what Jesus is saying. Whether Jew or Gentile, Jesus speaks of judgment of separation, not between the Jews and the Gentiles. No, all peoples. Every single one, separated into two groups, a judgment that would grant some eternal life and send the rest to hell and damnation. So there's the surprise, which actually should not have been a surprise for the disciples. Everyone, Jew and Gentile alike, will be judged as Jesus returns. This is the way the Apostle Paul put it as he writes to the church in Rome For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. Each of us will give an account of himself. Does that surprise you this morning? You see, there are many who believe just as the disciples believed that day, I think. That they knew there'd be a judgment, but they sincerely believed that they were in the group, the population, the people that would not be judged because of their bloodline. Or that they would be judged as being good people because they had the law. But Jesus says so very clearly, everyone will be judged. And you'll be judged based upon God's standard, not ours. Not a human, a fallible, a corrupt standard. No, God's perfect standard for determining goodness. And it's so far above our ability to comprehend and understand God's goodness that we really can't even grasp the standard of judgment that Jesus will use. As he returns as the Godman, he uses the divine standard to determine goodness and to determine whether or not you'll be granted life or sent to eternal death. See, Jesus in his first advent, as he came, as he was born as a baby, and he came to save. But as he returns in his second advent, as he returns for judgment, that period of salvation will be over. His work of salvation will be complete. And now he'll return to judge. And as he judges, he will use God's divine standard of perfection. Only those who are perfectly good. Only those who are completely blameless. Only those who have crystal clear Clean hands and a pure heart will be allowed to ascend the holy hill of God and enter into glory or eternal life. How could it be otherwise? How could Jesus gather up people with him to be with his Father in glory who are impure? Isn't that what happened in the garden? Because Adam and Eve had now made themselves impure, they were separated from God? Every single one who He brings into glory must be holy and pure. Are you prepared for judgment? Isn't that exactly what Jesus is asking his disciples as he preached this to them? Since they asked the question? Isn't that what he's been telling them through the parables? Are you prepared to give an account? You see, friends, the only way to prepare is to receive the righteousness of Jesus Christ. So you must be clothed in Jesus' blood, drenched in his blood-soaked robes. The only way for you to be blameless is to be washed in the pure holy blood of Jesus Christ poured out on the cross at Calvary. The only way for you to have clean hands and a pure heart is by the atoning sacrificial death of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the only way for you to be among the sheep. That's the only way for you to prepare, actually prepare for judgment is to trust in Jesus Christ and in his pure blood He's calling you. Even this morning. Trust in the Son of Man. Trust in the Son of God. Trust in Jesus Christ. And then you'll be prepared for judgment. Brings us to our second point. Our second doctrine, the sheep, will be given eternal life. And so Jesus now, as he continues to describe that day, that time, that judgment, as he describes it for them, he continues and opens it up. We'll separate one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. And now he gives his reasoning for separating the sheep. The basis for judgment. For I was hungry, I was thirsty, I was a stranger, I was naked, I was sick, I was in prison. Six times I was You might be thinking here, now Jesus is really saying that you have to work for this. Jesus is really saying that these are the good people who ministered Minister to others because Jesus said, Well, if you did it for the least of these, you did it to me. But Jesus doesn't say that the sheep were good. But you still might be thinking that, well, this is the proof text. This is the proof text that people are saved by their works Some might be thinking that as long as I do these good things, visit the sick, go to the prisons, provide food, provide water to those who are in need, provide clothing. And I'll be saved. I'll have eternal life and glory. You might be thinking that Jesus is actually commending those that he's put in this group. for their work. You might be thinking that he's saying this is how you get there. It'll be based upon the things you do. But this is your ticket into heaven. But let me be clear. This is a dangerous thought. Indeed, this is a deadly thought. And it's heretical. Many people take on this belief and are actually trying to work their way to glory. If I do this, if I give the food up, if I give the water, if I visit the sick, if I visit the imprisoned, if I do these things, these works, I will live forever, I will earn the favor of God, I will enter heaven. Many believe that they're already in the sheep pen. Because of the good things that they have done. They believe that they have earned their way into glory. If that describes you this morning, please stop. I want to say without equivocation, this is Satan's great lie. This is possibly his greatest temptation. To tempt you to believe that you can earn the favor of God It's false. You can't. It's impossible. Consider this That there's not one verse, there's not one sermon, there's not one recordation of Jesus preaching to his disciples in this way. He never tells his disciples, you must earn your way into glory You might be thinking, well, what about the rich young ruler? Isn't that exactly what he told him? If you would be perfect, sell what you possess, give to the poor, you'll have treasure in heaven, come follow me. Wasn't Jesus calling this one to go out and do some good works and come back? The answer is no. He was demonstrating to the rich young ruler that he actually had not kept the law. Remember what the rich young ruler said to Jesus as Jesus Who told him, What m what must I do to earn eternal life and will keep the commandments? And the Christian really said, Well I have. I have, I've done it. And Jesus is saying, by telling him to sell what you possess, give to the poor, come back. Saying, no. No, you haven't You haven't been a good person. You haven't earned your way. And you can't. What does Jesus teach? John puts it so very clearly. I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus didn't say you're the way. He didn't say, You're the life. He said so very clearly, I'm the way. No one comes to the Father but through me. Jesus had the perfect opportunity at that moment to say, look. You can be the way if you do some good things, but he didn't. Even in this passage before us this morning, Jesus tells us the truth, the the the the ultimate truth. Look at verse 34 for a minute. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come, you who are blessed by my Father Inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. Now, did you notice when the king says that First, he says it before he goes into the litany of I was hungry and you and I was thirsty and you and I was naked and you. He says it before that. But then think of the words that Jesus uses here. This may be the most critical and significant verse in this passage You who are blessed by my Father. You see, it's the Father's will to bless those whom He desires to bless. And it's not because of anything you've done or thought or said. He has mercy upon whom he will have mercy and compassion upon whom he will have compassion. It's God's will. He blesses whom he desires. Come you who are blessed by my Father. And then think of that word, inherit the kingdom. What do you do to to earn an inheritance? Nothing. You were just born. That's it. You have an inheritance as a result of your being born. And you have an inheritance as a result of your being born by the Spirit. You have an inheritance into eternal life because you've been born by the Spirit. And then think of this. The kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. How many good works have you done before the foundation of the world? Before the foundation. And it was prepared for you. It's all God's work. It's all God's doing. It's not by works. So you may be thinking, well, then what did this passage mean? I was hungry, I was thirsty, I was a stranger, I was naked. I was in prison. You came to me. Indeed, truly, as you did it to one of the least of these, my brothers, you did it to me. What's Jesus saying? If he's not saying that you have worked your way into the kingdom, what's he saying? You did it to me. I think Jesus is saying that as you minister to another, the least of these As you love your neighbor, as you do good works, you're following Jesus. You're obeying his commands. You're living in a way that he's called each and every person on the face of this earth to live. And so he's saying, as you minister to others, as you treat others with kindness, especially the least of these, with grace and mercy, you're serving the living God. You're serving Jesus Christ every single time. Wasn't that what Jesus meant when he told his disciples, take up your cross and follow me? Every time, every time you work in the food pantry and you hand out a box of food, you are serving Jesus Christ. You may think you're serving the people that you put the box in their car, right? You may think you're serving, and you are, there's an extent, there's a sense in which you are, but you're really serving Christ. And that's what he's saying here You're serving me. I think that's why we don't do it enough Because we don't think that way. We think we're serving the individual, the one that needs visitation or clothing or a cup of cold water Don't miss this truth. But Jesus is saying, as you do these things, you're serving me. earnestly and sincerely with compassion and grace. You see how important that is to understand that, to grasp that Think of Jesus as he washed the feet of Judas. In the upper room discourse as he as he He puts a towel around himself, takes the basin of water, and washes the feet of his disciples. All twelve of them were there, including Judas. Who was Jesus serving? Wasn't he serving his father? Wasn't he doing exactly that what the father had called him to do? Love these. Go to the cross, die for these. Yes How could Jesus pray on the cross, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do? It's only because Jesus was serving his Father first and foremost. He was loving his Father. Do you serve that way? Every time you help someone You do an act of kindness. Are you thinking I'm serving the Lord Jesus Christ right now? I'm serving the Creator, the King of the universe. Regardless of what this person's response is to me. Oh, that we would All know that and believe that and trust that and have that attitude for if we did I think our service would just magnify And Christ, if it's possible to speak this way, Christ would even be more exalted. As we change and know that what we're really doing is serving the King. That brings us to our third point. The goats will earn eternal death. Now we do do turn to the goats And Jesus has plainly stated once again that there will only be two groups. All will be judged. We've seen the sheep, and now he turns to the goats, and there's that's the only other segment that he hasn't dealt with yet, and there are only two There are not three. There will either be those who go to eternal life or those who will be sent to eternal death. And now he speaks of the latter. There are only two paths. A path of life and a path of eternal torment So now Jesus speaks clearly to those who have been separated as the goats. For I was hungry, and you gave me no food. Five times. He adds that negative. No, or not. Naked and you did not clothe me, sick and imprisoned and you did not visit me. It parallels that which he tells the sheep, but now it's in the negative. Did not, did not, did not, did not And so the goats ask, just like the sheep ask When? When did we see you hungry or thirsty or a stranger or naked or sick in the prison and did not minister to you? Now they've already heard him, Jesus, respond to the sheep, but they asked the same question, when? Why ask? Why do they ask? Because they were thought they were good. And they didn't need to do any of this. They didn't need to serve Jesus. They didn't need to minister to anyone because they thought they were good people. They refused to serve Jesus actually. Jesus' response is the same that it is to the sheep, but now it's in the negative. When you did not do it to the least of these, you did not do it to me. You refuse to serve the living God. That's what Jesus is saying. How do you know? Because he refers to him as you cursed. He doesn't refer to them as you forgetful. He doesn't refer to them as you who had too much time on your hands and didn't use it in the proper way or you had the business going and you just couldn't fit it in. No, you cursed They hated God and God's Son. They hated His Word, His law. They rejected even the thought of serving Him. They hated Jesus so much that they refused. That's the point. Those are the goats. You cursed. You see, as a result of their refusal, Jesus says, depart from me. You cursed. Actually, this is the second time that he uses that language. The first time is in the Sermon on the Mount, when he says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Even those who say to him, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? Did we not cast out demons in your name? And do many mighty works in your names? And he'll declare to them, I never knew you depart from me, you workers of lawlessness That's exactly what he's saying. They're the ghosts. And these that he's describing here in this passage on the judgment are the goats, and they are called to depart. And he's sending them away. Workers of lawlessness, cursed. See, a king can't have within his kingdom subjects and citizens and members of his family who refuse to serve him. A king can't have within his kingdom those who are opposed to his way. A king cannot have within the kingdom those who would refuse to follow him. A king can't have within his kingdom those who would not be in unity and fellowship with him. And so that's exactly what Jesus is telling his disciples. And that's exactly what Jesus is telling us this morning. These will go into eternal torment unless they turn. You see, this passage is not only stating a truth, Jesus is setting forth a warning. Judgment hasn't come yet, but it is coming. And for all those who refuse now to serve the crucified, the dead, the buried, the ascended, the risen Lord Jesus Christ, who's mediating right now, no He's telling us. Know for certain that he will return this nine not to save, but to judge. And his judgment will be just, and his judgment will be final. And if you will not serve Jesus today, your hatred of him is on display. And so Jesus is sending out the warning shot. Stop loving your sin so much that you hate the Lord Jesus Christ and will not serve Him. Judgment is coming. And thus the mercy of God is on display here in this passage. He's reforming his disciples. He's teaching us this morning of his return before he returns. Just as the Lord warned Cain. Did you hear that this morning? If you do well, Will you not be accepted? Cain had not killed his brother yet. If you do well, will you not be accepted? Your brother did well He came and brought a faithful, trusting offering to me. You didn't Your heart is not right. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. That's the message that Jesus is bringing to his disciples and to us this morning. There's a warning here for you who have refused to serve Christ. It's a warning to turn. To turn from that sin which is crouching at the door. It wants to keep you. Jesus will separate you from it. He'll break that chain if you trust in him, if you believe upon him. He's calling you to turn from that sin which will lead you to this eternal punishment He's calling you to turn to him, to believe upon him, to trust in him, and to serve him. That's the call, that's the warning, and that's the blessing. Jesus will return to grant life to his faithful servants and to send rebellious sinners to hell. Abel and Cain were separated. They're separated by God's work in the heart of Abel, making him a faithful servant. And leaving Cain to his sin. Friends, Jesus will return. He's coming. And when he comes, he'll come to judge. The call this morning is to be prepared. And the only way to be prepared is to be in Christ. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ and Him alone. And you will be prepared. Amen Our father and our God, in a sense this is a difficult truth. As we look forward to the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, there will be joy. And Father, there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And so we ask, Lord God, that you would prepare us, that you would make our trust in the Lord Jesus Christ even more sure. You'd increase our faith. And Father, for those that are here this morning or those that are listening this morning, Father, we pray that you would turn hearts which have rejected Christ. We pray that you turn hearts that have refused to serve the living God this day and bring more More lost sinners into the sheepfold before Jesus Christ returns to judge. Father, we praise you, and we ask all this in His precious name. Amen.