Please remain standing and turn in your Bibles to Mark chapter 12. Mark chapter 12. And begin reading at Verse 28 and read through verse 33. Let us fear God's word. Then one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, perceiving that Jesus had answered them well, asked him. Which is the first commandment of all? Jesus answered him, the first of all the commandments is Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. And you shall love the Lord with your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And with all your strength. This is the first commandment. And the second, like it, is this. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these. So the scribes said to him, Well said, teacher. You have spoken the truth, for there is one God, and there is no other but He And to love him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul, and with all the strength. And to love one's neighbor as oneself is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please be seen. Well, as you can plainly see, we're not in Hebrews today. Those who have been in uh the Wednesday night Bible study, we have been going through this uh this passage and uh I must tell you there's been something that I have seen in this passage that has really gripped me And those in the Bible study probably will know what I'm talking about because they've heard it before, but I'd like to take some time to talk to you about it today. And I like to do it under the title, You're Not Far from the Kingdom of Heaven. In order to appreciate this encounter that Jesus has with this scribe, this unknown, unnamed scribe You need to understand the setting, first of all. And you can find the clues as regards to the setting If you go back to chapter 11 at the 27th verse, And we read there in chapter 11, verse 27, They came to Jerusalem, and as he was walking in the temple, the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders come to him. Jesus is walking in the temple. That's the setting. That whole uh Jesus is in the temple as a number of different segments Of the Jewish religious community, and even the politicians come to him in the temple, a veritable parade. You know, if you had a if you were having a parade, uh you could take your camera and you could take snapshots of the groups that are coming before him First of all, chapter 11, verse 27, and following all the way through chapter 12, verse 12, we find the first group identified as the chief priests, the scribes, and the elders came to Jesus And they have a question of Jesus. They're all coming with questions. And most of them, in their questioning, want to discredit Jesus. So the scribes and the Pharisees, the chief priests, the scribes and the elders want to know, by what authority do you do these things? Now, where did your authority come from? And if you just remember, if you go back a little bit, you'll see they're asking that question with reference to the fact that Christ had come into the temple the last week of his life and cleanse the temple of the money changers. But as we go on through Chapter 12, the next group parades before Christ. Beginning at verse 13, the Pharisees and the Herodians. The Herodians were those who had a political alliance with Herod. And we've learned enough about the Pharisees in the past to know who they were. Then they have another question. And their question is found in verse 13. Is it law to pay taxes to Caesar? And then after them come the Sadducees, the next group in the parade with their banners flowing and the trumpets before them, and they have another question for Jesus. Is in the resurrection, their question goes like this, I'm summarizing it, in the resurrection, whose husband is the woman who had seven husbands? Okay? So you get the picture. They're in the temple, one group after the other. And then comes the story that I want to focus on today. This scribe comes to Jesus. And in verse 28 and following, it says, one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together. In other words, He was looking, he was an onlooker, looking at the various conversations that Jesus was having. with these men. And of course, as they ask their questions, Jesus answers their questions in such a profound way that In one case it says after that question, after that answer, nobody dared ask him anything else. But this scribe had a question. Having heard them reasoning together and perceiving that he, Jesus, had answered them well, asked Which is the first commandment of all? And of course, the Lord answers that question, with what he has already answered in other places. The first commandment is, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one, which is Deuteronomy 6 verse 4, it's a very famous verse. It's called the Shema in Hebrew. It's uh if if the Jews know one verse in Hebrew, they know this one. And uh they will go on to say, Jesus says, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind, with all thy strength. And this is the first commandment, and the second is like unto it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. There is no other commandment greater than these And so we see the parade. The parade is ended The last group has come before Christ with the questions. Every major segment of Jewish religious leadership has taken their shot at Christ. Every one failed Everyone failed to deter him, distract him, or catch him with some kind of answer that was in some way unscriptural. They were looking to make Jesus discredited. That did not happen. In fact, they were the ones who were discredited by our Savior's answer. In one case, after Jesus exposed the corruption of the religious leaders' views, it said the people were endeared to Jesus. And in verse 37, it says, they heard him gladly. Now remember, this is no more than three days before the cross. This is in the temple. It's not in the Holy of Holies, but it's in the outer court of the temple. And in the outer court of the temple, almost everybody was free. To mingle and to come into that outer court. For some reason, we kept we keep seeing of these groups that come to Jesus that they come as groups. They come as a collection of groups. Perhaps that gave them some Bravery to answer these questions of Jesus. But there was one difference in the four groups, and I hope you caught it. There was only one scribe who came to Jesus To ask this question. And I maintain that is very significant. It clearly in verses twenty-eight and thirty-two of our section that we're reading Focuses on the fact that there was only one scribe. In other words, he had to personally come to Jesus. In the middle of the temple, where there no doubt were many other people, perhaps some of the same groups that Jesus had already talked to, were there too. And he comes to Jesus with this question. It's kind of a Nicodemus moment. Although there are a few differences between this scribe and Nicodemus. Nicodemus, if you remember, came in the dark. What this scribe did is in the open. It's public. Okay? Just keep that in the back of your mind for just a few minutes. Now, I want to just also have us have an understanding of who the scribes were Because most of the time we hear the scribes and we don't. I know I do. I just read over it and say they're the scribes and I think I know what they did, but I really didn't know what they did. until I looked. And I was indebted I'm indebted to a man named Alfred Eddesheim. who in 1883 wrote a book, well it's more than a book, it's that big, entitled The Life and Times of Jesus the Messiah. And in that book, he talks about the origins of the strides. Eddersheim was Jewish, but he was converted at the University of Vienna by, of all things, a Scottish Presbyterian. And he came to England and to Scotland and became a minister in the Scottish Presbyterian Church. At the age of 25. He's a very smart guy. He finished his career as a professor of Semitic languages at Oxford. And it was his task, his job, as he saw it, to describe the cultural setting of Judaism at the time of Christ. So his work is very enlightening. And what uh what um Itasheim said, you might uh also know that sometimes the scribes are called lawyers. In the New Testament. And that's because the scribes were those who were the ones who interpreted and exegeted God's law. They were not prominent in Israel until the Babylonian captivity. Ezra was a scribe. In the Babylonian captivity. And one of the things that happened during the Babylonian captivity, after Israel had been taken into captivity and punished. Lo and behold, some of the people woke up and said, you know, we better start listening to God. The problem was They had no skilled interpreters of the law of God. The Levites probably had performed this function before the scribes But over time it didn't become very important. But in the captivity, the exiles from Israel Wanted to repent of sin. And this is where the scribes become very important. They became so important in Israel that they were, generally speaking, while they were Very respected. They were held in high esteem. And that's, of course, because they were interpreting the law of God. And of course, as the people are getting closer to the law of God, They begin to see that through the scribes' efforts that they were guilty before God. It's not that they didn't have it before, it's just they didn't care But the scribes brought all these things out. And I marveled. Remember when we read through, when we preached through Ezra, however many years ago that was And I remember this incident that Kenny read, how Israel had gone back to they they get back into the promised land. God brings them there. They're living in the land, and now they're going back to sinning by marrying pagan women. The very sin that got Israel in trouble throughout our history. Doesn't matter what time of the history you can find that problem And remember how Ezra pleads with his people, tears his robe, bows in the dust, tears his hair out. And he pleads before God for mercy. How can these people do such a thing? After God has been so gracious, after God has been so merciful After he has brought us out of captivity and placed us in the promise, back in our homes And helped us rebuild the wall and to begin to rebuild the temple. Now it would take another 30, 40, 50 years before all that was done. But they were home. And I remarked when we were going through that passage, where did Ezra get the Where was it that the people listened to him? Because after he chastised them very severely, they gave up their foreign wives. They respected Ezra, but I think it's also the institution of the scribes. They respected God's law enough. To do what was right in God's sight, in the general vein of trying to repent. So These guys have an important job in Israel. They're well respected. They are experts in the law of God. And I hope that begins to open up for you this very incident between Jesus and this one scribe. One man. I hope you can begin to see what's happening here. The scribe which we encounter in this passage, in Mark chapter 12, 28 through 33, is a very different sort of scribe. Especially from his peers, his contemporaries. And I say that because If you go down to, I say that for several reasons, but if you go down in the same section again, down to verse 38. Jesus has a warning about the scribes in general. He says there, beware of the scribes. Who desire to go around in long robes, love greetings in the marketplace, and the best seats in the synagogue And the best places at the feasts, who devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. Hypocrites In so many different ways. Devour women widows' houses. We had a long discussion about that. And what did that mean? And it appears that the scribes were not paid So they would take up residence with ladies, women, widows in the con in Israel. And once you got them there, they wouldn't leave. But this scribe is different. He's not of that ilk of verse 38 and following. And I say he's different because of how he reacts to Jesus The first thing he says is, well said, teacher. What you have said about loving God and loving your neighbor, that's right. And he follows that up in verses 32 and 33 by saying, You have said the truth. There is one God, and there is none other but He. To love Him with all the heart, with all the understanding, with all the soul, with all the strength, to love His neighbor as Himself. And then notice this, next phrase, is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. You see, the scribe not only fully appreciates Jesus' answer, he agrees with Jesus' answer, and he also demonstrates His heart understanding of what God's law requires. Love God and love your neighbor. And that is more than all the whole burnt offerings and sacrifices. Now that whole burnt offerings and sacrifices theme, God has been trying to pound that into the head of Israel for quite a while. Several places in the Old Testament this theme comes up. It emerges as early as the incident between Samuel and Saul. When King Saul refused to do what Samuel told him to do, and that was to not take the spoil of this king that he was fighting against. And Saul disobeyed. A rather funny incident in some ways And we'll get into that, but I just want to point out. Samuel said to Saul, has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? As he does in obeying the voice of the Lord. Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice And to hearken them the fat of rams. In the book of Hosea, in the sixth chapter, in the sixth verse, it says God is speaking through Hosea the prophet, for I desire mercy, not sacrifice. The knowledge of God is more than burnt offerings. 1 Isaiah 1, verse 11. To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices to me? says the Lord. I'm full of the burnt offerings of rams. and the fat of the fed beasts. I do not delight in the blood of bulls or lambs, or of he goats. God has said it. The scribe, you see what the scribe did? He made an application He made an application of what it means to love God in his own heart. Or God helped him, excuse me, God helped him to make that application. It's more important to love God than it is to come by and offer up your sacrifices over and over again and then go about your business. being the miserable, wretched sinner that you are. The scribe shows that he understands what's at the heart of God's law. What God wants from his people is not ritual sacrifices without conviction in the heart. God wants to see us understand that we need to be transformed, that our evil hearts In rebellion to God's law, need to be changed from that rebellion to hearts that desire to do What is central to the Ten Commandments, love God and love your neighbor with all your heart, mind, soul, and strength Furthermore, what this scribe did was in the temple. Don't ignore that. For the very reason when he says, well done, Jesus, oh man, that must have set the chief priests and the Pharisees on fire. Here's one of our own out there complimenting the very guy we want to take down, we want to destroy. Well done, Jesus. He said it in public. And he did it in the face of the Jewish religious elite whom Jesus had just vanquished. And he did it before some of them who are guilty of ritually performing the very animal sacrifices God hates. That was the job of the chief priest. This scribe is very close to the point of breaking with his peers. I hope you can see that. I hope you can appreciate that. And he's very close to breaking with them and seeking instead what God wants for his life. Which is a heart that is devoted to God and will obey him no matter what. I believe that is why Jesus encourages this scribe with the words, verse 34, you're not far from the kingdom of God. The interchange also reveals to each of us, and you should take note of this, it reveals to us the depth of Christ's love for his people. That he will search for his sheep. He will go into the dens of iniquity, into the savage wolves that seek to tear him apart. To save one sinner who needs help and needs to know the truth But it's not done there. It's not over yet. Jesus has told him. You're not far from the kingdom of heaven. Now, if somebody tells me that, and I don't know for sure that I'm in that kingdom, I'm not far. That doesn't mean I'm in it. That means I'm not I'm close, but I'm not there. You know, my response is going to be, well, what else do I need to know? Tell me. Tell me what else I need to know I've given you a good answer. I've I'm showing you my where my heart is. And I believe God in his sovereignty orchestrates three more incidences in the temple. That very likely filled out the complete picture for the scribe. Now, that I admit assumes that the scribe saw these incidents. But I can't imagine that he would suddenly now abandon Christ. Curiosity It's working. Except except I think it's God's work who's working here. Notice the three incidents I'm talking about. This gets a little out of our text, but in verse 35 We have three separate incidences. Jesus, first of all, says to anybody who will hear Anybody with earshot, including hopefully Mr. Scribe, that Christ is David's son and Christ is David's Lord. And he quotes Psalm 110, verse 1: The Lord said to my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand until I make thy enemies thy footstool. So, what Jesus is saying to Mr. Scribe or anybody else who listens to him, what he's saying with those words is. I, Jesus, am the son of David, but I'm also David's Lord. And more than that, I'm Lord of all. I'm your Lord. A king dumb doesn't exist without a king. And for the the and for mister Mr. Scribe, Mr. Scribe God has set his king on Zion, his holy hill And that demands that Mr. Scribe and everybody else bow to him And worship him. If you're going to be in my kingdom, Mr. Scribe, you need to know who is Lord of the Kingdom. And it's me, Jesus. And then he takes them to another statement which we just looked at for a minute. Beware of the scribes. Now he points him to his own compatriots, his own peers. And he says, Beware of the scribes who love long robes, greeting in the marketplaces, etc. , etc. , who devour widows' houses. Mr. Scribe, if you want to be part of my kingdom, do not engage in the obnoxious practices of your peers Instead, examine your heart and show humility Of one who wants to be among those who serve God and his people, not one who's constantly stealing from God and his people. And thirdly, the story of the widow's might emerges. Notice it's also in the temple. I did some calculations. Jesus is observing people putting money into the into the offering box. It was located on the wall of the temple. And a lot of people came by and gave a lot of money. Oh, how much the chief priest must have loved that A lot of money was given. And then this little old woman comes in. She gives two mites, which is equivalent to half a cent today. Not even a penny. And Jesus says Her life, what she gave, was her life. And she gave more than all the rest, verse 43. Mr. Scribe, are you ready to give your life to serve me? Are you ready to sacrifice for me? What about all of us? Are you not far from the kingdom of God? Are you in it? It's a simple matter of where is your heart. Are you playing at being a Christian? Do you go to all the prescribed activities of the church, the worship service, the Bible studies, the Sunday school classes, you know, all the kind of stuff like that? But still your heart hates people? Are you playing a being a Christian or do you truly love God and your neighbor as yourself? And is the Lord Jesus Lord of everything you do? Does Christ rule your life on Monday through Saturday as much as He does on Sunday? Are you serving him with your life? You see, I maintain that those three things would very clearly tell a person what it means to be in the kingdom of God. So that you're not far from it, but you're in it. May God bless this reading, this message to your hearts. Amen. Let us um let's pray. Most merciful God, our heavenly Father, some may Hear these words of Jesus about loving him more than anything else and sacrificing oneself to be part of his kingdom. I may not be willing to pay the price. But you told us there is a price. There's no free ride. Jesus said, if anyone wants to come after me, let him take up his cross, deny himself, and follow me. Very simple words. Impossible to do without God giving us the Holy Spirit its help and even then Lord we fail perfectly to do that. But Lord let us also take comfort in the fact that our Savior Searches for the lost sheep. And he is never going to allow his lost sheep to perish. He will leave the 99 that are safe to find the one and bring them back to the fold. And so, Father, we pray that the same kind of love for the sheep that the good shepherd has The Lord Jesus Christ will be evident in our own lives. That we will not Try to fool anybody by living a life that is consumed by the externals of our faith. When we haven't yet given our heart to you. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.