Please turn your attention now to the Word of God, to Hebrews chapter 9, and to verses 11 through 15. Hebrews chapter 9, verses 11 through 15. Let us now hear the word of the Lord. But Christ came as high priest of the good things to come, the greater and more perfect tabernacle not made with hands, that is, not of this creation Not with the blood of bulls, excuse me, of goats and calves, but with his own blood he entered the most holy place, once for all, having obtained eternal redemption. For if the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer, sprinkling the unclean, sanctifies for the purifying of the flesh How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. And for this reason he is the mediator of the new covenant, by means of death for the redemption of the transgressions under the first covenant. That those who are called may receive the promise of the eternal inheritance. Thus far ends the reading of God's Word. Please now be seated. We're back on back in our study in Hebrews and um The last time we were together, we looked at verses 11 and 12 of this section. The title of the sermon was The High Priest of the Good Things to Come. The Lord Jesus, the high priest of the good things to come for his people. And in that sermon, I made a number of uh applications to the text. And just by way of reminding you and bringing us up to speed to where we're going to go today in our sermon today, I said that We as Christians should believe in Christ, and that means placing your faith in his infinitely precious blood sacrifice. Believing that Christ's sacrifice will cover all your sin, that salvation Is not by your hands, but it's by the hands of God in Christ. If you believe in Christ as your Lord and Savior, your only high priest, Eternal life is yours forever. And that is a good thing. And that is a good thing. I also said that your Savior Jesus Christ now resides in glory. And because you are in union with him You will be with him in glory forever also. You're not there yet physically, but you are there spiritually. As his Holy Spirit dwells in your heart. One day you will be physically and spiritually in glory in your resurrected body and soul. And our holy, and but for now, Christ the high priest bears your petitions. He intercedes for you with the Father. He pleads with the Father on your behalf. Whatever you ask according to his will, he will do. And that is another good thing. Thirdly, as we looked at this passage, I said that there are still good things yet to come. It's not just now, but there's more good things to come. Because God has given you grace to believe in Christ. The high priest, the Lord Jesus Christ, is also your good shepherd. He is the Lord, your shepherd. He leads you through the valley of the shadow of death. He anoints your head with oil. He enables your cup to run over. His rod and staff comfort and lead and guide you. The Lord Jesus encourages you to believe that you will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. And your death will not nullify that promise. And that is another good thing. Today, the author of the book of Hebrews leads us to consider two additional blessings that belong to believers As a result of the precious blood of Christ being shed for you. Those two significant things he talks about in our verses today, verses 13 and 14. Or his sacrifice, the sacrifice of Christ has a significant effect on your conscience A significant effect on your conscience. And secondly, it has a significant effect on your inheritance on your inheritance. I will not get to both today. I will get to the contents this week and the inheritance next time But let's look at what we mean when we say that the blood of bulls and goats and the ashes of a heifer. Sprinkle the unclean, sanctifies to the purifying the flesh, how much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot, to purge your conscience? from dead works to serve the living God. Now, as you read those two verses in verses 13 and 14, In many ways, you could say that the history of God's redeeming work is summarized in those two verses. You see the main characters. You see on the one hand the Old Testament sacrificial system of animals being sacrificed. And on the other hand, you see the New Testament, fulfillment of that in the blood sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. The Old Testament sacrificial system, as you recall, shed the blood of animals. Bulls, goats. Lambs and other animals, it also mentions here the ashes of a heifer Which I'm not too sure I know what a heifer is. Uh but I know it's a cow. I think it's a female female cow, a young female cow But all these things were offered up as part of Old Testament sacrifices. And you notice that what the text says about these offerings in the Old Testament, that they did have an effect. They did have an effect on the people of Israel for whom these these things were offered. It says, as a matter of fact, that every time these sacrifices occurred in the Old Testament uh uh uh uh uh uh times with Israel, the people of God, they in they had a type of sanctification They had a type of sanctification, and it's very carefully spelled out. This sanctification was of their flesh. was of their flesh. In other words, that which was part of their outer being Their flesh was sanctified. And the word sanctified there means set apart. set apart, sometimes also translated as holy. They were set apart. And who were they set apart for? They were set apart as God's people. They were outwardly identified as God's people. By those offerings. They had an outward cleansing appearance Those sacrificial animals, that's one of the things that happened. That's one of the blessings. That's one of the effects. It had on the people of Israel. They were outwardly cleansed. This set them apart as the covenant people of God, as the heirs to the promise to Abraham. They were identified as God's chosen people. Outwardly their flesh was made pure in the sight of God, and that was a good thing. But it didn't go far enough. It didn't go far enough. It was a foreshadowing of the fact that something better needed to come. Something better needed to happen through the sacrifices for the people of God. That something better is revealed in the passage through contrasting verse 13 with verse 14. The outward cleansing, the outward purification was of the flesh. Verse 13. But verse 14 says, How much more shall the blood of Christ, who offered for the eternal through the eternal spirit, offer himself without spot to God, how much more shall that offering purge your conscience? Purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God. The intent of the Old Testament sacrificial system was that there would be outward cleansing But at some point, that would lead to an inward cleansing on the part of the people of God. The Jews, the Israelites. And by N-word, we're referring to their conscience. Or andor, and that includes their minds and their hearts. their minds and their hearts. So that everything that was external Was meant to have an internal effect, a cleansing The chosen ones in the Old Testament, the people of Israel, would begin to start showing gratitude for serving God. And begin to start loving God for all the blessings he had heaped upon them, for deliverance out of Egypt, for the conquest of Canaan. For the numerous times in which God delivered Israel from the oppressors during the times of the judges On and on it goes, sacrifice after sacrifice is offered, outward purging of the flesh, but no inward cleansing of the conscience Because those sacrifices couldn't do that They weren't designed to do that. They were designed to get the people of God ready for that which was coming that could do that. Outward. There's this kind of a motif that's going on here. Outward to inward. Outward to inward. And when you think about it, that motif outward to inward gets expressed in the Old Testament and in the scriptures themselves in a number of very interesting ways Let me uh share a couple When God made his covenant with Abraham, he said to Abraham, I will be your God, and you will be my people. The implication of that promise to Abraham is simply this, that Abraham and all who are in Abraham must be holy. As God is holy. If we're going to dwell and be God with God, then we have to be holy. And it can't just be outwardly holy See, it has to be the whole being, the whole human being, the inward heart. That's where God looks. The outward might be cleansed. But what about what's the heart? Does the heart love God with all their heart, mind, soul, and strength? Does the heart love their neighbor as themselves You see, the story of Israel is replete with failure to love God. No matter what God did, no matter what era you take. To look at the history of Israel, no matter how many sacrifices are offered, they didn't just ignore God They thumbed their nose at God. They didn't just worship God. They worshiped every God under the sun. And erected altars throughout their history and bowed down and worshiped the idols Again, the sacrifices were not useless They pointed to this need for something inward, an inward holiness. And some of the Israel, some of the people of Israel got it. Not all, not most. But you remember the famous rejoinder of Elijah. When he is being pursued by Jezebel. Am I the only one in Israel? Who's not thou the knee to Baal? He thought he was. But God opened his eyes and saw that he saw that there were 7,000 knees in Israel that hadn't bowed the knee to them. And you see, not bowing the need to bail. Uh if out if Jezebel had gotten Elijah uh gotten Elijah, you know, she would have killed him It was a death sentence. But he loved God. And seven thousand others apparently loved God. So those sacrifices were not totally useless Other examples of this inward to outwardness, excuse me, outward to inward motif. It's also true of the sacrifices of the animals' blood. As I've already said, those sacrifices will bring the child of God who Elective God, they will bring that child to see the very weakness of the sacrifices. I gotta have a better blood, I gotta have a better sacrifice. I gotta look beyond what these things are saying and doing so that I, along with John the Baptist, when the blood comes He can say, behold the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world. See, not simply sacrifices makes worships worshipers outwardly pure before God. They need one that will make them Inwardly pure before God. The wicked heart Needs to be cut away and replaced with a new heart. And you hear that language? A new heart The new heart Ezekiel thirty-six I will give you A new heart, not a heart of stone, but a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you So much so that you will love my law and you will keep it. You will keep it But that was for the day that was coming. That was for the time of the blood sacrifice that Hebrews chapter 9, verse 14 Records for us. Again. How much more shall the blood of Christ Who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, cleanse your conscience from dead works to serve the living God Cleanse your conscience. Cleanse your Cleanse your mind, cleanse your heart, cleanse your orientation toward God All men, because of sin, do not have a clean conscience They have what Hebrews has here revealed for us as a dead works conscience A dead works conscience. Now, what does that mean? What does he mean by that phrase? I believe it means this. When we look at God's moral law, when the sinner looks at God's moral law The Ten Commandments. What does he think? We know that that law was written on our heart. So the conscience is involved in whatever the unbeliever thinks about the law of God. But generally speaking, the unbeliever Looks at the law of God and says to himself, I can keep that. I can do that I can I can love God with all my heart, mind, soul, and strength, except when the red skins are playing. And then we see we throw in all the exceptions, which really then relativize how much we love God and how much we can keep the law. And why do we want to keep the law? Because we're performing dead works. We believe that by the keeping of the law we can save ourselves And that's the surest way to spiritual death. Christ comes to cleanse the conscience From dead works. If you're in Christ, you know That no amount of law-keeping is going to save you. No amount of your law-keeping is going to save you. Only the law-keeping of Christ. Because then you have his righteousness. And see, you don't have your outward flesh Being cleansed, like the sacrifice of a heifer and all those other Old Testament things, but now you've got a new heart Now you got the Ezekiel 36 heart. Now you got the Holy Spirit. Now you got the righteousness of Christ. imputed to your account. Now you have the Holy Spirit at work sanctifying you Not just in outwardly, but inwardly. So that you along with David can say, oh How love I thy law. It is my meditation all the day. It's not my standard. It is a standard of righteousness, but it's not what I'm banking on to get to heaven I'm not banking on my efforts. That's a dead conscience. I'm banking on the righteousness of Christ. Oh, how love I thy law! It is my meditation all the day long. Ah. Oh boy. See even I think the Galatians passage that we read earlier Has this concept of the outward and the inward flowing through it when it talks about the law of God? Paul is talking about the moral law to the Galatian church. At a church where they had real problems about whether they were going to be obedient to the law of God to save them, as the Judaizers were telling them, or whether they were going to trust that their righteousness is in Christ's righteousness imputed to them. And Paul goes in that passage and remarks Galatians 3, verse 9. Those which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham. For as many as are of the works of the law are under a curse. Are under a curse. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them. Okay, you Judaizers, you people at Galatians who are listening to these guys, do you not realize That God in His law demands absolute perfection. And if you mess up one time with one word in one way, you have brought the curse upon yourself. There all who rely on that are under a curse Cursed is everyone who continues not in all things which are written in the book of the law, but that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God. No man has that inward righteousness, that conscience clean from acts that lead to death, dead works. No man. But but that but The man that Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law. Being made a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is everyone who hangs on the tree. Remember Jesus looking at the Pharisees? Matthew 23, verse 27. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, he said. You're like unto whitewashed tombs. You indeed appear beautiful outward, but inside you are full of dead man's bones and wickedness You see, here in Jesus' day, the Pharisees are the number one practitioners of let's keep the law and save ourselves. Okay. You're just like the forefathers. You look good on the outside. Whitewashed, too. But you're dead. You're dead. Inside you're full of dead man's bones That was a very polite way of saying you stink. Your theology stinks too Christ has redeemed you from the curse of the law. You stand In glory. If you're a believer, you stand in glory because he has cleansed your conscience. From dead works. He's given you his righteousness. He's allowed you to see You're not saved, no matter how hard you try, if you don't believe in Jesus Christ alone. And that, you see, is the effect One of the effects of Christ's atonement, of his righteousness. Your conscience has been sanctified and is pure Purified from dead works. You have a new heart, you have a new mind, you have a new conscience, you're a new creature. And don't let that old pernicious man raise up his ugly head and say to you You can't trust that. You gotta do the best you can. Because that's what the that's what the Jews Yeah, it's alright you guys got Christ. Gotta make sure. Here's the way you make sure. Do the works And if you follow that kind of logic, eventually you'll do the works and you'll forget about Christ. Christ is the only one who can make you inwardly pure. He's the only one who can cleanse your conscience. from dead works. Lord God, give me and give you that mind Nurture it never, never, never throw it away. It's your life It's your glory. Amen. Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father Here we come to see again how the scripture exudes grace, that we're saved by grace through faith in Christ. Jesus, not of works lest anyone should boast. The law has its purposes. Its purpose according to Galatians 3 is to Remind us that we cannot be perfect. It is referred to as our schoolmaster, our tutor, to lead us to Christ. To lead us to the one, the only one who has kept the law perfectly in your sight. Therein, in Christ Christ is our righteousness. Glory be to God. Amen