So a little while ago I made a video talking about whether tracks were outdated and how tracks can still be used for the glory of God. And I still would definitely don't believe that tracks are outdated by any means. I think that they can be used by the glory of God. They have been used by the glory of God, and they continue to be used by the glory of God. of God. Uh all the objections I've heard the tracks don't stand up under even the the the closest scrutiny. Um people say that one-on-one evangelism is is better. Well you know what, even if I concede that one on one evangelism is better, does that mean that we always have time for one on one evangelism? Let's say uh you're going out you're going to a uh a Taco Bell or Chick-fil-A and and you're going to the drive through. Um and and the person's ringing you up. You say, Well, excuse me, um c can I ask you, um if you did die at night, uh where will you spend your eternity Even if they wanted to have that conversation, their manager says, Move out. Move on. We don't you can't sit here and have a a a five, ten minute conversation with the drive through person. Or you know, you can think of a whole host of circumstances like this. I spend a lot of time giving tracks on my on my metro ride when I'm uh going through uh you know Union Station as I'm walking through Union Station and here comes someone and I get a prompting by the Holy Spirit or Oh, it seems like this person could be receptive to the gospel. You know what I'm going to do? I'm going to walk up next to them and just start asking them uh where they're going to spend uh the their their their eternity. Again, uh even if he thought that even if this worked Uh even if that was your gift and and this somehow was uh effective for you, are you gonna do that to every single person that you feel uh might be receptive to the gospel? You're never gonna get to work. And most people Even if they were interested to say, I'm sorry, I can't have this conversation. I am literally going to work. I'm in motion. You just so happened to pass me. I don't have time to stop for conversation. So even if we were to concede that one-on-one conversations of the gospel were more effective. There are times and situations where tracks become uh more conducive, namely when you're going in and out of environments and you're seeing a whole bunch of people and you just don't they don't have time to talk to you don't have time to talk But you can easily walk up to someone with a track. Here's one track. This is the money track. I'm not actually a big fan of this track. Uh kids love it. Don't do this for adults. Most people are mad about the money track. Uh but I I just happen to have one. Let me grab a different one. Um A different track. All you have to do is walk up, and I don't even hand these out many. I have a lot of tracks. But I'm just trying to give you some examples. You can just walk up to someone and say, uh, excuse me, miss, excuse me, sir, be nice and polite. Can I give this to you? And you know what? Sometimes they accept, sometimes they reject, and sometimes they throw it away, and sometimes they read it. Ultimately, we endure all things for the sake of the elect that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. If 99% of people throw this away and only 1% of the people that I give read the tract and hear the gospel and are encouraged spiritually, I'm going to be willing to do it. But I wouldn't even say the mass majority reject, the mass majority don't reject, um, and the mass majority uh I would say probably don't throw it away either. I've seen uh many people read it. I don't stick around to read it because that's the job of the Holy Spirit. I plant some water, but God brings uh the growth but sometimes God has allowed me to uh see just happen to run back into them or or they call me over or something like that where I actually see God working in their life. Let me tell you something No. Uh no one will ever tell me that no one can be uh spiritually blessed and and brought to the kingdom through tracts because I was spiritually blessed and brought through the kingdom uh through tracts. One person handed me a track and I read it and I And I uh absorbed the gospel on that way and get saved immediately, but I got saved later on. Another time someone left a track in a public place, I picked it up and read it, and and God was working on my life and in grading the gospel. And you know what? I've laid tracks down. And I just happen to be in situations where I've laid tracks down on the train, for example, and watched the person I've watched plenty of people uh sit on it, I've watched people put in the in the next seat behind them, I've watched people uh throw them away or whatever. You know but I've also watched people pick it up and read it intently. I've seen multiple people do that just like I did. uh so many years ago. I've also uh handed people tracks, I've watched them thrown away, I've watched people sit there and intently read it. And I want to share uh two stories of of of of that of God doing that. And by the way, we believe in God's providence. That's the wonderful thing about handing out tracts. It's a wonderful thing about being used by uh God in his in his in his gospel. Because we know that God is going to direct us to certain people that he wants us to go to. We are his messengers. We get to be like his angelic beings, his messengers, going to the people that he needs to that that need help. We don't know who needs help, but we just always say, God, who is it? Show me. Bring the right people so that I can give the gospel. That's my prayer. Every time I'm ready to give out tracts, I'm like, God, I I'm just looking around. God, I'm just, where are you? Help me to to know who to give it, who not to give. Show me the way, Lord, he so often does. Let me give you uh two uh encouraging stories that that happened recently. So here I am, uh I'm doing that, I'm showing up, paying attention, and saying, God, who who is it? Who who do you want me to to give attract to? Um and not only do I have this I actually do pray that, but I'm just in that sphere, looking around God, who is it, who is it, who is it? Not in a nervous way, not in a free uh in a an uncomfortable way, but just in a trusting way that I expect people to be around me that God wants me to give tracks to here I am showing up as an ambassador to the king. I expect that he's going to send me different people So here I am giving a track here, giving a track there. I don't try to give it to everyone just to people that God uh calls me to, people who are especially friendly Um and people that are usually responsive to me. If you give out tracts to enough, you know which people are responsive and which people uh usually aren't responsive and just those who you get the prompting of the Holy Spirit. You just get this sense that you're supposed to give that tract to that person. Those are the people that I give tracks to So here I am, and I see this person, and they they fit my profile, they fit someone who I normally get tracks to, they seem like they're going to be friendly and nice and kind, and I feel like that's the person I'm supposed to get the track to. to. And and so um but I'm not in the right position. You find out there's certain positions that that are better than others. You just have to find this out through uh a process of elimination and just doing it and and trying not to scare people and just figuring out uh what's the right angle to hit people and the person over there and I need to get to them right because I feel like that's the person I'm supposed to give attract to And and then I finally get to the right angle and I say, excuse me, miss, can I give this to you and I hand it to track? And and and she looks at it, she takes it and she says, Oh, thank you. And and then I keep walking. That's that's normally the response. Thank you, or or say nothing, and I just keep walking and next person, right? I'm I'm looking for the next person to get the track to. Well this person said, um excuse me, and then like kind of uh ran after me. What's going on here? Uh they they ran after me and they said, you know This is amazing. I was just now praying that the Holy Spirit would reveal himself to me. And I said, God bless, amazed, that's incredible. I I I would I'm not surprised though. I'm really not surprised that here she this woman is. God, please reveal yourself through your Holy Spirit to me And then God also tells me, hey James, go over there and give this track to this woman right then, right there. This reminds me, do you remember of Abraham's servant? when he was uh praying for uh a wife for his uh uh praying for a wife for Abraham's son and he gets to the well and he's praying and even in the middle of his prayer the woman uh that was going to be Isaac's bride shows up, Rebecca Uh w that's we shouldn't be surprising. He says, You were preparing my way and my steps way in advance. This is the God of Providence that we serve, that we would expect these things to happen. The amazing thing isn't that uh that this lady was praying in my mind or that Um, I handed a track and I was used in God in that way. And the amazing thing is she told me. I expect these things to happen all the time, but if it happened to me, like that lady who gave me a track so many years ago, I didn't say, Wow, this this I feel like this is coming from God. I just read it and And and there was uh I I didn't go and tell the ladies what I'm trying to get at. I can't wait to tell that lady who handed me that track when I was uh thirteen or fourteen sitting on that bench. I can't wait to tell her I read that track and it blessed me. uh so much, but I didn't get to tell her. Well this case that this lady was so blown away by the circumstances, I guess, and she just had the kind of personality she just wanted to share that with me. So now I'm sharing that with you. This is God's providence at work. So that happened And here's the amazing thing. A couple weeks later, maybe within a week, I can't remember th these things uh I don't remember all these things. Uh I wasn't supposed to go into work. I was supposed to have a half day uh working uh from home and and then going and spending time. I wasn't supposed to go to work, but I was called into a meeting and I ended up needing to go to work and I was like, what's this? Oh God, I trust you. I guess it's a track day. That's what I thought. I guess this is a track day. I guess there's somebody that you want me to give uh track to and that's why you're having me go into D C. Let me tell you, when I went into D C that day, I gave out more tracks that day than uh I normally do. I mean I was just I don't want to say I was on fire, but God was really opening up people. I was just handy tracks uh nonstop, getting very few rejections. It was it was really quite wonderful. I was like, this is a great day. I guess this is the reason I was supposed to uh come into work. I end up making my appointment anyways. I end up getting to spend time with my family and still having a half day. Praise God he worked the whole thing out. But as I'm coming back, remember I'm not supposed to be in DC. I'm supposed to be at my house, uh actually spending time with my my family. But here I am in DC. And I see this lady and n there's nothing unusual about her. I just another person meant the profile and God seems to be wanting me to give the track to, so I I give the track uh to her and and don't think anything of it. Our train is delayed and I'm go find several other people I give tracks to. And then this lady calls me over and says, Hey, you gave me uh you come over here, uh you gave me a track, didn't you? And I thought Yeah, I gave you a check of thinking, mm, what's going on here? Like, uh this doesn't happen uh all the time. Usually people don't call me over, usually uh Yeah, in fact, this is the only person I can remember that I gave a track to, and then minutes later they called me over. One of the reasons is usually I give a track and I keep it moving. Um And so there there's no time for this. The train was delayed and whatever. So I come over there and she says, Do you see anything special about me? I'm thinking Um, you seem like a nice lady. Uh, you know, um, but uh not necessarily. I that's all I say. It seemed like a really nice lady to me. Uh she says, No, no, no, but I was going through something And um and this is, you know, what I needed. Did you see something how did you did you see something special in me? And I and I know now what's going on. I know, once again, God has sovereignly directed me to a person who needed to hear it. She said, I've read the whole thing. And and God was speaking speaking to me through it. And so here is a lady in a situation going through something, and here I am, showing up, doing something unusual, giving her track, and she reads it and sees me as a message from God, which I am. And I tell her, um, you know, I I'm not I there's nothing special about me. Okay. I I don't have any special powers to know when I didn't see any sadness in you or oh I didn't say that part But I was like, I there's nothing special in me that I knew that it was you who were the right person. I just saw you as a a as a a nice lady. But I trust and walk with the Holy Spirit and believe that he will direct me to the people who need to uh to hear his gospel, who need this message. And and so it's not in me, it's all in God. God's the one who directed me to you and uh sent me to you. And and she gets to see her her face and and she was happy and and glad. And it was just a a nice conversation that we had. But I share these stories with you uh to to show you that God is at work and and like and you know what you say I'm just I hear what you're saying, I love it, I've just not attract I just can't do it. Well I don't know if that's true. I I think you probably could do it. I think if you put a few tracks in your pocket and i you know what? I didn't give tracks to people for a long time. I just put them in places. Start off there. Um that's my recommendation. Start off there, grab a track, find a strategic location, put one track. Don't go around s uh putting it everywhere. Okay? If you're on a train, put one track uh after you leave or or before you before you leave. Just one track. Don't have to go crazy. and and watch God work in your life and give you more and more uh encouragement and courage. Or if you don't want to do that and it's easier to hand it just to uh to a to a worker, how about just how about doing this? How about every time you give someone a tip, grab a track. Just a tip and a track. A tip and a track. That's it. And give a nice tip. About every time you go out to eat, tip and a track. Tip. I mean just do something. Believe that God can use you and He can use you. I I don't know anyone who's who is so shy, who who is so unable to do anything for the kingdom when it regards to tracks. Tracks are great even for uh shy people and you'll and you'll get uh build up more But even if you say, you know, I'm just not gonna do it. Just don't pressure me. I'm not gonna well you know what? Ultimately you have to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. I'm just trying to encourage you and help you to get more uh more treasure and be used more by God to spread his spread his kingdom. But if you're saying I just I won't do it, okay fine. But you could still take the message I'm taking from uh I'm giving in in this teaching and apply it to your life because here's the thing God can work through you, not just through tracks, but through everything. So just walk around life this way, looking for people to serve and to minister and to do good works. And guess what? God will direct you because God is sovereign and God works through providence. Just show up to places and look to serve, look to do what God has called you to do and what you're able to do. And look for hurting people. Look for people that need help and say, God, use me. And then be used by God. It's a exciting thing to walk through life. Not trying to build your own castle. Not trying to build your own kingdom But saying, God, you're building your kingdom and I'm just I'm I'm a worker. I'm a worker showing up to work. God, what do you want me to do? Who do you want me to help? Who do you want what what good work do you want? What teaching do you want me to give? What what encouragement do you want me to do? What Even sometimes, guess what? You know what? Most of the time, you know what God's providence calls me to do? This is not glorious. He calls me to change diapers. He calls me to uh fold up the clothes He calls me to do the dishes. He calls me to vacuum because that's the pressing need and that's the good work that God has called me to do because he gave me kids and these kids make messes. And guess what? There's only two people here that's gonna clean up the mess. My kids, uh they're not gonna clean up. I Well they clean up a little bit. It it causes me so much trouble trying to get them to clean up. I do make them try to clean up but it it's tough. Uh pretty much the only two people that are really gonna clean up are the two adults, me and my wife, right? So the good work and the providence that God has called me to do is clean up and help my my poor wife out. So just show up though. Here's what I'm saying. Show up and look for God's work. Don't ignore the small things. Just show up believing that God is at work. and that God can can use you. And I'm telling you, there is nothing more exciting than being used by God for the kingdom to share his glory. I encourage you, I don't care how shy you are, I encourage you to do tracks. and and and try that out. If you want more questions about tracks, if you if you want to know the strategies and and and how to uh find the right profile and and what's the right positions, if you want more training on tracks, Just message me. Put a comment here. I'll make the videos. I want to encourage you. I want to help you. I want to help us as a people be used by God to spread his kingdom. So I hope this helps. God bless.