All right, let's open our Bibles. Let's open our Bibles to Second Kings chapter one. Second Kings chapter one, and we'll read those first for Or read the first verse. The first four verses. Anybody have that for us? Chapter. Second Kings chapter one, verse one through four. After Ahab's death, Moab rebelled against Israel. Now Ahab Ahaziah had fallen through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and injured himself. So he sent messengers saying to them, Go and consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron, to see if I will recover from this injury. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, Go up and meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and ask them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going off to consult Beelzebub, the God of Ekron? Therefore, this is what the Lord says you will not leave the bed you are lying on. Mr. Jan, can you open this time of prayer? Heavenly Father, we um thank you for this time to come together and and worship and read your name, Lord. Um Thank you for the blessing of the rain to um feed the flowers of our area and of our earth and thank you for the um a little break that we have so we can come out tonight safely and gather here together. Lord open our hearts, open our minds. Let us know what you would want us to learn today tonight from these words and um we thank you so much for this building, for this family, for this body of Christ. Your holy name All right. Um we read we read these. We did cover briefly in summary form the uh previous chapter, so potentially we'll go back and read that and discuss that as well. well but for now let's just focus in on these four verses. So what are your thoughts, your comments, your concerns about these four verses or anything really we discussed in the sermon God gets angry when you don't go to him. You go to another eye with another God. Yeah. Amen. And is that our do we have we solved that problem today? Is this a an issue that was an old testament issue when they had idols and we no longer have this issue or is this applicable for us? Exactly. So what some of the examples that how we can kind of do exactly the same sin or a similar sin as we see the king uh Ahaziah doing in our text. Any ideas of how we can be the bad guy in our own lives, in our own story, in this similar way. Only attribute things of college as opposed to God. Okay. Sometimes like it's the greatest doctor of the world He's gonna take care of it. The mechanic's gonna bring your car. And we know that that they have a part, but we don't attribute it to God's great mercy. Okay. So when we accredit talent, ability, skill , resourcefulness to a human agent instead of looking up beyond that human agent and recognizing that God is the source of all goodness, kindness, mercy, and that just a vessel, a channel of his grace. Is that is that fair? Ben, do you have any? I think we also minimize sin for people that we like the next massive. Yeah. Um so we're we're using a sliding scale essentially on depending on how much we like them. Usually ourselves the most Yeah, no that's that 's certainly uh a big issue that What we don't want to do is the worst sins are the sins that you don't commit and that the people you don't like commit Right. So that the the real problems are those people and then the sins that you commit they're just really not that big of a deal. Right? Well we're all sinners, so you know, it's all it's all good. But wow, did you see what that person did over there And so that is definitely a tendency. And I think that's especially true with our own individual sins. We are professional excuse makers for ourselves and our loved ones. Have you ever seen that? Like it 's almost as our as if our loved ones cannot sin. We have an excuse ready made for them. You ever seen someone do that? And I'll just tell you this as parents. Don't do that. That our children are sinners and we don't need to make an excuse for them Uh I'm not saying that there's not contributing factors. We all know that. But we don't want to become our neighbor 's lawyer always trying to get them off of everything. You should not be surprised when you sin. Is anybody surprised when you when they sin? With that kind of heart? No, we should not be surprised when we sin with the inclinations that we have. So don't be surprised when your neighbor sends, and don't be surprised when your children sin. Any other ideas of how we can commit this same kind of folly that as a Haziah did when he went off seeking the help of the foreign gods instead of his own gods? God instead of Yahweh, the Lord. Right? Because Israel is in trouble. trained for years in Yahweh. And a lot of people like the new thing, right? You see those people all the time. They want to get the new thing. Especially kids, the new toy, and then like a month later they just want the next new tool, right? Um and uh in some sense they seem to be kind of going that way. Like the next news thing that we can get. Yeah. Um which I mean we see within Christianity and everything else too that a new fad about something comes out. People get all up in arms about it and then Two years later no one really cares. Yeah. No, you you make an excellent point. The the love of novelty, the excitement about that next thing. I heard someone say that Uh you know, every about five to ten years there's a group of church consultants selling some products about how this whole new thing is the thing that's going to save your church. You know, there was a time where we we need the the baby boomers are not they're not listening, they're not hearing, they're not receiving. We need to change the church to conform to the baby boomers, and then it was Generation X, and then it's the millennials. It's ridiculous Every three m seconds we have to revolutionize the church to appease some kind of constituency, uh lest we become irrelevant. And what really happens is the church becomes irrelevant because it becomes faddish, because it becomes man center. But what you know what's always relevant? The worship of God. That it was always relevant as telling sinners they need to get right with God and need to worship Him properly, and then you're not sitting there saying surveys every three seconds asking the people what they want. And and just by the way, the people often want the calf. What did the people want in the days of of Aaron and Moses? Give us the calf. So if you if your church philosophy is just give the people what you want, go to big calf and they'll come. But that's not what we ought to be doing. I think another way personally that we can commit this sin that um Ahaziah committed is by going to other experts, other sources for things that we ought to be going to God's word for. You see that? He was he needed something. And so he went to the things that the cultural elites essentially at that time, the things that were respectful in his day, which was namely Beelzebub Beelzebub, the God of the flies, the God of medicine. This is what everybody is saying we should do, and so let's just go with the flow. Why would we go to, you know, the God of Yahweh? He's kind of been discredited. He's the one that we've been pushing. He's those crazy fundamentalists we've been rejecting all this time. It's not time to go to them. It's time to go to the credible and the respectable and the socially acceptable. And when I put it that way, how might we be guilty of this same kind of instead of going to God and seeing what his word says or Well when his message is going to the alternative, the secular alternative. Any ideas of how we can do that? Oh here? I just have to bring it up. Climate change. Yeah. We have uh we have people that worship the earth now as fully We should be good stewards of the earth that God has given us. But we we should not make it to the point to where we are worshiping the earth. We are not dependent on the earth. We are dependent on God. I'm glad you brought that up. So with climate change, not every single one of them, but there's a uh a a widespread worldview of a lot of people that push climate change and environmentalism. and they have a pro -nature stance and an anti-human stance. Have you ever noticed that? Humans are the problem. Nature is i is the thing that needs to be preserved and these parasitic humans are destroying it. So if we could just get rid of all the humans then the earth could be at peace They're very anti human and very pro nature and and environment. And when you read the Bible you will never come away with human beings are fundamental parasites and little ants that are eating up the earth and destroying it fundamentally. When I was having children in the early nineteen seventies, the big trend was zero population growth. You only have two children to replace yourself. Climate change, population gone population boom that they were all predicting. And and and you and you were there so you can tell us well those who weren't there you can tell us this. We read it in the books and hear about this, but that the whole scare was that human beings were going to outpopulate themselves. The whole earth was not going to be able to sustain the resources of these parasitic humans, and there was going to be mass starvation, death, and destruction. And a lot of that was anti NATO, anti children policies. China bought this, you know, completely with their two child policies. And now they Well not just them, everyone. Now fifty years later there's a massive decline of children and people are finally waking up and saying Oh no. Right? If it the entire human population stagnates or declines, this is a massive problem. T V and cell phone that they don't want to commit to having children right because the culture has shifted so responsibility. 'Cause they're independent. Yeah, the whole God's plan is way back here so far. I like it. No, a hundred percent I agree. That this is finished on the climate change. I just thought it was so interesting the other I wrote I just read a article. You know, you see these things when you bring up MSN, when you bring up your browser and it said, you know, New York Times says climate change is done. finish with that. It's not an issue anymore. And I'm like, you know, all the people I've had arguments with about, you know, how climate change is not even scientifically sound. Yeah. Um but the but so anyway, it's just to see the world is doing this one day and and ten years it'll be something else. No, a hundred percent. And and I I I just le going back to climate change, whether there's some truth or not, who knows. But I will say I will say this though. If you have a biblical worldview, human beings are not fundamentally the problem. Creation is subjected to human beings. That doesn't mean that human beings don't sometimes mistreat creation, but the the anti-human worldview is just fundamentally unbiblical. That's the first. The second is not only is there always this there's always this apocalyptic scenario that is being given to us. So it's going to be overpopulation, that will end the world. It's gonna be Y2K. Anybody remember that? Something about the clocks. For some reason w the computers can't, you know, figure out two thousand, it's gonna implode everything and it's gonna be mass uh chaos, which which did not happen. Right. And then you know the war on terrorism and the terrorists are going to totally undermine human civilization or Western civilization, which which of course did not happen. What was the last apocalyptic scenario that was supposed to wipe us all off? Happened a few years ago. COVID's gonna wipe us all out. All the the hospitals are gonna be shut down and there's gonna be mass deaths and a few people died. But it was not messed up, right? And so if you have that biblical worldview, you will not hand over the keys to your mind to somebody who says, I'm the expert. How often does somebody come up to you and say, I'm the expert, and then tell you a bunch of things that are just fundamentally contrary to the Bible? So, you know, back in the seventies or whatever, there's no way I could have personally done some sociological study to determine if pot you know human population was about to go boom. Especially when all the experts with PhDs are telling me that. There's no way I could have defeated them, most likely I didn't have the internet to defeat it them with some kind of like charts. But what I could have done is read the Bible and said, Well, no, I read in the Bible human population isn't the problem In fact, God commanded it to be fruitful, multiplied, fill the earth, and called it a blessing. So I could have held that biblical worldview despite what the scientific consensus was. Which, by the way, is there a scientific consensus about the origin of man? Kind of, right? And it's not Adam and Eve. It's three monkeys or four monkeys out there doing whatever do millions of years of evolution It's contrary to the god 's word. This is the same idea of going to the false gods instead of going to Scripture. What's more reliable? Beelzebub or God's word that tells us that He created Adam and Eve in the garden? Or another example of this, and they haven't yet found it. I'm just waiting for them to pretend they have found it, this, you know, same-sex gene that people are just born this way and it's amoral or whatnot. But what does God's word say? Do you see what I mean? That we have to stand on God's word. This is the authorit this is the authoritative source and we should see that this sin of Azahiah is going to False authorities instead of his true authority. And the reason he went to the false authorities is because he liked their message more and because it was popular And we have to be willing to stand with Elijah's and Micaiah 's and and uh and God's word despite the despite the cost. Any other thoughts on our passage? Um , that we talked about. Yes. kind of highlighted that and uh even though uh Ahab got the message about even the children you were you were you were highlighting that if he had a high had went to the tree that really Um and competitive or you know, I I need some configuration that I don't want to be able to do on What could have happened? You know, you might have known, you might have still taken out, but you might have wear them for a while. Yeah, let's let's Yeah, let's press into that. Thank you. Uh so look at verse three again. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise and meet with the messengers of the king of Samaria and say to them Is it because there's no God in Israel that you go to inquire of Beelzebub, the God of Ekron? Now therefore, thus says the Lord, you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you will surely die. And the thing that I was bringing out was the now therefore. And when I read this, what I concluded was the now therefore was in light of verse three, in light of the fact that you rejected the God of Israel. and went to Beelzebub. Now therefore in light of this, you're not going to rise, but you're going to stay in in your bed and die. But the implication is Right. If now therefore because you did this evil, you're going to die, the implication is had you not done this evil, you would have lived. That's what to me was the plain meaning and the implication of this. Text. But sometimes I wonder if I'm the only one who sees this. And if I'm the only one who sees this, I start to worry. And I start to get concerned that perhaps I'm off. And I went and checked the commentaries and they also confirmed That understanding that the now therefore has that import, that the implication is in fact, because you did this, then you will suffer. And did anybody notice the the reading I did um to open up the sermon about Saul? Did that bring anybody did that you know kind of startle anybody that God said to Saul, had you obeyed me, I would have established your kingdom forever. But because you disobeyed, I'm snatching the kingdom from you. I mean Church, this is the Bible. The Bible says some surprising things. I mean it says it right there. He would have given the king to him the kingdom to Saul's dynasty forever. But because of his sin, it gets ripped and given over to David. I just want to pause here for a second. But David was a man after God's own heart, right? But did David also sin? Yeah he did. But what was so what's the difference? Is it the character of Saul? Or or Well David did repent. He would recognize it. It may take a while and he may have to have Nathan get it up in his face, but he would eventually He understood who was Lord. Okay, I like it. David did repent. Saul didn't. Saul had some outward, you know, whatevers, but he didn't ultimately repent, and we do see that David did repent. So that is one distinction. of the kingdom being ripped from Saul and not ripped from David. Any other distinctions between the two? I think well somewhere. Okay. I don't remember that last part, but I but certainly the first part The the contrast is you're not a man after my own heart. David is a man after my own heart. And yet David still sinned because David's heart really was toward God and we talked about this. This is a terrifying thing. Even though David's heart really was after God, the love of God was truly in his heart, people who really do love God are still capable of terrible things. And that's not just your neighbor, that's you. That's scary. So even though David did do these terrible things, we can never conclude that it wasn't David wasn't a true man of God. He was Saul never was a man of God. David was, which kind of goes back to the way that we see that play out, is even when David does atrocious sins, he repents, and Saul just becomes hardened. Right? Saul becomes the the guy who starts chasing David and trying to kill him and trying to usurp the plan of God instead of repenting and and and um seeking God's forgiveness. So I think that's all true. I think the other thing that's true is just the mercy and grace of God. Just the mercy and grace of God that was given to David and withheld from Saul. Saul got justice, David got mercy. Again, there are legitimate distinctions of the repentance aspect too. But the fact of the matter is, God could he didn't owe, David could not, God didn't owe anything to David. God could have easily said to David, Because you have done this, I'm snatching the kingdom from you and giving it to your neighbor. Does that make sense? And David couldn't have said, No, you can't do this to me. No? He deserves to be You know the kingdom ripped him his uh family lineage just as much as Saul did, but he gave David mercy, he gave Saul justice. So there's that. But David sought mercy. Saul did not. Again, I'm I'm I'm granting that. But even our seeking of mercy does not deserve mercy We don't have any right on God to say, well, I asked for it, therefore you must give it to me. And even the seeking of mercy itself is a grace from God. God is the one who sent Nathan If you think about it, he was hardened in his sin. No, a hundred percent. But I'm just saying like David was in sin and it was months. Of unrepented sin that he thought it was o okay and he didn't repent until God sent Nathan to confront him. That's all grace. It was all God's grace and kindness. But yes, indeed, we do see that David did repent. And Saul tried to kill his replacement. David did not try to kill his replacement. He was not replaced. But you get what I'm saying? David had a good reaction to God's Word and Saul had a very negative reaction. So there's a bunch of distinctions there, but I just want you to see those things. But the main point is that's another text where we see conditionality in God. A famous text of this is in Jeremiah, where he talks about the potter and the clay. And he says that he's fashioning this thing and he can declare destruction. upon a city, but if they turn and repent, he can relent from that destruction. But then if they turn and repent again, he can bring back that destruction right back upon them. There is, in fact, conditionality that we see built in into God's word. And you see that with uh Solomon, right? He is the same thing to Saul. Once God tells him that we're gonna kill Senate tribes, he tries to kill Jeroboam the rest of his life. So David seems to just accept when God tells him this is how it is. Yeah. Um to an extent, right? For the side, he still is pleading for Hassan, but once he dies, he goes Okay. No. He doesn't try to overturn it and and and works um in submit submission to it. So the what I'm trying to show you from God's word is That we don't want to become fatalist. He shouldn't have said, well, I fell and it was God's will for me to fall, which it was. And it's God's will for me to die, which it was, therefore I I couldn't do anything. And I was just stuck in this fatalistic plan that I had no ability to do. The reality is, even though he had the sentence of death upon him, It was the sentence of death in light of his ongoing continuous character. It says right here, had he repented, then the outcome would have been different. I think that's true. And we can actually we saw this we actually skipped over this. Let's turn back to 1 Kings chapter 21. So this is we we skipped over this, but this was right after Elijah comes and declares the destruction that's going to happen to Ahab. And can somebody pick up uh verse 27 of that chapter throughout the through the end of the chapter So first Kings chapter twenty-one, twenty-seven through the end. And it came to pass when Ahab heard these words that he rent his clothes. And put sackcloth upon his flesh and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah as a Tishbite saying, Seeest thou how Ahab humbleth humbleth himself before me, because he humbleth himself Before me I will not bring evil, not bring the evil in his days, but in his son 's days I will bring evil upon his house. Again, a fascinating text. that God says because you killed Naboth, because of this great evil, you're going to die and dogs are going to lick up your blood. They're going to kill all your children and they're going to kill you. And Ahab's response to this is quite good actually. He tears his clothes, he puts sackcloths on his body, he fasts and he lays in sackcloths. Um and he went around mourning. And so then the word of the Lord comes to Elijah and says, See how Ahab has humbled himself. Because he has done this, I will not bring the calamity in his days, but in the days of his son I will bring it So God relents. There's no way to understand this out outside of the fact that had Ahab not done this, this would have happened immediately in his lifetime. But because Ahab did do this, then God said, you know what, I'm going to bring this upon the next judge. generation. And I think the same thing would have happened um in Ahaziah's life. Had Ahaziah repented and sought the Lord, then this judgment would have been pushed off into a future generation and he would have in fact lived until he did something else. Does everybody see that? The fact that even it is it's kind of strange, but even when God declares a decree of destruction upon you If you repent, God many times in his word, I can't think of a single time where God says, well, actually I can't Well God says no. But it was more of a hypothetical. So God says um about the coming destruction of Jerusalem. He doesn't really say if you repent, but he says if the if these people would have pleaded, I would not have listened to them. So that's kind of a slightly different. I can't think of a single example where someone truly is repentant and God does not relent of his judgment. Maybe Esau. Right? God, if people repent, you actually listen. Yeah. Because what was Jonah's message? Forty days, the city will be destroyed. There was no conditionality in that. There was no, if you repent, then this won't happen. But Jonah knows the character of God. That he is long-suffering and full of grace and compassion. And in fact, Jonah complains about that. He says that I know who you are. You're the kind God, the loving God, the full of compassion God. And sure enough, they repent, and he's like, no, right? Because God wants the destruction to come upon him, but God relents of that. And so I would simply say, if you find yourself repenting, you should expect to see a smiling face from the face of God. God responds to repentance with grace. Even when his word doesn't even give any necessary statement of conditionality, because it's the character of God and how merciful he is. So any thoughts on that? Have any thoughts up? Pliable? Oh yes. Okay, that's that I'm glad you brought that up. So was Ahab's repentance here legitimate Does anybody know who Clible is and and Pilgrim's Progress? Is is anybody familiar with Pilgrim's Progress? Alright, we're gonna have to get a book club. Okay. So you're familiar with John Bundy's program 's progress, the allegory, right? Okay. It is a fantastic book, highly recommended. And there's these variables various characters in that book that represent things in the Christian walk. And there's this guy pliable that one second he's following the truth and then he falls into the swower of the spawn and he just immediately says, well this is the way it is. I'm out of here and he turns back around and abandons Christian He's pliable. One way one for one second he's with God, the next second he's against God. Now he's back with God, he's against God. It's like that little daisy. Loves me, loves me not. Loves me. I love God, don't love God. Love God, don't love God. That's pliable. So is Ahab's repentance real? What do you think? Are you talking about the repentance that we just read? The repentance that we just read, is it real Peter? Do you have any thoughts? Yeah, I mean God had a reaction to his to his uh Yeah, repentance, right? If he wasn't repenting, right, God would say it's not going to be repentance. Okay, so God had a positive reaction part of the data points is that God had a positive reaction to his repentance. Had it been wholly illegitimate, would he have had that positive reaction? But Okay, I don't know. There's another answer, which is fine. Good humble answer. I appreciate it. Okay. Had he died, would he have been okay? Well, we're talking about well okay I'm not gonna answer that right now, but yeah. You know, is this salvific Repentance. You know, that's part of that question about repentance. Did he truly feel remorse in the way that we would want someone coming to Christ? to be remorseful and was Ahab saved? If if his repentance was so authentic, did Ahab get saved? Right? Is Ahab in heaven? Because look it it says he repented right here and God was pretty pleased with his level of repentance, so perhaps Ahab's in It seems like he was sorry about NABOL. But not about everything else he did. Okay. You know, so he maybe was like, Oh, that's the consequence. I'm really sorry about that. Right? But you see, he gets back Well that's another piece of data. How thorough is this repentance? And what did he go on and later to do? Did he have life change after this moment? Did Ahab categorically turn the other direction, or did he turn in the other direction in a way that we would expect a truly repentant man, a new Christian, to have turned? point I would make is when I read this and God says, you know, I'm not going to bring this evil in your day, but I'm going to read it in your son's day. I would have expected Ahab I say, no, it 's mine. Don't do this to my son. So there was a selfishness. Yeah. We have no again it's from silence, but there's n it seems like he was pretty happy with this uh report and thought okay, not a big deal, but is a man who's really been transformed, completely unconcerned about his children and his legacy. About the consequences of his sin on that second and third generation. Why doesn't he continue to repent? Why doesn't he plead? Why does he seem to be just totally okay with it not happening to him? And totally unconcerned with it happening to his children. They come in, he just goes, Well, at least it's not my day when God tells him Like you let the Babylonians see everything. And Hezekiah was saved. I think it's Hezekiah's worst moment. Yeah. I really think that is his worst moment, but he was saved. And unfortunately We as even safe people sometimes don't care about our offspring as much as we say we do. Clearly in Hezekiah , as long as it doesn't happen to him, he seems perfectly okay as it's gonna happen to his offspring. Not gonna be happening in my day, which is a really awful perspective. As long as it doesn't happen to me, I don't care what happens to the little ones Quite terrible. Any final thoughts on this before we try to tie this up? Um so in twenty seven is that so Mm-hmm. Yep. These are outward signs of repentance. This is the same stuff that we see in Nineveh And Nineveh puts on the sackcloths, remember they fast, the animals fast, everybody fast, the kings fast. This is what we would expect. Outward signs of repentance, yes. What kind of feedback is there? Because it doesn't seem like if you were independent, the Lord would have told us a lot of it. This is what happened with what he's done to be done. She really wasn't, you know, because Lord knows all the time. You can do all we want to do for God Why would he respond positively at all if he saw in the secret recit in the secret, you know, parts components of his heart that he truly wasn't repentant? Again, going to the PJ, the positive response suggests, perhaps, that it was true repentance. So my I'm being a dog with a bone now. It makes me wonder if Ahab had come back to God and said, please don't visit this online son. I'll give it to me. God might have said, you know what? You finally learned something. You're now unselfish. We know that God is more merciful than we often give. We just sung a song about the wideness of God's mercy. Is like the wideness of the sea. Right? God is much more merciful than we often give him credit for, and often even conceive of his mercy. Yes. Alright, let's try to tie this all together. Um I think Ahab is in hell I I think I preached it this sermon. I would be shocked to find evil Ahab in heaven. Um he does seem to repent here, but the chapter we did not talk about that I summarized, he There is no evidence three years later of this man's repentance. He doesn't consult with God He doesn't want to consult with God. Rather, he's consulting with the false prophets once more. Then he describes the prophet Micaiah as the man that he hates. Then when Micaiah prophesies against him and and warns him of how the king's going to kill him, uh God is going to kill him in the battle, he Then gets mad at Micaiah and throws him in jail and says, This man feed him with the bread of affliction and the and the food of affliction till I come back. And he says, Well if you come back, God hasn't spoken to me. And then he goes off into war, trusting in his own scheming and works, and he dies in battle. This does not seem at all to be suggestive that this man was a believer. Everything I see in Ahab's life, other than this one moment, is suggestive of a complete unbelieving man who lived and he died and he died. died as he lived. And his son is just like him, and he too is killed by the Lord. So I want to like I want to put you to a different scenario. Suppose You were doing marriage counseling with somebody and or some counseling of relationships and you found that there was some affair that happened. Somebody had committed an affair. And the person who committed the affair comes in crying, wearing sackcloths, saying how sorry they were and how they wanted to make it right I mean is that good? Is that uh are you happy to see that? I'm so sorry, I'll never do it again, this is terrible. Would you be happy to see that? I mean what's the alternative? I don't care, it's not my fault, it was her fault or his fault Right? You want to see that, but but here's the question. Have they truly repented in a Christian way? Here's my answer. I don't know. This is always a struggle. I don't actually know if they truly repented. What I see is promising. And what I see, I'm happy to see. Now what happens three years later if you come back to that couple and find out that this person has cheated again and again and again and again? Now can we go back and ask what happened in the pastor's office with the tears and the crying and all that other stuff. Right? And now when we ask and we say, did this person truly repent? I think the answer becomes a whole lot more clear Because true repentance equals change, especially if it's a godly repentance that leads to regeneration. True repentance would lead to regeneration, which would lead to life change. And yet in Ahab we see a temporary reform, and then they go right back to their old ways. Now I just want to pause here. Have you ever seen this in people? They temporarily reform and they go right back to their own ways. If anyone's ever dealt with an addict, they know exactly what I'm talking about. They will cry, they will weep, they will promise never to do it again, and then when that moment is done and even sometimes if you've ever been that addict, you actually mean it at that moment. And that moment you really feel that way, right? But then two weeks later, you're back to your old ways doing your old stuff. I think we've all seen that. I think that's what Ahab is in fact doing Ahab is back to his old ways doing his old stuff. Now, what I do think we see though is that God responds very similarly to how we respond when someone has initial I guess here's the complexity. I don't think Ahab thought that he was deceiving the Lord. I think Ahab truly felt that felt bad. And did not want the negative outcome of him being killed in his own day. He legitimately did not want this, and he actually had the right response externally. The problem is it needed to go deeper than what Ahab gave. Nevertheless, God did actually do some blessing upon Ahab for this even external repentance. And I just think that we see that in the Bible Even an external level of repentance, not a trickery, has some level of positive response from the Lord. But only through repentance, godly repentance, that leads on to light change. is that which brings salvation. So that's the way I would hold to it. There's some level of sincerity, but it doesn't get to the level of true salvation. And that's why he doesn't get saved, but rather he gets an earthly reduction of his punishment. His punishment is delayed because i what he did was Somewhat positive, but it wasn't to the level that ultimately God wanted it to be. So that's how I would take it. Any any thoughts on that? Oh, to go back to you real quick and then we'll go back to your answer. So Roman Catholicism is wrong that we are not saved by our individual acts of individual repentance. It's not I'm saved, mortal sin, I'm not saved, now I repent, I'm back to save, now I've mortal sin. There is no category of mortal sin in the Bible. The Bible teaches that all sin is mortal. In the sense that the wages of sin is death. Even the smallest sin will send you to hell. But in Jesus Christ, the good news of the gospel is that when Christ saves us and washes us, he completely cleanses us once and for all. forevermore. And so when we sin as Christians, we need to repent to restore fellowship and relationship with God. not our salvific status. We are always his children, even if we have sinned. It doesn't cause us to become outside of Christ or no longer covered by his blood. We do need to restore fellowship, we do need to repent, but that is not salvific in the least. Does that make sense? So for Ahab, what I'm arguing is Ahab was never saved. He never got saved. He didn't lose his salvation. He never was saved. What he did was he did show some signs of repentance, which was good, but it wasn't to the level of true repentance that would lead to salvation. But even not perfect repentance does have a positive response from God. And this is just how kind and gracious God is. Even when people do things that are not perfect, he's still You know, shows them blessing and kindness and rewards their behavior. So anyways, any other thoughts? Any thoughts tumbling around? Oh sure. So so the the example with with infidelity, that's that's one thing. Yep. Do do you agree with that example by the way though? With the infidelity example? Um so let you go a little bit. Okay, go ahead. So with dieting Okay, it's the same thing. How many have been on a diet? About the two diets. Does that mean you really you know what and if you're looking at are you you destroying your this temple by what you eat, right? And then you take the third piece of pizza, or fourth, or or whatever, isn't there a point where and you you talked about the addiction, okay? Cannot people struggle with that? Okay, and for a while it looks good of outward to the world, but inward they're struggling with it and they fall and they're sorry and they ask God, all right, and they struggle I'm I'm a gold carrying Weight Watchers card twice. Okay. They struggle with it again, and the world is saying, uh, they were never, they were right never really died or they never really repented the first time because look they did it again but the addiction is such that they've struggled with it with the Lord over and over and over again So that's Yeah, that that's that's an additional element that has to be considered. Um I I'm not sure if I would put dieting on uh just I wouldn't necessarily put it to such a high spiritual level of like destroying the temple of of God. I I think I think maybe like way down applicationally you know, eating the the the extra sausage is uh destroying the temple. But I think primarily it it talks about spiritual spiritual defilement is like the main thing of filling ourselves with w wickedness and and that's the primary way we defile, not through extra calories. also the addiction. Yeah, yeah, okay. That if somebody someone can be sincere in their struggle to diet And the body fights back. Serious, we've all been on diet. We we really did want to diet, and then two years later our resolve slips. Does that mean that we never really wanted to diet in the first place? And I think the answer is No. Okay. Um and and certainly there are people who are struggling with addiction. Addiction is so strong that they really are trying, but then they're slipping and they're trying and they're slipping. And does that mean that there was no real effort in the first place? I would say say the answer is also no. Okay. However, I think we also know the person who is saying, I'm sorry, I don't want to do this, but then you say, let's just say pornography addiction. They say, I'm sorry, I don't want to do this. Right? I say, okay, give me your phone. They say no. He said, I they say, I'm sorry that I'm an alcoholic. I say, all right, we're going to check you into rehab. They say no. Do you see what I'm saying? Even at the moment of their tears and I'm so sorry, okay, let's go to a facility, they say no. Th that then shows how truly willing they might be sorry for being caught. They might even be sorry the fact that they have the addiction. But they're not yet sorry enough that they're willing to give it away. And I think we've all seen that too. That we're we're sorry for what we did, we're sorry that we got caught. And even in some ways we wish someone could just send a magic wand to get it away, but to truly do anything to release it, they're not willing to do And I think we've been there too. And and I don't I'll just say this, my testimony, when you're talking about this. My testimony was I was addicted to sin. I was a slave to sin. All of us were And I could not get myself free, but I had to be willing to come to Christ who was going to set me free. And that's what I did. I came to Christ and said, God, you can have me if you'll take me And he changed me. I didn't change myself, but I gave myself to the one who could change me. But there was no way I could come to Christ and say, I'm not willing to let this go. You can't come to Christ that way. So I understand what you I hope that makes sense. There are there's distinctions between truly struggling with something and getting beat down and coming back up. That's the Christian walk. getting beat down and coming back up. But there's also this, yeah, I'm really sorry, but no, I'm not really truly willing to release this. Right? So the person who says, I'm so sorry, you know, I'll never do it again and still has the messenger app What if you've gotten that out? Real tears, real sorry, he still has the messenger app and he's going to and then he messaged her two weeks from now. That's not the kind of repentance that God truly is pleased with. Right. So that that's I hope that makes sense. There is there's complexities there. Any other thoughts on that? to force and whatever insult it too. Because he Yes. Exactly. I in the case again, sorry to bring in the case of of adultery, but When I've been in those situations, unfortunately I've been in those situations a lot of counseling people who's gone through this, what I always say is, I don't know, but we will find out. Time will prove all things things. In the case of Saul, time did prove a whole lot with him. He was all crying, please, same thing. God told him I'm going to rip the kingdom. And then he reaches out to same or rips his thing, please pray for me. Remember And it wasn't too much longer before he's right there back to consulting with witches. Even he tried to fast. He wa he didn't want to eat. And the witches like, come on, eat. Like, no. Okay, I guess you win. Let me get the food right. Like this is unfortunately uh the case of the wicked. Time will tell. When I got saved, my life transformed. And I remember someone asked me, is this real? Nobody's asking me that anymore. Because time will tell all things. things. People can get excited, right? That all of a sudden that Christianity is wonderful and they're not Kanye West is a a perfect example of this That he supposedly gets saved, all the half-naked women are all gone from his videos and all this, and not that much longer, they're all coming right on back. Anyone who saw this, saw this perfect example. You see a temporary life change and then all the way right back. And when you see all that right back coming on, it becomes very evident what was really going on. It's hard to tell in the moment. It's easy to tell when you zoom out and look at what ends up happening in people's lives. All right, any final thoughts on this or anything else? All right. I'll just as we close here, I'll just remind you of the lattice. I thought that was an interesting point about this this lattice that was m meant to bear him up. And then one day it snapped. And I really do think that's that's the story of our lives. That we're walking on top of lattices, we're leaning on lattices. And on on the subway on the train, there's these big signs on the subway that says, do not lean on the door. Right? But the doors are real strong. And sometimes you're stuffed in the subway and sometimes you gotta lean on the door. Or at least you end up leaning on the door, right? Well, I heard a story once where somebody was on the subway, this was Like I knew someone who knew someone. Well, I knew someone who was on a subway and they were riding on the subway and all of a sudden the doors randomly just came open. Thank God no one was leaning on that door. And they shut and kept going. Imagine if you were leaning on those doors. I've leaned on those doors. And imagine you're riding on those doors, that lattice, just like you did all those other times. And next thing you know, the subway opens up and you go flying out. That's what happened. As uh Ahaziah. And truthfully that's happens to many of us. I can't tell you sometimes I've this has happened a few times in my life where I have woken up, stood up, and the world went like this. Shh And I went crashing to the ground, pouring down in sweats. Does that ever happen to you? Anybody? Anybody? Yeah, it's happened to me. That's how that's how fast it can come I've been driving and all of a sudden here comes the bus creaming into your car. And you life happens very quickly is what I'm saying. The lattices that you're trusting in will one day snap. And I just my again my encouragement to you all is to make sure that you're right with God. Because you never know when that lattice that you've been holding onto is gonna snap and you're gonna plunge into eternity and meet A God of Major, and hopefully the God who redeemed you