Should w should Christians give track? So track something that's outdated, something that they used to do back in the in the fifties, sixties, and seventies, but something that uh that really it doesn't work anymore and we should move on to a better and more effective evangelist uh techniques. Well, first off you have to understand that tracks didn't come out in the fifties, sixties, and seventies. Tracks have come out from the very beginning of the printing press that this is actually one of the ways that they spread the Reformation is by producing these a short booklets, these short tracks communicating gospel truth. And so you can think of the spread of Christianity, the spread of the Reformation was uh in large part due to tracks. In fact I think of of Spurgeon who says that when he was a young lad and he f and he got saved and he was fired up to uh be an evangelist, you know, you think of Spurgeon, the great evangelist, and and said when he said that he had little strength and could do very little. What he found that he could do was stuff his pockets with tracks and to and to hand tracks to people. I I can think of Ray Comfort who says that he never leaves the house. without a gospel track to hand and to give someone. And who can think of Ray Comfort, the evangelist? He certainly does one-on-one evangelism, communication evangelism, friendship evangelism. He does all of it. He has an evangelistic heart and yet he says that he never leaves the house without tracks. You could think of uh Greg Kochel who a famous evangelist and he says that someone won him to the Lord by having the guts. to put a track into his grocery uh bag as he was checking out and he picked it up and and read it. I could think back to my own life. two specific times. Actually there's three. Uh one when I was a when I was a young, young child, my father would read me gospel tracts which were wonderfully Uh they were exciting to read, they were fun, they had little pictures, uh, they communicated the gospel to me and and planted the seed of of who God was and who his son was and what he did for me on the cross. Then I remember when I was uh getting into drugs and gangs and and and just being ignorant uh juvenile delinquent here when I was uh around mm maybe thirteen or fourteen, I was sitting in the mall and this little Asian lady, this little tiny lady Walked up to me and said, I have a blessing for you and handed me a gospel track. And it's something that I read and I knew that God was calling me And then a little bit later on, I remember I'm going to the grocery uh aisle and in the candy section, here was another gospel tract. And I knew that God had placed that there for me. I picked it up and read it. Eventually a little bit later on I was uh saved. But ultimately I the the the way I found out about the gospel and a major uh effect of evangelizing me was gospel tracts both handed to me and per well, my dad reading it to me So in handing them to me in person and and then finding it in a checkout aisle, finding it in a strategic location So are gospel tracts effective? Absolutely. Why would we think that they weren't effective? See, it's it it's not about uh us. It's not about how pretty we are, how unpretty we are, how friendly we are, how unfriendly we are Certainly we don't want to put obstacles in the way of the gospel, but ultimately when we present the gospel, they will smell the aroma of life to life. In other words, they will smell the beauty of Christ and say, Hmm, that smells good. I I see my knee, I see his beauty, and they'll be drawn to him Or they'll smell uh the the the stench of death to death. It doesn't matter how pretty you are, how how funny you are, how cool you are uh whether you uh have been friends with them for two weeks, one week, a million weeks, it doesn't matter. They're going to smell once they smell Christ and it smells like death They're gonna maybe say it nicely, not so nicely, doesn't matter. They do not want it. Now certainly we shouldn't put stumbling blocks in the way of preventing people that come from the gospel, but fundamentally Fundamentally, either they smell life to life or death to death. So our job is to is to fulfill the great commission to go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Paul said that he endures all things for the sake of the elect, that they too might obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. He said that he was willing to do all things for the sake of the elect, that he was bec willing to become a Jew for a Jew, a Gentile for a Gentile. He was willing to do all kinds of things that go out of his way to get people the gospel. And let me tell you uh how uh gospel tracks can be so effective. When you're walking through Costco, when when you're walking through Walmart, when you're when you're on your way on your subway uh station Uh there's , really not a whole lot of time to talk to people. Um maybe you can, but but oftentimes there won't be. I can think of times where I'm literally walking through an aisle, I'm I'm I'm literally walking through a train station and and I look over and here's this person and and there's just no way that I'm gonna say, Excuse me, can I tell you about the gospel? You know, have you ever thought about what's gonna happen after death? Like what are you talking about? I'm I'm going You know, I I'm going to my train. I I'm checking out in the aisle. There is literally no time for communication. And so what happens? What do we Christians do often? Nothing. We just walk by them and and that's it Well here is the beauty of the gospel tract. This is how simple it can be. You see someone walking by, you see someone sitting on a bench, you're checking out on a checkout aisle, right? And you get a prompting of the Holy Spirit. This person looks Friendly looks like someone that you could be friend and and you feel like uh you might have uh some possibility of of a chance of success And all you do is walk up to them and say, Excuse me, miss, try to be polite. Excuse me, sir, whatever it be, and say, Can I give this to you? That's all. Excuse me, miss, can I give this to you? And very often If if if you're picking people who don't look super angry, mad, you're getting the prompting of the Holy Spirit, all of that good stuff, or or any of those things, oftentimes they'll say, Why thank you, or thank you. Or sometimes, no thank you. They say no thank you, guess what? I mean that's fine. It it's okay for someone to say no thank you. But oftentimes they'll say thank you and I have watched uh many, many, many people and I and usually I just hand track and move on. But sometimes through providence and other circumstances I have watched people pick those tracks up. and read them. And why would we think that people would not read the gospel tract? God can can draw them. God can can open their eyes. God can soften hearts. God can incline them to read those gospel tracts. God can use that to to save them. Now some people might be saying, Yeah, but where's the discipleship? Where's the follow-up? Guys God is a very big God, okay? He has a lot of troops out there. Uh you're not gonna do any follow-up on on someone that you don't even know their name and you're walking by and hand them a gospel tract. That that that person who gave uh Greg Hokel, the the gospel track in their bag, where was the follow-up? The you know, I mean, come on. We can't do it all. God ki i if that person gets saved, if God's working on them, believe me, God will send more troops more backup to finish the job. Same thing with me, that little Asian lady who handed me the gospel tract, where was her follow-up? I'll tell you where her follow-up, her follow-up ended up becoming my dad, ended up becoming my local church. end up becoming my past. You see what I'm saying? We don't need to do it all. It's not uh all or nothing. Just go out there and do it. Put uh put gospel tracts in your pocket, walk around and and you don't even have to see here's the beauty. I'm not even telling you to do gospel track missions. I'm not even suggesting you go and specifically intentionally go into public places to hand people gospel tracts. Certainly you can do that and and that would be wonderful. But I'm just saying put gospel tracts in your pocket You know, I'm about to uh go on a little date with my with my kids and want to go to Chick-fil-A and and grab some food. Okay, that's not a gospel tract Uh mission I'm going on. I'm just gonna go get some chick-fil-a with my children and have a good time. But guess what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna put a gospel track in my pocket And so then as I walk through the checkout aisle or on the way or or someone sitting down, and it's not everybody, I'm not indiscriminate, I'm not just going around and getting kicked out of places. I've never been kicked out of place in my life. Uh there has been some other circumstances, but for the most part, um I I'm not getting kicked out of places what I'm going to do is if if I see the the checkout lady and she looks tiny, she looks nice And I get a prompting of the Holy Spirit and it seems okay. I'll just simply say, can I give you this gospel tract? And guess what? It's already spread to my kids. My kids already uh they're they're putting gospel tracts in in their pockets. And my kids are giving gospel tracks to to check out IO people, people walking by. It's just so wonderful to see. And now think about this. My kids are, you know, six four, three, and one. The one-year-old's not giving gospel tracks. Uh the the three-year-old a little bit, but the four and six-year-old are. Now think about this. My four and six year old who who believe in Jesus Christ might be winning more people to the Lord than you are. I mean, is that disturbing to you at all I mean a four year old, a six year old, they can't win any apologetic debates. They can't do m little bit of anything. But you know what they can do? They can walk over with a smile and say, Can I give you this gospel trial? And guess what? People will accept it. You might be saying, oh, that's only because they're cute little kids and no accept anything from them. No, actually some people don't accept gospel tracts from my kids. But many people do. And many people accept gospel tracts from me too. So it's just a wonderful, a wonderful opportunity. You know, here's the thing. I do I do preaching, I do teaching, I do a whole a whole lot of things. Um I I do one-on-one evangelism, I do apologetic ministries with Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and and all kinds of things, right? But you know, I honestly believe that probably uh one of the greatest things that I do This is not to brag on me. Believe me, it really isn't. But I think honestly, one of the greatest things I do is hand people gospel tracts because it is the gospel. And the gospel's the power the power of salvation to to save people. So I'm really excited for people, uh, when I get to heaven to say, Hey, you were that you were that guy who gave me that gospel track. I'm I'm waiting to find that little Asian lady and tell her, Thank you so much for for sharing the gospel with me. Uh I I got saved. It it was you were part of my uh harvest. You you sowed into my field. Same thing with that person who put that gospel track in that strategic location in that checkout aisle. I can't wait. I'm not gonna say, you literally No, I'm gonna say thank you so much for placing this here. God used this to transform me and ultimately bring me to a son. So here's my advice. Put gospel tracts in your pocket. Go into public and look for the most friendly, nice person, the person that you're most inclined to be friends with. And also pray, God help me to find someone. And and if the Holy Spirit prompts you, then obey and try to give someone a gospel tract. All you have to do, not a sales fits, no no pressure techniques, nothing. Literally Excuse me, ma'am. Excuse me, miss, excuse me, sir. Can I give this gospel track to you? In fact, uh I actually learned how to say that in Spanish, pronounte esto Disculpe puerto date esto, that that means to excuse me, can I give this gospel track to you? I'm sure that sounds like terrible Spanish, but at least I'm trying and guess what? Tons of Spanish people accept it from me. Now I'm not telling you you have to learn that Spanish phrase I'm not telling you anything. I'm just giving you an encouragement and a way to share the gospel. So here's my advice. Again, put those gospel tracts in your pocket. Try to find the most friendly and nice person you can and give it to them. Um it look for the per ask of the Holy Spirit to find these divine appointments where you can find someone to give gospel tracts. But guess what? You might be shy. You might be intimidated. You might not want to do it. I don't want to do it. Nobody wants to do it. Nobody wants to be rejected. But guess what? It is worth it. You don't I say, when I get shy, I enjoy all things for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that's in Christ Jesus would eternal glory. You have not given me a spirit of fear, but of power, love, and Self-control. I preach these things to me. Sometimes I just say, God, help me, give me strength, give me boldness. If someone rejects, I don't feel good about it. I say, God, help me, wrap me in your arms, comfort me in this. moment and he certainly does and I'm telling you there is nothing more joyful than to watch someone accept a track. And if you do have the opportunity to watch them read it, oh hallelujah to see someone encountering the gospel, the gospel that can transform their lives and take them from darkness into marvelous light. Now again you might be saying I just can't do it. I want to do it, but I just can't do it. I was there with you. There was uh a long period of time where I had gospel tracts, I was placing them in locations, but I just couldn't give them to people. I just couldn't do it. And if you're in that position, Fine. God can use a person like you. Remember I said someone put that gospel tract in that checkout aisle in that strategic location where I found it. God can use you like that. You're putting a landmine of gospel power for for God to send people on that landmine to blow up and to transform uh them and destroy the work of the devil in their lives. So grab a couple gospel tracts and put them in strategic locations. Here's a few ideas. So when you're when you're filling up your gas, right, there's a little there's a little gas thing, right? You ever notice there's a little handle there so you can grab a track, fold it up like a a hot dog. It sh Slip it in there. Do you have any possibility of winning that person who's going to be the next person on your on your gas pump? You have no possibility. But if you put a gospel track there, oh there's a real possibility that God could use that track. to save that soul. Again, just uh just place them in some strategic locations. If you're on the bus, leave a track on on your seat. Um if you're in a checkout aisle, maybe put a put a track uh somewhere strategic. If if you're you know, for the either for the cashier or or the next customer coming. There's all kinds of ideas. Just look around and and think of things. I'm not talking about uh placing tracks all over the place and getting crazy and and getting kicked out of places. I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about placing one or two tracks in strategic locations so that someone might be able to pick it up and and and God can use you to to to uh change lives. And I did that for a long, long time, clinic placing them in strategic locations, walking by uh, you know, park my car, oh there's another car over here, and I'll just put one gospel track on the window shield or put on the the the car handle or whatever. I mean we're not talking having to be crazy here, maybe just one or two or maybe just one After a while you get more confident, you get more excited. Uh I one time I put it on a on a car and and I happen I I don't usually put 'em on the car right next to my car 'cause I don't want some kind of altercation or something like that. It doesn't usually happen but but I just try to avoid it. But for whatever reason, I guess a prompting, I did something unusual. I put it on uh the the the the car next to me. And I went got some five guys in that going I wasn't necessarily going on a an evangelism track ministry outlook. I was just uh going to five guys. And I came back. And lo and behold, I looked over, and here is this lady uh intently reading that gospel track in her car. She had a gospel moment. Ow, how beautiful, how wonderful that was. And and so if you have the opportunity to lay a track, and here's the thing, most of the time you won't. You just have to trust and faith that God is using you and directing you to the right people. And this is exciting because We become uh work co-workers with the Lord. And we're excited to see how he's going to move people. I need him to move. I need him to direct. I need him to place uh people in the right situation. I trust that he's doing that. And I pray that he that he is doing that But uh anyways, I placed uh tracks in in strategic locations and and and uh I did that for a long, long time until uh God worked in me and God gave me more boldness. I memorized some scriptures. Um and eventually I started handing tracks directly uh to people and now I spend most of the time handing tracks directly to people. Well maybe fifty-fifty. I I do both But but anyways, here's m that's my encouragement to you. Think about using gospel tracts. Think about placing them in strategic locations. Think about giving them to one individual here and there. I almost always give them to only one individual. If they're in groups, hey it's not it's it's not God's providence. God didn't put them in a providential situation for me to give them a gospel tract. Usually I give a gospel tract to a single individual. And and guess what? When you start handing track all the time, you start realizing even certain angles make you more effective, right? Uh if someone's on a bench and on their phone, yeah, this is a this is a great position to to give them and this was a position I was in when that little Asian lady gave me a gospel track. If they're if they're facing you and they're walking right beside you, it's probably not the best time. Sometimes getting behind them side to side, handy in that way, i is a better is a better way. The point is you you'll you'll figure this stuff out Uh you figure out the the the people who are most friendly, who are most uh usual that will take the gospel tracts and the people that aren't. Don't go to the the gangbanger who looks like he's gonna beat you up even if you say hi to him and try to give your first gospel tract. Come on Uh use common sense. Give them to the nicest person that you can and also pray for that prompting. And sometimes the Lord will surprise you and be like, God, you want me to give it to that person? Are you sure? Lord, okay. I'll I'll give it to that person. So that's my encouragement to you Let's do everything we can to win people and let us be those fellow co-workers with the Lord. God's not done with using tracks. God's not done with using anything. God can use anything and everything to draw a person if it contains the gospel The gospel is the power of salvation that transforms lives. Not your pretty face. Not your friendship. Please use friendship evangelism. Please use your pretty face. But ultimately, that's not what draws people. What ultimately draws people is the gospel. So go out there and share the gospel and believe that God can transform lives. And I'm convinced. I'm absolutely convinced that Gospel Tracks are a wonderful addition to any ministry. Absolutely any ministry, you can use Gospel Tracks. It is a wonderful way to evangelize primarily strangers. You can use it to your friends as well, but it's a great way to evangelize strangers. I hope that helps. God bless.