Well the twentieth century has been full of various figures. Some of those figures have been very good. And have been agents of positive change. I can think of uh such figures as Martin Lloyd Jones, John MacArthur, R. C. Sprohl, Rodin Bacham. There's these various people and even Secular people who created technologies or spread the gospel or helped various individuals and they did great things and we're thankful for their contribution But just as there have been good figures who have done good things, there have been evil figures that have done horrible and evil things. And so if you think about it, what are some of those figures in the 20th century, so this is the 1900s, that have produced great harm to our society What what are the names that come to your minds? One starts with one is of course Hitler. You can think of Stalin, you can think of Paul Potts, and there's a whole host of figures, but when I think of one of the most wicked people in the twentieth century, I would actually have to go back to a man named Hugh Heffener. Now maybe some of you don't know that name, and I hope you don't in some ways, but you probably do know that He is largely responsible for our culture becoming deeply perverted and gray sexual immorality becoming normal Uh some have described it as the great sexualization of our culture and some of you have lived through this revolution, the sexual revolution. The Bible kind of summarizes this well in Jeremiah 3. 3. It says this, the land has been cursed, the showers have been withheld, and no spring rains have fallen. How did the people respond? Yet you have a brazen look of a prostitute. You refuse to blush with shame. In other words, to put that succinctly, prostitutes don't blush. And that's really our society today. It's indeeply desensitized to sexual images There are all kinds of images of inappropriate things that come onto the TV screen, the movies, commercials, and today Sadly, many of us are so desensitized that we don't even blink when we see them. Is that not true? How did that happen? How is it that someone could be so scandalous before us and it wouldn't even register in our minds And the answer is this man named Hugh Heffiner, which he made it his mission to spread sexual immorality in the culture, and sadly, he succeeded. He won. So what was the consequence of doing this? He did this, he perverted our culture. So what did he receive as a consequence for this great evil? Well at the height of his fortune he was worth $200 million. How's that for a consequence? But surely, at the end of his life, he blew it all right. Judgment came. He died. His net worth was worth somewhere between 43 and 50 million dollars. You could probably add up all the money in this room and not even get close to that man's wealth Okay, but surely he died. A painful death, right? He died in anguish, crying out. No, he died of natural causes peacefully at the ripe old age of ninety-one, surrounded by his perverted women. And when you hear this, how are you tempted to react? This deeply evil, wicked man that the only seemingly consequences for his action is becoming a millionaire, dying with perverted women surrounded. And probably your heart feels a little bit like mine and thin, injustice, evil, where is the God of justice? Well, today we're going to see the same thing in our passage that people are dealing with the few heafeners of their day, people who are deeply wicked, deeply evil, and yet nothing seems to go wrong for them How do we respond to such a situation? That's what we're going to look at. So please open up your Bibles to Malachi chapter 3. Malachi chapter 3, beginning in verse 13 Your words have been harsh against me, says the Lord. Yet you say, What have we spoken against you You have said, it is useless to serve God. What prophet is it that we have kept his ordinance and that we walk as mourners? Behold. Before the Lord of hosts. So now we call the proud blessed. For those who do wickedness are raised up, they even tempt God and go free. And then for context, I'll just keep reading, but we won't get farther than that. Then those who feared the Lord God spoke to one another, and the Lord listened and heard them. So a book of remembrance was written before him. For those who fear the Lord and for those who meditate on his name. They shall be mine, says the Lord of hosts. On the day that I make them my jewels, I will spare them as a man spares his own son who serves him. Then you will know again and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between one who serves God and the one who does not serve him. We're going to focus then on verse 13 and 14. And so we see they it says right there in verse 13, it starts off telling us Your words have been harsh against me, says the Lord. And so they spoke in harshly. They spoke in negatively. They were supposed to be praising God. singing his adorations, doing what we just did, talking about how great thou art, and how we only stand on that great foundation of Christ. They're supposed to be praising him and speaking highly of his name. But instead, they speak these harsh words. They speak these words of blasphemy. They point their little puny finger up at God and find him to be And as you recall, that this is what the wicked people in Malachi have been doing all along. The prophet has come to them as God's spokesman and says that you are not right with the Lord. that you lack some things, that your relationship with God needs some improvement, and the book of Malachi has been constantly trying to reprove them. And as soon as they get reproved by one thing, they just go on to the next thing They never actually stop to repent. They never apologize. They never seek restoration with God or their fellow man. They just keep moving on to the next thing and keep fighting back from young And so just let me stop here and ask you, when as you hear convicting sermons or as you read your Bible and you say, ouch , I need improvement, do you ever stop And pray that God would actually apply the sermon or the scripture or the teaching to your hearts? Or do we just keep moving on? And if we do, we might find ourselves very similar to these people in the book of Malachi. So right before this passage, as you recall, the prophet Malachi points to their lack of giving. And their lack of tithing. They have no response. So instead they go back and basically make the same accusation they did before, saying, Where is the God of justice? They speak hard words against me, verse 13, says the Lord. But what did they say? What did they speak against them? Well look at verse 14 You have said it was useless to serve God. What is the prophet we have for keeping his ordinance? That we walk as mourners before the Lord of hosts. So now we call the proud blessed. And those who do wickedness are raised up, they even tempt God and go free. So again, you see there in verse 15 the context. The context is that the wicked seem to be prospering, and nothing bad seems to be happening to them. They're proud. They're blessed. They're raised up. They're rich. They have $200 million bank accounts. You see? The celebrity culture is full of wicked people and yet they're famous and everyone wants to be like them and it seems like all goes well to them. And so they're forgotten and you forgot about those names and you go back and look at the tabloids one day and say, Do you remember that one person? They look like a skeleton, but we always forget that. But that's the point. The point is they they see there doesn't seem to be any outward advantage to serving the Lord. Verse 13, that's the problem. That's the background. But today I want to look at their first accusation. The outcome of that realization that there are few heifers of the world, there are the wicked who actually never seem to shrivel up and seem to die happy and rich and prosperous and all seems to go well to them And their reaction to that is actually found in verse 14. Look again with verse 14. Because they see the new heafiners, they say it is useless to serve God. If you hefer exists, and not just he's in isolation, but if multiple of them exist, which they do, by the way, their conclusion is it is useless to serve God. How do you feel about that? Is it useless to serve God? What does the Bible say? Romans chapter 12, verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy and acceptable to God, which is your reasonable service. Notice there's no mention of you happeners that are wicked or anything about that. Why should we serve God? Because it's our reasonable service. Why is it our reasonable service? Because of the mercies of God Because God saw you in your filth and in your slime and in your sin and in your bad attitude and all of that, and despite that, he died on a cross to redeem you. And then he invited you to go from filth to saints, to be washed up. And he didn't just invite you, but then to our surprise When his Holy Spirit drew you and you came, he made good on his promise. Sometimes people promise certain things. They say, come over to my house, and then when you say okay, they're surprised I I didn't I didn't think you would actually accept. But that's not how God is. God is not offering you something that He doesn't want you willing to accept. He offered it to you, He bought it for you, and then when you came to Him it was better than you thought it would be Hopefully that's your Christian experience. You don't read passages that say he'll give you a new heart and say, I don't have a new heart. No, you have a new heart. God took the heart of stone and made it a heart of flesh. He put the love of God in you. You can sing songs to him now. And in light of this great gospel, salvation, how should we respond? Laying ourselves down at the altar. Recognizing that that is your reasonable, some translations say spiritual, either way, it's your reasonable and spiritual service to God to give him everything. Because you've been bought with a price. Look at their attitude. It is useless to serve God. This is completely the opposite of what a Christian should have And I would say very few of any Christians really have that expression. Not to say that it's never difficult or trying to follow the Lord. It can be difficult in trying. But this is an attitude that chafes at the Lord and that sees the Lord as a burden. And again, let me ask you this: is that your Christian walk? That you've been captured by God and that you are enslaved to Him and that you want to break free. You're looking for the Underground Railroad from Jesus? I hope to believe that is not the condition of any of us. That we don't find them as a harsh taskmaster, that we don't want to run away from him. Do you remember what the apostles said in John chapter 6 when all of the false disciples abandoned Christ? Because Jesus was preaching too hard. Remember? Jesus was saying, Eat my flesh and drink my blood. And this was too hard for them. They were not familiar with this kind of teaching. This pricked them at the heart. And he said, Who can listen to this man? And what did they do? They all left him. He had the crowds and the crowds abandoned him. They wanted to make him a king and now they were going to put him on a cross. Well they would do that later. But at least today they would abandon him and leave him. And then he looks over at his twelve apostles. One of them he says, You're a devil. You're going to say, but it's not because your heart is really with me. You have alternative motives. But he still looked at them And he said, Do you also want to leave me? Do you remember this? John chapter six. And what did of course the loudmouth of them all who is that? Who's the guy who always talked? Jesus. So Peter, he asked to be the first one to respond. He asked the twelve, but Peter's always going to respond, right? And he says to them, Do you also want to go away from me? But Simon Peter answered, Lord, to whom shall we go? You have the words of eternal life. We have also come to believe and to know, not just believe, but to know, you are the Christ, the Son of the living God. I hope to believe this is how we all feel about God, even when times are trying and times are difficult and we have external pressures that will try to pull us from Christ. When we actually consider the service of Christ, we have no one else to go to. Is that not shape? What did Jesus say? Jesus, I am the way. Somebody know this verse. I am the truth. I am the light. No one comes to the Father except by me. You have nowhere else to go. There is no alternative, Moore. What? We can't leave you. You are our Messiah. You are our Christ. You are our Lord. You are our and we'll talk about this. You are our happiness and our joy. Outside of you, we are nothing. Outside of you, we are nothing. All blessings come from you. There is no alternative. If we let go of you , First off, you'll hold on to us. But nonetheless, why would we leave you, Lord? When you come to know the Lord, truly, you come to know that he is wonderful That he is a blessing, that he fills us with joy and with happiness. So in light of this grand vision of God, how could you possibly look at verse 14, look at the wicked Covet their health and prosperity and say, Lord, it is useless to serve you. You see This is a deeply wicked and distorted point of view. And to be honest with you, I can't relate to this And I hope you can't relate to this either. That you don't look at the wicked, covet their righteous, covet their wealth, point your finger back at God and say, It's useless to me And in fact, the only person I know who actually essentially said this to me no longer walks with the Lord. They told me that they were struggling and that they were contemplating and they were already thinking of ways to get out of church. And to get out of fellowship with believers and to ultimately abandon Jesus Christ. They were planning and scheming and they were struggling against this. And I thought What is this? Why would you ever want to do that? That person no longer walks with the Lord That scheming, that planning, that conniving came to fruition because they resonated with this passage. Namely, they came to the conclusion that it was useless to serve God. And again, I will say, if that is what is in your heart, and you know how to find out what's in your heart? Squeeze you. You take a tube of toothpaste and you squeeze it and what comes out? Juice. No. Unless somebody put the juice in the toothpaste What you squeeze is what comes out of you because what is what is in there in the first place. Trials and tribulations, pain and afflictions squeeze you to test what's in your tube and what's in your heart And if this is what comes out, there's something deeply wrong with your hearts and the way that you view God. Let's look at the second accusation they say in verse 14. It is useless to serve you, God. What profit is it that we have kept your ordinances and we walk as mourners? What prophet is it that we have kept your commandments? Well, I want you to turn over to Deuteronomy chapter 10. This is one of my favorite passages in the whole Bibles in the Old Testament. Well God inspired both the new and the old. If you have a pen, I want you to underline, star it, circle this first. I hope at the end of this sermon, this will be one of your favorite verses too. Deuteronomy chapter 10, verse 12. Remember, here's the question. They asked, what prophet is it that we have kept your ordinances? Deuteronomy 10, verse 12. And now, Israel, what does the Lord God require of you? Good question, right? What does God want from you? What does the God want from me? Primarily. God, I'm here. I'm listening. Speak, Lord, for your servant. Hears. What do you require of us, Lord? Number one, to fear God with your heart Okay. We're to fear you. Amen. Number two, to walk in all his ways. Amen. Number three, to love him. Number four, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. He doesn't want your leftovers. Right? Now here it is. This is the part I want you to underline. Verse 13. And to keep his commandments of the Lord your God and his statutes today. Now here it is. What's the read up? Is the reason because God just wants to show you his power and he wants to test you, he wants to see if you're simply submit to his all-encompassing holiness and power and omnipotence. It's just a text. I am God and you are puny. And I will command you today to put you in the dust to show you who you are before me. You are worm and I am God. Is that what God says? And is that your view of God? Do you think that that's why God commands you is to show his power and to bully you? I hope not. Because that's what the devil says. But that's not what this passage says, does it? What does it say? Verse 13. I'm commanding you these things Today, for whose good? Argun. I am commanding these things today For your good. This is one of the most revolutionary passages that you get this. God is commanding these things today for your good. Not even for his good. He could have said his good, and it is for his good. All things are to be said to be done for God's glory. But the thing he points to is your good Now keep your finger here. Let's go back to the very beginning. Genesis chapter 3. And let's see what the serpent, the great enemy of God , Tell you. Because he's going to tell you the exact opposite of what God says And sadly, we often listen to the serpent instead of listening to God. We often agree with the serpent, even if we obey. Even if you obey God's commandments, sadly, we often have the serpent's voice in our minds and we think, I'm just going to obey God because that's what he wants me to do. But in reality, God's holding out on me. And God's trying to keep me from things that are ultimately good for me. And what you'll find Because that's the lie of Satan. Genesis chapter 3, verse 4. Here's what Satan tells to our perfect parents that were not like us, because we are tempted toward evil. If you look at your heart, you are tempted primarily because your heart is inclined toward evil. Do you see that? You have to look away. Why? Because your eyes will drive you into the wrong direction. You see that? We are tempted toward evil. These people, Adam and Eve, were not tempted toward evil. They were holy. They were in a garden. They did not have the flesh. So how could Satan bring them down? It's the same way he's going to bring us down. But it was much harder to bring them down, obviously the point. It was harder to bring them down, but he did, and in the same way he'll try to bring us down. Genesis chapter 3, verse 4 Then the serpent said to the woman, look at that guy. Remember what happens. God creates Adam, he creates Eve, there's no sin, there's no affliction, he creates a perfect garden, man and beast are in perfect harmony, and God walks with them. What better state could you possibly get? All is well. No pain, no suffering, no sorrow, perfect fellowship with God, perfect fellowship with man, perfect fellowship with communion with all creation. This is glory Lord will be a little bit better if we want to glorify the body, but this is very close to glory. And remember, he creates all these trees And he said, you can eat them all of them. And he gives them one command, from this one tree you shall not eat, the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. But you can eat all of the rest of the trees And the serpent comes, and he first lies, he lies by God. He says, God said you can't eat from any of the trees. And he said, No, no, no. God said you can't eat from that tree. He puts doubt in their mind about the goodness of God God's now gone from a plentiful God to now a restrictive meaning. He's keeping everything back That was not an accident from Satan. He wants to twist your mind to take you from a God of plenty to a God of stinginess. A God who gives to a God who sends you. That's what he says. The second thing Then the serpent, verse 4, he says, The serpent said to the woman, If you eat of that fruit, you will not surely die. He contradicts God's word. And then he distorts God's motivation. Do you see that? He lies about God, says he's a sin to God, then he distorts his commands, then he contradicts his commands in verse 4, and then verse 5, he distorts God's motive. He says, God knows that in the day that you eat of it, your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. In other words, what the devil says is God is holding out on you God knows that if you do this, it'll be better for you, and God doesn't want that. God wants to keep the blessing for himself. He's a jealous God, he's a petty God, he's a God who doesn't want competition and he knows. That if you do this, you would now be in direct competition with God. Believers, is that true? Is that what God was doing? No, it wasn't. He knew God that if they ate of that tree, all the sin, all the death, all the misery, all the shame, all the pain would be caused by eating of that fruit. And so God told them by his command, don't do it. I want you to imagine, right before Eve ate of that fruit and she got a vision Of all the pain, all the misery, all the death, all the separation, all the abuse, all of the sin. You think she would have eaten that proof? Never. Even her own son will be murdered because of her actions. She didn't see it. Adam didn't see it But instead, what did they think? They saw the fruit, they saw that it was good to eat, it was valuable to make one wise, they didn't believe God, they believed the talking serpent, they ate, and it was all over But the reason I'm pointing this out to you is that the central lie is that God is a cosmic killjoy. And that God is here to avoid you from having a good time. He is enduring your sadness and your misery. That's what happens back in Malachi 3. 14. What is the prophet that we have kept his ordinances? And look at their attitude Back in Malachi 3. 14, they say that walking with you, God, is walking as a winner. Is that is that your Christian experience? Walking with God is as in a water. All is moved. All is doomed, all is bad, can't clap at church, can't sing at church, can't do anything, it's just some kind of purgatory. Believe if church is purgatory, we've got to change church. Amen. This is supposed to be a rejoiceful environment. It's supposed to be a blessing. God's commands are a blessing. The walk of God is a blessing. But they say We have walked as mourners before the Lord God. God, to serve you is terrible. It's awful. It's not good. Remember the woman who was she was a prostitute. She was a woman of the night. And she came to Jesus and she loved him and she cried And she wept from her sin, and she wiped Jesus' feet with her hair and her tears, and the Pharisee, the self-righteous man there, saw and was scandalized and took offense that Jesus would love on this woman and accept her repentance. You remember this story? And what did Jesus say to that Pharisee? He says He who has been forgiven little loves little. But he who has been forgiven much loves much. Have you been forgiven little or much? Much greatly. And so your heart should be full of love and appreciation and thankfulness And that should bring us joy and happiness. Well, I'll give you another story. Do you remember Mary of Bethany and Jesus, another woman, Jesus, woman in hair? Last story. You gotta keep them together There was another time right before Jesus was going to die that there was another woman called Mary of Bethany. And she wanted to give something precious to Jesus. And so she found the most precious thing that she had. She had this ointment that was worth 300 deneri. Deneri is a day's wage. So I did a little math. What would Give or take, you know, it's dependent everyone makes different amounts. But but what would 300 out of 365 of today's day's wage would be? How much is this worth basically? Around here. This would probably be anywhere between $75,000 to $90,000. Can you imagine? This is some real nice brewery. We don't have ointments at this expense. This is a fetch that she had. This is everything that she had, and she took it and she anointed the feet of Jesus. She said, Jesus, you are worth it. I'm going to give you the absolute best that I have for you. And again, there was another man who was scandalized by this kind of lavish worship, and his name is Judas. And he says, Well, this was a waste. Jesus isn't worth this. Instead, you should give to the poor. But of course, he didn't want to give to the poor, rather he wanted to steal. The point is, what is your attitude? Are you like Mary of Bethany? Who've been forgiven much, or you love much, or you want to give Jesus your absolute best, and it's a pleasure serving him? Or are you like Judas? The one who is angry about such gifts being given to Jesus. Or like that Pharisee who's scandalized and who finds the service of Jesus to be displeasurable. And really, as we as we think about the book of Malachi , what are these people even complaining about? They say that there's no profit in keeping the ordinance of God. And that the walking with God is is to be a mourner, is to be a killjoy. Well, let's remind ourselves of of what the ordinance of God had been in the book of Malachi. The first accusation was that they were giving the lame, the stolen, and the blind. Right? God says don't do that, and they were doing that. Is that a killjoy? Is that a problem? Should we should God accept our leftovers? No, of course not. How is it, how are you mourning because God rebukes you because he doesn't want your scraps? What a horrible attitude to have. We want to give God our best, not our scraps, is my point. Well think about the the second rebuke of the prophet. He says you tolerate these these evil priests. These priests who are supposed to be full of the the truth of God and supposed to be the mouthpiece of God instead they're full of Jokes and errors and lies. They're earth ticklers. Second Timothy chapter two verse four. For the time will come When they will not endure sound doctrine, but according to their own desires, because they have itching ears, they will keep for themselves teachers, and they will turn their ears from the truth and turn aside the fables. So what was happening in Malachi is the same thing that happens today, namely that people have corrupt hearts, they run away from God, and they want teachers to make them feel good in their corruption. Is this a curse that God doesn't want us to have iffy ear teachers and preachers? Of course not. It's a blessing. Recently I had the experience. Of listening to a sermon about the preaching, excuse me, about the prayer life of Jesus. Do you remember that the only question that the apostles ever ask Jesus is teach us how to pray? And what Jesus would often do is he was so dedicated to prayer that he would break away from ministry, sneak out in the middle of the night, nobody could find him, and he was out there praying. You remember this? Now again let me ask you this. When is everyone when is anyone ever I hope somebody can say amen, but that's fine. Never for me. When is anyone ever could not find you because you were thinking about the price The point is that Jesus' prayer life is deeply convict. Jesus prayed like few of us can ever Pray. And so I heard a sermon about Jesus' prayer life, and you know what happened to me? I was deeply convicted because I thought God helped me to be a man of better prayer. And I thank, at least in my heart, I thank the man for delivering such a message to me. Is that whi is that w which one do you want? You want the Soft, unbiblical preacher that's teaching you nothing but lies and making you feel good? Or would you rather someone bring the word of God, even if it brings conviction, because it's God's truth? I hope to believe it's the latter. And so the point that I'm getting at is this. How could these people look at the commands of God and to say it is no profit to keep your commandments and walk around as mourners based on the commands of God. When in reality, God is only commanding these things today for your good. I want to show you something else. Go to Matthew chapter 11. Matthew chapter 11, this is the way that Jesus describes his own ministry and invites people to himself. Matthew chapter 11, verse 28. Jesus invites people to him and describes what he will give to them. And he says, Come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Do you see that? Jesus is saying that outside of me is the burdensome, laborious labor. Leave all of that. If you're weary, if you're heavy laden, that's not the service of Christ. If you're already burdened from the world, leave that instead. Come to me, and he says, I will give you rest. Take my yoke and learn from me. And Jesus describes himself as gentle and lowly in heart. And then he promises that we will find rest for our souls, and he describes his yoke there in verse 30 as what? My yoke is easy, and my burden is light. Can anybody say amen? Have you taken the yoke of price and discovered this is exactly the way it is, that it was burdensome out there It was difficult out there. You had to deny the fact that you were going to die. You had to deny the fact that you were a sinner. You had to deny the fact That you are unrighteous. You could not accept these things. The Bible says that we have lifelong slavery to sin And so people are making all these excuses about how they're not going to die or denying death or when they do meet God or make all these explanations, but the reality is you're a sinner. That's burdensome. It's burdensome to have to deny reality. And it's freeing to say, some glad morning, when this life is over, I'll fly away. You see that? Isn't that freeing? I don't have to deny that I'm dying. I am I'm seeing this happen. Anybody else feel that? You feel the aging, the times the sands of time are sinking? Death is coming! Whether we know it or not. But we can look death in its eye and say, Christ is conquered. This is rejoicing. This is great. God 's burden is not burdensome. It's not just that. It's the commands of God are not burdensome either. Jesus says that his yoke, the Christian walk, is light It's easy. That's not me saying that. That's Christ saying that. He promises you that. It's not a switch and bait. He doesn't say my yoke is easy and then you put his yoke on and it's burdensome and it crushes you. And you say, what's the point of serving God? If that's your Christian walk, you're doing it wrong. Or put it differently, you haven't yet come to know him and the grace that he offers you. And in fact, did you know that Jesus says that his yoke is easy, but then he describes the yoke of the scribes and the Pharisees. And he says this in Matthew chapter 23. The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses ' seat, but do not do according to their works, for they say they do not do. They do not preach what they preach, they do not do what they preach. And then he says this, for they bind heavy burdens hard to bear and lay them on men's shoulders, but they themselves will not move them with one finger. You see? Jesus says that his yoke is easy and his burden is light, but he says that the yoke of the world, the yoke of false religion, the yoke of Catholicism, the yoke of Islam, the yoke of Mormonism, that is the difficult yoke. I remember I was evangelizing the Mormons. They claim to be Christians, but they're not. And I would evangelize the the elders and I became friends with their elders and their elders are like eighteen years old by the way. This is very strange. And I would evangelize them and I guess I would beat them. And so then they would bring ammunition and they would bring more. And then I would talk to them and then they would bring more. And so they ended up bringing uh people from their congregation. And they were in my living room, and I remember preaching the gospel to them, the true gospel, that we're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, not based on works and not based on performance, because you'll never know if he did it not And I remember his name was Garrett, this Mormon man, bursting in tears. Not because of me, because he finally understood the true grace of God. That deep down he knew what I was saying was true. Namely you could never know if you did enough. And all you do people with work-face salvation, all they do is just change The criteria. Well this isn't really sin unless this, that, and that. They try to self-justify, but their hearts condemn them because they know that they're wicked. That is false religion But Christ says that his religion is yokis easy and his burden is light. The doctrines of demons, the doctrines of men, are do not touch, do not taste, do not handle. They have Commandments and the doctrines of men. It sounds wise, but it's self-imposed. It's false humility. It's neglect of the body. It's no value against the indulgence of the flesh. God gave you all of creation. It says, enjoy it, but just don't sin. Trust me. So here's the point that I'm trying to get you all to see. This attitude is deeply distorted, and honestly, if we're honest, many times we actually have this attitude, maybe not collectively about the obedience of God, but maybe about individual sins When God commands you, do you view his commands as his blessings or as his burden? Do you see? Do you view God's commands as his blessings even when you don't even understand? I'll give you an example. Many people end up getting into a divorce because they say God wants me to be happy. Or they say I'm miserable. Does that sound familiar? There's sometimes that people have biblical divorces. I know, but some many times they're unbiblical. The only reason they want to just call a no-called divorce is because they're not happy. And they really believe that if they get a divorce that they will be happy. Does that make sense? And they see then you show them the Bible and say, well you can't do this according to the Bible, and then they view God as restrictive. And God is trying to prevent them from their happiness. But if you understand the perspective that I'm saying, what you will come to see is God's commands to restrict our marriages so that we cannot divorce because they burned our toasts, or because we're angry, or because I want to be more happy, is actually his blessing. Does that make sense? This command is not to restrict your joy and cause you to be miserable. God is trying to protect you. He's trying to protect them. He's saying, I want you to stick it out. You've made a covenant together. I want you to work this out. He's not commanding these things as a curse. Remember who God is. Psalm 1611. You, God, will show me the path of life. In your presence there is fullness of joy. At your right hand are pleasures forevermore. God's commands are not burdensome. The service of God is not one of mourning. It is not useless to serve God, both in this life and in the next. I'll end with two stories Well two illustrations. I often tell people, I ask this question to people, if you cease to be a Christian, would anything in your life change? If tomorrow you cease to follow Christ altogether, would anything in your life change? And what I'm seeking to do in that question is to see if any of your actions are motivated by God or not. Because if nothing in your life were changed, so goes the question, then perhaps nothing in your life has changed. How could nothing in your life change if you cease to be a Christian, that means your Christianity is useless. Because it produces nothing. This is a question I often ask people. But here's one of the problems with this question, if you understand what I've been trying to say today. If God's ways are really better Then it would be foolish, even if you came to the conclusion that the Bible was false, to abandon his ways because they are actually better. Does that make sense? Do you think that I want to not steal simply because God says it? Or because it's better? I really want to steal. I really want to go to work and just steal, right? No, I don't. I don't want to be fired. Do you do you I don't want to go into Walmart and stop packing my pockets. I don't want to go to jail. I don't want to commit adultery. I like my marriage. I don't want to tattoo my face. No, thank you. I like my money and I like pretending to have a little bit of class. Does that make sense? God's ways are actually fundamentally better. He's not commanding you things that are arbitrary. He's saying, trust in me. Believe me, I know marriage better than you do. I know sexuality better than you do. I don't want you living in shame from the things that you're looking on looking at in your phone. Do you know the freedom it has that you can pass on your cell phone and feel no anxiety? You know how that feels? It feels great. You know how it feels to be hiding in shame and darkness, terrified that someone's gonna find out what you look at? I don't want that. I hope you don't want it either. John's ways are fundamentally better. They're freeing. They're good. He's pure. He's righteous. Last story I'll tell you. I was in the army and I remember talking to this man. His name wasn't Carlos. I've changed the name, but I'm going to call him Carlos. And I was talking to Carlos and my unit was deployed and we were in the rear. And we had a conversation and in this conversation he throughout the conversation he revealed to me that he had a serious drug problem. He didn't come out and say I had a serious drug problem, but it came out that he had a serious drug problem And I remember asking him, you don't find drugs to be destructive and addictive? And he said to me, No. Drugs are not destructive. Drugs are not addictive. That's just weak people who can't control themselves. And I remember thinking this won't end well. You don't know the fire that you're dealing with. But I kept my peace and kept going. Many moons later, a few months later, I remember seeing him and I saw that Carlos was distressed. So I went to go find out what was wrong with my friend. And he told me that the army was capturing him out Because he had a random drug test and they found so many drugs in his system that they immediately said, you're done. You're gone. And I remember having this conversation with him and asking him, did you not know that the random drug test was coming up? And we were all in the army, we've all seen it. And he said to me, as if he didn't remember the other conversation at all, that I knew, but I just couldn't stop. The man who claimed that drugs were not destructive and not addictive was addicted to drugs and feeling its destruction. And I remember basically preaching this sermon to him and telling him that God's ways were better and that God told him to be sober, not to restrict his joy, but to bless him, to keep things like this from happening into his life. And he shot back at me. He said, no, no, no, no. But he shot back at me and said, what what about premarital relations? If what you're saying is true, then what about premarital relations? See code. This is just arbitrary. This is just God trying to hold back on us. And then I explained to him, because of pre-marital relationships, there is so much shame and pain and brokenness and neglected children and abandoned children and murdered. children and marriage becomes dissolved, which is the solution to most of the problems. And in fact, what you're calling innocent is one of the greatest destructions in all of our society. And I remembered his weakness and his sadness. He stopped and he said, I guess you're right. I guess you're right. Well it was too late for Carlos. Carlos was already suffering the consequences of his sinful lifestyle. But it's not too late for you. You see? You can decide now to trust God, who says, I'm commanding these things today for your good, even if you can't understand why Well you could be like Carlos, who's wise in his own sight, listening to Satan who says God's just trying to hold out on you. I said life and death before you. Will you trust God? Will you repent of your sins? Will you believe in him? Or will you trust in yourself? And when you trust in the lies of Satan, that merely says that God is trying to hold out on you