So I I want you to imagine a man just burst into our church and he's come off of the street And he kicks me out of the pulpit and he says, I have a wonderful story to tell you. And he then goes and describes how he was walking on a bridge in Baltimore and a group of thugs came and harassed him and ultimately beat him and stomped him to a bloody pope, so much so that he was passed out, and they took all of his goods And then as he woke up, he stumbled and was dazed and stumbled upon the road in a pickup truck going 70 miles an hour hit this man, casting him into the air, flying off of the bridge, landing into the water 150 feet down below. And then he says that as he was barely conscious in the water, he swam back to the shore, called a taxi, and made it here to tell this wonderful story Of God's providence and God's grace and what had happened to him. And you already start to scratch your beard if you have one If you don't have one, you start to rub your hair a little bit. And and you look at the man and and you realize that he has kind of slicked hair. Looks like he has gel in it And he's wearing a suit. It's nice and pressed. There's there's no tear that's not wet. It looks all nice like he just came from the shop or something, just came out of his house, and you look at his skin and it's unblemished and there's no cuts and there's no tatters and there's no tears and there's no evidence that anything that he said had happened. Now besides me kicking him back out of the pulpit and rejoining the pulpit, what would you think about such a man and his story and his tale? Would you think that the man was telling the church, the truth, church? Or would you think he's probably a liar or a lunatic? I think he I think he's probably a liar. Less of a lunatic, but maybe a lunatic or a liar. And here's the reason. Because how could you encounter a group of thugs a pickup truck going 70 miles an hour being cast into air, thrown off the bridge, hitting the water. How could you encounter such forces and remain unchanged. Do you see? That's what makes the story so unbelievable. It's because he encountered such great forces and yet he was unchanged. There was no evidence that such an encounter had occurred. Maybe some of you know where I'm going with this. What is a greater force? A group of thugs, a gang, a pickup truck going 70 miles an hour, falling off a bridge at 150 feet, or an encounter with the living God. The encounter with the God of creation. Something tells me that the God of creation is a greater encounter than even all of those things. But here's the deal then If you encounter the great God of creation, and yet you claim that you have met with the God who says, I am a consuming fire. And yet, after that encounter, you are unchanged. How should we assess that? What should we think of such a man who makes that claim? Well, that's the question I want to answer today, and I want to answer it. From the Bible. What does the Bible say about such a claim? So please open your Bibles to Malachi chapter 2, and we will pick up Malachi chapter 2, and we'll pick up in verse 17. You have wearied the Lord with your words, yet you say, In what way have we wearied him? And that you say everyone who does evil is good in the sight of the Lord, and he delights in them. Or where is the God of justice? Now I want to remind you of where we are because when I do that, you'll see how surprising this statement is. Remember, the very first statement, Malachi, the prophet, the word of the Lord, very first message. I have loved you, my people. I have loved you. Then the prophet goes into the rebuke. But yet I find some things that are just not right. Your worship is not right. You're giving the blame, the stolen. The cheap. You're not worshiping God the way you ought to. Your your priests are corrupt. They're not leading you into righteousness, but they're leading you and to sin. And then he goes and says that you have profaned the holy institution which the Lord loves. And he says you've done this in two different ways. The first is that you have married the daughter of a foreign God. And you ought not to have done that. The second is what we did last time, which is immediately before this, and he says, look at the tears on the altar. People are coming to the altar and they're crying and they're weeping. And why? Because you have acted treacherously to the wife of your youth. You've divorced them. You've cast them off. You've forgotten the true intent of marriage, which was to produce godly offspring. But instead, each one is going and trying to say, what really marriage is about is my own self-fulfillment and happiness. Out with the old in with the new. I don't care if it hurts anyone else. What matters is my own joy and happiness. And so the altar is full of tears. These women's hearts are broken. The children are abandoned And yet these people still think that God is going to be happy and pleased with their worship. Does this sound familiar? And After the prophet goes through all of that and rebukes them for their half-hearted worship, their corrupt priests, and their complete defilement of marriage, what is their response? How do they respond to these accusations? Do they claim you've misunderstood? We have not done these things. Do they respond in repentance and in sackcloth and ashes and saying, you know what, God, you're right. I have done this. I repent. I am sorry. What do I do? You remember what happened in the book of Acts? That you had Peter, he preached the gospel, and he says, which is probably the most convicting message ever preached, you killed the Son of God. You did it. And what do the people say? They will cut to the heart and they said, What should we do? And Peter replied, Repent and be baptized. And as many as received his word, repented and were baptized. This is the proper response when the prophet of God or God says, Thou hast sinned. The proper response is to be cut to the heart. It hurts But to say, you're right, I confess it, I repent, restore me, Lord. Well, what do the people do? Well, here's the answer right here in verse 17. Look at it. You have wearied the Lord with your words, yet you say, in what way have we wearied him? In that you say, everyone who does evil is pleasing in the sight of God, or where is the God of justice? In other words, instead of repenting of their sins, they point their finger out at God and say, well, what about you? See, you're calling me out on my sin, but God I'm gonna call you out on your sin. See, I have a problem with you, God, and my problem with you is where is the God of justice? How come the wicked seem to be Prospering. In other words, they act the way that sinners act when you call them out on their sin. I said this before and I'll say it again. You will learn a lot about a person of how they respond when you lovingly and kindly point out their sin. They will either respond in two different ways. One, they will say that the wounds of a friend are good and pleasant. Thank you. Thank you for pointing this out. I can't see myself in the mirror I can't see myself. You are my mirror. Does that make sense? You ever have some food in your mouth? And you're just talking away and everyone's like Sorry. Everyone's laughing inside and just thinking, oh, but you have no idea because you can't see yourself and you need some loving person to kind of Right? Now I'm thinking about my fly. Make it sure. You can't see. I can't see myself. I need you to say zip it up. I I need you. I need your help. And you need my help. And a and a loving person, if you do it lovingly, says, Oh thank you for this Right? I mean get that out of my mouth. But that that's the way it ought to be. Again, in a loving way. I'm not saying someone's being mean and nasty and making fun of you. But they're being kind. You you ought to respond as in in a pleasant way. Thank you, brother. I appreciate that. Thank you, sister. But there's another response of what happens when you bring lovingly correction to somebody. And what is that response? How dare you! You hypocrite. Oh, you want to point out my sin? Well, I got ten things against you. Have you not seen this? If you're honest, isn't this why we don't lovingly correct and rebuke people in the first place? Because we're afraid of how they're gonna respond. And that really, beloved, says more about them than it says anything else. I'll tell you the truth. The most loving thing I can ever do to you Or I shouldn't say that. Well one of the the evidences that I love you and I think you have a high character is if I point out your sin. Because the Bible says if you rebuke a fool, you'll get a beating. And I personally don't like getting beat up. I'm not a big guy. I'll get beat up pretty easily. Does that make sense? So if I lovingly rebuke you, that means I don't think you're a fool. I think you're a wise person. But if I stay silent, that means You see? But back, forget me, back to the point. God, the prophet, comes and rebukes them, and do they act As the wise person saying, you're right. What do we need to do? How do we restore our marriages? How do we restore our worship? How do we restore our priesthood? No. Instead, they point their finger up at God and say, Where is the God of justice? Why do you not avenge The cries of the innocent. Strangely enough, if he were to do that, who would be the victims of God's wrath? Who are the victims out there crying? It's amazing what people say, where is the God of justice not recognizing the God of justice is why you stand His patience is why you yourself have not been struck down. Do you want the God of justice? Be careful. Be careful what you ask for, because you might get more than you bargained for This reminds me of Romans chapter 9. You remember Romans chapter 9, where the greatness of God and his sovereignty is being fully displayed? And people hear about this great sovereign God who does as he pleases. And what do they respond to this? They say, what shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness in God? And what's the response? God forbid. Certainly not. Let it never be. The response of the apostle Paul in that text is, this is out of bounds. Do you know who you're talking about? And so the fundamental answer to the question of where is the God of justice The fundamental answer to that is when we're tempted to question God and His character, is we need to remember who God is. You see? Once you remember that we are talking about the holy, holy, holy, right holy God, then your accusations against God are meaningless. God is above accusation. Do you see that? An accusation cannot even be leveled upon God. You can't even begin to say what about God. As soon as you make that statement, the statement is void because of who he is. Now let me ask you this. Is anyone else above accusation? The answer is no Do you remember what the Apostle Paul says in Galatians about people preaching a false gospel? And he says, if anyone preaches a false gospel, let him be anathema. Let him be accursed. He says, even if I, the apostle, preach a false gospel, it is not a new gospel, it is a false gospel, and it is not true. He even goes so far to say, even if an angel were to come and preach a different gospel That angel would be accursed. And if you think about it, isn't that what Lucifer did? A holy angel? Whispered into the ears of a bunch of other holy angels, lies about God. He was the chief of all angels. He made a false accusation himself. The point is that there is no one outside of God Himself that is above accusation, but God Himself is that one who is above accusation. The second that you think that you have an accusation against God, you should immediately say, No. I may not understand. I may be confused. I may be hurt. But the reality is, God is good even when I can't see it. God is true even when the world says it's false, and even when I can't see how God could be true. Does that make sense? And I will tell you this, beloved. One time I was in a dark place in my spiritual walk, and I saw something that I could not reconcile. I pride myself or I think of myself as a theological nerd and I spend all my time trying to reconcile Bible passages and all these kind of things and it's just a fun thing. I like to do it But I found myself in a passage, in a problem, if you ask me, I won't tell you, and I probably forgot it, where I could not reconcile, and I and I called for help And none of the help seemed to be able to reconcile it either. And I got to the point where I thought, what do I do? And when I got there, I decided I'm going to trust God. Apparently that's what happened to Billy Graham too. Billy Graham was fighting with the people, saying the Bible had errors, and he was fighting, and eventually he said, I'm either going to believe God Or I'm going to bleed these smart men. And the Billy Graham we all knew, became the Billy Graham we all knew because he put his finger on God's word and said, God is true, let every man be a liar God is above accusation. And so the most fundamental answer to this question of where is the God of justice is that such a question is invalid from the start. Because we forgot who God is. But there's more. Romans 9:19. Not only have we forgotten who God is, you have forgotten who you are. Romans 9 19. You will say to me then, why does he still find fault? For who has resisted his will? But indeed, O man, who are you to reply against God? Do you see? If there was anyone to make an accusation against God, it wouldn't be from you and your five-pound Brain of flesh? Do you really think that you can bring an accusation against God and especially about his righteousness? You Our failings, our sinful nature, our corruption, our continuous overeating, overspending, constant lusting, slandering, gossiping, all of our struggles that we struggle with. You think we can bring an accusation against God? Have we lost our minds? Have you forgotten of who you are? And have you forgotten about who he is? I want you to turn there. Keep your Bibles in Malachi chapter 3, but let's turn to Romans chapter 11. Romans chapter 11, Doxology, verse 33 And let's see how the Bible itself describes our great God and Savior. Romans chapter 11, verse 33, and keep your finger in Malachi because we'll be back. Oh the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who has been his counselor? Or who has first given to him, and it shall be repaid to him? For of him and through him and to him are all things. To him be the glory. Forever. Amen. That's our great God. All the depths, all the riches, both of his wisdom and his knowledge, his judgments are beyond searching out. Who has known the mind of the Lord? Who has been his counselor? Who has given to him? that he must be repaid, for of him and through him and to him are all things to him be the glory. That's our great God Now I'm gonna talk like a fool here, and I'm gonna add my name into this, and to see how it sounds. And I want you to imagine adding your name into this and seeing how it sounds. Let's read it that way Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of Jamie. How insearchable are Jamie's judgments! And how Jamie's ways are past finding out. Who has known the mind of Jamie? Or who has become his counselor? Or who has first given to Jamie that he should be repaid? Do you see the absurdity? It's absolute absurd. Who is Jamie? Who are you? Who is Paul? Who is Cephas? We are mere servants by whom you have believed. We are mere servants here to serve you and point not to ourselves, but point to God. Do you see? We are nothing. In fact, we are but dust. First Corinthians 4 7 describes us and it says, for who makes you to differ from another? And what do you have that you did not receive? Now, if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you did not receive it? It's actually the exact opposite of what we see in our passage about God. God is the source. We are the recipient. All blessings come from Him. Everything we have has been a gift. What makes you to differ? Only God's kindness to you. So why do you boast as if you did not receive it? Who has been my counselor? All of you And you will continue to be my counselor, who has given to me that I should be repaid all of you. Do you see? And us to you as well. Remember who you are and remember who God is, and you will not point the finger up at God And when you do point that finger, remember you have three fingers pointing back at you, reminding you of who you are in light of him. Before we move on from this, I want this thought to never come to your mind ever again to dare point your finger up at God. Do you remember the book of Job? And do you remember that this righteous and godly man, probably much more righteous than any of us? He was the most righteous man. In fact, he was afflicted because he was so righteous. He was so righteous that the devil said Actually it was really God. God pointed to the fan and said, Look how righteous he is. And the devil said, Well, he's only righteous because you keep blessing him. Who wouldn't be righteous when you just keep dumping the blessings on him? And they have this little wager. And he says, Okay, well, take it away. And see. If he is so righteous. And the devil says, he'll curse you to his s to your face. And all throughout the book of Job, the devil curses And takes away from Job, but Job never curses God because Job's heart truly loves the Lord. But Job is not perfect, he's a man. And he struggles throughout the book, especially because of those accusing friends. Nothing like an accusing friend. Please don't be the just sometimes it's better just to be quiet. Just sit there and just say I'm so sorry. Just zip it. You got nothing nice to say? Don't say anything at all. Go back to mama's advice But Job after after chapter after chapter after he loses everything, I mean poor Job, it really is hard, heartbreaking for that what this man encountered. Especially those friends. Please flip it. Alright, moving on. So Job starts to slip a little bit. And it's kind of difficult to read the book because it's just repetitive. But he starts to think like, if only I could speak to God and explain to him how wrong this all is. You remember this? And he starts to slint because he starts to start sticking his finger up a little bit at God and saying, God, what is wrong? Why are you doing this to me? He starts to make a little bit of an accusation. And so at the end of, just kind of give me the whole summary of the book of Job. At the end of Job in Job 38, God finally shows up. After all this conversation and back and forth, God finally shows up and he talks to Job. And do you know what he does not do to Job? He doesn't say, Job, okay, here's the deal. What really happened is you were a very righteous man and Satan said that you would only He didn't say any of that. He doesn't explain anything to Job. And he definitely does not apologize to Job, does he? Here's what God says to Job after he'd gone through all this affliction for being a righteous man. This is Job 38. The Lord answered Job in the whirlwind and said, Who is this? That darkens counsel by words without knowledge. Now prepare yourself like a man. I will question you, and you shall answer me. See, it's just amazing the kind of God that we think God is, and then the God that we actually encounter. Do you see? God is not a tame lion God says, uh, excuse me, Job, have you forgotten who you are? I understand that you're suffering unjustly. I understand that life is really, really hard. But you have questioned me, and you have forgotten who I am, and you have forgotten who you are. You're speaking as a man who does not know what he is talking about. Because when you point your finger at God, you have no idea what you're talking about. You know nothing. In comparison to what he knows. And then he questions him and he says, Where were you when I laid the foundation of the earth? By the way, Church, where were you? Were you there? No. Tell me if you understand. Have you determined this measurement? Surely you know. So where were his foundations fastened? Or who laid its cornerstone when the morning stars sang for glory? And then he goes on and on. The book of Job is so repetitive. He goes on and on and he questions them and he questions them and he questions them. And this is to remind us, until you can answer those questions, that should be when you start questioning God. And the fact that you still can't answer those questions means you should continue to not question God. And Job, remember I said, what happens when you rebuke a righteous man? Church, what happens when you rebuke a righteous man? He accepts it. He repents. You have Sunday school? Repentance means metanoia? A change of mind. And if your mind really changes, your behavior follows. What does Job a righteous man do? Job chapter 40, verse 3. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am vile. What shall I answer you? I lay my hand over my mouth. Once I have spoken, but I will not answer any more. Yes, twice. But I will proceed no further. God rebukes Job, and Job receives it as a righteous man that he is, and says, Yes, I have spoken, I am ignorant, I am abut a man. How dare I question the goodness of God And he puts his hand over his mouth and says, I'm going to be silent from here on out. And what does God do? God says, hallelujah, praise the Lord. Actually he does it. Here's what he says. Job 47. Now prepare yourself like a man, and I will question you, and you will answer me. And then he drives it in more and more. He said, Javier, get off this point. God doesn't get off point because God wants you to never forget. Do not question him. Trust in him If you read the Psalms, what you'll constantly hear this reframe over and over is trust in the Lord. It says that over and over. It's almost, again, repetitive. And then it says something else too. It says, I will not be put to shame. Anybody read the Psalms and keep running across that phrase? I will not be put to shame. If you trust in the Lord, if you stand on him, despite what you might have to go through, guess what, beloved? You will never be put to shame. Ever. You can trust and rest on him. So the fundamental answer, where 's the God of justice is in ballot question. We will not question God. But yet, God in His kindness actually does answer them. And let's look at the answer. Malachi chapter 3. I'll let you sum back there. Malachi chapter 3, verse 1, because God actually does go ahead and answer the question. Where's the God of justice? Well, I'll tell you where he is. Malachi chapter 3, verse 1. Behold, I send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom you seek will suddenly come to his temple Even the messenger of the covenant in whom you delight. Behold, he is coming, says the Lord of hosts. What's his answer? Where is the God of justice? Answer? He's on his way. You see that? His answer is, hold on. There might be crying at night, but there's joy coming in the morning. One of the great things my kid was just asking me, what's your favorite season? We're driving to church. What's your favorite season? You remember that? What's your favorite season? Winter? How many people's favorite season is winter? Anybody? Anybody's favorite season is winter? Not mine. I don't like winter. Winter is death and it's cold and it's lifeless. And I'm barely surviving out there, right? My wood-burning stove and I'm cold. Some people, maybe for some of you, maybe fall. Got the beautiful leaves and it's just be beautiful and and no no allergies. And and some of you, maybe some of you, maybe you beach folks, maybe it's maybe it's summer because then you can get out to the beach, but I see some shaking heads because it's too wet. It's too hot. And that's probably why you like fall. Because we finally get some relief from the burning heat. Well my answer was spring. And the reason I like spring is because after a season of death, then you get life. And it's so beautiful. Unfortunately, we live in a cursed world in which spring comes allergies. And I suffer from allergies Nonetheless, though, my favorite season is spring. You have to go through the winter church to get to the spring. You have to go through the portrayal of Christ and his horrible crucifixion to get to Resurrection Sunday. Do you realize that? And through many trials and tribulations, you will enter the kingdom of God. And what many have noted before is often night seems the darkest right before dawn breaks. And this is just God's way. God's going to squeeze you. And He's going to cause you to go through pain and suffering and making trust in Him. And just when you think you can't hold on any longer. Then the blessing of spring will come. God is saying here in our passage, where is the God of justice? Hold on. He is coming. He is coming. And that really is the gospel. But let's go in verse 2 though. This reminds me of a passage in Amos, and it says, be careful what you wish for. Don't say, oh, I can't wait for the day of the Lord, because the day of the Lord might not be so well for you. You're crying out, where's the God of justice? But do you really know what you're asking for? Now let's pick up in verse 2. He's coming alright, but who can endure the day of his coming and who can stand when he appears Right? God, where are you? God, I want you. God, avenge the tears of those who are suffering. Well what about the people that you've caused to suffer? You want God to show up? Do you really? Because when God shows up, he is not going to be the cartoon character that so many people have made him out to be But our God is a consuming fire. And it's not just about God showing up, it's who can stand in the day of his coming. If God were to appear here, who could stand? Better yet, could you stand? Could you stand in the day of God's coming? Now let's look at what God's going to do. And you can divide the rest of our passage Of what God is going to do for the righteous and what God is going to do for the wicked. So let's skip first to the latter part of the passage about what God's going to do to the wicked. Now look at verse 5. I will come near to you in judgment. I will be a swift witness against sorcerers, against adulterers. against perjurers, against those who exploit wage earners, and widows and orphans, and against those who turn away an alien, because they did not fear me, says the Lord of hosts. Now let me modern that a lot of that is we don't understand what that means, so I'm going to modernize that for you. God is saying, I'm coming to judge sinners. And then he describes those sinners He says, I'm coming to judge the idolaters, those who worship false gods, money, sex, pristine, power. I'm going to judge those. And I'm also going to judge those who abuse drugs and alcohol. Because oftentimes in sorcery we're abuse of drugs and alcohol to get those squishy feelings. To be high, to be drunk. And by the way, you can also abuse prescription drugs. Did you know that? Just because the doctor prescribes those things to you doesn't mean the command of God to not to be sober suddenly doesn't apply. It very much does. He's saying I'm coming against those who abuse drugs and alcohol. He says, I'm coming against adulterers, those who abuse their bodies. in their minds, in their hearts. God has called us to be sexually faithful. And he says those who profane sexuality will be judged. He's coming to check your cell phone and to look at the history and to see what you've seen. I'm coming against the perjurers. Those are liars, those are cheats, those are deceivers. How many people revel in the fact that they can trick and manipulate people? They're the master puppeteer. God is saying, I want none of that If you're a liar, if you're a deceiver, if you're a cheat, I'm coming against you. God calls us to be people of truth, a people of light, people of honesty, not deception, not lies, not slander. He says, I'm coming against those who exploit wage earners, widows, and orphans, those who take advantage of people, those who only care about their own profit, those who are lovers of money instead of lovers of God. And then he says, lastly, I'm coming against those who turn away an alien, those who are self-centered, those who only care about themselves, those who are selfish. Those who don't love other people. I'm coming against all of them. I'm coming against sinners. But then he tells you at the very end what is their central problem Is their central problem their lying, their adultery, their drug use, their slander, their gossip? No. What is their central problem? What does it say? Because they do not fear me, says the Lord. See, the problem is the reason they do all of these things is because they don't fear God. That's their fundamental issue Out of an evil heart come evil actions. The fear of God does not constrain them They do as they please, thinking, where is the God of justice? He doesn't care. He's not involved in the affairs of men. People will say, the universe is so big. Why would God care about what I do? Because the God who's so big sees you at all times and puts the moral law in your heart and it commanded you not to do such a thing. And if you do, because you do not fear him, he says, I come for swift judgment. And there's many more sins. The reality is, beloved, this hits all of us, does it not? Maybe I didn't call out your particular sin, but the fact is, he's coming against sinners. And the Bible teaches that the wages of sin is death. That means the just Punishment or the just reward for your sin is what? Hell Hell. Where the worm shall not die and the fire shall not be quenched, where you'll be tormented forever and ever, and you'll have no rest, day or night. Where is the God of justice? He is coming. But who can stand when he comes? Well, Romans chapter 6 verse 23 doesn't just give us the bad news, but gives us the good news. For the wages of sin is death, but There's that glorious butt. But the free gift of God is what? Eternal life in Christ Jesus. Who can stand in the day of his coming? Those that aren't hiding their shame, but have gone to God and been cleansed. We're all sinners deserving the wrath of God But God tells us that he does not want to condemn, but rather he wants to save. And this is called the gospel. This is the good news. That God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son, that whoever would believe doesn't have to perish. But have eternal life, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So what God is saying is this. The reason that God has not come down here as the God of justice is because He wants people to be saved. Do you realize that? That Romans chapter 2 says, Do you not know that the goodness and the kindness and the patience of God is meant to lead to repentance? See, these people, these sinners are pointing their finger at God saying, where is the God of justice, not realizing that God is giving them an opportunity to repent. And he's sending the prophet to rebuke them, not to get them angry, but so that they can be led to repentance and restoration. And this is very similar to what we have in 2 Peter, where people start saying, This is the Old Testament, and in the New Testament, the same thing happens, and they start saying, Where is the promise of Christ coming? Do you remember this? And God says this. He says that he is not slack concerning his promise, as some count slackness, but he is not willing that any should perish, but that all should be led to repentance. So the answer is, where is the God of justice? The answer is he's coming, but he's delaying so that you can be saved. And not just you, so that your offspring can be saved. And not just your offspring, so that other people's offspring can be saved. God wants to save people and he delays his coming. Sin continues to reign on this earth so that salvation can spread throughout the earth. Where is the God of justice? He is coming. But he is delayed to give you an opportunity. To repent and to spread the gospel if you've already repented. Now that's what God will do to sinners. He will come and destroy him. When Christ comes, the wicked are burned up. There is no salvation after Christ comes. Salvation is before Christ comes. The day that you die is the day that salvation ends for you. Today is the day of salvation, but when Christ comes either individually at your death or collectively at his second coming, salvation is over. And he will come for judgment for those who do not believe. But what will he do to the tenderhearted, to those who believe, to those who want to do the will of God, to those who are repentant? Well, look at verse 2 again. Malachi chapter 3, verse 2. But who can endure the day of his coming? Or who can stand when he appears? He is like a refiner's fire Like a launder or soap. He will sit as a refiner and a purifier of silver. He will purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer to the Lord an offering of righteousness. Then the offering of Judah and Jerusalem will be pleasant to the Lord as in the days of old. God is saying this. God is the great launderer. He is the great cleaner. He is the great fire. His fire destroys the chaff. He burns them up. But that same fire that destroys the wicked purifies the righteous. Do you see that? Those who are repentant, God will use that fire to burn up your sin. He will purge you. Look at the text. I'm not just saying this. He says he will do these things. Not that he will try and fail. Not that he sometimes will do this. He will purify the sons of Levi. He will purge them as gold and fire. They will offer to the Lord pleasant offerings. Remember the whole book of Malachi begins with a bunch of people that aren't worshiping the God Properly. They're giving all of these bad offerings. The solution is that their hearts need to change. You see? You can't get a bunch of people who hate God, who have hard hearts, who are plain church, to just outwardly conform. And if you could, what would that matter? God still would not be pleased. We would just create a house of Pharisees. God says the problem with these people fundamentally is they have a heart problem because they have an encounter problem because they have not encountered God. But when they do encounter God, not in his judgment, but in his kindness in salvation, it will change them. And so that these people who once gave contaminated, half-hearted worship will now give heart-filled worship. You cannot worship God in spirit and in truth if you are faking and you don't have the spirit. To worship God in spirit and in truth means that you are truly worshiping God because you are in the spirit. But how do you receive the Spirit? Sometimes people talk about being born again, but how do you become born again? What are the prerequisites to be born again? You have to receive Christ But apart from being born again, you will not have everlasting life. John John three verse five, Jesus answered, most assuredly I say to you, unless one is born of water and of spirit He cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of flesh is flesh. That which is born of spirit is spirit. John chapter 3, verse 5. Do you see? You must be born again. And the only way to be born again is to accept Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior. And he'll take that heart of stone and he'll change it into a heart of flesh. I'll have you go to one other passage. Turn over to Ezekiel chapter 36. Ezekiel chapter 36, which is actually the passage that Jesus is alluding to in John chapter 3. And that's why Jesus says to Nicodemus, when Nicodemus says, I don't know what you're talking about, about being born again, he says, You're a teacher of Israel. How do you not know these things? Have you not read Ezekiel? I told you about this. Ezekiel chapter 36, verse 25. Here's the promise of God. Then I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean I will cleanse you from all your filthiness and from your idols. Now, church, what is this theological term called when God sprinkles clean water on you and purges you from all of your sin? Show through the J. Justification. This is the beautiful doctrine of justification, just as if I never sinned. God washes away your sin. This is the gospel, right? Amen? God takes a sinner and turns him into a saint. He forgives you. Okay? Amen. But does he stop there? Does he just justify you and walk away? And say, I cleansed you, but now it's up to you to do the rest. Have a nice day. Here's the Bible. See you later. No. God is not done with you. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. But guess what? He's not finished with you after he justifies you And he ultimately will glorify you at the day of Christ Jesus, but there's something in between that. You see that? There's something in between that. Look at verse 26. I will give you a new heart and put a new spirit within you. I will take the heart of stone out of your flesh and give your heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you. Do you see? He doesn't say, if you let me. I'll try to do this, but I might fail. No. He's going to do this. Now, what theological term is used when God takes your heart of stone and replaces it with a heart of flesh? Regeneration to be born again. Now here's the point. The same God who justifies is the same God who regenerates. Do you see that You can't say I want the justification, but you can keep your regeneration. It doesn't work that way. The same God who declares you as righteous is the same God who takes your heart of stone and puts a heart of flesh. It's the same God doing two different but connected works. Amen? Everybody everybody get that? Amen. Right? That's in the Bible. We're not done yet. And that's why I wanted to show you this passage. God is not finished yet. Look at verse 27. I will put my spirit within you, somebody read that out, and cause you to walk in my statues, and you will keep my judgments and do them. Now what do we call a person who's been justified, who's been regenerated, and is getting closer and closer To Christ. Starts with an S. Sanctification. I want you to see this. I didn't make this up. It's right there in your passage. The same God who justifies is the same God who regenerates, and out of the regenerated life comes sanctification. Do you see that? That's why God can say in Malachi chapter 3 in confidence that he will purify the sons of Levi and purge them as gold and silver that they may offer to the Lord an offering in righteousness. That he will once again delight in them. God can have such confidence, it's because God is at work in you. When you encounter back to the illustr the initial illustration of the sermon. The introduction. When you encounter this incredible God who breaks into your darkness And he cleanses you with his word of healing. And he regenerates that heart and takes the heart of stone and puts a heart of flesh in there. And he puts his Holy Spirit inside of you because you're the temple of God. Will you walk away unchanged? According to the word of God? No. No, you won't That is a powerful, life-changing reality. Again, many of you heard this before. I was saved at 15. So I was and I had gone through puberty at like eleven. So I was this tall. And I remember after I got saved and my life was transforming before everyone, including my father. He one day took me on a walk And he said to me, and this was also when I was a juvenile delinquent and I was going to go live with my grandma, and he told me, on that walk, is this for real? Many, many, many years later, it's only proved that it's true. Not because of me, because I could not help but be changed Because when God transforms a person, regardless of age, it will have an impact. Will it look the same in my life, in your life? No. But it will look like something. And this is precisely why Jesus says in Luke chapter 6, verse 44, For a good tree does not bear bad fruit, nor does a bad tree bear good fruit. For every tree is known by its fruit, for men do not gather figs from thorns, nor do they gather grapes from bramble bushes A good man out of the treasure of his good heart brings forth good. A evil man out of the evil of his own heart brings forth evil, for out of the abundance of the mouth the heart speaks. You see? If God has changed your hearts, you don't have to worry about what people will discover. They will discover a saint with struggles struggling with the flesh. Amen? But what happens if your heart has not been changed whatsoever? You know the catechism, you know all the right answers, but your heart is still evil. You better hold that lip tight because what will come out of you is what? The evil of your heart. Do you think? God will change someone Now be patient with them because God is at work. And sanctification is a process. Amen. That's true. But God will change us. Where is the God of justice? He's among us. He's coming. He's giving an opportunity to repent, and he's changing lives now. I will leave you with this question. Have you encountered the God of justice? Has God changed your life? When you look at your profession of faith and you say you're cleansed? Have you been regenerated? Have you been to Jesus? Has he changed you? Is he walking with you and inside of you? And if the answer is no, after sober self-reflection, do you know what you need to do? Not get mad at me. You can do that. What you really need to do is get down on your knees, cry out to God, and say, God, rescue me, a sinner. And God will hear you. And if you need help, after this sermon, you can come talk to me and I will pray for you that God will rescue you from your sins. Let's go to the Lord in prayer.