All right. So last class, well actually the last two classes, we looked at the logical problem of evil. Uh last time we addressed it on a a very philosophical well the first time we address it on a very philosophical level and then the second time we looked at okay what does the Bible say? And so as a as a brief recap, because I think this is really, really important , what is the logical problem with evil? Uh so the logical problem deal is a uh is called a problem because it's something that atheists will will point to and try to suggest that God doesn't exist. So try to say this shows that God necessarily is uh non existent. So what's the problem? They say that God is an all uh we we believe and everyone really that God is an all good God and that He is all powerful. And yet God evil exists. They say if God was all good, he wouldn't want evil. If God was all powerful, he wouldn't allow evil. Since evil exists, God does not exist. And so as a we recall that this wasn't actually a logical problem, that the solution was found that all God would have to do just have to be a problem is have a morally sufficient reason to allow evil. Okay? So that was first class. Second class, we looked at what would that morally sufficient reason one, uh B. Now again, uh what's very important is recognize you don't need to know the morally sufficient reason for there to be one. Right? Just because something isn't subjectively in your mind doesn't mean it's not objectively out there. So we don't even need to provide the answer for the logical problem of evil to fall apart. Nevertheless, the Bible does give some answers of of of how an all-good God and all powerful God could allow evil. And so the uh the the defense, the arguments, the reasons for the morally sufficient reason why God would do such a thing is called theodicy. Two Greek words, theos, which means God, and Dekaia, family of words which means righteousness. So a theodicy is an argument for why uh sorry the righteousness of God or why God would allow evil in Yahweh Now, we mentioned five of these theodices. The reason I'm hitting this a little bit is because I was thinking about this class and thinking about doing what I'm doing right now of recapping the class. I could barely remember all five and I taught the class. Okay, so uh I don't really expect you guys all to remember it off the top of your head, but it is important and is helpful uh to know this. Why? Because not only are there tons of atheists out there that you will potentially engage in, but there's an atheist in your own mind On your w own your own worst day, when you're experiencing evil yourself, there's a little atheist that's hanging out there that's gonna try to point to the evil and suggest that God doesn't exist. So you you do want to know a lot of these answers. So what are the five theodices, the five defenses of God's goodness in the face of evil? First is moral. So how do we deal with moral evil? Moral evil is evil done by moral agents choosing to evil. What's that? That's the free will defense. God has given people the capacity or agency to choose good or to choose evil. When they choose evil, they have abused the good gifts of free will. Nobody wants to be a robot. Being a robot would destroy you If you wanted to be a robot yourself contradicting yourself because you would not exist. You the very fact that you want something is proving that you you you uh conceive of the fact that having agency and choice So how do we understand moral evil? It is the free will defense. Natural evil, evil out there in the world. We live in a fallen world. Adam and Eve abused their free will and caused evil to infect our universe. We also saw that this natural evil, this corruption of God's good creation, is both a blessing and a curse. It's a curse because it's a punishment for sin, but it really is in some sense a blessing. As I pointed out, if this was a perfect paradise, we might not even exist. People might literally wipe each other out. And if they didn't wipe each other out, they probably would definitely wipe out Christians. And if you want to see proof of that, look at again the Tower of Babel. How about God wouldn't say that they were divided because it said that this is just the beginning of what they would do. God divided the people so they weren't united so they couldn't instead uh geopolitical entities would be focusing on each other instead of focusing on Christian Just watch the news. How much of the news are we focusing on Russia, China, some other country, right? We're focusing on them instead of focusing on killing all Christians. So this this stripe actually produces uh conditions that allow us to exist. this. Alright, so that natural evil can be explained through the fall, and that's both a curse and potentially a blessing. The third is for our good. Why does God allow evil? For our good. Soul building theodicy When we experience evil out there, we produce virtue. We have suffering and and and perseverance is produced and righteousness and mercy, all of these things. Even fear. All of these things require evil. So the presence of evil allow us to build these moral character in ourselves. What's the fourth reason? See, I forgot. What is the fourth reason? Oh, yes. Fourth reason, Romans chapter 9, God's glory. The ultimate reason that God allows evil is to show the full characteristics of God's glory. You can't have God destroying evil or being the hero. You can't have Jesus dying on the cross for your sins if you don't have any sins. You can't have God's manifestation of his wrath because there's no agents for him to have that wrath on. You can't thank God for his mercy and his love for you if you don't need mercy or love. Do you see what I'm saying here? God allows evil to fit manifest his full glory. And it's full characteristic. And then the fifth reason is mystery. Some things about evil are simply mysterious. We just don't know all of the answers. These are the answers that the Bible gives, but we don't know all of the answers. Those are the five reasons. Moral Free will, uh natural fallen world, uh soul-building theodicity that evils actually for our good and produces virtue in us, uh God's ultimate glory of full manifestation of his characteristics, and then mystery So those are the five. There might be more, um, but I don't know any. I haven't heard any uh any other from the Bible. Somebody asked, is anyone can anyone think of any other theodices that that I have missed out of Why the Bible explains evil beside those five? Okay, it doesn't seem like anyone else can think of it. So those are the five reasons that I can think of. Let me ask you this. Of those five reasons, which one of those reasons are most comforting to you? Which one of those reasons give you most comfort in your experience of suffering or as you go into suffering? I mean to me it's all of them together, there's we have to take the whole council. with God as this is what they all of scriptures speak to about why people exist. And so I I mean there's different times where different ones might play a little bit more, but it's just really the biographical really covers this problem with evil. Yeah. Why why exist? Yeah. No, I I agree with saying I I think that uh individually uh they could be helpful, but much more helpful collectively. Right? Much more helpful when you get that whole biblical perspective um and understand some of it, but some of it's still mysterious and and we trust God too. type uh where not only can we see that um problems that are facing us are are common to all the viewers but but also that um This is God's purpose in building character and hope. This is how we grow in our faith. And then not only that, but the promises that first fear Where after we have been a base, after we have experienced evil, and it has developed the character in us that God is hoping to Building us that he himself will lift us up. He'll bring us up out of our region. Um when it's when it's Time to do that. Yeah. Yeah, that sounds like that's so soul building, the Odyssey. Um is is of great comfort to me as well. Okay, so that was then this is now. So we're leaving the logical problem of evil. evil behind and now we're gonna go into more of the emotional problem of evil or how we deal with evil ourselves. So we need to prepare ourselves for suffering. Because it's a very real battle. We will all eventually go through suffering, whether we have gone through suffering, right? Or we're in the current moment where there's no suffering. or we're going to experience suffering. You can be sure of the fact that you will go through suffering. You will feel the effects of aging. You will get sick You will watch a loved one die. This is simply the price of love. And it's kind of grim to think about that. But when you when you fall in love, when you when you have true love, you realize you're opening yourself up to pain. Right? Because one day your loved ones will die. When you say I do at the altar, you are also agreeing that one day one of you will bear the other most likely. You could possibly die at the same time. But almost certainly, right? You will bury one of your spouse. Well your spouse. Well your boss your spouse will bury you. Same thing when you're at the hospital and you have uh the joy of of bringing that child home. This child will hurt you some way. Again, one of you two will bury the other very likely. This is the price of pain. You open yourself up to love, you open yourself up To pain. The price of true love, uh the price of true and genuine love is a future day of true and genuine pain And this is just reality. It's not to be bleak, it's not to be depressing, but it is true and we need to prepare ourselves. Jesus said, Oh, not only that though, not only just the fact that we'll see our loved ones suffer and our loved ones die. and get sick and all of that aging process and all that. But even our struggle against sin is painful. We're honest sin and and struggling and and resisting the temptation of sin is a painful Experience that we'll all go through. If you're not going through that, there's a real problem. It means you're not saved. How do we Jesus tells us this? When he says, If anyone will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. So uh w again we sterilize this, right? We have crosses around So that the cross is is a beautiful symbol. We gotta go back into the context of when Jesus Said this. Cross was the most gruesome and terrible uh torture device ever devised by man. And it probably still is, because not only is it just painful and miserable and agonizing, but it's completely shameful. So you've all seen most likely the the pictures of Jesus on the cross and he has a loincloth. You ever wonder why he has that loincloth? The reason he has the loincloth is because we don't want to see a naked body up there because that would be offensive to our sins And if it isn't new to it would be inappropriate for us to see. So you put the the loincloth on there to try to strip them as much as possible, right, without being profane. But you have to understand when you people put on a cross, they put on their name So not only is it painful and miserable and terrible, but it's actually shameful itself. Why am I saying all of this? So when Jesus says to pick up your cross, he's not just saying go through physical pain, but emotional pain and shame. That's the price of being a Christian, that you will be ostracized, you will go through shame, pain, and suffering, and that is the cost of being a Christian. That's what it feels like to deny yourself. It literally feels like losing your life. It's a very painful experience. And that a Christian life will just be a life of suffering All right. Not only will we go through self-uh suffering by crucifying the old man and his ways, but we'll also go through persecution. All Christians will suffer persecution. Right. Well and and and really uh what's what's interesting, sometimes you think like, is that really true? Will all Christians suffer persecution? Because I don't feel like I'm suffering persecution. If that's the case, that's really a self-condemnation. Why do I say that? Because the truth of the matter is, if you let your lights so shine before others, people will attack you. That's the reality. And this is really even true in other places, like North Korea and all these other the gulags and all those terrible places. Right if you read books about it, you and you should find out the reason that they're going through suffering and persecution is because they let their lights so shine before others so they may see the If they don't evangelize and they just keep it to themselves, nobody will ever know. But as soon as they go evangelize and tell people, that's when they experience the suffering. What am I saying? As Christians, we will go through suffering if If we are obedient. We'll suffer uh internally by denying ourselves, and we'll suffer externally by being persecuted by others. So we will certainly, as Christians, go through suffering. Even as an unbeliever, you live in a fallen world, you will In fact, suffering. So because we know that suffering is coming, we definitely need to prepare for it. Suffering is a certainty and in fact a major battle in the Christian life. It will try our faith. But if our faith is built on the rock of Jesus Christ, we can stand But that's not the goal. The goal isn't just merely to survive. The goal isn't just to merely hold on for a dear life and hope that you know you don't let go or something like that, right? That's not just uh That's not just what pain and suffering is supposed to do. It's supposed to, that soul-building virtue is supposed to build character and build us up. And not only that though, it's supposed to be an opportunity for witness So that's really the goal of this class, right? We don't want just to become uh kind of stoics and uh just hang on as tight as we can, but we want to, as we go through suffering, uh the ultimate goal is to see it as something for our good. for God's glory and ultimately to be a witness. What we wanna what what want to happen is for people to see us and as we suffer and say, something is different about that individual. I don't understand how they can suffer so well. In the past they used to say, uh Christians died well in comparison to others. Right? That's how they need to look at us as we go through suffering, saying that Christians suffer well, Christian and uh suffering, uh persecution Jesus said, let your lightshine before others that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven. So as we suffer through persecution and suffer in a good way, that can actually be the very means that God uses to take someone from darkness and bring them in from light. And that's really a kind of wonderful idea, isn't it? Wouldn't that be amazing that if your suffering and your response to that suffering would actually be the means to breathe light into unbelievers and bring encouragement into believers. And really that that principle of our suffering or suffering producing life and edification is found in the cross itself. Because isn't that the cross? Right? Here's Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the most the the i completely innocent. Innocent sufferer. And he suffers, and through his stripes we are evil. Right? Through his suffering, it breathes life into us. Now I'm not suggesting for the least that we can uh atone for anybody's sins, but what I'm saying is we can follow Jesus Christ's example of suffering breathing life into us. to other people, that suffering being the means of benefit for others. So that's our ultimate goal, not just to stand right through suffering. We definitely need to do that, but to allow suffering to be a witness towards others. So how can we do that? If we have uh we do that again by having our faith built on the rock of Jesus Christ. Christ. Right. Only a faith that has real and true promises can stand the trial of suffering. Cliches, uh wishful thinking, motivational speaking will temporarily produce encouragement upon you, right? But suffering has an ability to sober you up. And so the only way that we can suffer uh in this virtuous way and let our light so shine even through the suffering is that we have a faith built on true promises of God. When we go out to the real battle of suffering , We will quick quickly realize that if our armor is made out of paper and our sword is made out of styrofoam, it will do us no good. We need true armor. The true armor of God. And what is the armor of God? We have the helmet of salvation. The breastplate of righteousness, the belt of truth, right, the sandals of readiness of the gospel, and the sword of the spirit and the shield of faith We need that. That is what we need as we go out there into suffering. And instead of just trying to stand firm, but we charge and we are victorious. Wishful thinking is just that wishful thinking has no substance. So this class is to provide the theological framework to hold our faith Have that shield of faith, that helmet of salvation, that real promises of God, and so that you hold on to those real promises of God through suffering. Again, I've seen this many times. People will go put it let me back up. Whatever you take into suffering is what you'll have in the suffering. See what I'm saying here? You're not gonna get new stuff there. I mean potentially maybe, but but re the reality is you need to go in there prepared. It's like going into battle Right? You maybe you can pick up some some gear down there after a bunch of people are dead, but the reality is you take what you have before you go in is what you take while you're in there. So we want to go with the true promises of God. I can't tell you how many people have taken false theology, false promises that someone told them. I claim it. I like that. That's mine And they go out there and it totally fails them. It's just tra it's tragic. Really it's the mercy of God so that you can stop clinging onto this false promise But we don't want that. Let's not even let's avoid that. We've probably already all gone through that in the past. Let's avoid that. Let's pick up the right armor, the right promises, so that we can hold on to the right stuff and suffering, the right expectations. My father always used to tell me that so much of conflict is people having unmet, unspoken expectations. Let's not do that about God. Let's not expect things about God that He never promised us. In fact, he tells us the opposite of His Word. We ignore that. We claim the false promise and it fails us. And then we're mad at God. It's really quite silly. Suffering will come whether we're prepared or not. In light of this, let us fully prepare for the storm, so we were not caught off guard. 412 says, Ur uh urges us not to be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you You see that? Do not be surprised when the friary trial comes to test you. How one of the ways we're not surprised is the fact that we know it's coming. The other way is that we have the right theology So let us suffer in this way, that unbelievers will find our Christian faith compelling and know that there's something different about us, and that difference is Jesus Christ. This may seem like a lofty goal and wholly unrealistic, but this is precisely what the Bible sets before us. First Peter states, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good works and glorify your God on the day of visitation So this text right here is telling us that there are going to be people who are slandering Christians, who are speaking bad about them, who are finding reasons not to believe. And then they observe something phenomenal. Right? They're not not evil for evil, they're not reviling for reviling, not things like evil for evil, but instead that their their conduct is continuously honorable. And so God uses that, right, to break down the barrier so that one day they will see those good works and end up glorifying God on the day of visitation. What's the day of visitation? when that's when God comes back. There's actually a little bit of debate about that. The day of visitations, some would say the day of visitations when the Holy Spirit meets you and knocks on your door and opens your heart, or more likely probably the day of visitations when Christ comes back. Right? And so you'll get a glorified body at that time. But either way, it's saying that when people observe your experience of suffering in the appropriate way, that will result in some of them getting saved. Right? Because here's the reality. The Holy Spirit can use you, can use your good works, your presentation of the gospel, and set that on fire and open hearts. The Holy Spirit uses means, and one of those means is the appropriate reaction to suffering. And this wouldn't really be surprising to us because it truly is a miracle to see a Christian suffer patiently in the in the in the in the face of suffering. What is our natural reaction as we go through suffering? Everyone has the same kind of knee-jerk reaction, right? It's almost always to throw your fist at God, complain about God, and and just to be just be a grumbler. And so this is definitely not what we want to do. Because if we're sitting there grumbling just as long along with everyone else, they won't say anything different about us Right? But if we can have a smile and we can be thankful and we can understand what's going on in the midst of the storm, that is truly different. And I'll give you an illustration of this. So last week, uh I I was teleworking the whole week. Praise God. God is good. Uh and the reason I was teleworking is because my my daughter got burned. So I asked my employ employer to uh to let me stay home so I could help change the manages and and all that other stuff, right? That wasn't last week. That was a week prior to that, sorry. And so I wasn't in the office. And so I came back to the office last week. And so I've been having these conversations with an atheist friend of mine um and he hadn't seen me for that week and then he said see me this week and w we're catching up. You know, how's it going? What's going on? So forth so on. And you know, he's like, Well I haven't seen you. Where have you been? And I thought and what happened to Sarah and all of that other stuff. And and and and you could see the empathy in his eyes. He was You know, we just move because being an atheist doesn't mean that you don't empathize with people. We can't see people suffering in pain and and not like that And so, you know, and he was telling me how I was just telling him how it was going and and how I was doing and I was uh just telling how thankful I was that it wasn't on her face and how God was healing on her. I was just I just uh really positive. It wasn't fake. I was just actually positive. I was very thankful about the circumstance. And and he says to me like I don't understand how you can talk about it like this You know, to me it's just this is just so terrible. And it's he he just saw all the darkness in it. There was no light for him in this event. It was gratuitous. uh pain, it had no redemption, it was just a terrible thing that really in some ways proves that there's no God or something like that, right? But for me, I could I could uh ground this event in knowing that God is good And that somehow that this is all gonna work out for good and we can trust God's word. And we can even be thankful for God in the suffering. Right? And I was telling him, uh I was telling him that that our beliefs make a difference Right. And and how did they make a difference? Did it make the initial uh event less painful? Not really. Maybe somewhat, but that's not really where the cash value of our beliefs are, is the initial event of suffering. It's gonna hurt for all of us Right? But how do we process that suffering? How do we how do we put that suffering in framework? And and if you have a b if you have a belief system that really just says it's all gratuitous and it's meaningless and it doesn't matter, that is really quite traumatic. That's like putting salt in the wound. The healing process is a lot slower. Do you get what I'm saying here? That our beliefs make a difference. And our beliefs make a difference in suffering. And I was able to talk to this person and show them in real time the difference between uh the grieving process of a Christian and the hope of a Christian versus the hope of an atheist. And as we continue the talk, he told me about his it's like a nephew or something like that, cousin, who j their their daughter uh tragically died at like eight from cancer or something like that. Like that, which is a terrible event. And he was saying he was still having a real difficult time processing this whole event. Why could he then have a foundation? Right? I'm not saying that the burns of my daughter were anything like the this this uh child died. What I'm saying is though he did not have the right apparatus to deal with suffering. And here I am Nothing special about me, but any Christian is capable of doing this, right? Where if we have the right apparatus of suffering, it's totally different. It's night and day. And it could be a very powerful testimony to uh the unbeliever. I think that was probably one of the best conversations I had with that atheist that I've had thus far. Right? Because we're not just talking in words but in power. Right. Power of God as a Christian suffers and they can they can uh they can deal with that. They can go through that. So that's where we're going. We want to use our suffering as a witness, but we need that right apparatus. We need that right theology. We need the right promises of God so that we can deal with suffering and know how this this fits into our Christian faith. And what's going on here. So let me stop here and ask is any questions on anything I've talked about this far. Okay. Let's let's uh let's dive in then. So now we're going to transition and look at a bird's eye view of suffering and the grand narrative of the Bible. As we discussed last time, sin entered the world through Adam and Eve, choosing to believe and obey the devil rather than God. This resulted in moral evil and natural evil contaminating the world. Moral evil is when creatures with agency, capacity, or free will, all the same, choose to use that agency, capacity, or free will to choose evil instead of choosing good. That happened with Adam. That happened with the devil. That happens with unbelievers as they choose to continue to do evil. That happens with you and me, as we continue to use our agency and our free will to choose evil instead of good Right? That's how evil came into the world. Before you always sometimes joke, I'm gonna when I get to heaven, I'm gonna have a conversation with Adam. People have to restrain me. It's gonna be badass. No, but really it I'm joking that way because really I can't blame them for anything. I'm the same I continue to use my uh moral agency and choice making capacities to do evil I'm i there's I have no claim against Adam because I continue to do so. I do so even after the resurrection. Even after Jesus saved me, even after the filling of the Holy Spirit, we are all fallen creatures. That's more evil. Natural evil is the effect of the curse on the world. This produced storms and thistles, pain and suffering, disease and death. All of this was not part of the original creation, but was a direct result of the fall. Romans 8 put it puts it this way. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy of comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. That's wonderful. You can just stop there for a second. Isn't that just wonderful? What does he think? That the sufferings now are absolutely nothing in comparison to the glory that is to come Even here we've got some of this apparatus to deal with suffering. Isn't that comforting? The suffering that you have now is is infinitesimally smaller. Not even nothing on the scales, it's dust on the scales in comparison to the glory of God. It's kind of like uh childbirth. I haven't gone through childbirth, but I've watched childbirth four times. And I imagine Well, I imagine for women it is comforting knowing that there's a baby coming out. At least comforting for me. It's comforting for me as I watch my wife suffer that at least I know the baby's coming out You see what I'm saying? The end result changes things. That's what I'm trying to say. It doesn't change the moment of the pain, but it changes the meaning of the pain, and it makes the pain a whole lot more bearable. Dante said that outside of hell, there's a sign that says, abandon all hope, kill. All hope here. And we talked about the hell past. Remember what I said? The hell of hell is its eternality. It's not having hope. So one of the greatest medicines as Christians that we have through suffering is knowing all hope lies here. That all this suffering is going away and is not in comparison whatsoever to the glory that is to come. We will never in a million years point our finger at God and say, I wish this suffering would never have happened. We would know God, and we would know that that suffering was for a purpose. But that's an aside. Let's get back to Romans 8. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the create you see that creation is longing for something, particularly the revealing of the sons of God. All of the sons of God to be manifest. Why are they waiting for the sons of God to be manifest? Let's keep going For the creation was subject to fru to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption. and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. That childbirth analogy I just used, I didn't just make that up. It's in the Bible itself. It's saying that creation is groaning in childbirth, and the creation itself has a hope. And that hope corresponds with the revealing of the sons of God. And when will all the sons of God be revealed? When all the sons of God are saved. See what I'm saying? Creation is waiting for something, and it's waiting for the end of history when all the sons of God will be revealed. Why? Well, let's see. And not only creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for the adoption of sons, the redemption of our bodies. Again, very complicated. Text. But here's basically saying when Adam fell, all of creation was subjected to futility, corrupted, and bondage And now creation is waiting eagerly for this day when the sons of God are revealed and the curse will be rolled back. That new heavens, new earth, it can be set free. What's interesting though is not only is creation waiting for that, but we are too. Creation is groaning, but so are we. We are waiting to be set free from this body of death. And it become a body of life. It become like Jesus Christ. And all of this will happen at the same time. The text clearly indicates that creation was subjected to futility, corruption, and bondage, and not so done, and done so unwillingly. In this day, creation groans every single day and waits for the sons of God to be revealed. So as we can see, the fall in the fall Creation was cursed, and so were our bodies. This is not God's original design. God designed all of creation good. In fact, after he was done, what did he say? It was very good. Creation was very good. It does not take a genius out there to look out there and recognize things are not very good. Not only there, we can all see our bodies and recognize things are not very good. Good. This is not the way God originally designed both creation or ourselves, both morally or even physically. As Ecclesiastes says, God made man upright, but they sought out many schemes This is not God's original creation. I was having a conversation with somebody, and it was a Christian. And he said to me, you know, why I understand some pain Some pain makes sense to me, like you know, there's a hot fire, put my hand on it, burns, ouch. That's good pain, right? Because if it didn't, you could just keep your hand there and not realize you burn your hand off. So he he understood that at some level. But he couldn't find out like some of this other like gratuitous pain, like, you know, uh appendicitis or something. What's going on here? Right? The reason that he couldn't process this is because he didn't have a full understanding of the fall He saw this as the original creation, but it's not. It's a fallen, corrupt creation. And that appendicitis is supposed to remind you of that reality. So understanding the fall is super important. This is also why if you don't have a biblical perspective, because what do we learn about the fall from? Do we learn it from observation? No. There's nothing out there that says this happened because of the fall We learn that from revelation. So unless you have God's revelation and understand that Paul, your theology can be messed up from the beginning. This is one of the reasons why some of the smartest thinkers in false theologies have this dualism They see cr they see evil out there, they see good out there, and they can't explain where the evil come from, where the good come from. See what I'm saying? We need revelation to understand and process the world correctly. It's another reason that atheists have so many so much problems because they don't understand natural evil. They see natural evil thinking comes directly from the hand of God, but it doesn't. It's a curse. It's a result of the fall. So this is so important for our thinking to understand that creation is fallen. Natural evil is the curse of creation that we've been referring to. It's the pain, suffering, death, and the misery that we see in the world. The animal kingdom has been cursed with natural evil. This is why many describe the animal kingdom. is red in tooth and claw. I don't know if you've ever seen Animal Planet or some of these natural geographic shows, but they're horrifying. Absolutely horrifying. Always root for the elephant being attacked. I just want to go in there and just just say the valve. It's just absolutely terrible to watch this stuff. And we don't have to say that's good. And we also don't have to say that's God's good creation. And this is one of the reasons of one of the real problems with theistic evolution, because what theistic evolution tries to do is bring uh the uh uh uh uh evolution in the Bible together Okay? And so in order to do that, they really have to deny the fault. Why? Because natural selection requires death, suffering, and misery. That's how the mechanism works. You have this hostile word that's killing everything off Right? And then you have these creatures try definitely trying to survive and and gain the adaptivity and so forth so on. So if you're going to try to conflate uh the uh theistic uh uh uh evolution with the Bible, you're going to have to deny that everything that we call the fall is in fact the fall. And to me, this is a amount and this is very serious to me. Because this is what amount to saying that evil is good and good is evil. You have to look at death, suffering, misery, and pain and say that's not evil. That's actually God's good design. No, it's not. That's not what the Bible says. That's not our hope. We're not going there. The new heavens, the new earth are not gonna have pain, not gonna have suffering, not gonna have evil. God is going to destroy evil That's not how that's not how the beginning and that's not how the end will be. Anyways, that's that's the difference between uh a a theistic evolution and a biblical perspective on that reality Now, uh so that's natural evil. And we kind of talked about this last time. This is important to understand this. That's natural evil. But moral evil is when creatures decide to use their moral capacity to do evil. See the difference? Natural evil is the curse on the world, falling pain, suffering, and death, and moral evil is when moral creatures choose to use that agency to do evil. Now there is an interchange between this reality. Here's what I mean. That ha that it we'll back up a little bit. All evil is a result of sin. But not all evil is sin. You gotta understand that. Okay? So when you see uh the mosquito, I really hate the mosquito You see the mosquito. I have no problem saying that thing is evil. But I'm not claiming that it's a moral agent. I'm saying that that is a result of evil. That is a result of suffering and pain. Okay, so natural evil is corruption of God's good creation, and it is evil, but it's not moral evil. Moral evil requires that you have a choice in the matter. That so that a moral agent chose to exercise their will to disobey God Okay. So there's a big distinction. But again, as we we talked about this, there is an interchange. And I give the analogy of walking out there and stubbing my toe. When you walk out there and stubb forget me for a second. If you see an atheist Walk out there and stub their toe, you're probably going to hear something audible come out of their mouth that's not going to be praise God. God is great. Right? They're going to probably blast in God's name Now if he's just walking out there, he's probably not just going around blasphemy God's name. So you can see that the physical pain, that natural evil, became the temptation Or the circumstance that resulted in the moral agent, that atheist, blaspheming God. So you see the interchange here, right? That certainly uh natural pain and suffering can be the circumstance or the temptation or the m uh or the the circumstance I'll use that for the more agent choosing to do evil. So there is an interplay here. We need to understand the difference. So everyone hopefully agrees with that Now what about this? What if you don't get enough sleep? Hope probably all of us have been in the room before we didn't get enough sleep. And what happens if you don't get enough sleep? You get irritable Right? You don't want to meet a grumpy person who's irritable because they might treat you poorly. They might sin against you. Now if they had the same person Getting the good night of sleep. Might be real cheerful, very pleasant to be around. But if they don't get enough sleep, they're coming after you. Okay? So you can see here That the natural evil of them not getting enough sleep, but this this irritant happening to them is the temptation, okay, for them to do moral sins against you. And they wouldn't have done it otherwise if they weren't uh sleeping. Okay, but that doesn't make that moral decision no longer evil. It was a circumstance. Now, there's a the one last caveat I'll put on this. Does the culpability go up and down? Of course it does Right? So it is the person who's drunk. We do this all the time. The person who's drunk, or the person is irritable, the person is going through depression. other stuff I'm not gonna talk about. But those circumstances, right, make the culpability higher and lower. Even courts do that. There there are circumstances that what are they what are those called in the court. Mitigate circumstances. Thank you. And they lower the culpability. The charges go higher or lower based on that. But we never say the person's totally innocent. And we know from the Bible that the person will not be uh in fact totally innocent because uh first Corinthians 10 13 says, No temptation has overtaken you. That's not common to man. God is faithful. This is important. This is the faithfulness of God. And he will not allow you to be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will provide a way of scaling God never forces us to sin. But we can certainly be in situations that cause us the culpability to be a whole lot more, a whole lot less. Right. So natural evil and moral evil definitely have an interchange and they definitely play off each other. But they are different and they're distinct. Okay. Let me ask uh let me ask any questions, comments, or concerns about any of that so far? Okay. So moving back to how man messed up creation by introducing sin into the world. Man messed it all up. That's the Bible. Genesis 1, 2, and 3. God created good. Man messed it all up. But the Bible does not end there. God is redeeming creation. God is taking this mess of natural evil and moral evil and making it all good. God could have just been as a DSA and just left it. Mess it all up. I'll create a new universe somewhere else. Who's thought this bad boy over? You could have done that. Right? Or you could have just wiped us all out Completely just so forget these people. These people have rebelled, that's it. Adam and Eve, you're being executed, move on. Could have done that. But God doesn't do that. Instead what God does is he enters into the scene And he's redeeming creation. And he gets in and it gets messy. It gets really messy. It gets so messy that the God of the universe comes down as a man and dies. Right? And then after he resurrects, he sends us us out to do up the the finish up of Nish. He won the battle. We're just doing the mock-up. Right. And ultimately, God is going to redeem all the creation. We saw that in Romans 8. God's redeeming all creation and taking natural evil and transforming it into good. Right? And taking all that moral evil somehow, some way. Doesn't I don't know how. But somehow all that moral evil is going to make sense in the end And it's all going to make this wonderful, awesome story of redemption. That is the meta -narrative, that is the story of the Bible. It is coming a day where all of creation will be set loose of its curse. There will be no more pain, suffering, corruption, or death. Revelation puts it this way Not just wishful thinking. Revelation says, Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and there was no longer any sea. I saw the holy city, the new Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, beautifully dressed for her husband. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Now the dwelling of God is with men, and he will live with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. There will be no death Or mourning, or crying, or pain. For the old order of things has passed away. No question on the new creation, there is not going to be any evil. No death, no suffering, not even pain It's all going to be taken away. In that new creation, suffering will end, and so will sin. Therefore, in the biblical narrative, there is a definite correlation between suffering and sin. Suffering did not enter the world until humanity sinned, and suffering will not remain in the world when sin ends. Genesis 3, suffering and sin are correlated. Everything in between, suffering and sin. Get to the very end of the book, sin is no more. Guess what else is no more? Suffering. Direct correlation between two. D. A. Carson put it this way. Between the beginning and the end of the Bible, there is evil and there is suffering. But the point to be observed is that from the perspective of the Bible's large-scale storyline, the two are profoundly related. Evil is the primal cause of suffering, rebellion is the root of pain, sin is the source of pain. I've always found it odd when people, again, like atheists or even Christians sometimes, kicking themselves on the foot and they just want to yell at God. I've always wanted to do two things, yell at Adam or yell at Satan I don't know why God's getting blamed for this. See, sin and pain and suffering show the exact opposite of God. It's exactly what sin is supposed to wake you up. It's supposed to remind you that this is this is what it's like when we rebel against God. We get all the sin and suffering and pain and we get all the good and pleasure and joy. That's when you should be praising God. Right? Not thanking yourself or thanking the devil or something strange like that. So, therefore, it can be said that all suffering has its origin in sin. But this does not mean all suffering is a direct punishment for sin that we have committed. All sin, all suffering is a result of sin, but not all suffering that we experience is a result of our own sin. And this is the central message of the book of Job, which we now turn. But let me ask any questions, comments, or concerns at this point Although my question is myself, I forgot to mention this. It is also possible, by the way, for a moral agent, back to that for a second, it is possible for a moral agent to be forced to do natural evil Right? To be forced against their will is to be natural evil. Unfortunately, this is not even hypothetical. It actually happens in the real world all the time. It in certain forms of assault, a natural evil has occurred. That person was forced against their own will. Right? And they're not culpable for that. So, anyways, I do that myself. Alright, so let's turn to the book of Job. The book of Job begins with a man named Job who's described as blameless and upright. He has a large family, great wealth, and an honorable reputation. He's presented as a godly and successful man, and life is certainly going well for this in your Job is really a role model for us in some ways, right? He's a godly man, he's a family man, he has a great reputation. Everything is going good. We all want to be Job at some level But the remainder of chapters one and two pull back the curtain from heaven, and we the readers get to listen into a conversation between God and Satan. And here's what it says. In Job verses 1, 9 through 12, we read Does Job fear God for nothing? Satan replied. Have you not put a hedge around him and his household and everything he has? You have blessed the work of his hands, so that flocks and herds Are spread throughout the land. But stretch out your hand and strike him, and he will surely curse you to your face. The Lord said to Satan, Very well, then everything he has is in your hands. But on the man himself, do not lay a finger. Then Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. See what happened there? Satan, the grand accuser, does what he always does, and he accuses Job. He says, you know what? Your man Joe is just worshiping you because he's a prosperity preacher kind of guy. He's getting all the goodies. He doesn't love you. He loves your stuff. He doesn't love the blesser, he loves the blessing. You curse, you take that thing away, Job will curse you to your face. You're just a means to an end for Job. That's what Satan says. Obviously this is not true, but that sounds okay You wanna see? I know that's not true, but I'm gonna show you that that's not true. Now I'm gonna show you, I'm gonna show everybody. Right? This is in the Bible for all the city Is in fact the man of God worshiping God just because he blesses. Does God bless the man of God? Absolutely. But does the man of God worship God just because he blesses God That's the answer. That's the question. And so what happens? In the next few verses, Job loses everything. He loses his wealth, his family, his reputation, and near the end of chapter two, even he loses even his health. From these first two chapters, we can make three observations about suffering. Number one, suffering is real. Despite the fact that some Eastern religions and Christian science, which is neither Christian nor science, tries to deny that suffering is real. This is quite shocking actually. There are people out there who say suffering is not real. And the the reality is you need to wake up and recognize there is no suffering. It's all in illusion. But the fact is, as we read from Job, pain and suffering are real. They are not merely subjective realities in the mind of the unenlightened, but they are objective realities. It is so real that it cannot be denied. We've all heard the phrase, I think, therefore I am. I like that statement. But you can also change it, I hurt, therefore I am. You cannot deny pain You see people positive thinkers all out there that will try to get your money. And talk about the power of positive thinking. Believe me, with their arms cut off, there's no positive thinking there. You cannot deny pain and suffering. It is so very real There's absolutely nothing virtuous about denying obvious realities. This is not faith but credulity. The Christian is called not to pretend that pain and suffering is not real as they go through pain and suffering. This is particularly a temptation when other people are suffering. I told you, you can't deny your own suffering. Your suffering may I sometimes I say that positive thinking has the the power of chamomile has a little bit of power. Right? You're tired, fix camera , you feel some effects. But camera is not going to hurt you. It's not going to help you as you go into agonizing pain. That's the power of positive thinking. A little bit. As you go through undeniable pain, it's not going to work Well, what I'm saying is we often have the temptation of denying pain's reality, not so much on our own because can't, but on other people. Don't we do that sometimes? As Christians? Because we know that it's all gonna work out the good, we can sometimes act like well that means there's no pain going on there. That's not right. We're supposed to do that to other people. We're supposed to empathize with them and recognize that person is really suffering. And the fact that it's all gonna go Become better is an apparatus for healing, but doesn't deny the fact that they have the illness in the first place that they need the healing. Does that make sense? Now Let me say also the just the logical absurdity of saying that uh pain does not exist. If you say that all pain is an illusion, the problem is you have committed fallacy of quick patients. You are limiting pain to physical pain. You're not Considering that pain also includes mental and psychological agony. Okay? So if all pain is merely an illusion, the very fact that pain is an illusion is itself painful. It causes a psychological and mental anguish. So you're not actually denying pain at all. Pain necessarily exists, even if it's merely illusory. So anyway, that's just a logical argument to show the absurdity of pain. If you ever find a Christian scientist, you can try that on them Okay. The the second uh the second thing that we learn about AIN from the first the first few chapters of Job is that God is s sovereign over suffering. Even though Satan is the one causing Job to suffer, he had to get permission from God to do it. One comment commentator says this about Satan. With all his hatred of God and his spite and spite against his people, he cannot emancipate himself from that sovereign control which binds him to God's service. In all his blasphemous designs, he is in spite of himself doing the work of God. Elsewhere he says, While Satan tried with all his might to send to hell those whom Christ has ransomed He is actually fitting them for glory. Ironically, Satan is constrained to be that which he most abhors. And what furthest from his intention and desires are an instrument of grace for the betterment of God's people Satan can be thought of as a scalpel in the hand of our God. He intends to destroy, but God ensures that he only accomplishes what is for our ultimate good. See that? This the devil is God's devil. The devil's on a leash. And God has complete control of the devil. He has complete control over your pain and suffering. Yes, the scalpel hurts. Yes, in fact, Satan was able to inflict great tragedy, real pain, don't deny it. Real pain on Job. The scalpel hurts. Nobody wants to be scalpeled. Certainly I don't But the reality is in the hand of God that scalpel is for your healing. Right? Thank God for doctors with scalpels. And God is the ultimate doctor. He's healing us. We serve a God who works out everything in conformity with the purpose of his will. Job did not have the behind-the-scenes perspective that were given as readers, but he does know God well enough to say, Shall we accept good from God? And not trouble. Job knew that the trouble he was facing was from God. We too. We don't know what's going on in our lives. We don't know why this is happening This is one of that gratuitous pain thing. This is why atheists don't have anything to rest their head on. As they go into pain, they say, why is this happening? The answer is the universe says nothing. There is no reason. There is no cause. There's no purpose. It's meaningless. But we know why this is happening. I may not know the answer. I don't know the behind the scenes, but I know God I like to say that we can afford to be in the dark about our circumstances when we're not in the dark about our God. We know God. We know his character. We know this is ultimately working for his good. All the time we have left, I'll just mention this in passing. The third thing that we learned from the incident for Job is that there is such a thing as innocent suffering. Though sin is the ultimate cause of suffering, not all suffering is due to specific sin. This is the key lesson in the book of Job. Job's friends come to convince him to repent of whatever sin has caused this calamity For surely a sovereign and good God would not allow this unless Job had sinned in some huge and tragic way. But we know that the real story is in fact the opposite. Why is Job suffering? Is Job suffering because he's a sinner? No. He's suffering because he's righteous. Isn't that crazy? The people in the book of Job are trying to convince Job that he's suffering because he's a sinner. But as we read the book, we realize he's suffering because he's righteous. They have it completely backwards. Think of what Jesus said to his disciples about the blind man. Who said, this man or his parents that he was born blind? Neither this man nor his parents send, said Jesus, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. If only Job's friends knew this, if only we knew this, as we are a neighbor to our neighbors. And we see them go through suffering and pain. Whereas we see ourselves go through suffering and pain. Now Job, the book of Job is not trying to deny the fact that God in fact has retributive judgment. And God in fact hundreds of people. That's something trying to die. But he's trying to die. You cannot draw a direct causal relationship. Do not assume that because someone else is suffering, they must deserve it from the hand of God. Likewise, do not assume because someone's suffering that is not because they deserve from the hand of God. You don't know. You need to examine. You need to ask yourself, is this person suffering as a direct result of sin or not? And by the way, this is something I always ask myself I can suffer righteously and be mentally okay, right? Because I know that God is good. But I darn sure don't want to suffer for my own sin. That's terrible. And that can be redeemed by waking me up and realizing sin is bad and not doing it again. So it still can be used for my good. But I really don't want to suffer for sin. I don't want to suffer with stupidity. Right On the supper, because I know my God is working out things for them. So let me ask if there's any final questions, comments, or concerns Um the scattering is not it it seems is not always necessarily But when Yeah, so yeah, but this is this is kind of the point that I've been I'm trying to nail down. When you see sending Excuse me. When you see suffering, you should put a big rubber sticker and say evil, smack it on there. Right? But then you have to ask yourself, is this natural evil or moral evil? And depending on the circumstance, it could be natural, evil, moral evil. In fact, we live in a complicated world, usually it's both. Usually it's a natural evil there in there too. Right? But you do have to actually both. Is this a moral agent Disobeying God. Or is this just a result of sin? But the point that I'm that I am trying to show you why I went through the meta-narrative of the Bible is that all this sin, all this suffering, is ultimately a result of sin. But it doesn't have to be a direct causal relationship between you. Right? This person was not born blind because his parents sinned, or he sinned. He was born blind because Adam sinned. Right? And ultimately because for God's word, God's going to remain on all Any other that's the what I was gonna ask about when Steve comes back to walking and you talk to the blind man this type of question was because this man I wonder if the fact is and uh Yeah, I thought you were gonna ask something else. Uh I thought you were gonna ask. Uh what about Adam? Is Adam not his parent? I I thought you were gonna say that. But uh but again that that just shows we need to understand that uh context. Right. The whole point is there's other people that aren't born blind. So when they say parent, that has a necessary reference to this guy's direct lineage, not all of our direct lineage. Right? So so Adam's I may be a mention here. I know you didn't ask that, but anyways. That's just I thought you were going there. Kind of in reference to the last Sunday, but uh when Anne and Eve were in the garden before the fall and God warned them, don't of this fruit or you'll die. What was their understanding of evil and suffering and death Fantastic question. So the qu the basic question is if they did not experience uh the suffering and the pain and the evil and the death themselves, how would that make any sense to them? It's like saying, uh, you know, um, if you do this then boogabhaga will happen to you. Well this is a boogabaga, I don't know what that is. There's no reference. Right? It doesn't make any sense So did Adam and Eve have any sense of death? And this is, by the way, some theistic uh evolutionists try to point to this and say, yeah, they knew they saw dead animals all over the place. I don't think we have to know that. I think one of the problems is that uh we think that a referent has to be something that we actually experience ourselves, but it doesn't have to be. I'll give you an example. When I say that God is a spirit, you all know what I'm saying. Have you ever seen a spirit? Thank you heaven. Right? Because a reference doesn't have to be something that you experience, it just needs to be something that you conceptualize. What is a spirit? Really? A spirit's a negation When we say spirit we mean not physical. That makes sense. I don't know what it is, but I know what it isn't. So the same thing that is the same thing when we say God is infinite. That's more that more negating finit finitude, right? So I don't think there's any problem with Adam knowing death because he knows it's the opposite of life and he knows that it's a bad thing. Um if that's not sufficient then God can do all possibilities and God could have injected uh the the information and the reference into his mind. I'm I don't think we have to go there though. I I just think that he can clearly see that he's alive and he can clearly conceptualize what it would be like to die. We can all conceptualize what it's like to be in hell, but we we never experienced hell. So we don't need to actually uh experience something to conceptualize it. Either either one. Um interestingly enough though, uh the the bottom number addresses the issue. So uh what we can say at least is that it presupposes that we understand what the language means. And so when God said you die It doesn't make any sense to think that Adam didn't know. I know your question is, how did you know? I'm just saying that we cannot deny he did know. Alright, we ran out of time. Let's go to the wood in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for your goodness. I thank you that I thank you so much that sin, death, suffering, misery is not something that you call good. That was good. I I don't know what evil is. And so we just thank you that we don't have to um be confused about what is good and what is evil. But we also do not have to be confused that you are so amazing and mysterious. Somehow you use evil to produce good. We can trust in you for that reason. Jesus' name.