So we should have this disposition of faith-seeking understanding. So whether we're dealing with the problems of evil or we're dealing with any problems, intellectually, emotionally, anything. We should always have a disposition of faith-seeking understanding. And what that means is as we as we encounter something that seems to be contrary to our belief system seems to contradict what we know to be the truth from the scriptures, then what do we do? We should suspend judgment. We should say, I don't know how to reconcile this information with the Bible. But I know who I know, which is God, and I'm gonna trust his word even if I don't fully see the solution. So that was kind of the big broad thing that I was trying to uh communicate and I was then applying it particularly to the problem of evil We should always believe the Bible even if we cannot see the solution to the problem. We should trust God regarding the problem of evil, even if we don't fully understand the solution So as a recap of what is the logical problem of evil. Notice I'm saying the logical problem of evil. And we're going to talk about maybe, Lord willing, if we have enough time, the emotional problem of evil, which they're two different things. Emotional problem of evil is how do I deal with evil when I personally encounter it? Logical problem of evil, which we'll talk about now, is how can it be that God is all good And all powerful, and yet evil exist. Right? It seems to be at first contradictory. Why? Because if God is all good, the argument goes, then God would not want evil to exist If God was all powerful, God would stop evil from existing. So since we know objectively that evil does exist in the world, the conclusion goes, then God must not be either all-good or all -powerful. And it seems at first to be somewhat persuasive. So let's go down our steps to see how we would deal with the problem. Step one. If we see there is a problem with this and the Bible, which clearly there are, because as we discussed last time, God is all good, very clear in the Bible, God is all powerful. And evil does exist. So all three realities certainly exist. So we see that there's a problem. The first thing we do is, again, trust God. Even though I don't know the solution, I trust God and I believe God, not the scoffer, not the liar, not man. The second thing that we do is we examine the problem more carefully We see if there's any faulty assumptions, premises, logical fallacies, or conclusions that don't follow. So again, we trust God, second step, we look back to the problem. There's something wrong here because all truth is God's truth. The Christianity is not a religion that tells you to believe the absurd It tells you to believe the truth. And the truth is logically grounded because God is the author of logic and He's given us these tools of sense perception and logic to decipher true from false. Okay. So the so the the God who inspired logic, the God who inspired all these things, is is not going to lead us astray. So the problem isn't in the Word of God. The problem is always in the argument, this this defeater. There's something wrong here. Now let me say this off to an aside. Sometimes uh the problem is your interpretation of the Bible So that's why you need to go back and check does the Bible really say this? Which we did. We saw that the Bible says that God is all good. The Bible really says that God is all powerful and evil does exist. But I'm saying sometimes that you can find out that you've been misunderstanding the Bible But if you've already concluded that you've not misunderstood the Bible, then you examine the problem, the the issue more closely. And so that's what we did when we looked at the problem of evil. We saw that as we examined the problem of evil, the logical problem, that there was a missing link, there was a faulty premise that wasn't stated, that being that there could be no morally sufficient reason why an all-powerful, all-good God would allow For evil. That's the missing premise. That that needs to be supplied for the problem to actually be logically coherent. The difficulty or the problem with that is the atheist cannot argue that God could have no Logically, uh no morally sufficient reason to allow evil. How could they possibly know that? They don't know all things. They don't know if God could possibly You'd have to be omission to know that God cannot have possibly have a morally sufficient reason for allowing evil. It's perfectly logically coherent. And they would have to argue against it which they cannot. So that's so that's what we see now we have uh uh solved the problem, should we say. Right? We have supplied the extra premise um that would that would rectify the issue Another problem that we saw with the problem of evil is that in the argument, one of the premises is that evil actually exists. Evil is objective reality that is wrong. Right. But as we saw that the atheist actually according to the word view cannot make that statement. And actually it's called the moral argument for evil. Uh moral argument for God, should I say. So we can actually from morality itself, from objective morality, show that God exists because as a necessary prerequisite to have morality, that's objective, not subjective, you need to have an objective standard. And that objective standard can't be your own opinion or the opinion of your neighbors and your friends, no matter how many are in agreement of that opinion. So for moral uh for morality to be object something to be objectively evil, you must have objective morality, and to have objective morality, you must have God. By the way, if we point this out to atheists, they recognize this, so what would they do? They immediately say, well, morality is subjective. And we and that's another argument, and it's quite absurd. But but they will actually say that. You press them on this and they'll say that morality is subjective. But then that's on Monday, right? Then Tuesday they'll come back to you and then give you the logical problem of eagle. and claim that since evil objectively exists, God cannot exist. See the problem? The being totally inconsistent here. So the the problem of evil, uh the reality of evil actually really points to God, not does not defeat God So um so that's really the problem of evil. Now last time I gave s I gave you theodices. The word theodicy comes from two Greek words, theos, which means God, and dikao, or that kind of family of words which means righteousness or justify. So a theodicy is an argument that seeks to justify the righteousness or the goodness of God in the face of evil. So I gave you many of these theodices, which the relationship to the theodices and everything I said before is I didn't give the morally sufficient reason that God allows for evil. I just said that God could have a morally sufficient reason, which shows that the logical problem of evil is not in fact a logical fallacy. It's not in fact something that defeats belief in God But again, I never provided the morally sufficient reason because I don't need to. I don't need to know something for something to be true, and we all know that, right? There's plenty of information out there that you don't know, but it doesn't make it any less true So the theodicy is we're trying to now provide an answer of what could be some of those morally sufficient reasons why an all-good God, an all-powerful God, would in fact allow evil. And I gave several. Well, after the class, and I kind of just ran through them and said these are just some of the theodies that Christians have given over the centuries. Some of them were kind of strange, some of them were stuff definitely more sound. But I didn't try to show you how the Bible itself gives a theodicy What's the Bible's theodicity? What's the Bible's offense? So that's what I'm going to move today. I'm going to kind of ignore some of the kind of speculative ones that the Bible doesn't give and just really focus on the theodicies that the Bible actually provides And I'm going to give the arguments and I'll show you the biblical basis for them. So the first theodicy we're going to look at is the free will theodicy. Here's how it goes. God created free will creatures. They have the ability to choose good or to choose evil What's the biblical basis for this? Oh, let me back up let me back up. Uh they have the ability to choose good or evil, as these free-willed moral creatures, some of them, many of them. In fact, the most important of them chose to do evil. And that's how evil comes into the world. What's the biblical basis for this? Genesis 1 and 3. Chapters 1 and 3. God created all things good. He gave humanity a command not to eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. What did man do? Man decided to use his free will to uh disobey. He had the ability to obey, or he had the ability to disobey. But man uses free will to disobey. And ever since then, man, all men are now made in the image of Adam in his fallen nature, and all men after that day continue to use their free will to disobey God. The same thing can be stated with the fall of Satan. He was created good He had the ability to remain holy, but chose to become evil and convinced one-third of the angels to disobey. Okay, so both uh Satan and uh Adam were created good. There is not dualism in the universe. There are not two uh equally powerful, equally eternal realities out in the universe, one good and one bad. That's paganism. It's totally false. You'll see that in all kinds of uh pop religion and even just old religion. You see that in the Star Wars movie. You have the force that's good and the force that's bad, right? Cosmic bad. That's not what's going on. The Bible the biblical depiction is that the only infinite being the only infinite reality is God who is good and holy. There is no darkness in him. He created creatures with the capacity to choose good or bad and they chose To prove this case, let us for the sake of argument assume the opposite. If the original man, Satan, and fallen angels were not given free will, And were in fact forced to sin, they would be innocent. This would not only make God the author of sin, but it would confuse God with the devil. See what I'm arguing here? If you assume that Adam and Eve or Satan and the angels did not have free will, then they were forced by God to in fact commit the sin, to do evil. And again, that confuses God with the devil And that would make God the author of sin. For God not only would become the tempter, but he would be the forcer of evil, and then he would be their accuser. This completely distorts any reading of the biblical narrative and of Genesis particularly. Recall what Adam said to God after he sinned. Here's what he said. Genesis 3, 8 through 12. And they heard the sound of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. among the trees of the garden. So this is right after they send, right? What do they do? They hide because they hear God walking in the garden. Look what the Lord does. But the Lord God called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me the fruit of the tree, and I ate What's going on here? So Adam's caught red-handed, right? He's caught red-handed in sinning. And what does he do? What's his very first defense of why he sinned? You are the one who gave me the woman. He's trying to argue for entrapment. It's your fault, God, because you set me up with this woman who forced me to do it. He's trying to shield the personal responsibility and blame the woman and blame God. But here's the point I'm getting at. Adam is trying to blame God for his sin. But this is obviously not true. It was not God's fault that Adam sinned. God's the one who blessed Adam. God's the one who gave him all the trees. He even warned him. It's not like God didn't even tell him He even warned him and told him specifically, don't do this, and if you do do this, you will die. Right? And what does Adam do? Of course, Adam disregards God. He disregards uh his blessings. He doesn't believe God, he believes Satan, and he falls into sin. So the charge that Adam is innocent of his crime is uh completely false, and the charge that God is in fact the archer of sin or the forcer of sin is in fact blasphemous. Genesis tells us why Adam and Eve sinned, and it wasn't because God showed up in the garden as a snake and forced them to do it. It was the devil who entered as a snake and lied to them, and they believed the devil instead of God. They had no defense, and that's why they were condemned. Consider what the text actually says. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of the tree of the garden? Uh excuse me, you shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the servant, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that's in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will surely not die, for God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be open, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate, and she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate Very clearly, you have a snake, right, possessed by Satan, or Satan's at least represented by the snake here, lying about God And tricking Adam and Eve to eat of the fruit because they don't believe God, but now they believe the serpent. So you don't have uh in any in any sense of the imagination God forcing anybody to sin here. If that wasn't enough, Scripture explicitly says that God tempts no one. James 1 says, let no one say when he is tempted. I am being tempted by God, for God cannot tempt anyone with evil, and he himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire when it was when it has conceived gives birth to sin, and when sin is fully grown, it brings forth death. So we clearly see here that God tempts no one. And this means, very complicated, that God tempts no one. Very clear. God does not tempt anyone. He didn't tempt Adam. He didn't tempt Satan. None of them. How are we tempted? Is it by God? No, it's when our own desires run amok. These desires pull at us. We decide to exercise our will, to choose to comply with the desires. What does that produce? That produces sin. Right? And what does the end result of sin produce? death. You can plug in Adam and Eve here and it works perfectly. What happened with Adam and Eve? Adam and Eve were tempted. They heard some Eve, they had a desire, right? That desire to gain knowledge, they desire to eat of the fruit, so forth. They got to gain abilities and all of that. They were lured by desires. They chose to exercise their will to choose to believe Satan instead of God and go after desires. And what did that produce? It produced sin, the disobedience of actualizing those desires. What happened after that? That sin produced death. Adam and Eve fit perfectly into the James paradigm of explaining how sin comes about. The same can be said about Satan and the fallen angels. Note this is what 1 Corinthians says. No temptation has overtaken you that's not common to man. God is faithful, and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation, he will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure. What's the point here? The point is that this scripture is trying to tell us that you are never hemmed in. God never places you in a situation where you are absolutely forced to sin against your own will. That's what it says. So this is if this is true for every uh Christian, every believer out there walking around, how much more so would this not be true when we we think of Satan and we think of Adam and Eve. Adam and Eve were not forced to sin. What they should have done is grabbed a snake and prayed to God or called God or whatever, waited for God to come and told them that there was a lying snake here who was telling them to disobey God. They shouldn't have eaten of the fruit, but they did because they did not obey God. They did not believe God. And that's exactly the same reason that we sin today, because we do not believe God. We believe the devil. We believe the lie. We believe the fact that the forbidden fruit will actually benefit us. And then we eat it and we realize it didn't benefit us. And the sad thing is we do this all the time. And 1 Corinthians 10, 13 tells us we don't have to. God has provided a way of escape that we can do. One of the ways of escape is realizing this is a bad idea. Let us in fact trust God and not fall into the same trap over and over again. Now, for those in the reform camp, the word free will will often involve an involuntary knee-jerk reaction. It's like a bad word. It's like a four-letter word for most people. Just bad stuff. People it just it brings up all kinds of problems. The whole term is often rejected. But this is actually uh unfortunate and shouldn't be the case. Because the debate between Calvinists and Arminians is not whether unregenerate people have free will. It really is The debate is whether they will exercise that free will to choose Christ. That's the center of the debate. Calvinists would say, no, they will not. They are dead in sin. They will exercise that will every time to say, no, I want to keep sinning. I hate the light, won't come to the light, lest I'll be condemned to my sins. Armenian say that yes they will in fact come by their own free will when the gospel is pronounced But notice the debate is over the central question of whether the unregenerate person will be able to choose Christ without the regeneration of the Spirit. The debate isn't over whether Adam had free will to choose the sin. It isn't over whether the wicked can choose to lie or not to lie, and it isn't whether or not the believer can choose to sin or not to sin. It's a very narrowly defined faith. Will an unregenerate person, when they hear the gospel , choose, without the intervention of God, to accept the gospel or not? That's the only debate that is being fought there. Both sides agree that humanity has freedom to choose in all of the circumstances previously mentioned. Why do we think that the unregenerate man won't choose Christ of his own choosing? Why? Because the Bible explicitly says that. John 3:19 through 20 states. And this is the judgment. The light has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light lest his work should be exposed. So very clearly here it says Everyone people love the darkness rather than light because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things, who's that? It's everyone. For all have sinned and volunteer to the glory of God. That's every single individual. What do they do? What's their disposition? What's their reaction? What's their free will reaction to the light? They hate the light and do not come to the light lest his work should be exposed. So the problem with the wicked is not the fact that they have free will The problem is with the wicked is the fact that they do have free will. That they use this free will all the time to reject Jesus Christ. And that's why God needs to go in there and override, change their heart, open their eyes. Till now they will willingly come to Jesus Christ, who is their only Savior. Psalm 59 expresses the same sentiment. It says, For there is no truth in their mouth. Their innermost self is destruction. Their throat is an open grave. They flatter with their tongue. I really like the scripture. Why? Because if your innermost self is destruction, you're going to choose destruction. You see the problem? The problem is their innermost self is destruction. They're not neutral, they're not just a little bit bad, they're not no They have a fundamental problem, and that's why they need God to go in there and take the stony heart and make it into a heart of flesh. Romans 3. None is righteous, no, not one. No one understands, no one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. Their throat is an open grade. They use their tongues to deceive. The venom of ass is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness, their feet are swift to shed blood, and their past are ruined and misery, and the way of peace they have not known, there is no fear of God before their eyes All of these scriptures demonstrate that the problem with the wicked is not the lack of capacity. It is, in fact, the lack of desire. They are not physically unable, but they are morally unwilling. And really we experience this all the time. We experience this i in our own lives. Each one of us have the capacity to do things that we're just simply unwilling to do. We all have the capacity to go on diets. Most of us are not willing to do diets. It's miserable and painful, I understand. But we have the ability. You see what I'm saying? A a more a more sinister idea is someone who's harming themselves. Someone who's cutting themselves or whatever. Addiction. Whatever these things. These people are that don't get help. It's not as if they don't have the capacity to do it. Of course they have the physical passage, but they are morally unwilling to do it. The worst part of this slavery to sin, and that's what the Bible describes it, as being slaves to sin, is that they are willing slaves. They do not want to be free. Therefore, as we see, the wicked's constant hatred for God, requiring them to have the need to be born again to choose God, doesn't in any way nullify the free will argument for the theodicy. Evil came into the world through Satan, the fallen angels, and Adam and Eve using their free will to choose evil. Free will not only explains how sin originally entered creation, but its existence, uh, its continual presence in the world. Why do I say that? Because Satan, fallen angels, believers and unbelievers continue to use their free will to violate God's commands. We all do it every day. Every time we sin We choose to do the sin. Calvinists have never argued that unregenerate people are as wicked as they possibly could be. They choose to do actions that are more or less wicked all of the time. Right, that's one of the the confusing things about that term total depravity. A lot of people don't like it because it it seems to imply that people as wicked as they possibly are they could be. That's not the case. That's saying that we're totally uh With totally depraved, meaning that wickedness has affected all of our capacities, including our will. Actually, what's really interesting is the Bible even speaks about demons who are more or less worse than other demons Where do we hear this from? Matthew 12, 45. It says this. Then it goes, this is talking about a demon. So this is talking about a demon being cast out of an individual and what happens to that individual. It says, Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. And they enter to dwell there, and the last day of the person is worse than the first, so also will be with this generation. What's the point? You see here there's a contrast. This demon is cast out. It leaves. Then what comes back? Seven more demons more evil than itself. So even the Bible recognized that some demons Are in fact worse than others. Just like any fair assessment out there, we can all tell that some people are more wicked than others. Why? Because they're exercising their free will to do more evil than the other person. Therefore, the category of free will helps to explain a large amount of evil. It covers the concept of moral evil very nicely. Right? Because not only did uh moral evil come into the universe originally from Adam, Eve, Satan, all the angels, but it also continues to come into the world. Think about the evil that you've experienced in your own life How much of that evil can actually be traced to other individuals' actions? Other people sinning against you, other people doing evil against you. A large category of what I'm arguing can be explained then. Not only by believers, believers sin against other believers, and unbelievers sin against people. So a large category can be explained through this concept of moral evil and free will. Alright, I'm gonna stop there. Kind of controversial a little bit. Um ask for any comments, questions, clarifications. Of course I think one of the less discussions are the topic over. Um but the very, very last statement. Um we're talking about we know illegal existically so much since done against us, or were you trying to make an excuse? Absolutely not. No, what I was what I'm trying to say is again, this is a theodicy. We're trying to explain uh evil. Right. And what I'm trying to say is one of the theodicies that the Bible clearly makes is a large amount of evil is produced by moral creatures choosing to exercise their free will to commit evil against other people. And I'm saying this is such a large category, it doesn't just explain Adam and Eve, it also explains why Christians and the few sin against each other. And and unbelievers sin against each other. pretty much all of them except angels and and so forth, um, are constantly using their free will to send against other people. So I'm just I'm always just trying to say there's a huge category of sin, moral evil that is encompassed by the free will of the Odyssey that that I found in the in the Bible. Any other questions? I always say coverage is the enemy of all learning, so if you have anything else, it's better to nail it down Okay, we'll keep going. So um hopefully th that this has covered a large area of of problems, but it doesn't cover all of it. Why? Because there's more evil than moral evil We suffer from more things than just other people sinning against us. We also suffer from natural evil. What is natural evil? Natural evil is disease. uh hurricanes, pain and pain itself is kind of a natural evil in some sense, right? Just the very fact that you can feel the pain and there's not a moral agent, at least it doesn't appear to be a moral agent, uh, when a bacteria virus comes into your body and you get 75 % something like that. There's this whole area of natural evil that the free will of the Odyssey cannot cover at all. Because there's no moral agent behind it. So, how do we explain that? What's the theodicy for uh uh natural evil? The biblical answer is that we live in a fallen world When Adam and Eve sinned, the entire world was cursed. In other words, this is not how things ought to be. Yes, when we look out there and we see disease and pain and suffering and tornadoes, we say, this is horrible. Something has really gone amok. This is absolutely wrong. But why is that the case? Well, because again, when Adam and Eve sinned, the entire world was cursed. Genesis records it this way. The Lord said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all the beasts of the field On your belly you shall go, and thus you shall eat all the days of your life. Now, you've got to look very closely. Look what he says again. Because you have done this, this is talking to the serpent. Cursed are you above all livestock What does that imply? If you're cursed above something, what does that imply about everything else? Everything else is cursed. Right? Even in that very statement, we see that all of creation was cursed along with the snake. The snake's cursing is just simply above all of the other livestock. Let's keep going. Verse fifteen. I will put enmity between you and the woman. This is God talking to the snake still. And between your offspring and her offspring. You shall bruise, uh he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. That's the gospel, right? That's the proclamation of the gospel. Verse 1, verse 16. The uh to the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you. So again we see more of the cursing of Creation. Now the woman is being cursed specifically, and now this now the child uh bearing process is going to be painful and miserable Not only that though, we see that in this moral evil, but this fallen nature. Your desire shall be for your husband or contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you. This is society is breaking down. Now we have moral problems, right? Fallen creatures are now and and marriages are falling apart. This is absolutely uh bad stuff here. Verse 17 And to Adam he said, Because you have listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten of the tree which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground because of you. So if it was questionable, now it's explicit. Cursed is the ground because of you. And pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat uh you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Till you return to the ground, for out of it you were taken, and for uh for you are dust, and thus you shall return. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living, and the Lord God made for Adam and his wife garments of skin. and clothe them. There's a lot here, okay? But you can very clearly see that all of the animals are cursed. The the human body, the woman Is is cursed with this pain and childbearing, right? That now the the entire ground is cursed. Now what used to be a pleasant experience is now a miserable experience And and the curse is so radical in fact that there are new things that are popping up in creation. Thorns and thistles. You should put in your Bible, mosquitoes as well. I really do. These things, if if they haven't existed before, they weren't biting Adam and Eve out there. Okay? So the the the whole creation has been cursed. And not only that, human death has come in. Not just human death. What's very interesting is the first account of animal death is actually in the scene and it's a sacrifice for God killing this animal to clothe Adam and Eve. It's a it's a preview of the gospel. So you it just everything's been totally messed up by Adam and Eve uh uh uh sinning. We now live in So as we can see, natural evil is a punishment upon humanity. It's a punishment. But it's not only a punishment. I would argue it's also a blessing. Why do I say it's a blessing? Why? Because we look out in the fallen world, we often think this is not how it's meant to be, which is exactly right. We should look out and say this is not meant to be. And so what would we do? We long for a creation, we long for an order where all of this sin, all of this death, all of this cursing is no longer there. So the pain and the misery of the natural realm pushed us towards Christ. How many of us, if we look back in our testimony, have been converted through pain and suffering? At least I have Right? Pain and suffering helps wake you up and realize this is not utopia. This is actually quite miserable down here. And there must be something more. And you start searching, and often you will find God through pain and misery. Pain and misery, living in a fallen earth, is not just a curse, but it's also a blessing. The question also isn't uh it's uh it's a wrong question. We often say, why is there so much evil out in the world? That's the wrong question. Instead we should be asking, why is there so much good in the world? If we live in a fallen earth that's been cursed, it's amazing of how much blessing that we get. This is in some way like the greatest hell in the world. You know, now I'm not saying that there is an ultimate hell. You see, this is a cursed realm. But in spite of the fact that this is a cursed realm, it is so wonderful. And why is that? Matthew 5. 45 tells us So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, who makes his son rise on the evil and the good, he sends rain on the just and the unjust. We live in a cursed world, yet we are all in an AC environment, right? Happy, hopefully hell happy, as we can be Wonderful. This is incredible. It's amazing that God has given us so much blessing. And so what should this blessing lead to us? What's the purpose of having so much blessing in a cursed reality? Romans 2, 4 tells us Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness and forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? Oh, yep, that's it. You see that? So God's blessing, God's uh grace upon us in this fallen world is supposed to lead us to repentance. We're supposed to say we don't deserve any of this. What do we all deserve? But instead of getting hell, we get this earth full of blessing and and and and and and just uh really quite a lot of relief. And this is supposed to lead people to repent So that's w one of the explanations of uh a natural evil. We should also consider the Tower of Babel. This is I'm also I'm trying to continue to argue that God cursing the fallen earth is not just a curse, but really truly a blessing. In Genesis 11, 6, we read these words. And the Lord said, Behold, they are one people, and they have one language, and this is only the beginning of what they will do, and nothing that they propose to do will now be impossible for them. What's the argument? So man at this point all of humanity was united and had one language, right? And God spreads the languages and he tells us why. One of the reasons is because they're united. And this is just the beginning of what united humanity would do United humanity is a bad thing, okay? They if if there was no uh conflict between humanity and so forth, they would kill all Christians, number one. They probably killed each other, number two. Right, so what I'm saying here is that God giving us a fallen world might be a very good blessing. What's uh another evidence is I was talking to my friend And he's from Texas and he he w he was living in California. And one of the things that uh that he uh immediately struck him was the amount of homeless people in California. There's homeless people everywhere. They're just hanging out in bushes and stuff. Right? Being anywhere else you don't see this many homeless people. Why? Because the weather is so much better in California So what I'm saying is that that's just a micro example. Imagine if we lived in an unfallen world where everything was just perfect bliss. This might be a very terrible world to live in with a bunch of um evil people walking around If no one had to work to get supplies and and and didn't have to really uh be cooperative to survive, this might be a very terrible world to live in. So in fact, this cursed world might be the very thing that keeps us alive and keeps people from killing each other The last consideration is the immorality of the rich. The rich have all of this wealth, all of this resource, and how immoral are they? So imagine if everyone, because we didn't live in a fallen world, everyone have abundant resources So you can just imagine the immorality of such a scene. So how do we explain natural evil? We explain natural evil by the fact that we live in a cursed home world. But it turns out maybe that curse is actually in fact a blessing that allows the story of God to continue and allows humanity to survive. Okay, another theodicy that we see directly mentioned in the scripture is the soul-building theodicy. This is the idea that through suffering, virtue is being produced. We see this in the case of the humanity of Christ. Here's what Hebrews 2. 10 says. For it was fitting that he, for whom and by whom all things exist, and bringing many sons to glory, might make the founder of their salvation perfect through suffering. So again, the soul building theodicy is through pain and suffering we become better people. We we we gain these attributes that we wouldn't otherwise gain Now imagine this. If Jesus Christ, God incarnate, coming down to the earth, this scripture explicitly says the founder of their salvation, that's Jesus, was made perfect through suffering. If if suffering had a soul-building uh virtue or a reality in his life, how much more so will our suffering have a positive effect on our own life? So very clearly the Bible teaches that through suffering and pain virtue is produced. And this is exactly what God says in James concerning us now, not Jesus, now us. Count on all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness. And let steadfastness have its full effect that you may be perfect and complete and lacking nothing. So we're supposed to see trials as blessings. Why? Because we know that they're producing good in our lives. They know that they're making us better. They know we know that they're making us perfect. Romans 5. 3 We rejoice in hope, in hope of the glory of God. Not only that, we rejoice in our sufferings. How could we do that? How could we rejoice in our sufferings? Knowing that suffering produces endurance, and endurance produces character, and character produces hope, and hope does not put us a change. Very clearly, the Bible explicitly teaches the soul-building theodicy. Through pain, through suffering, we are being transformed. I hesitate to need to say this, but it's very interesting that it seems to be from the scriptures that the time for gaining rewards is on the earth. There's a day that no man can work. It's interesting though. Why is that? Why does it seem like in heaven we can't produce uh uh good work why not good works, but we can't produce uh these rewards in heaven I think maybe possibly because there's no suffering in heaven. And so this this soul-building theodicy reality is a reason why that we gain all rewards on earth. But that's speculation, so I'm going to move away from that. So many other scriptures could be provided to show the soul-building theology is biblical, but I think that is sufficient. Let's look at a few others The theodicy that evil displays the full characteristic of God and gives glory to God is clearly taught in the Bible. We can find that in places like Romans 3. Is what it says. But if our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God, what shall we say? That God is unrighteous to inflict wrath on us? I speak in a human way. By no means But then how could God judge the world? See what they are here. Our unrighteousness serves to show the righteousness of God. What's that mean? Even though we are evil and we sin, this ultimately produces righteousness and displays the full righteousness of God. And we talked about this, right? You can't have a hero without a villain. You can't have a solution without a problem. So we have this, if you just read Genesis through Revelation, there's this cosmic problem of free-will creatures exercising all this evil and ruining all of everything. Right? And so what you have is God's righteousness and his plan ultimately, right, through his son coming down and saving sinners is rectifying all of this, and all of this is displaying the glory of God. So why did God allow moral creatures to exercise evil? To fully display his glory. And I'm gonna, for the sake of time, I'm not I'll read it. Romans 9. For he says to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I have mercy, and I'll have compassion on whom I have compassion. So it depends not on human will or exertion, but on God who has mercy. For the scripture says to Pharaoh For this very purpose I raise you up, so that I might show my power in you, and that my name might be proclaimed in all the earth. See that? He's raising up Pharaoh. Why did he allow Pharaoh to exist? Why did he allow Pharaoh to oppress his people and to be so wicked? Because he's raising them up to exercise his Lord. And what did God do? God shattered and broke the most powerful man in the world, and his name is famous. His name is still famous for that very event. And this is just a micro incident. God is constantly allowing the wicked to come up, and he will ultimately execute judgment upon them. Right? He will say to me, Why does he still find fight? Who who can resist his will? But who are you, O man, to answer back to God? Well what is modus say to its motor? Why have you made me like this? Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel of honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God desires to s See that? Why is God allowing this? What if God desiring to show his wrath and to make known his power has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction in order to make known the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy which he has prepared beforehand? God cannot be glorified. God's full manifestation of his wrath and his justice and his mercy and all these characteristics of God cannot be manifested unless There is something to manifest that, i. e. a necessary prerequisite for all of that to happen is allowing more creatures to fall into sin. So we very clearly see that God allows these things. to manifest his glory. So that's clearly taught in the Bible. The last theodicy that the Bible clearly supports and teaches is the idea of That some things about sin is just simply mysterious. It's the mystery theodicy. God has kept certain things about evil simply mysterious. We find this in 2 Thessalonians 2. 7. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. There are some things about lawlessness, there are some things about evil that are simply mysterious and we don't know the answer. Psalm 139, verse 6. Such knowledge is too wonderful. It is high. I cannot attain it. Ecclesiastes. He has made everything beautiful in its time. He has also put eternity in man's heart. Yet so he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end. There were certain things that God has done that we don't know that knowledge is too high. There are certain things about evil that are simply mysterious. So even as we examine the theodicy that God has given us, we ultimately have to conclude we don't know at all. And there are some things that we just can't put together. This is as much as we can put together for now. This is as much as God has for you. Isaiah 55. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways declares the Lord. In conclusion, therefore the Bible tells us a lot about evil The Bible declares that God is not the author of evil and tempts no one, but that God allows evil and purposes it. Not only does he allow it, but he purposes it, and he purposes it for good. Are good and their good. Evil came into the world through the abuse of free will. As a partial punishment and a partial grace, God curses the world by producing uh natur and producing thus producing natural evil. All of this is allowed because it will ultimately bring God glory and showcase the full range of his characteristics. Despite the scripture revealing all of this about evil, there are still things about evil that we just don't know. Because it still remains mysterious to us. So at this point, this kind of wraps up the problem of uh the logical problem of evil. These are the theodices that the Bible provides, and they help us to understand evil evil intellectually. But in the in the future classes we're gonna really talk about evil emotionally. And I was hoping I was gonna get to that but I don't think I am um of of um Well, uh d this is helpful to understand it logically. I don't think it's overly helpful when you're suffering and and you have pain. Well I I think a few parts of it is, but we'll kind of discuss how do we deal with emotion how do we deal with pain when you're feeling it or when you're seeing it on others Right? When you're going through pain and misery, you don't need a diatribe, you don't need a long argument, you don't need a lecture, you need a hug, and you need someone to tell you it's gonna be okay So we're going to talk about a little bit how to emotionally deal with suffering. But I'm going to ask from here, talk about a lot, a lot of theodices. Any questions, comments, or concerns? So all all of nature is cursed, but you're not saying that the dirt is immoral. Or are you saying that the dirt is immoral? The mosquito is immoral, for sure. The whole horn and thistle thing is made Uh no so no, I'm I was joking about that. Um I only think moral uh there's nothing morally evil except uh um uh creatures with capacities for morality. And and so you have to have you have to be able to make moral decisions with something to be considered moral immoral. Um so natural evil i is not inherently immoral. I don't I don't even think animals are uh uh immoral uh necessarily because they again they don't they're not they don't have free will they don't have capacities to make moral decisions but they are fallish. Okay The thorn and the thistle and the mosquito. Definitely. I'm not joking about that. But seriously, uh are fallen. That's fallen. It's messed up. It's wrong. It is going to be restored. Right. But it's not an active moral agent uh uh doing moral evil. So what do we say then about the the person who has the capacity for a a person then who is not acting evil because of free will, but because of the curse? Um so yeah, I I would say um the I I I wouldn't say I wouldn't c I don't I don't No, I mean there there are people that commit evil not because of their choosing, but because of some kind of disease inside of them. Someone Someone gets a worm in their brain that causes them to deviate and causes them to do something evil. That wasn't a choice they made. That wasn't a free will choice they made. That was a result of it. of the curves. I I agree a hundred percent with your layout. Because I I I understood when you were talking about free will that that that covers a lot of Sin but I didn't hear you saying that that covers. Yeah, so it's an interesting uh That's that's kind of a factual question. Is there such a thing where you you know um but but getting you away from the factual of there's a worm in someone's brain making them do you I'm not really sure about that. I could say hypothetically though, a a logical thought experiment if I hypnotize you and transform you know, completely took control of your body and made you do evil, you would not be a moral agent responsible for someone else forcing you to do evil. But but I but the factual question if that ever actually is possible, I I can't speak to that. I d I don't know. But but you have to what I'm saying is the necessary precondition to do evil is that you have to decide to do evil. If you're forced to do evil against your will, right, or or you no longer become an active person, then then you wouldn't be responsible for That'd be natural evil. Well that'd be evil really more evil from that evil genius who figured out a way to do such a thing. I'm saying that's a factual question that I I'm not probably uh qualified to answer. On the base of it, it seems to me that there's there's plenty of cases of people that that get some kind of disease or um have some kind of uh condition that that can be controlled, can be sometimes cured by either medication or treatment or something like that. But then before that treatment or medication they were doing something that was clearly easy. And so so on the face of it, it seems to me that that in the world we would look at that and we would say that that these people weren't choosing to do evil. They were doing as a result of the curse. And I'm just curious, where does that involve? And how how do you say that Somebody a lie for since zero, right? Only that you know, given our free will, our propensity is Sin. You know the Jews Christ, if he regenerates our spirit , there is there is zero biblical basis or worms or anything else causing us to sin. They might give us propensity to it, and might give us a chemical imbalance, but there's no physical basis Yeah, it it's it's it's interesting. Again, it's it's a factual question but that I'm I'm not qualified to answer. Um but I I do certainly think that they're mitigating circumstances Um that could that so certainly mitigating circumstances that could cause someone to be more or less culpable of of of of sin. uh but it's it does sound like what you're say you are making a point that that and I I do like this point that um natural evil can affect moral agents and and Donald Stansay help to give a propensity to do more legal. So there there is a there is a back and forth, right? I mean there's a real reality when I kick my knee Uh I stump you something, you know, I kick my knee on my car or something, and I have this screeching pain. That gives me a provinciality to blaspheme, like it does Okay, and so so I think uh there is an interchange there, right? But i there is but that still doesn't make me uh innocent. I still need to not blaspheme. But that was your choice. The blasphemy? And yeah, yeah. And and and I agree a few percent that that all s sin is evil. My question is No. And and and so and you you know, you said in nature, you know, the dirt things in a produce of this What do we say about the person, not the person who sins, but the person who commits evil? Is every single person who commits evil a sinner? And and in in the world we see many cases of someone who has an illness or a condition that is treatable that stops them from doing any things. So therefore more evil than they did. Yeah. Yeah, I I'm a hard question actually for it that's hard. Yeah, I I I'll just say that is such a thing as accidental evil as well. A moral agent can accidentally cause someone evil and that wouldn't be that when you know you can accidentally run into someone, that's that's a natural evil produced by newsly. I know that's a little different than you're saying, but such a category is possible. Really good point about this direction here. So here's three examples that are all the same thing that I compare that are personal examples from the diamond. So if someone driving slips on the ice crosses the center Kill someone, tell my dad died. Um someone is driving, has a seizure across the clear line, kills someone. Another family member kills something like that. And then third, a drunk driver across the center line and kills someone. Like all three of those things. That that's I'm not, you know, we wouldn't I think we'd we'd easily say the drunk driver was morally possible. The first one 's easier and who knows. The first one slip on the ice, definitely not. So I think there's this there it's very easy to come up with And uh I think the first point about sin it is you know all all sin be evil , all evil being sin. I think that's something you know that maybe you're maybe this maybe this is why you say this is a factual question. And that that maybe you would have to be examined very carefully on that. Yeah, the reason I'm saying is a factual question is is is whether or not I mean is this r is this we you know and I know that you If of whether or not um that something actually is causing a moral agent against his will or overriding his will to send. I that's a really a factual question, but uh I think the point that uh is being made is what I was trying to say. It is possible for a moral agent to commit a natural evil. Right, as that's possible with the slipping on the ice, it's a perfect example. That's a moral agent, right? He's the one controlling the vehicle. So that's a better that's a better example to Exact same examples that I'm making in the sense that I'm saying something that happened in needs of that prevented. And I think that if you talk to a psychiatrist psychiatrists and and again I'm not I'm no psychiatrist but I think if you talk to them they would say that there are some things that happen to a person Yeah, and no, they're not they're not more they're not mole agents, right? Um they don't have capacity to to choose more decisive, they don't have to stand in that kind of capacity. So no. Um let me just close it down. Oh, I I don't know the answer to this question, but let me just address one point that creation to grow and and kind of have those people other human zero spot I I don't know but it's like it's uh Very nature. Let me let me conclude with with this statement. Um even even that reality is true, um people are so centers. So even if some of their actions, uh hypothetically or factually, whatever, could be excused somehow, people are still sinners. Uh they still have committed actual sin some of the time, and they still need Jesus Christ. So nobody is just merely a a uh uh a a victim of of uh natural evil. We're moral agents who are sinned against God and that's why we all need a savior. Um regardless that there's certain circumstances that would make us lesser or more culpable and so forth. So let's let's close it down and pray. Good discussion. Thank you. Dear Heavenly Father God, I thank you for your goodness. I thank you for your kindness. I thank you that um that you have given your body uh so many uh great minds and and so many uh uh just just I'm just glad for the discussion that we can talk about these things and we can recognize that uh that you are not the author of evil But that you have purposely evil and allowed evil for your good and for the good of your people. And God, we we admit that we there are many things about evil that are just simply mysterious you have not revealed, but what you have revealed is sufficient for us And so let it be sufficient for you people. In Jesus' name, can I