For this series of Sunday school lessons is going to be on evangelism. And that kind of blends in very nicely with missions. Evangelism is really a subset of the bigger concept of missions. So What we're looking at is ultimately what's the main purpose of our lives? What's the main purpose of humanity in general? Us specifically and then even as believers. What are we doing here? Why are we still here? What's the purpose? And as I ask that question, and you're formulating that hopefully in your mind, kind of a hip response of what that is, hopefully you're thinking about the Great Commission found in Matthew 28, 18 through 20. And I'll go ahead and read that scripture. It says, And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me Go thereforth and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. And so the reason I believe that this is really the center of our meaning and our purpose It's because this is the Great Commission. This is what God has given us. This is our great command. And we see in the scripture that it's essentially about evangelism About spreading the good news and making disciples. That's what we're here for. We're here for edification of one another, building each other up, and making disciples. And that's ultimately what this class is going to be about. It's about Encouraging you, equipping you, and exhorting you all to be disciple makers. Now, um We're going to have two components, basically two components of this class, and they're constantly going to blend into each other. And it's going to be the theological framework. um the the big theological concepts, the the things that you need to know, right? And then there's gonna be the more practical exhortation to encouraging you to actually take what you know and then and then put that into action. Now, oftentimes we kind of get off to one side or the other. It can all be about theological exhortation, the big concepts, the big theme of the Bible, and just kind of a systematic theology lecture. Or it can just be all about practicality. Just go out there and do it. Right? But we don't want that. We want both. And I like this illustration. Um it's of a log and fire. The our theology is the log that goes into the fireplace, right? And we need those logs to keep the fire burning. But if we just have logs and no fire, none of that practicality, we never actually do it. We don't depend on the Holy Spirit. Then Those logs won't give us any warmth. They need to be set ablaze. You see? And if we just have practicality, if we just try to put fire into the fireplace with no logs Then it won't have sustainability. It'll burn out very quickly. It'll be discouraged. Okay. You'll be discouraged quite quickly. What happens when times get tough, when things get rough, and your motivation will wane. So we're gonna have we're gonna try to go theological as well as practical. Can you say a few things about what this class is hopefully not going to be about, and that's gaining knowledge for knowledge's sake. Thank you. It's not about gaining knowledge just for knowledge's sake. It's about taking that knowledge, understanding evangelism, understanding missions. Excuse me. Understanding all those things from the big perspective and then taking that into the streets or taking that into your neighborhoods and into your families into all of your lives really. Now I want to say off the bat here that evangelism is hard and I think we all recognize that. We all hopefully know. We all know the Great Commission, but we all need exhortation. We all need to be encouraged. And the reason why evangelism is so hard is because we have a natural desire to please one another. We naturally want to make people happy. And that's really not a bad thing, that's a good thing. In fact, that's why that's Psalm One is all about that Someone recognized that human condition that we want to make people happy and it tells us that blesses those who are not exposed to wicked people and not going into their council and not in their company. Corinthians says the same thing. Do not be deceived. bad company ruins morals. So we recognize that um spending too much time with wicked people leads to this natural inclination to want to please them and we can please them by compromising and doing what they want. So That this idea of wanting to please people is just part of human nature. It's also a good thing. It's one of the principal reasons, I believe, why the Bible tells us to gather as a body. So when I get to spend time with you all, when I get to see how you live your lives and and what your values are, that naturally adjusts me. am encouraged to speak politely and well and not use profanity and so forth and so on, right? It's just this natural desire that I want to to please one another and and that's something that that's really good. It's also one of the reasons, the chief reasons why it's so important. for us as people in part of families to be godly ourselves and to create a godly family because that can be conducive. It's not perfect, doesn't always work, but that's the kind of nature that you know godliness produces more godliness and creating an environment where uh to please one another will produce godliness. So that's good. But the problem is that we as Christians are a remnant. We as believers are a small minority among the mass majority of unbelievers that are full of darkness. So when we try to give our message of light We already know that people don't want it. We already, if we don't know that conceptually, we know that experientially. We know that when we try to say the gospel, people get mad and reject. And so since we don't want to displease people, we naturally go the easiest way and just hide or light, don't share. But that's really a false shame and we need to overcome that But that's really the difficult the difficulty before us. We have this natural inclination to please people. We have a message that has some bad news that people don't want to initially hear. And we have to go and try to proclaim that. And that's just the obstacle that we're always going to have to overcome. And we just need to recognize that our natural desire is going against us. But we also need to recognize that while we have a natural desire to please one another, do we have a natural desire to please God And that's going to be one of the bulwarks that go against that. When we can go and try to share the gospel with somebody and we know that they'll be unhappy with us, we need to think at that time, do I need to be a pleaser of man, a man pleaser, or God pleaser? I'm ups I'm making this person upset because I'm trying to share I'm just trying to share the gospel with them. I'm not actually trying to harm them. We need to overcome that false sense of shame Now, another thing uh to say in introduction is this class hopefully is not going to be a guilt trip. It's not about um how you've done in the past X amount of years or since you've become a Christian. We're not going to be looking about trying to make anybody feel guilty about their past performance or anything of that nature. I like what Paul says in Philippians 3. 13. Well he says, one thing I do, forgetting what lies behind, and straining forward to what lies behind ahead. me And that's kind of what I want to think. I don't want anyone to think, well I have never been really good at sharing my faith and I will continue not to be very good. Forget about where you what you've done, good or bad. If you've been a fantastic evangelist, wonderful, hopefully this will encourage you to keep doing that. But I met one Christian that once said Because I I pass out tracts and I'll talk I'll talk about tracks a little bit later on in the class. And I remember one Christian said, Well yeah, I remember when I used to do that And and it was just purely fast. Like, yes, I did that, checked that, you know, you're in that stage, and I've moved on. The reality is the person wasn't turning the gospel anymore. And uh that's not what we want, right? We don't want to say, I used to do that, I used to knock on doors, I used to be that evangelism guy, but I've now moved on to another stage of my life. No. We don't move on from evangelism. That's why we're here So it's not about a guilt trip and it's not about I did that, done that, and I can move on. So now let's transition from here and let's think about this is I'm trying to give you those logs now, uh about the big picture of evangelism throughout the Bible. How does you sharing the gospel with your neighbor, you being an ambassador of Christ, you shining your light at work, how does that fit into the big story of the Bible Let's think about that systematically. We talk about systematic theology. That's just a a word, a concept. We have Wayne Gruder's systematic theology. All that means is that we're taking what the Bible has to say about a subject throughout the book. Okay, versus a biblical theology, which is what does Genesis say about prayer? What does the Pentateuch? What does the first five books say about prayer? We think about it systematically, what does the Bible say about prayer? And so we all have a systematic theology. If I just ask you, you know, um anything, you know, what about prayer? What does the Bible say about Jesus? You're going to give me a systematic answer. You're probably not going to say, well, John says this about Jesus. You're going to tell me what the whole Bible says And that's what we're going to do. We're going to look at what the whole Bible says about evangelism or missions. So I ask you to turn to Genesis 1-1 because that's where we're going to start. We're going to start at Genesis 1. 1 and see what the Bible says about evangelism or missions. Genesis 1. 1 says, In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Now when we think about that, what is the beginning? We should always bully the text with questions, kind of just constantly trying to see what is it really saying. What's the beginning here? Which beginning? Usually this phrase in the beginning talks about, if you trace this phrase throughout the Bible, it talks about the beginning of something. It gives you a reference, the beginning of uh the reign of so-and-so, that's the most common phrase, the beginning of the reign of Jehoiben or or or David or Hezekiah or something like that. But here We don't really have a reference. It doesn't say in the beginning when. It just says in the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. So we have to figure out what beginning is this. Second thing we need to do is what is encompassed in the phrase heavens and the earth? Let me put it a different way. And I actually want an answer to this. Is there anything that we know of that exists outside of the heavens and the earth? Pasanillo? God. God himself, right? In the beginning. God. So God himself. He is not subsisted in the heavens and the earth. But even that, even that kind of concept, we only can think of Uh God is often described as dwelling in the heavens, heavens of heavens, and so forth. So I understand what he's saying. Um but really we don't know besides God, we don't know of anything else that exists outside of the heavens and the earth. This includes everything, right? And we see that And the Bible talks about our body and our soul. That includes all of our being. So when he says he created the heavens and the earth, he's including all of creation here This seems to be the very beginning of time itself, time and space. All of creation is being traced back here in Genesis 1. 1. And we see the same thing if we look at John chapter 1-1. John 1-1, that says in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Seems to be tracing us back into all things were created through him And by him, by uh without him nothing came that was that has come. So we see, if we kind of put these both scriptures together, we recognize that the beginning here is talking about the absolute beginning of time itself. The very first act of God was, uh in time, should I say, was to create the heavens and the earth. So we're getting all the way back. Now the question is Why did God create? Why did God create all that there was? Why did God create the heavens, the realm of the angels and the second heavens and the third heavens, we know all that. And the earth. What was the purpose? Did God create because he was lonely? Was he simply bored? Or did he lack anything? Well, the answer is that God has self-sufficiency. There's a fancy theological term that's kind of being not used as much anymore. It's called God's seity. God's a deity means that he is self-existence. He doesn't lack anything. The philosophers call God a necessary being, meaning that he has being in and of himself. But as a famous historian, uh church historian, church history guy, um he once said that what does uh What does Athens have to do with Jerusalem? So can we find in the scriptures itself Jesus being God being described as a being that has necessary being? I think we can. I think it's found in Exodus 3. 13. If you could turn your Bible there. Exodus 3. 13. I'm giving you some context. This is when Here's Moses, he's after he's killed a man, he's run out into the wilderness and he stayed there for some some sojourning there, and then he sees a burning bush. And God appears to him, and he's having this conversation with God. And God is commissioning Moses to be his spokesman, to be his apostle, to be the one sent out by God, his representative. To go out into the people and declare God's good news of salvation. And this is the conversation they had. This is in verse 13 of Exodus. Then Moses said to God, Behold, I am going to the sons of Israel, and I will say to them, The God of your fathers has sent me to you. Now they may say to me, What is his name? What shall I say to them? God said to Moses, I am who I am. And he said, say this to the people of Israel, I am. So it's it's actually quite interesting because God identifies Himself back in verse 13 and saying, the God of your fathers has sent me to you. But Moses anticipates that they will be confused and say, well, what's his name? Who is this God of their fathers? This kind of tells you the wicked condition of the Israelites that they should say that. Right, they should immediately know who this God is, the God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, it's Yahweh. They should know that But yet they seem to not know, and they want to know his name. Now that again, that hence up maybe some polytheism going on in them. But they also might be asking what is his name because they want to know his chief characteristic You know, you have a name, it gives you the the kind of broad perspective of something. You remember when Adam named the animals? He wasn't naming them, you know, flipper. Or or buddy or something like that. He was naming them a type of creature that chief characteristics are identify them. This is actually why it's so fascinating that Adam names Eve. And he named it woman. I don't want to digress too much, but if you look in the Hebrew, woman and man are very, very closely connected. It's Ish and Isha. There's just an A at the end. One of the implications seems to be that this woman taken out of man is chiefly like man, just with a small difference. See what I'm saying here? That when they're asking for a name, they're asking for the chief characteristic. We see the same thing, God naming light, he names day, and so forth. Um we even have Jesus Christ naming people. He tells Peter the rock Because he's gonna have a chief role at the foundation of the church? You see what's happening? So that's what they're asking. They want to know kind of who first off there's a mix. They want to know who is God, which God, and then what's the chief characteristic of that God? And this is what God says, I am who I am. He says this to the people of Israel, I am has sent you to has sent me to you. That I am, that's that's a concept of that's a verb to be. He's saying that being himself. He's describing himself as I am, that I am, I am, I am being itself. I cannot be described. My most cheap characteristic or a cheap characteristic of me is the fact that I have always been. I am Let's look at another scripture. John 5. 26. You don't have to turn here. You can, but I'll be jumping around a little bit. John 5. 26, Jesus says, For as the Father has life in himself So he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. That's the idea of self-sufficiency, that God has being in himself. He doesn't need to have life from someone else For us Trinitarians, we should have no problem with the idea that the Son has been granted to have life in Himself as well. Because the scripture is not only talking about the s uh self-sufficiency and the assayity of the Father, but it's also granting that to the Son, showing you that there's a Trinitarian God. But the point is that both God the Father and God the Son have being in themselves. They are the great I am They do not need anything. My favorite scripture about this is Acts 17, 22. God is described in this way. The God who made the world and everything in it reckons back to Genesis 1, verse 1, being the Lord of heaven and earth does not live in temples made by man Nor is he served by human hands as though he needed anything. Since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And we skip down to verse twenty-eight It says, in him we live and move and have our being. See the argument that Paul is making? That God does not need anything. God is the creator. He is the Lord of the heavens and the earth He is not served by human hands as if he needed anything. Rather, we, he gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. The dependent relationship is us. We need God. God does not need us. And that's going to be one of the chief implications of this as we look in evangelism. He does not need anything from us. In fact, we get everything from him. He is the necessary being, we are the contingent being. We are the being that could Who could not exist? He is the being that must exist. He always has existed. And then verse twenty-eight says, In him we move, we live and move and have our being. He is being himself. We are A emanation, if I can say that word, from him. I'm not saying that we are God, but I'm saying that our being is subsistent in his being. We can have no being outside of his being. That's what it says. In him we live and move and have our being. All of creation is contingent on the great I am, the only one that always has existed. So, God did not create not only so God did not create man because he needed anything, he did not need him This is actually radically different than polytheism, which often has the gods creating man as slave labor to produce them food. And actually it seems to be that Israelites had confused this, and we see this in a psalm that talked about God does not need you for food. He owns the cattle in a thousand hills. Sacrifice was never about food. But a lot of polytheism had that kind of conception that God needed you to build a temple, he needed you to build an idol, he needed you to feed him. That's exactly not what the God of the Bible is described as So, God is self-existent. He needs nothing physically. But what about does he need something emotionally? Just because he's self-existent doesn't mean he's sufficient in his emotions. Well, doesn't necessarily follow. Well let's look, let's see John 1 1 states, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. God was not eternally lonely. He had His Son, the Word, the Lagos. 1 John 4. 8 says, God is love. This is often used as just a teaching about how much God loves us, and certainly God does love us. If we look at the context, God is certainly pouring out his love for us in that scripture. But God being love in himself chiefly describes God's Trinitarian love. What this means is that chief characteristic of God, besides his self-existence, the fact that he's always existed, It is the fact that he's always had love. Love is very tightly connected to the person of God, because God can love the Son And the son could love the Father. And the Holy Spirit could be involved in that as well. God is chiefly love. See, God is not chiefly wrath For eternity past he had no one to hate, because there was no one to hate that existed. He did not hate the sun. He loved the sun. God is not chiefly mercy. He had no one to have mercy on You see what I'm saying here? God was chiefly loved because he had the Son to love for all of eternity. He was not lonely. Let me make a point here. By the way, um we have plenty of time to address questions or comments or anything like that. So if you want to I'll have a little time to ask if anyone has a question. But if you have a question, a comment, a statement, something you want to look at, just go ahead and shoot your hand up. I'll acknowledge you when I get the time, then we'll talk about it. about it. I'm chiefly convinced that coverage is the enemy of all learning. Okay, so if it's on your mind, you must care about it. And so let's address it. Okay, so please um ask questions as or comments uh as you feel uh you would like to. Okay. Let's look at another scripture talking about God's the uh God's uh Trinitarian love and his lack of loneliness John 17, 24 says, Father, I desire that they also, whom you have given me, may be with me where I am, to see my glory that you have given me, because you love me. before the foundation of the world. That which was implicit in the other scriptures has now become explicit. It's clear that Jesus describes the Father as loving him before the foundation of the world. Now when is that? When's the foundation of the world? Genesis chapter 1. Right? So God loved himself and he loved his son before creation. So God was not lonely. God did not create the world because he needed anything. God had to say it. God did not create the world because he was lonely. So why did God create the world? He created it for his own glory. We see this in Romans 11, 36. It says there, for from him and through him, and to him are all things. To him be the glory forever. Amen. Let's look through that a little bit. For from him and through him. I'm going to label that a reputation for emphasis. What's the difference from him and through him? Not much. It's really just trying to emphasize that everything came from God. It's emphasis. We actually see this often in the Bible, that, and this is one of the unfortunate things that happens because we're trained in uh school, uh uh English schools and so forth, is that we think repetition is bad. But that's not actually we need to think biblically, we don't need to critique the Bible from Western standards. And just says it's good because it tells you what's important So when we see emphasis, we should always say, Why is this being repeated? Why is he trying to emphasize this? Okay, for from him and through him And to him are all things. That to him. All things, we are part of all things, are created to him. To him be glory forever. Amen. God created all things. to be for him. You see the same thing found in 1 Corinthians 8. 6. There it says, yet for us there is but one God the Father And from whom all things came, he created all things, and for whom we exist. And there is but one Lord Jesus Christ, to whom all things came, and through whom we exist. Again, we see a Trinitarian passage here. We see this constantly that Jesus is identified as the Creator, just right along with the Father. And this makes this only actually makes sense if we understand the Trinity. The point that we wait here for is that it says explicitly and for whom we exist. We exist for God. God created us not because he was lonely, not because he needed anything, so but we God created us for him, for his glory. Humanity exists for the glory of God. Now, here's my task. Can we see this reality from Genesis one itself. So I went to some later scriptures to pull this out, but is it implicitly implied in the text itself in Genesis, of the creation of man? I think it is Please turn with me to Genesis 126. Can I have someone read that? Genesis 126 Then God said, Let us make man our image after our likeness, and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth. Okay. Before I go on, does anyone have any questions or comments on what we've discussed prior, theity of God, God's Trinitarian love, anything like that? God creating us for the His glory? Okay, we'll keep going. So we're looking for, can we find implicitly this idea that God created us for his glory in the original account of creation of man? And thank you, John, for reading that. Now, in this text, it describes man as being in the image of God. See that? Let us make man in our image after our own likeness. Now, we have to think. If I was trying to create an image of myself, how would I do it? I mean, what I don't want to install anyone's intelligence, but what is an image? An image is obviously something that reflects What is being imaged, right? If I wanted to create an image, there's only a few ways I would do it. I wanted to take a picture, they didn't have that back then. I could get someone to draw, right? But there's some limitation because that's 2D and I'm 3D So the the best way to get a good representation of me would be a statue. And also you can put it, you don't have to, you know, a drawing. You have to protect it, you know. You just can't put a drawing out there or get destroyed by the wind and so forth. That's not a real good way for me to create an image uh of myself. The best way, the most accurate way, would be to create a 3D representation So that's how we would create an image is creating a statue. Now why would anyone create a statue? Saddam Hussein, as he built up the ancient Babylonian Empire, created statues for himself all over the place. Nebuchadnezzar created statues all over the place for himself. Actually part of the one of the big dramas of of uh Daniel is this giant statue he creates that he demands people bow down. Most likely that was a statue of himself Why would anybody, this is not rhetorical now, why would anyone create a statue of themselves? Yeah, it's to bring them glory. Nobody wants to build a statue so you can worship the statue and reject them. Do you see what I'm saying here? that we create statues for our own vanity so we can get glory. The statue brings glory to that which it is being represented in. Right? I don't put statues around to take glory away from me. I put statues that bring myself glory. Now, God creates images of himself. Why did he do that? Was it to bring glory to humanity or bring glory to that which was image himself? I argue that this is like any other statue that you create. It brings glory to that which is being image. God created man in his image, and he breathes life in him. This is not quite a statue, this is much more magnificent than a statue, because this thing is alive. It has free will. It has capacity to think and to relate and have emotions. It's a wonderful, but nevertheless, it's a very sophisticated statue that brings glory to that which is imaged. Now, where do people usually put statues of the deity? The real question. Somewhere high? Okay, that's true. What else? Elevated place? Is there a special building that we put statues of deities A temple. That's what a temple is. A temple is a sacred place, right, that's dedicated to worship of, usually, a deity, and that deity is represented through a statue. Now Where does God put his statue, his image? In a sacred place. He puts it in the earth. Which I'm going to argue, and I'm not alone here, that what's happening here is God is putting his representation in his temple. Which is the earth, but it's actually more specific than the earth. But I'm I'm skipping ahead. Let me stop there. Let me go back up and we'll look at where he puts his statue and how that represents the temple. Before we do there, let's look at another element in the text. Not only does God create man after his own image, after his own likeness, he also says, let them man and female, male and female here. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And so we see that in this passage of creation of man, we have the image, bearer, and we have dominion. And these both things do relate very nicely to God, which he is imaging God is often represented as a ruler. We see in many passages already what God is called the Lord of the heavens and the earth. God is has dominion. He creates man as his vassal king, as his lesser king. to be his representative as ruler over creation. And we see this idea of God and his relationship with being a ruler very closely connected in Psalm 82. Excuse me. In Psalm 82, here's what it says. God has taken his place in the divine council. In the midst of the gods he holds judgment. How long will you judge unjustly and show partiality of the wicked? For time's sake I won't go on. This would be a fascinating study, and we could go into Psalm eighty two and I could try to prove to you That here is God, not among false gods that don't actually exist, that Paul calls them demons. That's not what's going on. That here is God amongst these Little Jesus, these little gods, these rulers, and as you saw in that little last part, how long will you judge unjustly and show partiality to the wicked? God is standing in condemnation to these rulers of the earth For their four judgment. But you see, they're called gods, lowercase qi, because their being rulers reflect in a very real way God as the supreme ruler I I wish we had time to go in there, but if anyone wonders about if that is a correct interpretation, if you want to take my word for it, you can just take Jesus' word for it in John chapter 10, where he explicitly identifies these gods in Psalm 82 as being human beings, as probably being Jewish rulers at that. Okay So we see this idea of here's an image of God and here's man having dominion, and this all kind of relates to the fact that he represents what he's imaging, God himself. So let's look at, and looking back at that kind of that concept of where did God place his statue, his image, where did he place them And what was he to do there? I said it was on the earth. That's not completely accurate. He did not well he did put him on the earth, but he didn't just put him anywhere on the earth. He didn't throw them on an island, somewhere out in the middle of nowhere. He put him in a specific place. Let's look at that. Genesis eight, uh Genesis 2, 7 through 8, and then we're going to jump down to 15. Can I have a volunteer to read Genesis 2, 7, and 8? And then jump down to 15. And then The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And the Lord God planted a garden eastward in Eden. There he put the man whom he had born. In the fifteenth? And the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden. to dress it and to keep it. Okay. So we see here that in verse 7 that here is God forming the man out of the dust. And then he's that statue I was saying, but something much more than a statue because he breathed in his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. How wonderful. Then it says in verse 8, the Lord planted a garden in the in Eden in the east. So what happened first? God first creates the man, then he plants a garden in The east, not the entire earth. The Garden of Eden was not the earth, it was in on the earth in the east. And there it says he put the man whom he had formed. This is actually an important part of the narrative, because in verse 15 he repeats that again. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work it and to keep it. So here's the order. God creates man, he plants a garden, he tells you twice, he doesn't want you to miss this, he puts the man in the garden. And his job there is to keep the garden. That's where he puts him he places his uh his man. Now again, remember what I said at the temple. It's a sacred place and distinguish it from everything else. Where you put your statue of your deity, right? And so that you can have glory. And this is what we have, right? We have the Garden of Eden as a sacred place. It's not part of the rest of the earth. And he puts this man there, right? That represents his creation, it represents his image This is representing a temple very nicely. Now, what was he to do in that garden? It says in verse 15, he was to work it and to keep it. He was the worker of the garden and the keeper of the garden. Now to figure out the full ramifications of those statements, we need to go back into Genesis 1. 28 to fill out the details, to see the full mission of man. This is going somewhere, I promise. Genesis 128 says, and God blessed them, this is creation, this is man. God blessed them and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea and the with the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. And we see That God creates man, He places them in the garden, He tells them to be fruitful and to multiply, and to fill the earth Then it says, can you subdue it? Is this cause commentators and quite an issue? Why would you need to subdue an earth that's already been subdued? There is not any fall. There's no thorns and thistles or anything else. So what's this idea of subduing? Subduing seems like one kingdom subduing another. There's some kind of opposition. You see the challenge? The difficult? This is perfect creation. What needs to be subdued? Well the answer seems to be if you put it together, man is in the garden, he's the worker and the keeper of the garden, he is to multiply and expand and to fill the earth, and he's to subdue it. The ramification is, man, as the work of the garden is to expand the Garden of Eden throughout the entire earth, so that the earth becomes the Garden of Eden. That's man's mission. That is his task. All of these things relate. Him creating him being fruitful and multiplying and filling the earth, and working the garden and expanding the garden is all part of the grand task of man to conquer the earth for God and make the entire earth the Garden of Eden. Hopefully there's some uh something splashing in your mind and you're jumping into Revelation and realizing that this will in fact happen This is in fact the end result, but I'm jumping ahead. I'll stop there, but I just want to show you where we are ultimately leading and the fact that this mission will in fact be accomplished And a little another little secret is we're part of this. And that's our evangelism. But I'll stop there. We'll look at that a little bit further. Let's go back. So that was man's mission, Adam and Eve. Did man accomplish that mission? We all know. Of course he did not. He was an utter failure, and the fall happened. I think that we're all familiar with Genesis chapter 3, where man completely failed. He didn't move the garden one inch. He didn't even have a child at that time. It was probably very early on. But we see what's amazing about that when that happens, and again I'm just I'm I'm I'm assuming that you know this already and I I believe so We know that when after man is judged, he's found out for what he did, he did not trust God, he believed a serpent, a dumb animal, over his blessed creator. And when God confronts him and he blames Blenches, then he as he gives his judgment to the serpent. This is what he said. It's the proto-evangelium. We talked about this before. The first gospel. It's in Genesis 3. 15. There it says, this is God talking to the servant. And I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and hers. He will crush your head, and you will strike his heel. So here, in this promise of the gospel, is we have the promise of the defeat of the enemy. The serpent will be destroyed. But the question that I ask is, what about the mission? Okay, the serpent is destroyed, but is the mission still going to be accomplished? That he gave man? What's the mission? Genesis 1. 28. Be fruitful and multiply fill the earth to do and have domain over the animals. Here's the problem. This is why I say, what about the mission? Because we know in 323 of the same chapter, this is what it says So the Lord God banished from the Garden of Eden , banished him, man, from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he had been taken. After he drove the man out, He placed on the east side of the Garden of Edom a cherubim and a flaming sword flashing back and forth to guard the way to the tree life. Okay, so one day that the the the great enemy, serpent, will be destroyed, but man has been banished from the garden. So how can he extend if I said if I argued that the the goal of humanity, the mission of humanity was to extend the Garden of Eden throughout the entire earth, so the earth would be the temple of God and that uh his glory would be extended from from sea to sea If I argue that, then how can they do it if they've been banished and they've been kicked out? Not only have they been banished and kicked out of the garden, but God then puts a cherubim. Which is an interesting fact. Cherubim is the first angelic host, if we even should call it that, that's mentioned in the Bible. The very first angelic host of the very first host of heaven is at Cherubim. And we do a quick little tiny uh systematic theology study on this. We realize that the devil's a cherubim. That seems to be um in in the book of Ezekiel, that the cherubim are part of the um the chariot of God. They seem to be his almost his divine bodyguards or his his his chief men, if you want to think of it that way. Right? So he puts one of his chief angelic hosts in front of this Garden of Eden. There's no way you're getting through him. Not only you're not going to get through him, but he seems to have a flaming sword. I'm not sure if he has it or if it's just going back and forth. I'm not sure, but there's a sword in a cherubim and some connection between man and the garden. He's not getting through. He's not supposed to try to get through. Not only is he not getting through, but none of his kids are getting there either. So he's completely banished. So, we see that man cannot extend the Garden of Eden because he's debanished from it, and cherubim stays before him So we're going to address this issue later. We'll go into that about how man's going to get back in that garden, how is he going to extend that garden, which I'm arguing is the mission. But let's see if any other components of the mission are stool in effect. What about man still being in the image of God? Is man still in the image of God to even image God and to bring him glory? capacity. Well, I think he is. We can find that and you can turn here because we're going to go through a few scriptures in Genesis chapter 9. Genesis chapter 9 to see if man is still in the image of God There in verse 6. Before I go there, any does any I said some some a few things. Does anyone have any questions or comments about anything I've said so far? Any clarification points? Okay. If you do, shoot your hand up. I'll stop. Alright, Genesis chapter 9. Is man still in the image of God to accomplish his mission? I think he is. Verse 6 says Actually, can someone else read that? Can I get a volunteer to read that? Genesis nine verse six. Okay. By man shall his blood be shed. For God made hand into blood. Yes. See the the the argument here is that God is creating capital punishment Don't want to go into capital punishment, but this is a very relevant scripture if you're interested in capital punishment and its validity today. But the argument seems to be here is That if a man sheds man's blood, his blood should be shed. And it gives a justification. It is that for, that purpose. For God made him in his own Image. The implication would be: man has value and killing him deserves your own death because you're killing an image of God. And killing an image of God is a great offense. Because of what it represents. All men have great value. All women have great value. All black people, white people, Spanish people, every human being has great value, and killing any of them is a capital offense against God Himself. because you're attacking that which is being imaged. That's what the argument is. Now you see that argument wouldn't make any sense if man previously was in the image of God, but now no longer is in the image of God. It would make absolutely no sense. The justification would fall apart. The argument would be invalid. So the clear implication, the good and necessary deduction, would be that man is still in the image of God. So that part of the mission is still there. Man is still in the image of God. What about the mission to fill the earth, to be fruitful and multiply? Is that component still in In the Bible. For the sake of time, I'll read this. Genesis 9, verse 1. There it says, And God blessed Noah and his sons and said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. And verse 7. And you be fruitful and multiply and increase greatly on the earth and multiply in it. Again, we see that there's an emphasis. It's repeated twice, just in case we might have missed it So, the command that man, the reality that man is still in the image of God is still there. And the command to be fruitful and multiply is still there. Now the question is, what is missing? Is there anything missing from these? reinstatement of the mission from our original passage in Genesis 128. I read it again. Let's see if we can find it. Verse Genesis 128, the original statement of the mission, says, And God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish and the birds and etc, etc. Have dominion over creation. There's something that was missing. We have We saw the image of God was repeated, and we saw the be fruitful and multiply was repeated. The thing that was missing was the command to subdue the earth. There is no command in Genesis 9 to subdue the earth. It's missing There's something else that's up being very disturbing in this text. If we look at verse uh Genesis nine, two, I'm going to read it, and we'll see it The fear of you, just talk about animals, the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every bird of the heavens, upon everything that creeps on the ground, and all the fish of the sea. Into your hand they are delivered Now, remember, Genesis 1. 28 said, you shall have dominion over all of the creatures. Genesis 9, verse 2 says, you will eat all of the creatures. And I have put them in your hand and they will be in dread of you. I like to think of it this way. What used to be your subjects are now your food supply. This is quite disturbing. Anyone who is ruling a kingdom doesn't want to eat their subjects. Their subjects are supposed to be ruled over. So this is a quite a large distortion and a change between Genesis 9 and Genesis. 128. And again, there is no command to subdue the earth. So, we see that in some sense the mission of man is still in effect. Original mission is still there. Man is still in the image of God, check. And man is still to fill the earth. And so, if man is still the image of God is still to fill the earth God still seems to be concerned about man in his image glorifying himself by the earth being full of it. Full of his image. But in some sense, it seems to be the mission is suspended. Man is barred, this is the big problem we've already seen. Man is barred from the Garden of Eden. He cannot extend that which he's not in He is also not commanded to subdue the world anymore. And to me, I think these are not two problems is really one. Because I already said to subdue the earth was to expand the Garden of Eden throughout the earth. That was the whole subduing part, and so since man is not in it, it's not surprising that we don't see the command to subdue the earth anymore. The second thing that seems to be suspended is man's dominion over the animals are fundamentally changed They go from being a vassal king, a ruler over the animals, to being a predator over the animals. Things have been seriously distorted. And this is what I plan on, I'm going to leave you here with these things, because I plan on going, we don't have time, plan on going in the next lecture or the next uh study to look through this and to see what the Bible makes of this. How are we going to figure out this is what we already see, this progressive revelation. This is the problem we've seen in the Genesis 1 to Genesis 9. What's the rest of the Bible? How's it going to fill this out? And how does this have anything to do with you sharing and taking the gospel to your neighbor and being an ambassador of Christ and Christ coming and dying and living on a tree? How does that have anything to do with any of this? And I think it has everything to do with this. So in summary, we saw that God did not create the world because he was lonely or he needed anything God is self-sufficient. God has a sanity. God has love and companionship with his son. He did not create the world because he needed anything emotionally or physically. Rather, he created the world for his glory. That's chiefly part of why he created man. His glory, in his image, to be his image bearer. We also saw that God created man not to just have fun and go play on harps and dance around. Rather, God created man with a mission. He created man to image God, to fill the earth, to subdue it, and to have dominion over all of creation. The ultimate goal was for Eden to extend throughout the earth. I argued through implication that this is still his command, and we're going to look at that further, and this is still his mission, and he will in fact do it. You just go into the end of Revelation and you can get a sneak peek of what I'm getting at. And I finally concluded with the fact that man's mission was partially disrupted, but it was partially still in effect. So, does anyone have we have a little bit of time for questions? I really want to draw some questions out of some of you, even if they're softball questions. I want to hear back from you so know that I am not just talking to the air. So can I get a few questions or comments or concerns as we have a little bit of time left? an interesting YouTube clip of R. C. Stroll. If you're confused about this idea of being, he actually explains what being is And he uses it under the title God Doesn't Exist because he talks about the the entomology of the word exist and he says how God can Can't exist because exist means to come out of something and God doesn't come out of anything. So I thought that was a real very interesting clip on R. C. Spro, Blessed Soul. Um we miss him. Yes, R. C. Sprole um made much of this um and and he's in a rich tradition going really back to at least Plato himself. of the cosmological argument. And this is really also wrapped up in what's known as the ontological argument for the existence of God. And basically to do it in a nutshell, this is what he argues. He argues that if there was ever a time when nothing existed And what's nothing, that which rocks dream of. Absolutely nothing. People will equivocate all the time. If you're ever dealing with atheists, do not let them equivocate. They say what does nothing mean? Nothing means nothing. I refuse to equivocate. That's what I say Nothing means absolutely nothing. If there ever was a time where there was absolutely nothing, right? Then what would there be now? Out of nothing comes nothing. Nothing can produce nothing. But clearly there is something that exists. Even if this is merely all an illusion, Descartes said, I think, therefore what I am. I am at least thinking. And therefore there is something that I am. I exist. See? Even if you don't exist, I exist because I'm thinking. So there must be one thing that exists, necessarily. See the argument? So since there must be one thing that exists, and out of nothing comes nothing, there must always happen something And that something is what we see here, the great I am, the necessary being, the one that must have existed from all of eternity. That is God. That's that's the cosmological argument mixed with the ontological argument, and RC Sproul, bless his soul, taught me that and And he taught many other people there. So praise God. Um I have time maybe for one more question. No? You have a question? You did open my eyeball. And the temple I thought of it that way before, but as you We we went through the different chapters and we talked about the elevation temple and then you brought us back to the scripture. I I I can visualize that. Oh wonderful. Um let me let me go ahead and uh close this in prayer. Let me say one other thing, one interesting um I might I don't I don't think I'll have time to go into this again, but it's fascinating to look at the cherubim. Remember that cherubim was in front of the Garden of Eden? That cherubim is also in the robe, and the curtain. The curtain is full of cherubim. That curtain is what keeps the Holy of Holies and the temple from the rest of the area. We look at Hebrews, it says that that curtain describes a barrier between us and God, essentially. Now what does Jesus come and destroy on the cross? What rips from top to bottom? the curtain, which is telling us that the way, and Hebrews illustrates this, which is telling us that the way of the Garden of Eden, the way of paradise, is reopened. Okay, we'll look at that more later. But there is there is certainly a rich and wonderful uh theology that the Bible has for us and to see that Genesis and Revelation and everything in between and what we do is chiefly important. And we are part of something way bigger than us, and it's all about the glory of God. Let's pray