My brother asked me about um apostasy. What what is apostasy? They they heard my uh conversion and and and my testimony about my conversion, I mentioned that my dad had converted to Christianity. and then uh then fell away. And so they they were kind of taken aback and surprised because uh I'm a refusalist, I'm I'm a monologist and and uh kind of thinking, well You know, are you saying that people can can lose their salvation if they gain their salvation and they can subsequently lose it? No, no, I'm not saying that. Um I I firmly believe that those who are uh that that God regenerates and changes and gives to the Holy Spirit, those people Um, that no one will snatch them out of God's hand, that God will not allow them to ultimately apostasize. Excuse me um that they can they can fall into into great immorality. And we see that with with David, right? David fell into into great immorality. But David also, you know, wrote Psalm fifty one where he he says, uh to cleanse me, to wash me, to forgive me. He he repents of his sins and and he's uh he's reestablished. Uh the best example of this if you if you think about The difference from Peter, who did something terrible and and very wicked, right? You remember you remember Peter, he denied the Lord. He he re he denied the Lord. There was gross immorality there Um but but then Judas also portrayed the Lord, you know, I mean I would say worse, but but nevertheless these are two uh at of two incidents of gross immorality. But yet Judas dies in his sins, he does not recover, while Peter certainly recovers. So believers can fall into gross immorality for a time and to a season, but ultimately believers will will rise back up and and and um and and come back to the Lord. But what about people who uh who who seem like they're believers, who who who seem to ha to make a credible profession of faith and and then later apostatize? I mean We every system has to recognize there are a group of people who from from all external factors look like they're Christians but ultimately die in unbelief. Demas Judas I just mentioned, Saul. There there's a lot of examples that we can think of. Maybe you can even think of someone in your life who was who's a baptized member of your church. I can think of these people who baptized members of our churches and and then and then fell away and from from the Lord. Well Every system has to has to recognize this. And so when we talk about uh conversion, or when I use that word he converted to Christ, I'm saying From all appearances, this person uh went from a hating the Lord, not knowing the Lord, to now following after the Lord But that doesn't mean that their their their heart was truly with the Lord. If if you truly know the Lord, if you truly love him and see him as beautiful and wonderful, you you'll never fall away. If you truly believe him, and then you'll you'll hear the the threats in his word about if you fall away you will go to hell that will cause you because you'll believe it and cause you to fear and make sure that you never actually end up as that kind of person And so I I firmly believe, as first John says, that these went out from us to reveal that they were not of us, because if they were of us, they would not have gone out from us. See So so there are people, there are a group of people in our churches that are from all external purposes Christian Okay? This is like the the the parable of the sower. This is the the the the uh the soils that spring up for a short period of time and then either are choked out by the by the world Okay, or choked out by or destroyed by persecution. So there are fake believers who that through the lusts of the world will be revealed to be fake believers, and and there are fake believers who through persecution will be revealed as fake believers. But here's the point. They will be revealed. There's the good soil that springs up sixty for sixty, you know, uh thirty, fixty, and a hundredfold. And and so with believers, we will end up saying the same thing uh that That Paul said that I have run the good race. I have fought the good fight. We will overcome the world. God will not let us uh will not let us jump out of his hand. He will hold us fast. But this doctrine should not be twisted to some distortion of of once saved, always saved. I made a profession of faith, and so it doesn't matter now that I've apostatized, now that I've abandoned the true and living God, and I'm living Either I'm rejecting the Lord by my actions or rejecting the words even worse, well, equally worse, should I say, by my lips, then I'm saved. No, absolutely not. That's called apostasy And that's actually what what Peter says, you are worse than an unbeliever. You are in a state that is worse. It was better for you never to come. Why? Because now you are completely hardened to the truth in every respect imaginable. Now you've been you say, I've been there and I've done that. There is no message for you anymore. There's only one gospel and you have already understood it. And so there's nothing else that you can do to such a person. You can't proclaim any new message to them. They've already completely understood the message and have subsequently rejected it. This is the worst condition at all. This person is uh as hard as a rock. I I know I actually I know someone very close to me that's in this condition and and they're in a much worse condition than someone who doesn't fully understand and and you can still talk to them, there's still information you can give to them. There is still some hope. That that one day that that God will open their eyes and they can hear and they can understand and they'll see what do you do to the person who understands and and has been there, done that, and rejected? Not very much. You y you really can't do very much at all. Um and and I think that this this might also have relationship to the um the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Uh uh a full fully understanding uh the the power of God and the reality of God and yet saying no No. I believe that is the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. Um, how do we know someone to do that? Well, you know, apostasy is certainly is certainly one indication. Does that mean we don't preach the gospel to the apostates? We certainly do. We hope that they never fully understood the gospel. But there is little hope. There is truly little hope for someone who ha has claim to to be a Christian, part of an evangelical church, who who says that they understood the gospel, who for all practical purposes seems to have understood the gospel in a following, um, there's very little hope for that that kind of individual So so when I talk about when I use when I'm talking about uh someone converting to Christianity, we're talking about we're talking about an external reality of of seeing them seemingly follow Christ, say the right things and and and doing the right things. But we can't see the heart. Okay, we can't see the heart. We can't see if someone truly is truly and sincerely clinging to the Lord. Now if I say this, you wonder, is that me? Could I become a fossil? Well, I I can well let's we can we can find that out very quickly. Are you clean to Jesus Christ and Him alone? Do you see Him as beautiful and your only chance for salvation? Do you have true communion with Him? Do you? If you don't? Huh? You very much might be an apostate, and you very much uh might end up to being an apostate, uh, living in this hypocritical uh false uh a false religion uh uh uh appearance So, if you're worried about being a prostate, make sure that you're saved. Make sure that you're saved. Make sure that you truly know the Lord. Have you truly know the Lord? You'll never stop knowing him. If you truly believe the Lord, you'll never stop believing him. You'll recognize that to live into this gross immorality will lead to death. The warnings are for to say, if you jump off that bridge, you're gonna die. And those who believe the warning won't jump off the bridge. But if you jump off that bridge, you're gonna die. Okay? So it doesn't matter what relationship you think you have with the Lord, you jump off that bridge, you're gonna die. And so if you fall into gross unrepentant sin, you're gonna die. You're gonna die. So you cannot play God. God will not be mocked. God will not be mocked. You cannot take the beautiful doctrine of eternal security that God will never lose his own and say, oh yes, God won't lose his own, so I'm going to live in gross immorality. Ha ha ha. The joke's on you The joke's on you because you have shown that you don't truly have a true heart for God and you don't know him and you will apostasize and die out there. See, God is smarter than you. The Bible is wonderful, it's a beautiful system. It gives uh the doctrine of eternal security for believers with tender consciousness wondering if they're going to be saved. See if you constantly focus about am I going to be saved, you can't focus about changing the world and blessing other people and trying to save the people who need to be saved who are out there If you're constantly just wondering, Am I going to be saved? Am I going to be saved? You need to focus on this is the most important thing. And it is. And that's why you need uh to make sure that you're right with God. But once you're right with God, you can recognize I can go do other things and focus on saving people out of there instead of trying to save myself, right? That makes sense. I'm not gonna try to save someone else either out of the fire when I'm still in the fire. I need to get out of the fire and then I can try to save them. In fact this reminds me of people on airplanes People in airplanes are always say, put your mask on first, then try to help the other guy. Because if you're out here without your mask, losing oxygen, try to help the other guy, you're gonna pass on, they're both gonna die. See? So we need to make sure that we're first saved Okay? And so that's what the doctrine of eternal security does for us. It says, I'm saved, I am good, I am secure in Christ. But then the doctrine of apostasy helps us on the other end, saying we don't shouldn't abuse that to say, I'm saved, I'm good, therefore I can Not worry about myself. Instead of using that not worrying about myself to help others, I can work not worry about myself to indulge in in in in all kinds of gross immorality. Haha the joke's on you, like I said. Because the doctrine of apostasy says, oh no, no You are so wrong and you are so confused. Because if you do that, you show that you're not saved at all. See, God is smarter than you. These both of these doctrines hint you and the doctrine of eternal security helps you to be outward focused The doctrine of apostasy helps you from taking the doctrines of eternal security and abusing it to live like the devil. You live like the devil, you'll be with the devil. You'll you'll depart with him. And you will inherit the fire with him, the eternal fire, prepared for the devil and his angels, will you be tormented day and night forever and ever. Do not mock God, do not play God. The doctrine of apostasy is scary and is real. And if you're a believer secure in Christ Oh, you better fear the doctrine of apostasy and recognize, oh but the grace of God I would be doing that and I don't want to play with this pornography. I don't want to play with these sins because I might die in them. Oh yes, you better fear that But you can also say, Oh, but I have a wonderful Savior, and he will not let me go. And let me just end with this. The person I know that apostas , the person I know that that abandoned the Lord. He fell into gross immorality. And because he was not of the Lord, he went that way. Let me tell you something. Let me say something else about that. You know what the first gross immorality was? Forsaking the gathering of the saints. That's why Hebrews says, do not forsake the gathering of the saints And then it goes on to talk about apostasy. The first great immorality that you can do is forsake the gathering of the saints. Oh, that's dangerous, don't do it. But they forsake the gathering of saints, don't the ghost of morality, went that way. It's me who's fallen fallen into gross immorality. But I was a true child of God. And guess what? He brought me back. He brought me back and restored me. That is the difference. The difference from Peter and Judas. But That doctrine believing that God believing that God can bring us back and believing that He will bring us back does not mean I jump out there into the shore Oh no no no. I'm a hundred percent convinced that I'm saved and a hundred conven hundred percent convinced if I go and intensely jump into immorality, I'm gonna be dead and dead in the water. The doctrine of apostasy keeps me from doing that because I fear God. We should not go around planning, oh I know I'm saved, so I'm gonna jump in. Oh you don't play God. Well we'll we have a verse for you. You play God that way and we'll be saying about you, he is not of us. And he went out from us to manifest that he was not of us. I don't care if you're a preacher, I don't care how holy you were, I don't care what your experience were, you do that. Oh you'll be out there And and we'll say that verse about you. So that that that's the the the the balanced doctrine of of eternal security with the positive. You need both. You absolutely need both to make sense of it. And so that's why the Bible talks about uh uh Christians, uh people in in the garb of Christianity that go and prophesy Because it talks about them phenomenologically as they appear, because we cannot see the heart of its scribes uh as they appear. And also it's for us all of us sheep When we see the false sheep it scares us all and it keeps us all in line. So so that's the doctrine on posse and how it relates to eternal security.