I want to discuss why it is that Christians are so pro-life. Why is it that Christians so resist abortion and uh will fight against it. We'll even pick candidates where the watching world just cannot seem to understand You're Christian, this other candidate is is so obviously not Christian, can't you see that they're just trying to use the Christian vote to to get elected and They're not Christian at all, they don't have good ethics, they don't have good value. Why are you a almost a single issue voter? Why is this pro-choice uh perspective. Why is that so important for Christians? Can't you just uh you know if you don't agree with it then don't do it. But just let them be. If they want to have an abortion That's their choice. Ultimately, that's up to them and God. They're gonna have to answer to it. Uh you just don't do it. You just don't partake. And why is it such a big deal for you Christians? I wanna answer that question. The first thing we have to understand is for the Christian that the the the child in the womb is a person. You have to understand the Christian perspective. is that we're saying that the the the life of a person begins at conception. When does your personal identity come into reality. It comes into reality at conception. You also have to recognize that for the most part when we're discussing pro-life When when I we're even going beyond conception and and oftentimes this this discussion gets into after implantation has occurred And even beyond that, what we're usually talking about is when the woman comes to comes to know that she is actually pregnant. And so that's, you know, four to six weeks after pregnancy, that's already when there is a clearly a a person being uh a person being formed inside of the womb to have their own DNA. They have their own heartbeat, that is a person. I mean, and and the and abortion goes all the way up until the very moment of birth. And we're saying that clearly there is a person prior to that. And so taking the life of a person is wrong. Ultimately we are not allowed to decide because I don't want someone or or or something like that by personal decision to kill someone, that is not our prerogative. Ultimately, the value of humanity comes not from our opinion. Okay, oftentimes humanitarians and people who don't believe in God, they still because of the image of God written on their hearts, they still recognize that man has value, man has worth, and you can't just It could harm them. But what happens when man strips other men of that value of that personhood, such as the case of abortion when they say, well, you uh your personhood or your value is only dependent upon the choice of the woman, whether the woman wants you or not. Well, are we allowed to allow uh people to strip the value of humanity? And the answer is no. When when Hitler decided that the Jews were not valuable That did not strip the Jews of their value given to them by the Creator. This is an inalienable right. This is a right given to them by God. God's the one who says that man has value because he is in the image of God and to kill him is an attack on God. God says to attack his image is to attack him. Thou shalt not murder And and so we are not allowed to kill another person. We are not allowed to take the life of another person without without uh them being convicted of a crime worthy of death or some other circumstances like the protecting a country in a situation of war or even maybe Self-defense without some justification, we're not allowed to take someone's life. And simply not wanting someone is not a justification. So you have to understand For the Christian reading the Bible, believing the Bible, understanding that man is given its worth by God, it is not right, it is unlawful, it is evil. It is just evil to kill a child because you do not want them. It is fundamentally evil and Christians will never will absolutely never say that this practice is okay. It does not matter how many people go around shouting that it is okay and you need to you need to just get with it We will not get with it. We will be with the Bible. The Bible says that let God be true and every man a liar. Now What about this claim that well just don't do it yourself and and let them be. Let the secular if they want to have an abortion let them be. That unfortunately does not work. The Bible says that true religion is to keep yourself unstained from the world and take care of orphans and widows to take care of the defenseless. And so when we see these these children made in the image of God being slaughtered by the approval of the government and we have some say because we live in a democratic nation, well we can vote and we can uh make some changes and for us just to ignore that and say, Well that's just you. You can do w you can do you and I'll do me is absolutely uh despicable, absolutely not what we can do. If I see a widow out there starving and and and hungry and I say, I'm just gonna do me And you just do you. I see an orphan out there starving and hungry, or even worse, being beat, being hurt, being killed. You think I'm just gonna say, I'll just be me and you just be you? Absolutely not. That's not what we are to do. You remember when God asked Cain, you know, where is Abel? He said, Am I my brother's keeper? The answer is yes, we are our brother's keeper. Remember the the the parable of the good Samaritan. Jesus gives this example of this stranger seeing this other stranger in need. In fact he's more than a stranger. He's an enemy and he sees them in need and what does he do? He takes care of them and he says, You do likewise. This is the kind of person that you should be. So if I see my fellow brother and sister made in the image of God being slaughtered. Do you think that I'm not going to stand up and say, What are you doing if you walked outside and saw a man trying to kill an infant or an old lady or Anybody for that matter? Would you not stop it? Would you not get in the way and say, This is wrong? I will not allow you to do such a thing Of course you would, but we have a government, we have a a a political party that allows the murder of children. Why would you think that Christians who love humanity Who's h wants the best for them? That's why we try to evangelize because we want to see people saved because we don't want them to dwell apart from God forever in a place of everlasting burnings, everlasting fire being tormented day and night, forever and ever, they will have no rest. We don't want people to be there. And so we share the good news that Jesus Christ can save them, whether they've had an abortion or anything else, Jesus Christ can save them. We love people and so we love children. And so when we see them murdered, of course we're going to try to get in the way and try to say No, this is not your choice. Certainly is your choice is an evil choice, and you should not do it. This should be an illegal practice. We will try to save lives. We care about people's lives. So no Christian can simply just ignore the issue when we can do a difference. This is literally a matter of life and death Okay, these are uh babies being slaughtered. Whether, you know, w this beyond just uh just conception, you gotta realize That abortion happens all the way up until the very birth of the child. I have four children. This is disgusting. You're telling me that of of that when the baby comes out that's a person and to kill it is a crime, but to stick your hand inside of a woman and to kill that same exact baby moments before They coming out. Now all of a sudden it's a medical procedure. This is disgusting. How could anyone possibly justify this? Well I can tell you it is because the heart is evil and sick. and wicked. We know second trimaster second trimaster abortion happened. I listened to one abortion doctor said that ten percent of the abortions that he he did He did uh 1,200 abortions over a four to five year period. He said ten percent, that's 120 abortions, were second trimester abortions. where he would after dismembering the person, he would then look to make sure that all the parts were there. Here's the head, here's the arms, here's the legs. Are you kidding me? You think this isn't a person when you're saying, Here's the legs, here's the on, here's the feet Are you serious now? Come on You are killing a human being. It is disgusting. Of course, Christians will say, this is wrong. You should not do this. We will stand up for those who have No voice. We will never stop doing this. We will always fight for the defenseless. Christians have been doing this from the beginning. Back when Christianity first spread, and in that day when infanticide was the thing to do And not abortion. And because the Romans they saw that infanticide was actually better than abortion because at least when they when they left the baby out to be exposed in in in the outside At least someone could come and rescue the baby. At least the baby had a chance. Abortion was certain death and at least this gave the opportunity. And do you know what Christian did from the very beginning? They went and picked those children up and raised them and and taught them the way of the Lord and many of those children are saved and in the arms of Jesus forevermore. Do you know what the pagans would do? They would leave them out there to die and then sometimes people would pick them up and attach them into Temple prostitution, even at tiny ages, even at small ages and small children, they would sh they would cause them, they would exploit them and use them in in sex trafficking. That's the evil world. Infanticide or picking these people up and abusing them. But the Christians, no. We took care of these children. We love these children and we raised them up in the fear and admonition of the world. We love children Jesus loved children. Jesus said, let the children come to me. He blessed the children and we are to be his hands and feet. Jesus said, you are the light of the world. And so we are now the light of the world and we are to hug and to love and to care and to be s uh to be supporting life and not murder. We should not support the murder. I I think back if I was If I was in uh Nazi Germany and I knew that there were Jews being slaughtered, would I not do what I could do to hide Jews and try to get Jews out of there and try to save lives. Yes I would and and people who have done that, we call them heroes. The liberals call them heroes. The conservatives, Bible believers, unbelievers, we all call them heroes because they fought for life. Okay, they fought for life. But thou now us in this day we say we would do that, right? We think we would do that, we would fight for the defenses, we would fight for the Jews and not let them be slaughtered. But yet today Yet today people are winking their eye and ignoring or even supporting the murder of millions and millions of children. Shame on you, shame on you, and you will be judged by God for your wickedness. You say that I would not have done that, yet you do things even worse. You are a hypocrite You are a hypocrite, you care more about the lives of animals. You care more about the lives of eggs and and and of of of trees? Are you serious? Sure I care about trees, but do you seriously care more about the conditions of chickens and and and trees and plants more than human babies This is twisted, this is sick, this is what happens when your mind is corrupted and you're and you're a slave to sin. Your mind needs to be renewed. You need to think rightly. These are people, they have value We should support life, not support the culture of death. We don't get to decide what the value of an image bearer is. The value of an image bearer is made by God. The God who created us said Thou shall not kill. Thou shalt not kill. You shall not take a person's life without justification. And it is not It is not, it is absolutely not justification to kill someone because it's inconvenient to you, because you don't want them. Someone does not have the right to kill you because they do not want you. Imagine a woman who just gave birth and decided I don't want this child, grabbed a knife and tried to kill the baby If they succeeded in doing that, or even if they attempted it, we would lock them in jail. But it's okay to pay a doctor five minutes prior to that to put a sca you see what I'm saying? This is disgusting. It is evil. It should not be done. We should fight. for life. We should fight for life. We fight for life and the womb. We fight for life outside of the womb, and we ultimately fight for the lives of the people's soul. We ultimately want people saved because we care about people. We care about people enough to preach the gospel to them. We care about people enough to not sit around and allow people to murder other people for no good reason, for no justification. This person does not deserve death and we will fight for lives.