Today's passage will be coming from 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. We're going to look at 1 through 11. We're going to specifically be honing in on four through 11. eleven. Now concerning the times and the seasons, brothers, you have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night When people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman, and they will not escape But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith and love, and for a helmet the hope of salvation But God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, who died for us. So that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with Him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up, just as you are doing. So I remember many years ago I was in a small group meeting with the the pastor was leading that meeting and we were reading a book from John Piper. And I remember we were discussing that book and John Piper was talking about the fact that we are at war and we need to recognize that we're at war and we need to uh live our lives in correspondence to the warfare that we are in. He's saying that we need to have a warfare mentality and so many Christians are in fact having a peacetime mentality. And I remember in that discussion saying, you know, I agree with what John Piper is saying, but it's almost so obvious it doesn't need to be stated. How could you possibly be a Christian And yet not understand that you are in a cosmic war for your very lives. Being Christian, part and parcel of being a Christian is to understand that you are someone at war. So I was agreeing with John Piper, but I was kind of critiquing in the sense, being overly uh contentious, I will admit, uh, about the fact that such words almost didn't even need to be said And yes, that's exactly what Paul is saying in the verses that we are we we have read and that we are going to discuss, and that's in fact the very one of the points that I'm going to bring up in this sermon. myself is the fact that we are at war. So I was wrong. John Piper was right. The Bible is right. The fact is that we as Christians often can forget that we are at war, especially us Christians in the West, who are not currently being persecuted for our faith. A lot of us are wealthy, even if we don't feel wealthy, a lot of us have surrounded. surplus cash. A lot of us, if we so choose, can buy presents for our children. We can go out to eat. We have our our worries sometimes are whether the stock market will uh hit our our average ten percent returns or or thirteen. I mean, we are certainly in uh a land of prosperity and with all of this prosperity we can certainly forget that we are at war. So let us review of what we discussed last time. We see that a major theme in our passage is the idea that there is darkness and that there is light. That there's a group of humanity that is associated with Satan and evil and referred to as children of the darkness or or children of the night. And there's a group of humanity that's associated with with God and Jesus Christ. They're the saints of the holy ones. They're the children of the day or the children of the light in our passage And last time we discussed how this meta-narrative of these two groups, the children are light, the children are darkness, the two the children of the offspring of the woman and the offspring of Satan run throughout the entirety of the scriptures. We first see that introduced in the Genesis 3 passage right after the fall where God says, all right, there's two groups of humanity, there's two groups of individuals that are in constant comp constant cosmic warfare And it's the children of the woman and the children of the serpent. The children of the serpent are those who follow the devil. That is demons, but more specifically here That is humanity ha who has become like demons, they have fallen, and now they worship the devil. And thought, action, deeds, and just indifference to the true God. Those are the offspring of of the woman. Even Jesus, when he was disputing with the Jews, said, You are not of you're not a son of Abraham. And you're certainly not a son of God, but you are a son of the devil, and your rejection of me only shows how much you really are a son of the devil. And so that that's one part of humanity. The other part of humanity is the the son of the woman, the offspring of the woman, that is a reference to the fact that That all the people of God, we evangelize one another, and so that we birth spiritual children. So in one sense we are the offspring of believers, in another sense we are an offspring of Abraham, because God has promised to Abraham that He was going to bless the nations and and you and your offspring will inherit the entire land that was ultimately fulfilled to Christ and us being engrafted in Christ. And we become sons of Abraham. So this other part of humanity is the offspring of the woman, the offspring of of Abraham, this the offspring of Abraham. of God, even the offspring of Christ. All of this. Those are the two facets of humanity. And then we also saw last time that, well, as I was kind of mentioning, that there are these various labels. Various labels for believers were saints were also referred to as holy ones, offspring of the woman, offspring of God. And there's these various nuances in in these various phrases. So th there's a various new ones also in this phrase of being an offspring of the light. Yes, it is referring to the same individual as being a child of God, but there is a reason why we are called children of light. It's a reason why the text gives us that additional labor that's trying to bring out some kind of nuance. We saw that with the offspring of of of the woman. And now we looked at the offspring of well what it means to be a son of the day or a son of the night. Now in our passage it refers to the sun of the day or the sun of light and the sun of darkness or the sun of night. And so this close connection between light and day, darkness and night can be seen. Well, just looking out at creation, right? It when it is day, it is light, when it is Night it is dark. And so there is a natural connection there. We also trace this idea of light and darkness day and night, and we trace it from Genesis throughout the Bible, but I'll just remind you of that. We very f we very first see the concept of darkness. We don't have to get very far in the Bible at all before darkness already shows up. It shows up in Genesis. when we see that God creates the world and he doesn't create the world fully inhabited, he doesn't create the world uh in its per in its perfect paradise form. And rather we get the very ominous picture of of that there is uh uh darkness and there is uh void and there is uh this this this watery darkness where the the spirit of god is hovering and it's a very ominous and scary picture But we have some light of some scenes of hope and some scenes of of light, should I say, if you want to think of it that way, when you have the Spirit of God hovering over, he's conquering, God is putting his A foot, if you want to think of it like that, on top of the darkness that says, I own this. This has been conquered already. And the very first thing that God does is he speaks light into his creation through his word. So the Holy Spirit's conquering the darkness, and then the Father speaks and empowers creation through his word. And says, let there be light, and the light overcomes the darkness, and the darkness cannot overtake it. But God, for his own providential reasons, does not completely banish the darkness, but he separates the light from the darkness and divides creation between good and evil, light and darkness. There's a period of time that's governed by darkness. There's a period of time that is governed by the light. And this is the way that uh creation unfolds. Interesting enough, I don't know uh all of the ramifications of this, but interesting enough, when we enter into the garden paradise of light There is darkness in creation in the form of a serpent slithering around with his evil plants and So not only do we have creation, there is light and then there is darkness, we have actually moral light and moral darkness found in the creation through Satan. Humanity falls and uh the world is plunged into spiritual darkness. We still have light. We still have uh darkness in creation, but the moral atmosphere of the universe has now plunged itself into darkness. But there are still forces of light. There are still angels and there are still people being saved out of the darkness and brought into the light, into the kingdom of God. So that's the original state of creation. And we look at the last book of the Bible. In the book of Revelation, interesting enough, you remember how creation was formed in watery darkness that was void? Well the new creation has no void, is filled with humanity and creation, uh in this paradise form where God and man dwell together. There is no more darkness at all, not even a period of darkness, but darkness is completely banished from the new creation and it is a place of only light where God is the light and the lamp is the lamb of God and we walk through the light. There is absolutely no darkness any longer. We dwell with God. In fact, there's not even a sea anymore. All that sea, chaos, darkness, danger is gone, and now there is nothing but peace for the people of God. So creation is only now ruled by the light and darkness is finished, but darkness does not cease to exist altogether, but rather you have the wicked placed into The abyss, place into the outer darkness, place into the chaos of separation , So that original state of creation is very similar to what the wicked will live in, that that abyss, that chaos, that emptiness, that separation from God and his goodness forever. That is the destination of the wicked, where there'll be incomplete darkness forever. And so we start off with darkness God breaks in and brings the light into the darkness and separates creation between a light phase and a dark phase. And we're ultimately going to have a separation of the light phase and the dark phase, where the wicked will go with the darkness and the righteous will go with the light. And so right now we live in that time in between these two great phases, this intermediate state, if you want to think of it that way, very short-lived. Very temporal it will go and fade away and no longer exist very soon from now. And we can think of uh this how temporal this reality is is remember Jesus Christ. And remember he died and he rose on the third day and he gets this glorified body. And for 40 days and forty nights he He walks around Earth. At least he makes appearances uh sporadically. We don't know exactly what he was doing all forty days, but at least sometime during these forty days he periodically showed up with his glorified body on the earth while there were still people with non-glorified bodies on the earth. So there's this intermixing between glorified individuals, namely Jesus and non-glorified humanity. Very temporal, forty days, and then forever separated, right? Not to ever return again. Well that's like our current state right now where we have the state of light and the darkness. Right now we see the wicked. Right now we interact with the wicked. Right now we have the opportunity to save some of the wicked and to bless the wicked. But in eternity future, we will have no more opportunity to be around the wicked. Praise God in one sense, right? Because we don't have to deal with them any longer. But there is a day coming where no man can work. You will no longer be able to bless the wicked in any way whatsoever. Or more poignantly, in the most important way, which is to save their soul. Their destiny will be fixed. There will be no opportunity to do anything for the wicked whatsoever. Today is the day where we have an opportunity to reach out, to evangelize, to bless, and to urge them to come into the kingdom of light. But tomorrow no more. And not just that. These people that we are so impressed with, these people that we are tempted to be jealous about, these people that we think that they're getting ahead, that they're getting over on God No longer the wicked will be completely separated and the reality of their damnation and the doom that they have cast upon themselves by rejecting God will be fully manifested for all to see. You will have no temptation to be jealous of these people whatsoever. But you already know this. You can already see this So we should already not be jealous of these people. We should pity these people and say, wake up from your stupor. You're headed to hell. Those treasures, those pleasures, they will ultimately only cause you Doom and pain, and you need to come over to the light. Come and join the day. Can't you see? Even creation testifies to this. You live during the day. You enjoy life during the day. At least you should. Okay, if you're a night dweller, which our pastors will talk about, then there is something Seriously wrong, but creation naturally says humanity is supposed to work and operate in the day. The day is where we're supposed to be, and at night we sleep. That is the way creation is supposed to operate. It's teaching us we're supposed to sleep and to rest from evil Okay? That's why we sleep at night. We rest from the evil and we work during the day. That is what creation is testifying to us. So let us have ears to hear and eyes to believe. So that is all by way of summary of these themes of light and darkness and all that we see in our passage. So let's jump into verses four and five. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief. for you are all children of light, children of the day, we are not of the night or of the darkness So here Paul is building upon these two concepts of day and night, which we've already seen. But notice now he tells us that whether you're part of the day or whether you are part of the night, this will be the supreme importance and the ultimate deciding factor of how the day of the Lord comes upon you. See because if you are in the darkness or if you are in the night, the day of the Lord will come upon you like a thief. Christ will break into your house and come and steal all of your stuff, if you want to think about it that way. Okay? He'll steal all of your stuff and cast you into the lake of fire. When I say steal your stuff What I mean by that is the fact that none of that stuff is coming with you. Okay? You have absolutely nothing left. You will be as if you had absolute that you have been completely plundered because all of your goods will burn up and when all will uh stay here and remain on the earth. and they'll all be inherited by the saints. See, the saints have heavenly bank accounts where they're storing up all these treasures from uh from the Lord so that when he comes, he's not us taking our stuff if we want to think about it that way, but he's blessing us with all of our stuff, our our investments of our heavenly bank accounts. are now uh being filling up and they're overflowing it now we can draw from these wonderful dividends and compound interest of heavenly treasures that are in heaven. Christ will not come to his believers like a thief, but he'll come to the wicked who live in the darkness as a thief and take their stuff. But we are children of the light, children of the day, not of the darkness. So we don't have to worry about Christ coming to us like a thief. But he will come to us as our King, as our Savior, as our rescuer. Do you view Christ in that way? When all of your stuff goes gone, it gets burnt up. Are you saying, Hallelujah? Because now I have more of you, Lord. Or is your hope merely on the physical stuff here on the earth? Is that where your heart is? Is that where your soul is on your PlayStation 4? Your Netflix, your Facebook account, your reputation, your physical beauty, the way you can do your makeup, is that where your hope and destiny is? If it is, it will all burn up with the earth. But if your hope is in Christ, if you want more of him, you say, God give me more of you, then your greatest desire will happen when Christ comes. The great harvest happens, and humanity is forever divided completely by this coming of Christ. Verse six and seven describe the ethical requirements of being children of light. So we we've seen the benefits. If you're a child of light, then Christ will come for you and you will be blessed at his second coming. He will not come as a thief, but he'll come as a friend. He'll come as a savior. He'll come as your long-lost husband who's been deployed and you've been waiting for him to come back so that he can spend time with you. Verse 6 and 7 says, okay, those are the benefits of being a child of light. Now here are the ethical requirements for you to be a son of God. Here's what it says. So let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. So because we are children of the light, let us not sleep as others do. Now, here I'm tempted to uh go into the book of Proverbs and quote, a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands, and poverty will come upon you. But uh that's actually probably not what it is talking about. We need to hear that sermon. We need to hear the sermon that we need to stop being a sluggard and to work And not overtly sleep, but sleep itself isn't bad either. We need to hear that sermon too, right? From uh the book of Genesis and Exodus and The Lord's day and Jesus said the Sabbath was not real. Man was not made for the Sabbath, but the Sabbath was made for man. So we need to hear that too, that rest is good and and rest is delightful for the soul. And God doesn't want you to work like a machine. You're not a machine, you're a man. And just that he worked six days and rested one, you should work six days and rest one understanding that he doesn't expect you to be a man. What it means is um sleeping is a sick Sleeping can be sleeping can be a sin, but it doesn't have to be. It's is what I'm saying that God has allowed us God has allowed us to uh rest at certain levels But neither one of those sermons are actually what this passage is talking about. This passage isn't talking about actual physical rest, and both of those sermons would refer to physical rest. Rather, what this sermon, what this passage is talking about is an ethical idea of of sleeping. An ethical idea of of resting. It's to be Not alert. Okay. Just because like someone who's sleeping. They don't know what's going on. They don't know what's happening on the outside world because they're sleeping. They are inattentive. They are ignorant of reality. And to give you a poignant example of this, a lack of ability to know what's going on in reality while you sleep. Consider Samson and Delilah. Here's Samson, the strongest man in the world, the man who will destroy anyone. They cannot get this guy This guy will he's ripping uh he's destroying thousands of men with jawbones of a donkey. He's taking gates and and ripping them off of the cities and taking them up to the mountains. They can't get this guy. They're putting him in ropes. He's breaking out and just wildly killing everybody. He is that powerful by the Spirit of God. Okay? But how powerful is Samson as he sleeps? He's not very powerful at all. And you remember as he gets seduced by this woman, Delilah. And he's she's harassing him, and he tells her, Well, if you tie my hair, then I will lose my power. And Delilah could not tie his hair when he was awake, 'cause he's the most powerful man in the world, but he certainly can be tied up when he is asleep. And of course, then she cries out, Samson, the Philistines are upon you and he gets up in all his strength and beats em all down. And this goes on and on until eventually he tells her his secret that if you cut my hair, then I will lose my strength And so sure enough he is sleeping. How strong is Samson when he sleeps? He's as weak as a baby. He has no strength. His hair is cut off. Would Samson have allowed his hair to be cut when he was awake? No way. You would not have gotten near his hair, your fingers would have been broken off and neck would have been snapped. But as Samson is asleep He is unaware of what is happening. His hair is cut off. He is bound. His eyes are plucked out, and he's made fun of like a clown. See, Sanchon has no strength when he is asleep, and neither do you have any strength when you are asleep. So let us not sleep, but let us keep awake. Let us be spiritually alert. Let us not go and nap a little rest, a little slumber. We think about pilgrims. Progress. Remember Pilgrim's progress? He was supposed to need he was on the hill of difficulty and he needed some rest. Okay, not bad, right? The Sabbath principle. We all need some rest. Okay. But he slept. And slept and slept. And then he lodged his parchment and he had to walk in the night and eventually go back to retrieve his parchment and he was kicking himself the whole time saying why did i sleep so long he was not alert four times Exactly, he had to go back four times, he had to go that same path four times he's kicking himself head. Oh, how much further I would have been if I would not have slept And that's the same concept here. Let us not sleep. Let us have spiritual alertness. Let us be keen on what's going on in reality. Let us keep awake and to be sober. Let us be sober about the future. Let us be sober about God and his benefits. Let us be sober about reality. And the verse 7 says, For those who sleep, sleep at night. And those who get drunk are drunk at night. There is certain behavior that is appropriate for night, right? If it's night, it is appropriate to sleep. Well, I wouldn't say is appropriate, but at least people do this thing about getting drunk. People are the the wickedness comes out of them at night. People go clubbing, people do all kinds of wicked things. If you want to think of it that way. I don't know uh why this is. There's just something about it that at night that people it's the cover of darkness, it's Something built into us that when people want to do their vices, they often do it at night So there's a certain behavior that is uh that is appropriate and characteristic of nighttime behavior. Okay? But we are not of the night. So if we're not other night, then this behavior should not be is neither appropriate for us, nor should it be characteristic of us Even the drunkard, you have to be an extreme drunkard to drink during the day. In fact, that is an indication that you are a complete alcoholic if you are getting your drink on during the day. It's not even socially acceptable for the drunkards is what I'm getting at. What about the sleeping? Listen, you know that you have a sluggard problem. You know you need to get that proverbs kick in the rear. If you're sleeping all during the day, okay, there's nothing wrong with a Lord's Day nap. Hallelujah. That's part of the reason we have the Lord's Day, okay? There's nothing wrong with a Lord's Day nap, but if this is your Lord's if this is your uh everyday nap And even beyond the nap, this is what you do. What did you do all day? I slept. Then you are a slugger. This is characteristics. This is things that are appropriate during a certain time period, which is at night, but is not appropriate for you during the day And so that's how our lives should be. There should be certain things that the wicked do that it's like nighttime behavior. It's not right for them to do it, but that's what they do at night. But guess what? We are people of the day Okay? As people today, we don't do those things as people tonight. We shouldn't be surprised or or jealous or or think we're missing out. No, I'm not missing out anything as instead of clubbing and getting all kinds of diseases And all kinds of emotional and spiritual pain I'm sleeping. I'm not jealous at all. I never think, oh how I wish I was in the club ruining my life, ruining my reputation, and destroying everyone around me. No, I don't I'm very actually I'm very thankful and say, I'm so glad on Saturday night I'm at home with my family that God has blessed me with And I'm going to sleep so that I can be here and alert with strength on the Lord's day. I'm not jealous of what they're doing on Saturday night, and neither should you. But it's not just that. It's everything It's everything. I'm not jealous of people who have lost their soul through video games and Netflix and pornography and love of money and all the rest of those things. I'm not jealous of that We should not be jealous of those things. We have better things found in Christ, things that have true pleasure and true joy that we can enjoy. Because they are bad things. So there are things for the day and there are things for the night and we should be happy to be people of the day and to do things that are characteristic of being people of the day. So then verse 8. So if you think about verse 6 and 7, it tells us what not to do, what we shouldn't be characterized with, what we should not do. Verse 8 then tells us what we are supposed to do. So we always gotta balance that. What we shouldn't be doing, okay? Drinking, clubbing. Uh immorality, okay? We shouldn't. That's biblical. That's not fundamentalism. That's biblicalism. Okay, that's the Bible. What we should not be doing But it is fundamentalism or it is a inappropriate reality when it's just what we shouldn't be doing and not what we should be d should be doing. It's just that we don't we are not like them or we don't believe that, but it's never that we are like this and we do believe this. Okay? We do do that. That's what we need to be not I just don't do that. Yes, we need to be part of that. And a lot of us need to hear that. There's some things you should not do. There are some things you should stay away from. But there's also some things that you should do. We need to have both balances. So verse 8 tells us our ethical duty in a positive light. Not just what we shouldn't do, but what we should do. Verse 8. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober, having put on the breastplate of faith. and love and for a helmet the hope of salvation. So because we belong to the day, let us be sober, not drunk. Let us be awake. Let us be sober, let us know what is happening. Now again, I'm tempted to go and do a sermon about the evils of alcoholism. The evils of drug use, some people think, Oh, can we do marijuana? No, you can't do marijuana. The Bible says to be ye sober There is nothing about marijuana. There's nothing about drugs. There's nothing about alcoholism that says anything about being sober. Can you drink alcohol? Is that your religious freedom? Yes, it is. Can you be a drunkard? Can you be under the influence of alcohol? No, you cannot. The Bible says ye be sober. That is the command of God. That may not be popular. That may not be what your flesh wants to hear, but that is what the scripture says. Let us be sober. But again, that would be a good sermon, and that would be a sermon we need to hear, but that's not actually what this passage is talking about This passage is talking about a different type of sobriety, but it's related. Sobriety is having a clear mind. It's being under the influence of reality instead of being under the illusion of the demons and of the spirits that we put in our bodies. That's what meaning sober means. But here, the idea of being sober presupposes actual physical sobriety, but goes beyond that. It's having a clear mind of reality. Okay. It's the type of sobriety that we find in 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3 says, but do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That one That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises as some count slowness, but is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come. Not wishing that any should perish, but that all should come, all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief And then the heavens will pass away with a war, and the heavenly bodies will be burned and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed So don't overlook overlook this. Yes, it's taking a while for the Lord to come, but be patient. He's not slow to fulfill his promises, but he's actually accomplishing his promises that none of the elect will perish. This is what he's saying. But then, okay, so that's the facts. So then let's see what sobriety will lead us to. Verse 11. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, What sort of people ought you to be in lies of holiness and godliness? Since all of this is going into an ashtray, and since all of this is going to be utterly destroyed in light of all that, what kind of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they Burn. But according to his promises, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Therefore Beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish and at peace. So we see our passage here in Second Peter chapter 3 gives us the facts, and in light of those facts It calls us to action. It says, what kind of people ought you to be in lives of holier than godliness because all this is gonna burn up? It asks that. It's a rhetorical question. We know We should be people who are hastening the coming of the day of the Lord. We should be people who live holy and godly lives. But then in verse 14, he just can't help himself, it seems like. He says, Well, just in case you weren't going to get the right answer, let me tell you. Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these things, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish and at peace. In light of the fact that all of this is turning into an ashtray and Christ is gonna destroy and redeem well, destroy the world and redeem history You should be people who care about that events. You should be people waiting and hastening and living godly lives and say, I want you, Lord, to come not like a thief, but to come as a savior for me. I want you to be my hope, not my nightmare. That is the kind of people we should be. That's the kind of sobriety that we should have. Let us not be drunk, but let us be sober. Let us be people who have that sobriety should lead to in verse 8, having put on the breastplate of faith and love and for the helmet the hope of salvation That sobriety should cause you to recognize you're at war with the devil. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against powers and principalities and and all of these kingdoms of darkness. We fight against those. And just as Paul says in Ephesians, in light of all this we should put on the armor of God, so Paul says here the same thing. In light of all of this, we should have sobriety and we should put on a breastplate. A breastplate protects your vital organs. And that breastplate that protects your spiritually vital organs is what? It's faith. And it's love and it's the helmet of the hope of salvation. That is what the Christian life is. These three virtues. Faith, love, salvation, hope. Faith, love, and hope. And Paul said elsewhere that the greatest of these is love. So let us be have hearts full of faith towards God. And love for God and and neighbor. And then let us let that faith toward God flow into the love which would flow into our hands. Our hands should be busy serving. How can I serve? How can I love? What can I do? God, I want to be used by you. Here I am, send me. Use me. That our faith should flow over in love, in action. And then, as we're tempted to doubt, as our faith tempts to be tried, as our service wanes, as we grow weary of doing good, let's put on the helmet of the hope of salvation. And let us remember, this is all turning to ash. I will never make a sacrifice for the Lord that's a true sacrifice because it always benefits me in the end. You cannot sacrifice to the Lord. You can only bless yourself by giving up momentary pleasure for eternal rewards. So that's what we need to do. We need to be sober. We need to put on the breastplate of faith. Put on the breastplate of love and put on the helmet of the hope of salvation and say, Come, Lord Jesus, come. And not only that, Lord, let that event change my life today. Let that event change the way that I live. And the way that I serve my family, I serve my church, I give my money, I give my time, God, I surrender all that 25%. Not 10%, not one in seven. God, I give you it all. I give you the Lord's day and I give you every other day. I give you the tithe and I give you the other ninety percent God, it all belongs to you. Let me put myself on that altar and surrender it all to you. Come, Lord Jesus, come.