So does anyone know the name Paul Washer? Does that name ring any bells to you? Well, if you don't, this is a Baptist church and he's a famous Baptist pastor and preacher. In fact, he is still alive. And he preached one of the most powerful sermons in the last fifty years. Every Period of time there comes out this sermon that really shakes the world. You can think of Jonathan Edwards' famous sermon, Sinners in the Hand of an Angry God, that God used to bring revival. in our land. Well, he also preached a sermon that shook the world, quite literally. And he came from, at that point, from relative obscurity, and his sermon was called The Shocking Youth Message And I actually highly encourage you to go listen to that sermon. God has used that sermon to save countless untold individuals, and I actually know people who have been saved by that sermon. But the reason that I bring this uh individual up is two reasons. Number one Paul Washer is probably the closest thing that you will find to what looks like a living prophet. If you want to see what the prophets like the book of Malachi, the prophet of Malachi look like Paul Washer is that man. But more importantly, I bring your attention to him, is he was once asked a question at a conference full of a thousand thousands and thousands of people up here on the stage And they asked them this question, what is the biggest challenge or struggle or danger to the church? I want you to think about that. What is the biggest danger to the church? If you were asked that question, if you were to answer that question, what would you say? Would you say Islam? Sechlarism? Pornography? Sexual immorality? Lack the daisicalism? What would you point to? Would you point to the fact that the church sometimes lacks church discipline? What is the greatest danger to the church? Well, Paul Washer's answer was this. The great danger to the church is pastors. Does that answer surprise you? Does that answer shock you? Well I hope at the end of the sermon you will see that that answer is actually profoundly true. It might not be the greatest danger, but it is a great danger to the church, namely pastors. So I want you to open your Bibles to Malachi chapter 2, and we're going to explore what God's word has to say. Malachi chapter 2. Now as you turn there, I want to let you know that the pastorate is a mighty and fearful calling In the famous words of a Spider-Man movie, with great power comes great responsibility. James chapter 3, verse 1 says, Let not many of you be teachers, knowing that you will receive a stricter judgment. God holds the pastor responsible for the welfare of the church. In a very real sense, the buck stops with the pastor. I cannot simply point to you all or someone else and say, it's not my fault. The woman made me do it. And he talks to the woman, and the woman says, It's not my fault. The serpent made me do it. No. The book stops with Adam, didn't it? Adam should have corrected his wife and said, we're not going to obey the talking serpent over God. The buck stopped with Adam. And ultimately, the pastor is responsible working with the church, of course, for the health of the church. There's a parallel here between the pastor or the minister and the father. It's not that the father or the pastor do it all alone Them against the world, no of course not. But in the end of the day, who is responsible for the welfare of their home? The Father. God has exalted the Father to have that responsibility. And so too, in a very real sense, The pastor is supposed to be responsible for the welfare of the entire congregation Well, today in our passage, we're going to see how God responds to the minister, to the pastor, to the priest who is negligent in this task. who fails his congregation. That pastor, that priest, that minister who does not have a true heart for God does not have a true heart for his people, but rather disgraces the ministry, and we'll see how God views such a man and what God says he'll do to someone who does this. 1 Peter 4 verse 7 says, judgment begins where? It begins at the household of God. It begins here. The pastor ought to protect the flock. He's to protect the flock against enemies from without and enemies from within. But if he does not do it, you know who will rise up? The great shepherd of the sheep, Jesus Christ. There is a book Called The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe. It was also a terrible movie based on it. Okay, I didn't like the movie because I liked the book. The book was great. It wasn't that bad. But this was from C. S. Lewis, and in that bookslash movie, there is a lion. Does anyone know the name of the lion? Aslan. And and this is actually a scene that they captured wonderfully in the movie. It's one of the best lines in all the books. And it's when the little kids are around the lion, and they're talking about the lion, they want to jump on the lion, and then there's the response of this, Aslan is not a tame lion. He's good, but he's not tame. Well, we have a lion called the Lion of Judah, and he's good, but he's not a tame lion. And when the pastor fails, God will rise up to defend his church, and we will see what he will do to that man. So let's look at this. Malachi chapter 2, beginning in verse 1. And now, O priest, this commandment is for you. If you will not hear, if you will not take it to heart to give glory to my name, says the Lord of hosts, I will send a curse upon you. I will curse your blessing. Yes, I have cursed them already because you did not take it to heart. Behold, I will rebuke your descendants. I will spread refuse. Or dung on your faces. The refuge or the dung of your solemn feast, and one will take you away with it Then you shall know that I have sent this command to you that my covenant with Levi may continue, says the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him, one of life and peace, and I gave them to him that he might fear me. So he feared me. And was reverent before my name. The law of truth was in his mouth, and injustice was not found in his lips. He walked with me in peace and equity. He turned away many from iniquity. For the lips of a priest should keep knowledge, and the people should seek the law from his mouth. For he is the messenger of the Lord of hosts, but you have departed from the way. You have caused many to stumble at the law. You have corrupted the covenant of Levi, says the Lord of hosts Therefore I have also made you contemptible and repulsive and base before all the people, because you have not kept my ways, but you have shown partiality in the law. What a passage. What a passage that we have read here. Look at verse one with me. Verse 1, we have the prophet, and he sets his gaze upon the priest, upon the minister Prior to this, if you recall in chapter 1, he looks out at the people and says, God is not pleased. And he's not pleased with what? With your offerings, with your sacrifice, with your worship. You give the lame, the sick, the stolen, you give me the leftovers, you give me your scraps, and you think I am pleased. I am not pleased. Please. And then if you look at verse 10, he makes that statement, oh how I wish someone would shut it all down But then he moves on quickly and goes back to condemning the individuals, the the congregation, the people who are bringing in these defiled and half-hearted worship to him when they didn't have to. You can look at that in chapter 1, verse 10. Now the prophet, what he alludes to, what he hence said in chapter 1, verse 10, he now reveals with full indignation and wrath. And you see that in verse 1 of chapter 2. He says, Now, O priest, this commandment is for you. God has a word for you. And he says, Who has required this trampling of my courts? Bring no more feudal sacrifices before me. Incense is an abomination to me. I cannot endure iniquity in sacred meeting. It's in Isaiah chapter 1. He says, I can't stand it any longer. It is not okay simply to come and say we showed up, but you have failed me, thus saith the Lord. And then if you look at verse 2 of Malachi chapter 2 in the beginning, he gives this statement. He says, if you will not hear If you will not take it to heart to give glory to my name, says the Lord of hosts. He threatens The pastor, he threatens the priest and says, I need you to open your ears. I need you to open your hearts. I have a message for you. And the question then is, well, what is the message? What should we open our ears to? What should we open our hearts to? And the answer is found in the latter part of verse 2. This is the principal duty of the priest. And remember last time I told you And this sermon is going to be primarily about the minister because that's the flow of the text, the people in chapter 1, the priests in chapter 2. But remember, we're all priests. So as you listen to this sermon, don't simply just think about me or other pastors, but also think about yourself because you too are a priest. The minister is a priest. The pastor is a priest. And the ultimate high priest is who? Jesus Christ, King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Why don't you think about all three? And the chief goal of the priest and what he says, I need you to open your ears, I need you to open your heart, I need you to do something. And you see there in verse 2, look at it again He says, open your ears, open your hearts to do what? To give glory to my name. This is the principal task of the priest. Last time we talked about that passage, I wanted you to reflect on and meditate and memorize and write on your hearts, namely Exodus chapter 32, verse 26, which says, Whoever is on the Lord's side, come to me. This is the job of the priest is to be on the Lord's side and to give God glory. Remember, the priest gives glory to God in two principal ways. He directly gives God glory. by praising him and offering sacrifices of praise and offerings in his entire life as a sacri a living sacrifice according to Romans chapter 12. But the priest also gives glory to God by defending his glory from those who would steal it and defame it and seek to make God's glory null and void. And so he tells the priest, he says, if you will not give me glory, if you will not open up your hearts and minds to do your job , I'm going to look at verse, the latter part of verse 2. I will send a curse upon you. I will curse your blessings. Yes, I have cursed them already, because you did not take it to heart. It's just serious, folks. God is not playing around, is he? If you won't do your job, I'm going to send down a curse. And he says, this interesting phrase, he says, I'm going to curse your blessings. Do you see that? I'm going to curse your blessings. So the question is, what does that mean? What does it mean for God to curse your blessings? There's a song, Count Your Blessings. I wish I could sing. I wish I could just start singing right song, but I can't. But count your blessings one by one. Right, you know that song? Church? What are your blessings? Your good looks? Good looking. Not me. Your good looks? Your health? Your family? Your job? Your joy? Your happiness? Your peace, your prosper, right? We have lots of blessings and this text says what? God will send a curse on your blessings. He's going to take your smiles and he's going to turn into frowns. He's going to take your happiness and he's going to turn into tears. He's going to take your pe He's gonna take your honor And he's going to turn it into disgrace. Do you see? God says, I'm going to curse your blessings. Why? Because you would not take it to heart to give glory and honor to my name. It's pretty terrifying, isn't it? Curse my blessings. God, I want you to do the opposite. I want you to bless my blessings. If you bless my blessings, then I'll be super blessed. In fact, here's what I'm praying for my life and for this church and for all of you. God send the dump truck of blessings upon me and just back it up and just cover us. with your blessings. Amen, church. Isn't that what we want? Bless me, Lord. Bless me. I need more But this text says what? If you won't give me glory, I'm not going to bless your blessings. I'm going to what church? I'm going to curse your blessings. You won't be protected from me. I'm gonna destroy you. That's what he says. There was once a boat You all probably are familiar with this boat, that they built with the greatest ingenuity that man could build at that time. It was amazing. It was bigger than any boat. It was the unsinkable boat. In fact, man in its pride says this about this boat. This is a boat that God Himself could not sink. You know what boat that was? The Titanic. And what did God do? He sunk it. Don't ever trust your blessings. Don't ever think I'm so secure that God can't even take me down. That's a fool. The devil said that. That's devilish. And Jesus Christ said, I saw Satan fall from heaven like lightning God took that Titanic and sunk it to the ground. And God will sink us to the ground too, if we do not take it to heart to give God glory. And to do what priests are called to do. I will curse your blessings. But if you look at the commentaries, I think that's what it means actually If you look at the commentaries, some think it means something slightly different. And what they point to is that the priest would do a priestly blessing. He would bless people. He would do a benediction. If you look at the order of service found in your bulletin, you see at the very end it says benediction. Do you see that? Benediction. And this really is a power-packed prayer that I will say upon you to bless you. It's a prayer for God to do things for you, to bless you. Here's the one that we have recorded in the Bible. I did this last time. It's in Numbers chapter 6. It says, the Lord bless you. You know this one? The Lord bless you and he keeps you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious to you. The Lord lift up his face upon you and give you peace. You know that? That's the benediction of the Iranic priesthood that they would say upon people, and that's why I'm going to say one to you, continuing on in that tradition. Well, some commentators would say, what this means is, is that what the priest would say upon the people as blessings, I'm going to curse it. I'm going to curse your blessing. You see? Well to extrapolate it, what he's saying is that your ministry will not be a ministry of life to life, but it will be a ministry of death to death. Oh beloved, what a terror it is to be under a cursed ministry. Can you imagine? To be under a ministry that is cursed. What does God say? I'm going to curse your blessings. You're going to speak things that ought to be blessing, but it's not. See, here's the reality. The pew follows the pulpit. Isn't that not true? How can he be blessed by a message that has no truth in it? How can you be stirred up to zeal and to love God if the minister doesn't love God? If the minister isn't pointing you to God, he's going to curse your blessings. What you thought was just going through the motions won't be a blessing to anyone. And I honestly think that this is what's happening across America and so many churches. So often the people are bored of God. If you can't say I'll say amen. So often the people are bored of God. They don't find him interesting. We're just doing it because we have to do it. And so often the reason is because the minister finds God boring. It's hard to be excited about something that the preacher is not excited about. He doesn't care about. And you're walking away hungry and starving. Here's what Romans chapter 2 says about such people. God's name is blaspheming them on the Gentiles because of you. You see? We misrepresent God. How cursed it is to be under a cursed ministry. If you will not take it to heart, priest If you will not give me glory, I will curse your blessing. The ministry will not go well with you, and those under you will not go well. And it's not just the preaching, it's the whole life. Is that not true? It says the Bible says, let your light so shine before others that they may give glory to God. And again, this isn't just about me, it's about you, priests. How can anyone be blessed under your ministry? If you don't give God glory, if your light is not shining, fathers, how can your children be blessed unto you? If you don't point to Christ and say to him, Be the glory, can you say with humility but sincerity, as Paul said, imitate me as I imitate Christ? That's the goal. is to be able to say, come learn of God through me. Not arrogantly, but sincerely and humbly, pointing all the glory to God, how cursed it is to be under the ministry of a cursed minister. Now, some of you may have noticed that I actually Care a lot about this subject. It fires me up a little bit. It angers me to see God's name so defamed by priests who hurt the people of God. Who don't feed his flock, who take advantage of his flock, who hurt his flock. But who cares about me? Ultimately, what about God? How does God feel about such ministers? That's the question, isn't it? Who cares if I'm excited about that or angry about that? But what about God? Well look at verse 3. How does God feel about these cursed ministers who harm the flock? Verse 3. Behold, I will rebuke your descendants. I will spread dung on your faces. the dung of your solemn feast, and one will take you away with it. Beloved, did you notice what's in your Bible? This is shocking It's just so shocking that many times your translations don't say the word dung in it, do they? They use something else. Refuse The text is dung. It's talking about I I don't even want to use other words for that word. You know what it's talking about. It's horrifying. And God says, right there in the beginning of verse 1, first thing he says is this, Behold, I will rebuke your descendants. Those under you will be cursed because of you. They will be harmed. This won't be blessing for them, but they will be damaged. A cursed ministry doesn't just hurt the minister, it hurts everyone He says that right there. Behold, I rebuke your descendants because of you. And then we see the anger and the wrath of God at full force against such cursed ministers, he says in the most extreme language, I will grab dung and spread it all over your face. Can you imagine? You know, I almost thought about grabbing a little thing of pudding as a sermon illustration and opening up the pudding and smothering it all over my face so you could get a vivid image of this. But I decided I didn't want to humiliate myself by doing that. And that's just pudding. What God says is I'm not gonna put pudding on your face. I'm gonna spread I'm not going to say that word again. You see? Now what does it mean that he's going to do that? Well, the first thing It means is I'm going to utterly humiliate you. You humiliated me My name was blasphemed among the nations because of you. You were honored before the people, and I will now make you a disgraceful and disgusting thing before their eyes. Is that not what the text says? Can you imagine a minister with dung all over his face? Is that someone that you would be positively inclined to? You would think this is repulsive. Stay away. As a child, this doesn't happen to me too much anymore, but as a child I was often playing outside and exploring and doing all these things and sometimes in my exploration and my fun I would step in something. Didn't ever happen to you? I would step in something, but I didn't know I had stepped in anything. And then I would walk around and sometimes I would go over to people's houses or my own house, and then I would start to smell something Does it ever happen to you? And it always happened that when I started to smell something, somebody else would start to smell something too And then it would always happen like this that I would pull up my shoe and look at it as they looked at me and there it was. And I would be humiliated and embarrassed that here I was trekking in the stuff that I had stepped on. That's on my shoe. God says, I'm not putting it on your shoe. I'm putting it on your face. And you're going to stink the place up And you're going to be humiliated by the people. And people are going to say, get this man out of here. Do you see that? And if you question that, look. Look at the verse. Look at verse 3 at the end of it. And one will take you away with it. What is the one? It's saying that the people of God will see you as such a defiled and disgusting thing that they will grab you along with the dung pile and take out the trash. That is what it's saying. So you're going to grab all the refuge off the ground, all the dung off the ground, put it in the bag, grab you with it, and toss you out Onto the dung pile. That is what God says he will do to such a wicked person. He's going to humiliate you. He's going to make you an unclean thing in the sight of God. Here's the reality. The minister thought this of God. He humiliated God before the people, and so God says, I'm going to humiliate you before the people. You thought so little of me? Well this is how I think of you. That's the first thing we see with this picture of the dung. Here's the second thing that we see. God is trying to give us a vivid picture of how He feels about such a minister. See, we often don't care too much about sin. We excuse sin. We're like fish swimming in water. We don't think it's such a big deal. But God says, I think it is a huge deal. I think it's a huge deal when my name is not glorified, when my people don't see me as great, as you don't sing to me with vigor. When you don't listen for my word with intentness, when you offer such profane and ungodly worship, I find it offensive. You ministers should have defended my glory, but you did not. So I will show you to the people how I think of you. I will spread dung all over your face. That's what God says. And why does he do this? Why does God do this to the minister? Well look again in verse 9. Therefore, I will also make you contemptible and base and repulsive before all the people, because you have not kept my ways, but have shown partiality. in the law. Why does God do this? Because you did not keep my ways. You did not obey me. You did not follow me. You did not do the things that I had commanded you. You were partial You corrupted justice. You harmed. You were a serpent. You were a snake. And I'm going to curse your blessings. I'm going to make you contemptible. I'm going to punish you. Look at verse 5. Actually verse 4, let's go back. Why is God doing this? Is he just an angry God? No, in fact, he's a loving God. There's hope in this message. Look at verse 4. After God does this, after he takes your honor and turns it into shame, after he humiliates you before the people, after he makes you contemptible things, after he makes your name a curse word. He says in verse 4, then you will know that I have sent this commandment to you. You will read this passage and say, God has done it. God has risen up. Aslan is not a tame God, and neither, a tame lion, excuse me, and neither is the Lion of Judah a tame God. God will rise up and he will do this. And why? That my covenant with Levi may continue I will remove you and replace you with a true priest so that the ministry will continue on because when no one will defend the glory of God, God will rise up and defend it himself. And ultimately, that's the story of the gospel. You can see that in Isaiah. He said, I look for someone. I look for someone to defend me and to do the work. And he said, no one would do it. So then I strapped on armor and did it myself. And he did it in the name of Jesus Christ. No one would obey him. So he came as a man to obey the law perfectly, to die the death that we deserve, to die and rise from the dead, achieving salvation. God said, no one will remove. So I did it. And I removed, that my covenant with Levi may continue. And what is that covenant? Verse 5. My covenant was him was with him one of life and in peace. What's that mean? What it means is this. The job of the minister is to be a dispenser of life and peace. It's to be a dispenser of the gospel. It's to point people to Jesus. It's to say that's where there is life. That's where there is peace. Constantly pointing away from himself and pointing to Jesus Christ. I gave this to him, verse five, so that he would hear me and be reverent before my name. Verse six, he's supposed to be a depository of the Word of God so that people say, I want to hear from God, and they go to him. That is the job of the true minister, and remember, I'm not just talking about me, I'm talking about you You're supposed to be a depository of God's word. They're supposed to cut you open and you're supposed to believe the Bible. We're supposed to know the truth of God. And when someone says, is this right or is this wrong? We don't hear from man and man's opinion and man's good ideas, but we hear from God. That is the job of the priest. Verse 7. The lips of the priest should keep knowledge, and people should seek the law from his mouth. He is a messenger of the Lord. Verse 6 at the end of it. He's supposed to walk with me in peace and inequity. He's supposed to be saved and sanctified. And he has a job. And his job is to do what? To turn many from iniquity. He's an evangelist. He's a prophet. He speaks not only to sinners, but even to saints. Because both sinners and saints sin, amen? And he's supposed to turn them all from iniquity and turn them back to God. But look what he's done. One more time. You departed from my way. Verse 8. You caused many to stumble. The evangelist has become the blasphemer. The one who's supposed to be pointing people to God has now pointed people away from God. The person who's supposed to help the church become more sanctified has now made the church more unholy. God takes very seriously those who would do this to his name. And God says, I will punish you in the most severe way. Remember, church, what did he say? I'm going to curse your blessings. I'm going to spread refuge on your face. I'm going to make you contemptible. And then you will know that I have spoken, that I have done these things. I pray, congregation, as you read this passage, as you shudder in fear, I pray that you would shudder in fear not by my words, but by the words of Christ. You would say, Lord, never do this to me. Never take me away. Never take me out with the trash. And he tells you that he doesn't want to. Do you see that? In the very beginning he says, open your ears, open your heart to receive. He's warning you. He's saying turn back Don't do this. Don't go in this direction. My mercy is great. Remember in chapter 1, he says, before he says any of this, he starts off with that statement, I have loved you, says the Lord of hosts The prophet comes to warn in the most strict way to wake the church up, to throw ice water on us, and so that we would say I'm on the Lord's side. I hear you, Lord. Speak, Lord, for your servant hears. I hear you, Lord. I see that this is my responsibility. My responsibility as a priest of God is to give you glory and defend your name. Exodus chapter 32, verse 26. Who is on the Lord's side? And I pray that each one of you say, I'm on the Lord's side. I will defend your glory. I will worship you. I will be a true priest. I will be filling my mind up with the treasure of God's word so that when people want to hear from God, they would hear from him, and I would be a repository of God's truth. I will not corrupt the ministry of Levi. That's what you should say. And that's what I should say. I will turn people back from iniquity and give them the wonderful gospel, the gospel of truth, the gospel of life, and peace. So beloved, as we end this sermon, I just want to continue to point you to this passage and recognize that God loves you. And God will defend us. And God will protect us. But we also have a responsibility to be true priest of God and to give him glory. Because judgment begins at the household of God. And God will not take the harming of his sheep lightly. So let us defend it, protect it, and give all God