So this evening I want to discuss uh marriage and divorce, particularly uh divorced and what the Bible teaches about this issue. The the most explicit in the first text about marriage and divorce is found in Deuteronomy chapter twenty-four, verses one through four, and I'll go ahead and read that. When a man takes a wife and marries her, if then she finds no favor in his eyes, because she has found Because he has found some indecency in her, and he writes her certificate of divorce, and puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, and she departs out of his house and if she goes and becomes another man's wife, and the latter man hates her, and writes her certificate of divorce, and puts it in her hand, and sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies who took her to be his wife, then her former husband, who sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after she has been defiled For that is an abomination before the Lord, and you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God has given you for an inheritance. So this text uh is clearly on the topic of divorce and on remarriage. And whatever this text is prohibiting, the very end tells us whatever is being prohibited here is an abomination. and is a sin that will be brought upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you. So we have to find the imperative. What is the command? Well, it starts off with saying, when a man takes a wife and he marries her, okay, so he marries the woman. If then she finds no favor in his eyes, because she has f she has found well he has found some indecency in her and writes her and writes her certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her away out of his house All of that right there is describing a description. And she departs out of his house and she goes and becomes another man's wife. Again, this is all a description of of what's happening there. And then the latter man hates her and he divorces her, writes her a certificate of divorce, and puts it in her hand, and sends it out of her house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband who sent her away may not take her again to be his wife after she has been defiled. So the actual command, that whole long first you know, three passages or first uh three verses should I say, is all just a description of the situation. It's the case law, right? A man divorces his wife and then she goes and she remarries and that other husband divorces her or he dies, then the first husband may not there's a command, may not marry her again. She he may not take her again to be his wife after she has been Defiled. Now that's fascinating. Uh and then to do such a thing would be an abomination before the Lord. Now she is defiled Well, when was she defiled? She was defiled when uh she married this other man and in this relationship with this other man. was a act of defilement. Meaning to for her to for that for her to be defiled by being in that new marriage, then that new marriage must be illegitimate and that must mean that the original marriage is legitimate. So her being in defiled is her committing adultery with that man. And that's why he cannot take her again as his wife. So the only thing that this command actually prohibits Oh, is a prescription and is commanding against is remarrying a wife who has already had a new husband because she is defiled, implying that she is committed adultery and implying that the person who marries her commits adultery. Now much uh ink and much discussion has gone over this statement that he this man sends her away because he found some indecency in her and he writes her certificate of divorce. And people have under people have understood this in different ways. What is the indecency that Moses is talking about? Well most people well many people have taken this as a as a command that here is Moses giving a command about whether whether or not you can divorce your wife and you can divorce your wife based on this some indecency in her. And there's been two schools that one has said that this indecency is talking about uh sexual immorality, adultery, and others said it's any indecency, anything that he doesn't like. Well, the the fact of the matter is this text just simply says he found some indecency in her. It doesn't say sexual immorality. That's not in the context here. And so very likely, this is, again, not a prescription. This is not a command of why you can or cannot divorce your spouse, but this is more a reality that people do divorce their spouse. Why? Because they found some indecency in her. Because they don't like her anymore. Because they don't want her. That's why people divorce. And that's parallel with the second divorce, which is described as her husband hating her It says concerning her second husband. If the latter man hates her and writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her her out of his house. So finding some indecency is parallel with the latter man hating her. It's just it's no longer wanting to be with her and divorcing her. So this this um whole section really has to do with prohibiting remarriage and keeping and protecting women from just being passed around from man to To man, this section is not giving a the a prescription about whether or not you can divorce your spouse or what circumstances you can divorce your spouse. This is regulating divorce practices and regulating remarriage, should I say, uh more primarily, and not actually uh describing whether or not this divorce is valid. In fact, almost certainly th in this context the divorce is invalid and that's why remarriage is prohibited and that's why when she marries this other person she has been defiled. She is committing adultery. So this text doesn't give you the ground of a proper divorce. This text just tells you that you cannot remarry and has the implication. that to divorce uh based on this some indecency in her means that she is defiled, she is committing adultery, and the husband is uh the person who marries her is committing adultery. Here's what the Holliman Christian Standard Bible study Bible says about this passage. It says that the issue here is not divorce divorce per se, but remarriage following divorce. What the man found improper is neither clear nor relevant. The point is that if she marries another man and he finds occasion to divorce her, she may not return to her first husband. The issue seems to be that the marriage to a second husband was a form of adultery. Another consideration is that the prohibition of the first husband taking the woman back would cause husbands to think carefully before enacting a divorce. So I'm I'm following right along with this uh study Bible. I think it does an excellent job. Here's one other study Bible. The Reformation study Bible says The situation described in verses 1-3 is followed by the legal prescription, verse 4. Divorce is permitted in the Mosaic law, as Jesus later says, because of the hardness of heart The restriction on remarriage of a divorced couple after an intervening marriage discourages casual divorces. And then in verse uh one they comment some indecency. The Hebrew of this phrase is the same as anything indecent. in verse in chapter twenty-three verse fourteen and is rather general. Adultery is apparently not in view, for adultery is punishable by death, in in chapters twenty-two, verse twenty-two The fact that divorce for a variety of reasons is recognized, but not necessarily condoned. Verses 1 through 3 are descriptive, not prescriptive. So again, I'm agreeing with both of these study bibles. I think they're very helpful. It's describing a general situation, but not giving a command. And this really is to protect women from being passed along and making men think twice about simply divorcing the wife thinking I'll just get her on the other side. No, you can never get her back. You need when you divorce, that's final. She's not coming back to you uh if if she remarries another. And in those situations and those societies where women depended on men, they would certainly remarry someone else and then there was no chance of getting her back Now, so that's uh so we see that in that if you if someone um divorces their spouse and they remarry in that committing adultery, then they can never be taken back by the first Uh first husband, that is what the the law says. Now let's consider uh how this uh this text is being interpreted in the New Testament and how we're getting further now because all that's about remarriage. Now we want to find out about divorce and people ask Jesus about this, which is so wonderful because now Jesus can as our great teacher can tell us about about divorce, which we want to know. Can we divorce and under what circumstances? Matthew 19, Matthew verses 3-12 address this issue. The Pharisees come up to Jesus and testing him by asking him, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? So we saw in Deuteronomy it said that um if he found some indecency, and so they're asking her, and some indecency is pretty much any cause, some reason that he doesn't like her, is that lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? Any reason whatsoever? Jesus answered in verse four, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female? And said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. They said to him, Why then did Moses command to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives But from the beginning it was not so. And I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another, commits adultery. And the disciples said to him, This such is the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. But he said to them, Not everyone can receive this saying, but only those whom it is given. For there are eunuchs who have been been so from birth, and there are eunuchs who have been made eunuchs by men, and there are eunuchs who have made themselves eunuchs for the sak Okay. So they asked Jesus, can you divorce? Is it lawful? Is it right? Is it before God? Is it okay to divorce one's wife for any cause? And he says, have you not written, meaning you should have understood this. You shouldn't need me to answer this. You should have understood that God wrote in the very beginning that he made them male and female. And he said, For this reason, for marriage that a man shall leave his father and mother and lay hold to his wife, and the two, male and female, husband and wife, shall become one flesh. How did they become one flesh? Because God made them one flesh And they are no longer two, but one. They are intimately connected. What therefore God, God's the one who joined them together and made them one, what therefore God has joined together, let no man separate. So is it lawful to divorce your wife for any cause? Jesus says, let no man separate what God has joined together. No, it is not lawful. to the voice your wife for any cause is the meaning of Jesus. Can't you see that God created this way of marriage to be something that you that uh people are united for from the very beginning and it's not something that man should be separating And they replied to him in verse 7. They said to them, why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? Now that's quite convenient. Did Moses command the people of God to send uh y the wife away and divorce her? No. Moses did not command any such thing. Moses described the situation of things that were going on and he restricted this Right, so that women wouldn't be passed along. He restricted divorce and he permitted divorce, but he did not command divorce. And look what Jesus says Jesus said, He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. In other words, Moses permitted divorce to protect women. But this was not God's original intent. And this is it never was God's original intent. for marriage to end up in divorce. Marriage was not meant to end up in divorce. Marriage was supposed to be something that that was permanent and they were connected. This was the intent for marriage. This is why God gave it. Moses simply allowed divorce to restrict immorality, but he did not. It was never okay to divorce your wife for any reason whatsoever. It was always wrong before the eyes of God. And then Jesus says, and I say to you, that whoever divorces his wife except for sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery. Now what is adultery? Adultery is cheating on your spouse. So if you divorce your wife Except for the ground of sexual moral immorality, which means if you divorce your wife on the ground of sexual morality, then the marriage is dissolved and you're free to remarry whoever you want. But if you do it for any other reason, they asked, can we divorce for any cause? He says, no, you can divorce for no cause except one, except for sexual morality. And any other reason, if you divorce your wife, you commit adultery even if you marry the other person, because your first marriage is binding. So Jesus is explaining Deuteronomy and he explains it just like we said it was in Deuteronomy. We said that it was a is the scripture not prescriptive. when talking about divorce, and that's what Jesus is agreeing with. And then we saw that when it said that she would be defiled, we said that must mean that the second marriage is uh committing adultery. She's committing adultery with her new husband, and sure enough, Jesus says, if you marry another, you commit adultery. Now this is a very hard saying Because people don't like uh people don't like being able to not divorce but anything other than adultery. They want easy out divorce, right? No fault divorces. And disciples said to them, such as the case of a man with his wife, it is better not to marry. And Jesus says, Hey, I agree with you I agree with you that it is better not to marry. It is better to give yourself to the kingdom of God and spend all your time serving Him. But not everyone can receive this, and those who have been given the gift of singleness should receive this. So he doesn't disagree that spending all your time for the kingdom is better, but he says that not everyone has been given this gift of singleness. So if you can receive that truth, then receive it. If not, then marry. But recognize you cannot divorce by anything other than adultery. And Jesus gives other sayings that expound this reality. And Mark 10, verses 10-12, which is a parallel text. Here's what the disciples say in addition to what we found in Matthew. They say, and in the house the disciples ask him again about this matter, what matter, the matter of divorce and remarriage. And he said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and marries another commits adultery against her. And if she divorces her husband and marries another, she commits adultery. So we see the see it being expounded that if you if the the person who divorces their spouse marries another, they commit They commit adultery specifically against the spouse that they have illegitimately divorced. And this is the case if a man divorces his wife Or if a woman divorces her husband, they commit adultery against their spouse because in the eyes of God they are still married. Now what about the party that has been illegitimately divorced? If someone has illegitimately divorced you and you remarry, well what is how is that viewed? Well Matthew 5, 31 to 32 tells us. Jesus says, it has been said, whoever divorces his wife, let her give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife Except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Again, Jesus is quoting from Deuteronomy 24, and he says that if you divorce your wife except on the ground of sexual immorality and he that it he makes her commit adultery He makes this woman commit adultery because she remarries as she is in a situation of destitution and she goes and remarries and that new marriage is adultery because she is still technically married to her spouse because the marriage has not been Dissolved. And it even says whoever marries the divorced woman commits adultery. So the person who marries the divorced woman is committing adultery with her against the other person's spouse. So you see, it's all it's it's adultery all all the way around because the idea is that the marriage was never broken. The marriage was legitimate. The marriage can only be broken on one ground and one ground only and that is on the ground of sexual immorality. That's what Matthew says. Uh consistently the Bible says that unl except on the ground of sexual immorality, the marriage is binding. But on the ground of sexual immorality, the divorce is binding and the marriage no longer exists. Now some have taught that that um Remarriage is never permitted under any circumstances and divorce is never permitted under any circumstances. But but we have seen that the Bible clearly describes that divorce is permitted under the ground of sexual immorality, but under no other ground can a divorce be pursued. And we know this is also the case because of the fact that God is described as divorcing Israel Isaiah 50, verse 1 says, Thus says the Lord, where is your mother's certificate of divorce, which I, the Lord, set her away? For which of my creditors is it to whom I sold you? Behold, your iniquities you were sold, and for your transgressions your mother has sent was sent away. So God is described here as sending uh Israel, your mother, away. He sent her away for her transgressions. and he sent her away with a certificate of divorce. God is not here being described as doing something immoral. God is divorcing Israel. He has divorced her, or is described figuratively. as divorcing her because of her transgressions. What kind of transgressions? Any kind of indecency? No, because of her sexual immorality. Because she committed sexual immorality against the Lord, then the Lord justly was able to send her with certificate of divorce. We see the same picture in Jeremiah chapter 3. It says, if a man divorces his wife and she goes from from him and becomes another man's wife, will he return to her? And this is again quoting from um quoting from Deuteronomy twenty-four. Would not the land be greatly polluted? You have played the whore with many lovers, and would you return to me Declares the Lord, lift up your eyes to barren heights and see. Where have you not been ravished by the waysides You have sat awaiting lovers like an Arab in the wilderness. You have polluted the land with your vile whoredom. And then verse 8. She saw talk she saw that for all of her adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, I sent her away with a decree of divorce So the Lord is described as divorcing Israel because of her sexual immoralities So we have God here uh figuratively described as married to Israel and figuratively described as divorcing her based on the only ground divorce is permitted, which is the case of sexual morality, which is the case of adultery. So as we've examined the text, we see what does the Bible say? The Bible says that you are not allowed to divorce someone, then they commit adultery. They um you divorce someone illegitimately, they commit adultery by remarrying, and you can never remarry that spouse. That is what Deuteronomy says. That would be an abomination. But um what this does not say is that you can divorce her for any reason. You all the reason that it was an abomination is because she was defiled, and the reason she was defiled is because she committed adultery, and the reason she committed adultery is because marriage is binding except for the ground of sexual morality. So the Bible from the Old Testament all the way in the New Testament has always taught that sexual uh sexual morality is the only reason why a divorce can be um divorce can be pursued. Otherwise a divorce i is is off the is off the table and cannot be done and to a remarry, to marry a divorced woman illegitimately for for the divorced woman to marry, for the the husband to marry a new woman, all of that is committed is considered adultery because the original company cup um The original couple are married. Now, if you are listening to this and you are divorced and you were divorced for some reason reason other than sexual immorality and you are remarried, What should you do? Should you divorce your now husband and go back to the original husband? No. Because even if your husband your your husband that you're with now divorces you, you can never go back to your original husband Or even if your husband your second husband now dies, you can never go back because that's what Deuteronomy says. So th this is not something this does not mean that every single act of of of intercourse is an act of sexual immorality. What this is really trying to say is that the the marriage itself was illegitimate It commit that was an act of adultery. Now that act of adultery does nullify the legitimacy of the first marriage, but that was wrong, and that is something that you should not have done And so in those cases what you need to do is repent of the illegitimate divorce and the illegitimate marriage, but then asking God for forgiveness You need to continue on in the marriage that you are now in, which is now a legitimate marriage. The act of getting married was illegitimate, but now that sin um has produced produced a legitimate marriage. This would be the same case if someone uh would would have illegitimate uh fornication and produce a child. the act of the fornication was illegitimate, but the child themselves, there is no such thing as illegitimate child. That child is always legitimate. So it's it's a very similar case with that. So the bottom line is that you cannot divorce your spouse other than sexual immorality. Otherwise, you're still married before the eyes of God. And having uh any kind of sexual relationship with any other person, whether you're married to them or not, is considered adultery, is uh prohibited by God's by God's law. Um and then and likewise, if you if you do do that, then the you cannot uh go back to your original spouse and um and and be remarried to them. That would be an abomination and that is prohibited. And really this is to protect protect the woman from being passed around. So I hope this helps in investigating the Bible and looking at all how all these passages are all communicating the same thing and they teach a uniform reality I'm going to make one uh last passing note. What did why did uh why did Jesus say that Moses permitted this because of the hardness of your heart, but it was not always that way? What what he's saying is that Moses seemingly recognize that if he were to give them this command that you cannot divorce outside of sexual immorality that people would just go ahead and divorce anyways and they would pass around the women um you know, just back and forth. And so he saw that the people were unregenerate and they were stubborn and they would not listen to the law of God. So instead of attacking it and and ultimately resulting in nothing He tried to uh simply curve the immorality and most likely well I I can't really say most likely this must have had some kind of benefit, otherwise God wouldn't have inspired it in his word. So it must have actually resulted in protecting women. Um in and giving women a right until the the the pe the people of God would have regenerate hearts and could take the teaching of Jesus, which is that you cannot divorce outside of sexual immorality. So hope all that helps. God bless