In this discussion, I want to examine another an another argument made by the Annihilationists, uh commonly against the in the the traditional view of or to the or the traditional interpretation of the parable of the rich man and Lazarus. And what they often I've often heard them say is that the main point of this parable is not about Hades or the intermediate state or what's the punishment, the post-death uh punishment for sins, but the main point of this parable is the fact that people will not believe in the gospel even if someone uh rises from the dead, which probably points to Jesus and and the most uh the the most extreme case, but in other cases just miracles in general. People often think that if if we only had a miracle, if if only they could see the miracle, then they would be converted, and this is a great parable to go to. That's the kind of punchline is Even if someone raised from the dead, then these people still would not believe if they don't accept the scriptures. And so at that point, the annihilation is It is right that the main the main punchline of of the passage is that if you don't believe in the scriptures, you will not believe in Jesus. But that does not mean that's the only message taught in this parable. This parable has multiple uh facets and multiple different meanings and and certainly uh this that one of the the main points of of this parable or one of the points that this parable makes is that you remember that the rich man, he says that he was comforted in hi in that life. But now after he died, now he is in anguish. Why Lazarus, he is He was in anguish and he was in torment and pain and misery while he was alive, but now he is comforted. So certainly that's part of the teaching of of this parable. Part of the teaching is to show that the destiny of the of the wicked after death is a horrible place of anguish and and torment and that's the whole reason why the rich man is is crying out and saying, Please let me go back to tell my brothers not to come into this place of of anguish. I mean, that's the whole reason why he wants to go back and to warn them those people and he's saying, Hey listen, they're gonna end up in the same place and it doesn't matter if I even let you go back, because even if you did, they will not believe if they don't believe the scriptures. But it it's silly, it's crazy to suggest that the the the place of torment, Hades, which is the post-death place of punishment for sins, is not one of the points of the story. That's the entire the setup. The whole reality is that there's this place of torment that people go to after after they die. Now imagine if the if this uh this uh place of Hades doesn't exist and in fact Imagine instead of the when it says that you you are in anguish in this place and and Lazarus is comforted, imagine if if both people were tormented. Okay? Imagine if the real so this is the parable, but imagine if the reality is that when when you die, both people will be tormented. Well then this parable becomes nonsense. Also imagine instead of being tormented, imagine if both are comforted. So the rich man is comforted, the and and Lazarus is comforted. Again, this uh this parable Uh makes absolutely no sense. The only way that this parable can work is if it accurately describes that what's going to happen to the righteous and what's going to happen to the wicked. The righteous will be comforted and the wicked will be in anguish. And so simply saying that there's only one point and so all these other points are are no points at all really doesn't even make any sense. How is a how is a subpoint or a minor point not a point. Of course it's a point. Of course it's something that that's being communicated and and being taught. Another thing, uh another thing that's being taught here is this idea of there's this great chasm that's Fixed and no one can go out of heaven into Hades and no one can go from Hades into into heaven. I mean, is that not a point? Is that not something we learn from um from this scripture that there's the reality of a fixed destiny after death? Well of course it is. That's another point taught in this parable. The reason why uh people are are used to and w what people like to appeal to is to say that there's only one point to parables, and so then they're going to take the main point here, which is uh which is probably that last point at the very end where it is the main point where they don't they don't believe in the scriptures. They won't believe if someone rises from the dead. That's probably the main point. of description. And the reason they want to say since that's the main point, that's the only point, is there's a partial truth here, which is that most parables are very short and pithy And they only have one point because they're Shuat and Pesi, like the woman with the lost coin. What what's the point of that parable? The point of that parable is that that God goes and seeks and saves those who are lost. I mean that's the only point of the parable. The point isn't that God is a woman, that people are coins. None of that's the point. There's only there's only one point which is that God seeks and saves the loss. And so there's a lot of parables that are short and pithy that are just like that, where there there's really only one point that's being communicated and you need to to grab that point. But but that that's not a hard and fast rule. That's just something that we have seen descriptively of these short parables. But there are longer parables like this one in Luke 16 about the parable of the rich man of Lazarus, there are longer parables that communicate more and and more points. An example of this is the parable of the sower There are several points in that one parable. There's a seven several different realities. I mean each soil has its own point that teaches us about true and false conversion and even the soil the the good soil that has that some do sixty, thirty, a hundredfold, that itself is another point, right? That there there's a there's a different fruitfulness in and different believers And so there's a whole bunch of points in that one parable. It's not just one point, there's there's a whole bunch of points combined in that. Another parable you can think about that has that has a a multitude of of points would be the parable of the prodigal son. Think about the parable of the prodigal son. We often call it the parable of the prodigal son, but it really should be called the parable of the prodigal sons. Be Because there are two sons, and there's all kinds of points there. There's the one sign who who looks at his uh father's uh servitude uh he looks at serving his father at servitude and and slavery and and how he's bitter toward his brother he's full of unforgiveness Yeah, there's a whole lot of points there about how that's not how we're supposed to be. There's a n a lot of other points about the the prodigal son who who abandons his father and ends up in the mire. There's a whole lot of points about there There's a lot of points about uh repentance and and what true repentance looks like of of going back and taking with the words of repentance to go to the Father. And then the Father runs out to the Son. There's a whole lot of points there too and and then he he incorporates them and restores him completely and he doesn't beat him down. See this this parable is full of points. It's not simply I'm gonna say, okay, there's some rule. I read in some book somewhere that a parable can only have one point. So th so I gotta figure out the one point of this par come on I mean seriously, there's no one rule. This this uh story is packed with points, and that's all a parable is, is is a story to communicate Now sometimes that story might only communicate one point. Sometimes the story might compute can communicate multiple points. We need to actually look at the text instead of trying to make some artificial rule before we get to the text and saying all parables uh must uh conform to this. The the reason why this one point even came out, besides the fact that a lot of them actually just descriptively do have one point is to try to keep uh people from, you know, allegorizing and and people have allegorizing and and create meanings that are that are that aren't in the text creating points that aren't in the text. Just saying, well this means that and and that means this and And they're just really coming up with that from their imagination. There's nothing in the text that indicates that. But is that what we're doing here in in Luke 16 when it says that he died and he went to Went to Hades? Well, Hades is a place where we are we are told that actually exists in the Bible, right? Death and Hades uh release the dead who are in them. Jesus said, I have the The keys to death and Hades. The gates of Hades will not prevail. Hades is a real place, right? Hades is not some fictional reality. Hades is a real place. So this place is telling us what Hades is like, is not not a point. It says he died and he was in Hades being in torment Right? I mean doesn't that not teach us a point about what Hades is like? And it says that he's he's in torment in this flame. Doesn't that tell us uh what the post death punishment of sins and what fire means in the post death punishment of sins, the location? Doesn't it that tell us that the the fire means I'm in anguish in this flame, fire represents torment? And doesn't the fact that Lazarus is is with Abraham communicate that God's people will dwell with the ancient people of God, that we will dwell with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? Doesn't doesn't Jesus teach that elsew elsewhere that those who were far off will recline at table with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? Isn't that also what's being taught here Right? I mean, there's a whole bunch of things being taught here that that should encourage this. This is this is also expansion on what Jesus says, what does it profit a man to gain the whole world and yet lose his own? Soul, doesn't this help communicate what that means to lose your own soul and and why being rich in this world is is not actually valuable and And being truly rich, poor in spirit, and even if you are poor in in in in your actual flesh, that it it's better to have faith than than not. Isn't that all communicated here? Of course it is. So we don't go and and make some artificial rule and say, okay, I'm I'm gonna take the center point, so nothing else is a point and and nothing else is is taught here. There's a reason why Christians have constantly go gone to this parable because this parable wonderfully communicates uh the the change of fate that's going to happen to the wicked and the righteous, right? These are the most extreme examples. You have this poor man who has absolutely nothing. This rich man has absolutely everything and when he dies everything is absolutely reversed, right? That's the point. Let me say uh uh one other thing. People have also uh pointed out that d Jesus is playing off a a common a common story of of the day, which would be that these people believed in an afterlife And so they would they would communicate uh stories with with people who go into the afterlight, the one place being uh this fiery place of torment, and the other place of being uh a place of bliss. And and so they would they would have different characters go into that. And that's not even unfamiliar to us. We do that. Have you ever read Jack Chick tracks? He constantly has people going into hell and and and people being saved and and often uh often attract will there'll be surprising people who get saved. There'll be the drug addict and and and the person who who lived a terrible life. And he'll repent of his sins and and he goes off to heaven. And then you have the the the missionary who you know is like a liberal and doesn't actually believe in Jesus and did all these good works and and they die and go to hell. And and so that doesn't mean that Jack Chick doesn't believe in in heaven and and and heaven and hell. No, of course not. He what he's using is these two uh realities that people believe in and then he's putting these characters in, these surprising characters, to communicate a point. Which is that you think that the the missionary who's all outwardly righteous but doesn't believe in Jesus, you think that person's gonna go to heaven? Wrong. In fact I'm gonna show you in this story that they're going to hell. And you think the drug addict who's a pimp and and done all these terrible things Uh but repent is not going to go to heaven? No, sure look, keep repenting and he's going to go to heaven. So that's the same thing Jesus is doing. People would have thought often thought that the the rich uh were were obviously uh prosperous and and God bless them and uh they must be righteous, right? And so the rich must be going to heaven and it's those poor people who who squandered everything and and live like the devil well of course they were going to hell. I mean that's that's the idea. And Jesus was flipping that and saying no no no no Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are the poor, for they well, theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Okay. A lot of the poor people are the people who who recognize me and and get on their knees and repent, but you self righteous people who are ri rich and prosperous and and all that riches choke out the word, yeah, you guys are actually gonna be the people who often are going to hell. So he's flipping things and getting people to think about it like, hey, just because you have uh uh riches and prosperity doesn't mean that you're actually going uh to be saved. You actually need to have a relationship with me. That's what Jesus is doing here. But but he's not suggesting that hell and Hades are not real places. Just like Jack Chick is not suggesting that hell and Hades aren't real places by making a comic book and and adding the criminal who goes to heaven and And the uh the the the the self righteous uh missionary guy who doesn't believe in Jesus, who does all these good works, going to hell. That in no way suggests that Jack Chick doesn't believe in heaven and hell, and in no way suggests that Jesus doesn't believe in Hades and heaven. In fact, it's taken for granted by both of them that they do believe in it. That's the whole point, that they're trying to communicate speech act theory, they're trying to communicate these parables. So so for you to say, I don't want to go up into Hades. I don't want to go into hell, it totally uh undoes their their entire argument if you're thinking in the back of your head, Well, I don't believe in hell I don't believe in hell. I don't believe in Hades. I don't believe in heaven. T Then this soul's parable is nonsense, it doesn't make any sense. Who cares? Then this is not communicating any truth, and you can just walk away in and have a nice day. But if you recognize Jesus is telling the truth, and the fact is that if we don't believe in Jesus, we'll end up in this place of Hades, which is a place of ongoing fire and torment, and then we know from the rest of the scripture what's gonna happen, you're gonna be resurrected And then what's going to happen? You're going to be thrown into the lake of fire. Same image, right? Separation from God, separation from his people. You're never getting out of there. Same flame. And what is it described as? being tormented. Oh, this is terrifying. This is not what I want to be. This is not what I want to do. Instead, I want to be like the the the poor man, right? Who goes off to be with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. And the same thing we find about heaven. What is it? It's the inner light. It's going we're going to be resurrected. We're going to be at the banquet. We're going to be in the new Jerusalem with God and His people forever and ever in a place of bliss. We'll be comforted forever and ever. Right, the the intermediate state is in perfect continuity with the eternal state. The only difference seems to be uh a resurrection reality. And so when we look at this parable, it's wonderful, it's very, very encouraging And it's wonderful to see this is the destiny of of of the righteous. Praise God. I'm gonna be with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. I'm never getting out of there's a fixed destiny. I'm gonna be with God and his people. I'm gonna be comforted. Hallelujah. Amen. I can't wait to to live as Christ, to die us again. I can't wait for the resurrection. Can't wait for the new heaven to earth. This is going to be wonderful for the wicked, not so much. It's going to be absolutely terrible. It's going to be terrible in Hades. It's going to be terrible in the lake of fire. Don't want nothing to do with that, right? I mean, we can glean a whole lot out of this. So let's not just be superficial, let's not just be dismissive, let's actually examine the scriptures and and see what they say. and see whether or not the Bible teaches that the wicked will go to a place that post-death punishment for sins is a place of of ongoing torment which is prescribed as fire. Separation from God and his people in the state is fixed and unchangeable, both for Hades and the Lake of Fire. And I argue as we go cover to cover, we realize that Isaiah says that you will lie down in torment. The the the New Testament describes everywhere that the wicked will uh will uh go through uh weeping and gnashing of teeth. They will be cast into that outer darkness where there'll be weeping and gnashing of teeth. They have this place of of gloomy darkness reserved for them. They'll go they'll be tormented day and night forever and ever Uh that that's the place that that the wicked are described as being after after they're resurrected, they're going to the lake of fire. So let's preach that to to every uh creature out there. Let's tell people that they don't have to go to this place of torment, but they can be received in the kingdom. They can be with us. They can be with Jesus forever and ever. That's our hope for people to be saved.