So I was recently having a discussion with a brother about marriage and the purposes of marriage and its main intent, that being companionship. uh procreation and uh prevention of sexual immorality. And you can see that explicitly found in Genesis chapter one and in 1 Corinthians I think it's chapter seven. And then we got into the discussion about uh one of the other what I would argue the other uh Purposes of marriage would be sanctification or what I refer to as putting people on mission And uh this last one got a little bit of pushback of essentially saying that well I was essentially arguing uh um that marriage has a sanctifying effect on people and will put people often who are drifting in life um and just floating and put them on mission for God. From to set their feet um toward you know, moving toward God and and moving toward his grand mission which is to make disciples and just to do his will basically on the earth. And to that was kind of being pushed back and saying, well, um m marriage y you know, basically there is just as many married people not on mission for God that there are single people not on mission for God. And so marriage isn't really the solution and certainly not the problem, um, but really it's the heart. If somebody is wanting to be on mission for God, they can do that as a single person. If someone is wanting to be on Uh not to be on mission of God, they can, you know, obviously do that as a single or a married person. In other words, being on mission of God and marriage are not really related. And this is not truly one of the purposes of marriages. Marriage is just a uh place where you can be on mission for God, but so can't so it's singleness. And to that, but what is my what is my response to that? And my response is this that while it is certainly true that someone can decide to not be on mission for God or be on mission for God, whether married or single. So it is not the case that every married person is on mission for God, and it's not the case that every single person is not on mission for God. While I do agree with that, I think that simply arguing that marriage essentially makes no difference and that the person's prior mental state or prior sanctification is the only uh really contributing factor um in this equation, I think is It's just it's just erroneous as false. Um I would no. And I think the uh another example of this would be um the case of sexual immorality and sapification in that regard. So um think about think about it like this. Like if somebody is sexually unfaithful, sexually immoral prior to marriage, then um will one be will one become sexually faithful or sexually faithful Well one could easily argue no, because if you're sexually immoral, you're sexually immoral and marriage is just the counterway, it's just the expression, it's just the It's just the area where you're going to manifest that sexual fidelity or sexual morality. But that sounds good and all, but then when you go to First Corinthians chapter seven, you discover that it isn't the case Again, you don't want to push this too far. If you are sexually deviant outside of marriage and have no desire to be sexually pure, it's not like marriage is going to be a quick fix. You're probably going to bring that sexual deviancy into into marriage. That is true. But it's also true that 1 Corinthians 7 is true and that marriage actually is an aid, is a benefit. It assists the willing person in their pursuit of sexual fidelity. And so I would argue the same thing is true when it comes to um marriage in its effect of sanctification or its effect of putting people on mission for God. It's just a fact that if you take, for example, single women and single men Um, but particularly single women, the demographic of single women are some of the uh most liberal and progressive people on the face of the earth, certainly in America that isn't the case. And that same woman uh if you get her married, she will by and large uh be uh much more conservative and you can look that up. It's very fascinating. See that married women by and large are conservative, single women by and large are uh progressive And so it it just it's just it's just a reality. Anyone who's become married and has children can also recognize that often people who have diverged and fallen away from God will often become religious and uh be drawn to God when they get married. It's just a very common phenomenon. People who have abandoned the church in their teens, in their twenties, often will come back to the church um in their know, and when they get married and have kids. This is actually one of the reasons that there's a great decline in the church is because those people who would normally come back in their mid to uh one of the early to mid asphyven late. Mostly early to mid um twenties because of marriage and because of family are not coming back because they're not getting married and not having uh kids in the first place. So they're not there's that re exodus, that that return back to the church isn't happening because because of the institution of marriage and family is not happening. But it's just it's just a fact. Um i i it's not the truth of the matter is we are not um these like so these souls that just kind of float around and our environment and our circumstances don't have a profound impact on us. The reality is that the godly man, the mature man , the holy man, is often the person who places themselves in situations that are most conducive to their growth and their flourishing, their spiritual vitality. It's not that one person is just in, you know, i so much holier in isolation all by themselves, but oftentimes They're the person who puts themselves before God's word. It puts themselves before uh the church, puts themselves before these healthy institutions, these helpful means of grace, these helpful things that promote their flourishing. I give you just one more example of that. And the unhouse man is the opposite. Um he often is the person who puts himself before unhealthy things and of course he diminishes and and has all the problems that come with um those realities. So Just one more example like that to try to illustrate this point Is consider the case of uh a man who doesn't have a job and finds himself lazy Or even take the man who not only doesn't have a job, but let's say he lives at home and he's in his late twenties and he's just a total pouch potato um who finds himself unable to be motivated to do much at all, right? Um I would argue that the institution of work and the situation of him getting thrown out of his house or his family dying, his provision drying up Trust you could take a trust fund baby would be another example. Thirty-five year old. He'd been living off his parents' trust fund for him. He finds himself very lazy and very decadent. and finding himself at parties and and drinking his life away with drugs, dudes and girls, when that trust fund disappears and his family cuts him off and says, You've got to go get a job there's some movies that have been made about this and he has to go and actually work for a living, he suddenly discovers uh that work has a sanctifying effect. And the man who couldn't uh lift a finger to do anything when it was all being provided for him suddenly finds strength and capacity to put in the eight hour day, then he no longer he's too tired, he no longer wants to go boozing and and drinking and and doing all of these other things. Um I I think we can see that. So again take that twenty four year old, uh he has no job, he finds himself extremely lazy. Uh now he does have a job, he works eight hours a day and all of a sudden he finds himself much more productive even outside of work. Even when he's at home, suddenly, you know, back in the day he let's just say say for example, he couldn't go to the gym too lazy to go to the gym and too lazy to do just about anything. Now he comes home and he's actually much more productive. I think we can see that that the institution of work would say man would spill over and have a sanctifying effect on him and actually help his laziness. Now, if someone is just, you know just committed to being lazy and is just fixed in that. Certainly he goes to work may be extremely lazy at work. So so that's the yeah. That's why I said my answer to this is yes and no Is work a just a magical bullet that will immediately solve every lazy man's problems? Of course not. But will work does work have a sanctifying effect? people that causes people actually to be less lazy. Yeah, actually, paradoxically it does. And I would say the same thing is true for marriage. It not only has a sanctifying effect when it comes to um sex school morality and sanctification in that regard, but it also has a sanctifying effect when it comes to missions. There's something about taking care of someone else and and being responsible for someone else. And and just the re it d there's just so many sanctifying things about marriage and children that naturally cause people to be more religious and recognize, oh my goodness, I have a human being that I'm responsible for and God has called me to take care of this person and what I do really matters for uh this person the rest of their life and ultimately eternity. That has a amazing sanctifying effect on people and causes people to be on mission for God because that is their mission. Our mission is to help others and to point people to God. But often the case, who is that other person? Who who really what what is this great task that God has given most people? And the reality for most singles, there is no great task in their mind. They're just floating. They're just entertaining themselves to death and they're just waiting to do something great. They're literally just in this standstill of wondering what am I supposed to be doing for my life and it truly is just floating. It's just a reality. Is that true for everyone? Is that true for Paul? Is that true for Jesus? not. Some people are on mission and and understand the purpose of their life outside of institution of marriage and children. That's a hundred percent the case. Um but for many, is that the case? No. Many are just truly putting their life on hold until they get married and have kids or they just don't know excuses themselves. Um and when you have children and you're married, it becomes quite obvious what you should do. You spend so much time at work and and then the time that you have, there's someone who's literally crying out, help me, help me, help me that the task that you're supposed to do for those other six hours that you're awake every day becomes very clear and very clarifying. So that's what I would say yes, it is the case. that one of the advantages and purposes of marriage is the fact that for people mission to God and by and large it does do that. Does it do it perfectly? No. Can it be resisted? Yes. Is it a means of grace? That um sets people in that direction a hundred percent. Um and and I think that's one of the reasons we see a decline in Christianity in America is because you also have a decline of just marriage family, that where this institution declines, and if I'm right, that it would have a sacrifice effect, so the effect itself will decline And I think that's what we see. We see marriage decline, we see children decline, and then we see the sanctifying effect of that also decline, which is exactly what we would expect. So something to consider, think about those things Um inspirant and be brave, like