Please open your Bibles to Jeremiah 9. We'll begin in verse 1. Oh that my head were waters, and my eyes a fountain of tears. that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people. This is Jeremiah. He he's saying that he wishes that He could just cry and cry and cry because he's so grieved and he has so much uh hurt for the fact that his the the people, his people, Israel, are going to be slaughtered or they are slaughtered. Uh he sees their impending death or he actually sees their their actual death and it breaks his heart. And from what from this we we see what it's like to be a true man of God, that we proclaim uh strongly we're against their sin and and we constantly uh call them to d to be better, to do better. We want them to give up their sin and to turn to God. But we also weep. We also are broken. We also are sad to see people give up true goodness, true happiness, true life, and instead pick Pick sin, pick that which is less, pick ultimate death, ultimate death of of of not only dying in this world, because a lot of sin results in physical death here But ultimately dying in that second death in that lake of fire where there be torment day and night forever and ever. We weep over their sin. Let's look at verse two. Oh, that I had in the desert a traveler's lodging place that I might leave my people and go away from them. For they are adulterers in a company of treacherous men. Now this is look at the juxtaposition. So in verse one, he's weeping over the fact that that these people are the judgment of God is coming upon them. But and then in verse two he says he wishes that he could go to a desert and and live in a traveler's lodging place so that he can leave these people and go away from them because they are all adulterers in a company of treacherous men. And this is the juxtap. This is the the irony that we love we love the sinner. We love them and we want the best of them. At the same time we hate their ways And ultimately their their evilness, it disturbs us. We want them to be saved, but as they remain in wickedness, it disturbs us. And we long to be away from them and we long to be in a place of righteousness where righteousness dwells. We love coming into the Lord's house with the Lord's people on the Lord's day and worshiping with him And finding like-minded people who love God and not uh love sin. And these people are described as adulterers in a company of treacherous men, people full of lust. and treachery. Isn't it that the unregenerate man? They're full of adultery and they are treacherous. And then verse three, they bend their tongues like a bow. Falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land, for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. They use their tongue as this weapon. as a bow and they grab uh they use slander and deceit and all kinds of lies as the arrow that they use to pierce people. That is the wicked. It even says that falsehood and not truth has grown grown strong in the land. And isn't that what we live in? We live in a world full of of uh falsehood and not truth and that's strong in the land. And that gives us encouragement because Jeremiah was dealing with this. Owens was dealing with this. Calvin, Augustine. They were all dealing with places where we can ascribe As falsehood and not truth has grown strong in the land. And guess what? We live in that day too. We are not an anomaly. We have the people of God have always lived in places Where falsehood and truth has grown strong in the land, but we continue to worship the God in the midst of these troubling times. And here we get a description of the wicked, for they proceed from evil to evil, and they do not know me, declares the Lord. That is the wicked Proceeding from evil to evil. They they constantly spew forth more and more evil. They are totally depraved. They are dead in trespassing sins. That's why God needs to take that stony heart. And replace it with a heart of flesh. That's why God needs to do the initiary act the initiary act of regeneration on the unbeliever so that they will receive God. They proceed from evil to evil. And they do not know me. The clarification is if they did know him, they would not proceed from evil to evil. The regenerate life of knowing God is instead of proceeding from evil to evil, We should be described as people who proceed from good to good. We have much good to do. Let us be people who proceed from good to good. Verse 4 Let everyone beware of his neighbor, and put no trust in any brother, for every brother is a deceiver, and every neighbor goes about as a slanderer. Everyone deceives his neighbor and no one speaks the truth. They have tart their tongue to speak lies. They weary themselves. committing iniquity. Let n everyone beware of his neighbor and put no trust in any brothers. Verse four. Man, you know, if if people would listen to the word of God here They would save themselves so much pain. This text is its plainest day. Let everyone beware of his neighbor and put no trust in any brother. That we should be be we should be aware that that our neighbors, that our siblings, those who do not know the Lord They're totally depraved. They are lost. They are lost in trespasses and sins. We should beware of them and not put any trust in them. Ultimately we know that they are sinners and they will sin against us. You know, unmet, unspoken expectations are so painful. When you expect something to be there and it's not, it hurts so bad. Certainly it hurts no matter what But when we expect something, when we when we flinch and and we we tighten up, then the blow hurts a whole lot less. And this is the way we should be. We should recognize that our unbelieving neighbors, our unbelieving siblings, our unbelieving relatives and friends We should put no ultimate trust in them. We should know that they are ultimately a deceiver and they go around and slander. You should not be surprised when you hear your name slandered by unbelievers. Recognize that they are by nature slanderers. And if you look at your own heart, you can say, Yeah, that wicked man in me is a slanderer. Do not be surprised if you hear yourself slandered. by others. They expect it. They are slanderous. Expect deceit they will deceive. But this should tell us how how let us not be like this is a description of The wicked, let us not be slanderers, let us not be people who deceive, let us be people of the light, who walk in the light and walk under uh under the the recognition that we live in the sight of God and so that we do things that are pleasing in his sight and if we do things that are pleasing in his sight we do things that will be pleasing in the sight of God Men. And then this uh verse five, wow. Everyone deceives his neighbor, and no one speaks the truth. They have taught their tongues to speak lies. They are trained in wickedness. They have learned more and more how to lie, how terrible. But look at this. They weary themselves committing iniquity. They commit so much iniquity that they're exhausted. So we talk about having a full day of work. They have a full day of iniquity. Let us spend ourselves to do righteousness. Let's say we weary ourselves doing righteousness, spreading the word of God. Verse 6. Heaping oppression upon oppression and deceit upon deceit, they refuse to know me, declares the Lord. That is the wicked Heaping oppression upon oppression. They hurt people, they harm people, they harm themselves, they deceive, they lie, and look, they refuse to know me, declares the Lord. That is the ultimate problem. of the wicked and the ultimate solution to from living a life like this is to accept the Lord. Come to him, all who labor in heavy laden, I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly of heart, and you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. That's what Jesus said. We should come to him, come in to know him. Remember Jesus said, Depart from me, ye workers of iniquity for I never knew you. These are these people that refuse to know me, declares the Lord. And so that leads into a life of heaping oppression upon oppression, deceit. upon deceit. But what is it a light of knowing the Lord? It's a light of instead of a causing oppression, we lighten the load. We take off the burden from people's back. Instead of deceit upon deceit, we tell the truth and we expose lies. Let this just be an encouragement for us. Let us be people who do not live deceitfully. Do not uh live in such a way that we're manipulating, that we're doing things, we're cutting corners. It's just convicting people. Let us live in the light. Let us do what is right. I need this message as much as anybody else. Let us be people who instead of deceive and trick Let us be people who walk in the light as he is in the light. And we will have fellowship with God. We'll have fellowship with his son, and we'll have fellowship with all of the believers.