Thank you. Let's open our Bibles to Second Kings chapter one. Second Kings chapter one Do we have prayer sheets tonight? By any chance? We do? Okay. Can you pass out the prayer sheets, please? Please turn the back. Alright, Second Kings. Second Kings chapter one. Would anybody be willing to read that? Well, it's kind of long, so Would anybody be willing to read the first nine verses and then someone read the second? Mr. Dennis, the first nine verses, and then who wants to read to the end of the chapter? Okay. Yeah, there it is. After Ahab's death, Moab rebelled against Israel. No. Ahaziah had fallen through the lattice of his upper room in Samaria and injured himself, so he sent messengers saying to them, Go and consult Beelzebub, the god of Ekron, to see if I will recover from this injury. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishbite, Go up and meet the messengers of the king of Samaria and ask them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going off to consult Beelzebub, the God of Ekron? Therefore, this is what the Lord says. You will not leave the bed you are lying on. You will certainly die. So Elijah went When the messengers returned to the king, he asked them, Why have you come back? A man came to meet us, they replied, and he said thus, Go back to the king who sent you and tell him, This is what the Lord says. Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are sending messengers to consult Beelzebub, the God of Ekron? Therefore you will not leave the bed you are lying on, you will certainly die. The king asked them, What kind of man was it who came to meet you and told you this? They replied, He had a garment of hair and had a leather belt around his waist. The king said, That was Elijah the Tishbite. Then he sent to Elijah a captain with his company of fifty men. The captain went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of a hill, and said to him, Man of God, the king says, Come down. Yep, versus beautiful. No no you you're right. Uh that was picking up with fifteen. That's right. I think he's on verse ten. Yep. Sorry. Um But Elijah answered the captain of fifty men, if I'm God Let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men. Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty men. Again the king sent to him another captain of fifty men. And he answered and said to him, O man of God, this is the king's order, come down quickly. But Elijah answered them, If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men. Then the fear of the Lord came oh sorry, then the fire of the Lord came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty men. Again the king sent the captain of A third fifty with his fifty, and the third captain of fifty went up and came and fell on his knees before Elijah and entreated him. O man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty servants of yours be precious in your sight. Behold, uh fire came down from heaven and consumed the the two former captains of fifty men, with their fifties, but now let my life be precious in your sight. Then the angel of the Lord said to Elijah, Go down with him, do not be afraid of him. So he arose and went down with him to the king. And said to him, Thus says the Lord, because you have sent messengers to inquire of Beelzebub, the god of Ekron, it is because There is no God in Israel to inquire of his word. Therefore you shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, and you shall surely die. So he died according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken. Jehoram became king in his place, and in the second year of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because Azhiah had no son. Now the rest of the acts of Azehiah that he did, were they not written in the book of the Chronicles of the Kings of Israel? Amen. Amen. Becky, can you open this time in prayer? Well thank you for gathering us here tonight. And thank you for bringing the word on today 's warm learning. I'm not even faithful saying a few words. He was like a man that solved since And still follows you no matter what. And we just ask that you 're going to our eyes alone to not fear the world and to speak you for unto the word even when you're fearful about what you may say or I would go behind the city now so that journey can be heard and be spread. Uh so that we can 't. What are your thoughts, comments, concerns, reflections as we were reading this passage or as this process as this passage was preached this morning It's really sad that um It's not getting the message coming up here to have a guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the the consequences of um working for the wicked, being associated with the wicked, that these men 's lives were sacrificed on the altar of this king's blind rebellion. And and really we have the same thing in the case of Pharaoh. That how many children died because Pharaoh just would not let the people go. The death angel, the the The um the messenger of destruction came in and wiped out all of the Egyptians' children, not just Pharaohs, but all of them. They all died because they were under the headship of Pharaoh and under his leadership. And then ultimately uh when Pharaoh once again lost his mind and went crazy and sent out the troops to go after the Israelites, who died? I I can't remember the text. I'm not sure Pharaoh I think I don't think Pharaoh died in that. Um I think it was all his armies that died. And so bad leadership often leads to devastation for the people under that bad leadership. In fact, we used to have a really bad leader and his name was Adam and he messed up and we all under his federal headship were kicked out of the garden with him, right? But thank thanks be the Lord, that we have a now a better leader who perfectly does the will of God and instead of his failure becoming our failure, his victory becomes our victory. Does anyone know who I'm talking about? That second Adam, Jesus Christ, right? So no, yes. Um it's certainly a precarious spot to be in is under the leadership of a wicked leader. In this case, Ahaziah was the rightful king, but he was a wicked king, and these people end up dying as they followed him. Now, I was thinking about this. If you were those captains of the verse 2, what ought you to have done in this situation So you're told by your leader, go out and grab Elijah. You know what's going to happen. This isn't just the, you know, escort him back to town for a nice little conversation. You're bringing this man to his death The man of God. So you have the anointed of God, the king, telling you to grab the man of God and bring him to his death. What ought these people to have done? These first two captains. They are gonna do that. They're stuck in a hard place in a rock, right? So yes, I'm I'm glad you point out. So if they just say no king These guys are done. The first fifty gonna kill the second fifty, right? But certainly going and marching out uh after Eliza ended up in their death, so uh it seems like death is um on both sides of them. So what should they have done? They should have won the God Right? So they should have gone to the live and asked him, Mike, Bluff McKinsey. Right? Yeah, I I agree with you. I think then what they should have done is what the third guy did, right? They're like, um I can't really say no because it is the king and to disobey I don't know anybody anybody foreign military Anybody foreign military? Yeah, could you just say no to your commanding officer? No. Especially to the general? Right? Imagine like you can't say that you can't say no to an NCO, you can't say no to an officer, you definitely can't say no to the commander, the commander-in-chief, and you most certainly are not going to say no to the king and think you're going to make it out of there. Like there's few things they build into military people than to say yes on command No option. They say march, you march. They say go in that building, you go in that building. They say jump on a grenade. No time to think. Jump on a grenade. Right? So there was no and there was no really ability to say no. But at the same time, going and trying to apprehend the man of God is foolhearted. And even if you wouldn't have been consumed, would God have considered you guiltless for this crime? Even if the fire didn't come down, the fire is just a manifestation of how God feels about the whole situation. But even if he would have allowed them to apprehend them, do you think God would be pleased with you as you do this? Well think about the people during the Third Reich as they apprehended Jews. They didn't burn the Jews into the fire. They're just apprehending them, doing what they're told. Is that how the Later history looks at these people as we then hunted them down all around the world and then brought them to trials and then ultimately sometimes executed them, sometimes threw them in jail No. Simply saying I'm just doing what I'm commanded to do is unacceptable because ultimately you are under the greater authority, namely the authority of God And so if your spouse tells you to do something wicked, you have to say no. If the government tells you to do something wicked, you have to say no. And if if your pastor tells you to do something wicked, You have to simply say, Hold on here. I can't I can't do that. No. Hold on, yes. Go ahead, do it. No, no. You have to say, no, I'm not doing this, right? Because I stand before God. Now, I think they would have had two options. They could have tried to reason with the king respectfully, right? Sometimes that's that works. You reason with authority and say You know, with all due respect, sir. Have you ever seen that? I'm not sure if you have, but in the military, sometimes you can do that. With all due respect, sir, I I don't think this is a good idea. I'm not sure if I'm supposed to blow up the other guys, uh Car vehicle, that seems like a crime, right? It's perfectly reasonable to say, I I don't think I should do this. And they could have reasoned with the king. Right? We do have examples. Joab was reasoning with David all the time and things like that. So you could have done that. The second option, but Ahaziah is kind of wicked, not like David, so trying to reason with the wicked king may not have worked. It may have got you killed anyways So who should you have reasoned with? Who's the other person to reason with? You can't reason with the king, he's irrational. Who might you be able to reason with? Just like the guy did, right? I mean that's exactly what this guy did. He's like, Well king won't be reasonable. I'm gonna go to him. I have to go, so I'm gonna go, but I'm gonna beg. Beg for mercy. Beg that God sees the situation I'm in and please help me, Lord. And guess what God does? There's no way out, is there? He can't escape. He's stuck. He sees the dead bodies. He's walking by the charred bones, right? And he's thinking, my only hope is what? The grace of God. The kindness and the grace of God. Now once you somebody turn to First Corinthians ten thirteen, please. And can somebody read that? First Corinthians 1013, Miss Brenda, this will be our next memory verse when we're when we're ready for it. 1 Corinthians 1013 Probably about two probably about two weeks. No temptation is overtaking you, then it's not common to man. God is faithful and he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability. But with the temptation you will also provide the way of escape that you may be able to endure it. I love this verse. Mm-hmm. I love this verse so much. It's so dear to my heart because you know what it tells me? You never have to sin. God is never going to put you in a situation where your only option is to do evil. Even when it doesn't seem like there I mean it doesn't seem like there's a way of escape until The angel of the Lord shows up, right? He's out there begging. He has no idea if Elijah's going to have any mercy or if Elijah can even have mercy. And yet all he does is plead himself on the blood of Christ. All he does is plead himself on the mercy of God, and God's mercy comes down upon him. And so no matter where you are And no matter what situation you are, when you're faced with , temptation, what should you be looking for? The way of escape. You should be looking to the left and to the right. You should be praying, God, show me the way of escape. And then all of a sudden an escape hatch opens up and you should dive into the escape hatch, right? All of a sudden the way of escape shows up Now just on a side note, I think we talked about this before. Many times the way of escape was three exits that way. You you pass the exit, it's a turn off, right? No exit ahead. Please turn off. You keep going. Turn off, you keep going. And eventually sometimes the way of escape is gone. I don't think this passage means that no matter how hardened, no matter how wicked, no matter how vile you are, there will always be a way out We talked about that a little bit last time. With the case of Pharaoh, God said, I will harden his heart. You remember this? There was no way out at that point. It was going to happen. God's glory was going to be magnified through the destruction of Pharaoh. His way out was like ten exits before this as he continued to beat down and oppress the people of God hardening his heart. So there's a balance there. But hopefully I'm assuming I'm not talking to anyone who's hardened and completely not hearing the word of God anymore. And so just recognize there's always a way of escape, but that does not mean you should drive all the way to the very end. At the hotel door trying to find your way of escape there. It probably was 25 minutes ago as you got that text message you ought not to have gotten Does that make sense on time? So there's a balance there. Alright, any other thoughts on this passage or the things that we talked about? Yep. He doesn't he says, If I'm a man of God. Yep. So is you know, then we fire from that is that because is there anything Is that because he doesn't want to s just say himself that he is a man of God, but he's not a God saying he's the man of Elizabeth? So why why the if? W why why the conditionality? Is is Elijah in doubt that he's the man of God? I would say absolutely not. I'm was he just trying to say something to those people like, I'm not proclaiming I'm the man of God. God proclaiming God Possibly. I I I think what's going No, I think there is something significant. I didn't touch that so I appreciate it. Um Think about what's the scene here. The man of God has given a message of God that now he's going to get killed for that message. And now he's sending you the troops to go and the king is sending you to apprehend this man of God to go basically kill him for his word. And so they address him as oh man of God. How offensive. Think about that. They're talking to the man of God. They're going to treat him like a Like a rebel, like a traitor, and kill him, and yet they're addressing him as the man of God. And he's saying, If I'm a man of God, let fire come down in heaven. You said it yourself. I'm the man of okay, if I'm a man of God, well, you said it. Let's see if I'm the man of God and he the fire comes down. So I think that that's what's going on. That their own words by their own words they are condemned And just on a side note, how often does that happen? God talks about the man who digs a ditch for someone else. Like he digs the ditch, he puts a little cover on it, he thinks, yeah, I'm going to get my neighbor. He's gonna fall in the ditch, he's gonna get hit, I'm gonna take all his money, it's gonna be great, right? And then two weeks later he's walking, boom, he falls down into his own ditch, and nobody comes and saves him. The Bible talks about this all the time that people catch themselves. God catches the crafty in their own craftiness. He catches them in their own words. This happens all the time. Watch God's providence in your life, and you're going to see people Who slandered others be slandered. Who tried to destroy others themselves be destroyed by the very tactic they tried to destroy others. And I think the same thing's going on here. You declare me the man of God, then why are you treating me this way? How can I be the man of God if you're then treating me like some kind of traitor that's about to be apprehended and destroyed? I'm the man of God. Okay. I'm the man of God. Well, fire from heaven. I think I think that's the kind of significance. And it does uh caution us to not do this. It's called lip service Right? We get we can sometimes say things with lip service that we don't really mean. And if you really think that this is the house of God, this is whatever, whatever it is, the Lord's day, whatever it is. If you s if you say those things, then do those things, honor those things as they ought to be honored. honor, don't just say them, but recognize what you're saying, what we believe, who we're talking to. I'm thinking right now about the third commandment. What's the third command? Anybody know the third commandment? Of the Ten Commandments? Child, you know the third commandment? What's the third commandment? Go in order. First commandment. Have no other God before me. Second commandment, no grave and images. Third commandment, do not use the Lord's name in vain. God is saying, when you speak my name Don't use it as a vain and small and empty thing. I am God. I'm a great king. You need to honor me. Don't treat me as a flippant thing. I heard a professor at Bob Jones, he was walking through the university and he saw this young lady and she like stubbed her toe or something and then she cried, you know, cried out. Some she she didn't she cried out, you know what people do when they use the Lord's name in vain, right? Just cry out his name. And the professor stopped this young lady and says Why did you you're you know why did you do that? Like this is you're treating you're using the Lord's name in vain. You're not honoring the Lord. And she said, Well I didn't mean anything by it Yeah, that's exactly the point. You see that? It's exactly the point. You don't mean anything by it, but this is God we're talking about. He's holy. He's pure. We don't use his name flippantly. We honor him. So, yes, words matter. Calling a man of God a man of God and then treating him like a common criminal is unacceptable, and they get condemned by their own words. Any other thoughts or comments or questions about our passage? It seems like A has no interest, right? He doesn't take whatever the third guy is on him, he clicked on a fourth group. That's what it seems like, right? We just kept sending them. Yes. Yeah, he doesn't he doesn't care about what's interesting is AZI doesn't care about other people's lives. He only cares about his own vindictiveness. But yet the other guy who gets saved, that third captain, does he just cry out for himself? If you look at the text, does he just simply say, Save me, right? Spare me. Who cares about the other guys? Just me. Don't let me die. Well what does he say? You see that? You see the difference? Wicked leadership only cares about themselves and uses people like pawns in their own game. If I can use you to exploit you to get what I want, that's good enough. That's wicked leadership. And Jesus warns people Christian leadership not to lord it over like these people who want to be on the top to be served by others. Does that make sense? If I'm on the top, then I can extract things from you all so that I become better off for it But Jesus says that's not how it is to be with you. Rather, the top shall be the servant of all And that's true leadership is caring for the people. And you at the top, you're just, okay, now I have more responsibility to care for more people. It's a totally different way of thinking. And when the love of God has hit your heart, then the love of neighbor will be overflowing from that. And you see that. He's not just concerned about himself, he's concerned about others, in direct contrast to the wicked man who could care less about anyone else but himself. If they have to die, they have to die because this is my plan, my vengeance, and I will accomplish whatever his task will be. I think we also see in this the continuous opposition of the wicked against the righteous. They will not give up. They will continue and continue until they have no more breath in them and no more resources. to try to harm the wicked. And so do not be surprised when the wicked just continue to attack the church, no matter what, no matter how many court cases they lose, no matter how who's in what president's been elected, they're going to come right back. Just as an example right now, I've and I've seen this and praise be the Lord. There seems to be a a a conservative revival in some sense. Our country seems at at least to some degree regaining its mind a little bit Especially about gender. Has anybody else seen that? We seem to be like finally back on the same page that like men are men and women are women and you can't have men beating up women. Anybody see this? Yeah, but they're not done. Does that make sense? They they're not done. This is coming back, right? And this is gonna be coming back right around the track. It doesn't matter if they've been defeated. It doesn't matter. They're gonna keep coming back and we should expect that And so we should not turn our back on these things. Just because we fought this battle yesterday doesn't mean we won't fight it again. Does everybody see that? The same battle is raging and it's going to come back and it's going to keep coming back and they won't give up. So that means we can't give up. We can't become tired and just turn our back on this. You should expect these things. They're coming back to harm us. So we always must be putting on the full armor of God to be protected. Any other thoughts? Go ahead and sorry. All 5019 files. How did the case find out that they weren't How did he find out they were burned up? I'm sure everybody was talking about it. He turned on CNN. Wow. All right, bring out another fifty one. I'm sure he found out. Yeah, exactly how he found out. But I I'm sure he well he definitely did find out. And also he probably just realized Taken a while, right? What happened? And and clearly the third guy got a report about what happened , besides the fact that he's looking there and looking at the sharp body, huh? Right? But again, I I think We underestimate the uh the sophistication of these people and the communication of these people. They have messengers and all these various ways. And people talk, people have always talked, and news has already gotten out, right? So um good good comment. Any other thoughts? It's it's crazy how Nathan of Satan what he has put forth to know the end. He knows he loses, he knows David believe in God and trembles. But yet they continue to fight. As Christians a lot of times we become discouraged and give up and grow weary and do the good like we're not supposed to. Yeah. But we know we 're Well that's such that's such a good point, thank you, Miss Lisa. That it's kind of sad that the devil is a defeated foe. He knows it actually sometimes I wonder, does the devil know he's defeated? The Bible says yes Let's turn over here. Let's go to uh Revelation chapter Chapter 12. Can somebody read verse 7? And I'll tell you when to stop Revelation chapter twelve, verse seven. Anybody have that? Michael and his angels fought against the dragon and the dragon fry fought against the dragon and the dragon fought and his angels. But they prevailed not, neither was their place found any more in heaven. And the great dragon, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, was cast out, which deceiveth the world. He was even cast into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now is salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night. But they overcame him by the blood of that lamb and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto the death. Therefore rejoice ye heavens and ye that dwell in them, woe to the inhabitations of the earth and of the sea, for the devil is come down unto you, which hath great wrath. Knowing that he hath but a short time and one of the dragon saws. Um this is a really fascinating text. At at face value, just read that skim over it quickly. You might think that that's talking about some war in heaven that happened thousands of years before humanity showed up or back in the garden or something. No. What this is talking about is at the resurrection of Jesus, he rose from the grave, he ascended on high. You can just look at the previous verse to see that. And that's the time frame where this great war in heaven happened and the devil was cast out. And the devil could no longer accuse those saints beforehand. Again, this isn't prehistory. Where are the saints beforehand? These people are alive. The devil used to go up there and accuse them and say, you know, David said a murderer and adulterer and all these things. He can't be before the throne of God. I believe he was in Hades. Different discussion, Abraham's bosom. And he was accusing them, they weren't allowed to be in glory. And now that Christ has risen, the devil has no more accusation, their sins are washed away completely. And the devil's access to accused the brethren is done. He's over. He's no more access to heaven. He can no longer do this. His mouth is shut. And now he's been thrown out of heaven. He's evicted. Get out. You're done. No longer, your visitor bass has been revoked. You're no longer allowed up here. And he's then sent down to earth. And we hear in verse 10, then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God, and the power of His Christ have come For the accuser of our brethren who accuse them before our God day and night has been cast down. A lot of theology here, but there's an already not yet reality to the kingdom of God. If you simply think that the kingdom of God is to come, that's wrong. The kingdom of God has come, is coming, and will come. Or as coming is is a reality right now. It came. The kingdom of God was birthed when Jesus Christ rose from the dead, and we are part of that kingdom of God, and it's marching on to victory. So the kingdom of God comes and the devil is cast down, thrown out of heaven And then look at verse eleven. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony. They did not love their lives to death. Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. Right? He's done. He can't he can no longer accuse you. You're no longer in Abraham's bosom. So rejoice. But woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea, for the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that his time is short Who's the inhabitants of the earth? So woe to us, because now the devil is no longer divided between accusing David and all the saints of old and going back and forth anymore, is he? He's sealed out of heaven. And now all of his efforts and all of his wrath is down here to make our lives miserable. That's why you need the armor of God, by the way, because you have an enemy. His main mission, he's infuriated, is to make your life miserable and destroy you. And so he says he comes down with great wrath because he knows that his time is short. The devil is a defeated foe and he's a big loser. You ever seen a big loser who they know they're lost, but they just they they can't win, so their only goal is to hurt you. Yeah, you can imagine a sports team. You're playing anybody play basketball? What what sports do people like in here? Anybody into basketball? Not a basketball fan. Soccer? So much anybody nobody likes sports at all? Good. Gotly people. Good for ya. Okay, so you've seen this. Right? So it no longer becomes about winning, it becomes about hitting another person with a baseball bat or hitting another person with the ball. This happens. Or hitting a person in kneecaps or pushing them as they're doing a layup Because you're just bitter and mad. And so you just want to hurt them because you can no longer win. Or the head. This is Satan's plan. He can't win, so he just wants to hurt as many people as he can on his way down He's still dangerous with the point. The fact that he can't win doesn't mean he can't snap and bite you and hurt you. And so we need that full armor of God. But we, on the other hand, and sometimes we walk around moping around as if we are the losers. We aren't the losers, people. He is the loser. We win. We're marching to Zion. We are victors. We have the armor of God. He cannot harm us unless we take off the armor of God Be careful of that. He can harm us outwardly, but he cannot ultimately destroy our souls. We are more than conquerors through Christ Jesus. So do not be surprised when you are fighting the devil, but Here's the thing. You should expect victory. Do you see that? He's defeated. He who's in you is greater than he who is in the world. And so if your Christian life is nothing but defeat, Nothing but spiritual dumps. The problem is not God and the problem is not the power of Satan. The problem has to do with who? Who is not utilizing the power that God has bequeathed you? If nothing but defeat. You're getting in the ring and he's just knocking you out every time and you're this sitting there wondering what's happening as the stars go around. The fact is, the problem is you And the problem is that we're not plugged into the source of life. God has given us means of grace for God's grace to strengthen us, and a lot of it is in the armor of God. Righteousness Thinking about salvation, praying, dedicating yourself to the Word of God, dedicating yourself to the people of God, the Christian life should not be one of nothing but defeat. And if it is, we have only one person to blame, and it certainly isn't God. Any further thoughts? We're not going to come back here, so I want to briefly deal with the elephant in the room that probably isn't there for most of you. Namely, how does this passage deal with what Jesus does with this passage? Does anybody remember the Sons of Thunder? They went into a town. They tried to evangelize. They got rejected. Is this out from Maryton? They got rejected. They tell Jesus, should we cast fire down from heaven? And Jesus says, absolutely not. What's wrong with you? Alluding to none of this passage, right? And he tells them no. And Uh Jesus but he he there's something going on here. So let's look at that real quick. Was anybody thinking about that, by the way? Did I just bring something to your mind that we're better than leave on? So leave away. I'll tell you what happened. Okay. Sarah's looking at this full. Yep, mm-hmm. It says loop nine fifty-one fifty-six. Well, that has nothing to do with what we're talking about. Well here here's her how here's some inside baseball. I was gonna read that as the opening scripture. And um there's so much here. I want to talk about it's not just in this passage, it's also which we'll see if we get there in the next two minutes, it's also Revelation. The the passage that uh Alan read also deals with this passage too. And I was going to read those two passages, but I figured I changed at the very end because I thought, if I do that, the whole time you're going to be thinking. Well, how does this relate to what Jesus said if I remind you of what Jesus said? And I figured I better not do that. I better do it here, right? So the whole time you're not expecting me to um answer that question. So that's why we switch. Alright, let's go there real quick. Luke chapter 9, verse 51. Can somebody pick that up? 51 through 56? And and I need a new King James for this. I can't I can't take any uh Corrupted translations for you. I need New King James or KJV for this one, okay? Uh Luke chapter nine, verse fifty-one through fifty-six. Anybody have it? Alright, I have the authorized version. I will read it. Okay, here we go. Now it came to pass when the time had come for him to be received up. That he steadfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers before his face, and as they went, they entered a village of the Samaritans to prepare for him. But they did not receive him, because his face was set for the journey of Jerusalem. And when his disciples, James and John, saw this, they said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven to consume them, just as Elijah did? Very clear reference back to our passage. But he turned and rebuked them and said, You do not know what manner of spirits you are, for the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's life, but to save them, and they went to another village. Now really briefly, super fast, move it on quickly. The reason I ask for the authorized version is because many of your versions don't include that last part, do they? Terrible. Heartbreaking. The word of God has been robbed from you. Did you have a footnote release something? Did you have parentheses or a bracket or is it just going? No. It says some manuscripts uh them just as Elijah did. Oh that's all it says? Then he is discipled. Then he is disciples went to know where it's the A somewhere Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Lord, do you want us to call down fire from heaven to destroy them just as Elijah did? So that's how you would have Well yeah, that's how I referenced it, but I I was just simply saying that um only the only the New King James, the majority of trans manuscripts include that last little part of this. And again, this will be a fascinating conversation. I'm more than willing to have it. I'll just simply say this. What you will discover is that some manuscripts It should really say the vast majority of manuscripts since of all the ones that we have say this. Okay, that's a whole different conversation, but it's not just some. The vast majority of Greek manuscripts would read with that additional part. But we'll talk about it sometime later. I I think it's significant though because that last part explains What's going on? We want Jesus' commentary. He just he just rebukes them and says, Well, why Jesus? And the the answer is right there in that last part, he says, For I did not come to destroy men's life, but to save them Now, this is so important, and people miss this. The Old Testament is not fundamentally against the New Testament. It's not bad old good new. That is a heresy of the past where they saw that God of the Old Testament was big and mean, and God in the New Testament is big and nice. No. There is only one God. The God of the Old Testament is the God of the New Testament. And just on a side note, did anybody see Jesus in our passage today? When we were reading in First Kings? Was Jesus anywhere in our passage? We have Elijah. We have Ahaziah, the wicked king. We have the people burned up, the enemies of God. We have the repentant man, a future believer. Is there any other character I haven't talked about in the passage? The angel of the Lord is right there the whole time with him. The angel of the Lord is the one who told him to go and speak to Ahaziah. The angel of the Lord is the one who told him, Do not be afraid, go down with the repentant sinner. Jesus is right there. Right there next to Elijah. He never rebuked him. He never scolds him. Elijah's clearly the good guy in our passage, right? I didn't preach how terrible of Elijah for defending himself. And God sending down fire, like as if Elijah had the power to send down fire and God was not happy with this. Of course not. Clearly Elijah's the good guy. And yet, when we get into the New Testament, we see this quotation of wanting to do what Elijah did and Jesus rebuking. And I think many of us will be very tempted, and many commentators just want to simply say, that Eliza, or that was okay in the mean old Old Testament, but we're in the New Testament, and we don't do that anymore. Right? You see that that temptation? That was terrible back then. We never preached that sermon, actually. We say it was fine back then, but we say it was that really is like Old Testament kind of like primitive stuff. And we're better today. We don't kill people. Well, we don't kill people. But still, that is a bad way of reading the Bible. Okay? What was John and James trying to do here? Just summarize, bring this into the modern context. What were they trying to do in response to the rejection of the Samaritans of Jesus? What was that? They were trying to help God out. But what did they want to happen to the Samaritans? What was that? Revenge. Oh, you want to reject Jesus? Bring out the AKs and just shoot up the town. Yeah, we don't do that. We don't say believe in Jesus or not, I'm going to beat you up and make you really wish you would have. That is not the proper response towards these people. Jesus did not come well What is what is what does it say? Jesus did not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. The first coming of Christ, Jesus came not to judge the world, but to bring salvation. Jesus is coming back the second time to bring down wrath, though. It's not fundamentally wrong to destroy sinners. It's fundamentally wrong in this age to think that that's the mission of Christ. The mission of Christ isn't to repent or die. The mission of Christ is to repent and live. And if you don't, I'm gonna leave you to the judgment of God and he'll take care of you. Does that did I say that? Same timeline. It's the same that's the same timeline. It's the same dispensation, that same time period. It's this time. Yeah. Which is not the sh but but I think what's clear here is a few things we don't recognize. One, they hated the Samaritans There was there was animosity. They were already angry at these people, and then they reject Jesus, and they're ready to call down fire. They never did this for any Jewish town. It's only the Samaritans. And remember what we read from James. Be very careful with anger, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. They think that they're righteous indignation, but really they're full of bitterness and hatred. That's why we've got to be so careful. They think it's about God's glory, but really it's about their own revenge. That's one problem. And the second problem is this is people rejecting the gospel and sending fire to punish them for rejecting the gospel. But is that what was happening in Elijah's day? And this is a mistake people make. What was Elijah doing? Was he up there preaching the gospel? People reject. Fire come down. Wipe him out. Preaching the gospel, people reject, fire come down. What was Elijah doing? Protecting himself. Yeah, really God was protecting him. But he was protecting himself. He was minding his own business. He preaches the word of God, and then the king tries to harm him, and then God protects him. This is a very different scene Then you preaching the gospel and obliterating those who reject it. Not the same thing at all. I'm not surprised then that God is perfectly okay with Elijah, with him, God protecting Elijah through fire. Can God do that? Yes, that's perfectly okay. In fact, we kind of expect it. We're kind of shocked when he does it. Does that make sense? When John the Baptist is preaching the got the word of God and Herod comes and grabs him and throws him in jail John the Baptist is having like an existential crisis thinking, what is going on? How could this be? We expect God to protect us. He doesn't always But we expect it, and there's nothing wrong with that. Even supernatural means, sending down fire, it's perfectly fine. But you destroying your enemies after They make you mad. Well after you preach the gospel and they reject is totally different. This is not Old Testament versus New Testament. This is different circumstances and this teaches us to be very careful applying passages. of the Bible. Because people, even the devil, know the Bible, but they can twist the Bible for their own purposes. You can use the Elijah incident to punish your enemies, can't you? Because you're mad. And you're just going to call down fire from heaven. But really, that's totally inappropriate. But it is totally appropriate to For God to defend you, and I would argue it's probably appropriate for you to defend yourself. But that's a whole different discussion, and maybe that's true, maybe not. But at the very least, it's appropriate for God to defend you. Any thoughts on that? Does that make sense It's a harmony, not an opposition. Now, very briefly, we're just super running out of time. In the passage you read, Mr. Allen, there's also a reference to our passage as an allusion, the two prophets. It says that they can call down fire at any time to devour their enemies. Remember that? That's the New Testament This hasn't changed. That this idea of being able to protect yourself or God being able to protect you is a continuous thing. So the opposite the the difference is really scenario and it's not old testament, new testament, not bad God in the past, good God today No, God has always been good. God never changes. And we just need to be careful having this overly negative view of the Old Testament. Any final thoughts as we wrap this up? Well that's interesting. This morning you were we were talking about the three And your and they can bring down fire, which was Elijah. So it almost points to that by way. It does. We'll get there. We'll get there. That passage most certainly does point to Elijah and most certainly does point to Moses. But what does it mean? That's a definitely not something I want to address in the next one minute, but I love you seeing it. Yes. That is a New Testament passage that's pointing there and saying, this isn't over. There's something back here. Remember that old testament is still useful. You need to actually know the old testament to make those connections and those things are still relevant today. So would you say that like Saul's prophecies would be starts the king ship just pointing to Christ taking over as the king and we get a third one in there in the transfiguration. Okay back to trans so we're talking about the transfiguration now. Yeah. Yeah. And we have Jesus on the mountain, we have Elijah on the mountain and Moses on the mountain. So that would be like the three main offices like Saul's prophecy at the establishment of I'm not sh I don't yeah, I don't know what prophecy you're alluding to though. leads Israel in the free openity. Yeah. And then he kind of goes off to leave that. Yeah. Would that kind of be pointing to I guess the third off the seventh office, the set? Oh like prophets pre prophet, priest and king? Oh absolutely yes. Jesus is our prophet, priest and king. And those are the these are the three offices and these also the um the the the the epochs that's really going on. So the reason why Moses and Elijah show up on the mountain with Jesus is because they point to Jesus, that you have the law and the prophets. And the embodiment of the law is Moses and the embodiment of the prophets is Elijah. And that's why you also have all the miracles that correspond with them. And what I tried to bring out is it's a wrong reading of the Bible to think these miracles happen every three moments. They didn't. It's just that the Bible records, or more accurately, we only remember the scenes with the miracles. This is the thought that you remember, you forget all the bunch of names where this army kills that army with no miracle mentioned It was very often that they lived in non-miraculous times. It's just that we happen to cling to, oh yeah, the the times of Moses or the times of Elijah and Elisha or the times of Jesus. But these are really three different times of miracles that confirm the offices that then bring revelation. But yes, on that mountain you have the fullness of God's testimony. You have you have uh the law, you have the prophets, and you have Christ who brings in the new the the uh the new covenant and the the revelation of the new covenant which is the new testament. Does that does that make sense? The fullness of God's message right there. And you have the fullness of the offices found in Jesus. He is our ultimate priest, he is our ultimate prophet 's ultimate king. We don't need anybody else. We look to him alone. So any final comment before we go to prayer?