Mr. Jan put that down as one of our clappers. I like it. That was lovely. All right, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that we could sing such a wonderful song, praising you, clapping our hands, being excited about what you've done. Lord, I just pray that you would never leave us or forsake us, that you would continue to work in our hearts, that we would love you, that we would Forsake everything that clouds our vision from you. That you would be with me now as I proclaim your word and try to speak to your people, Lord. I I need you every hour, and I need you to empower my speech and empower their ears so they can hear and see and believe and be changed and walk with you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So this week I had the great pleasure of getting to take my four children to Bring Your Kid to Work Day. The last time I have done that was in 2019. And I was thinking about this. When I did that, my oldest, who's now thirteen, was only seven. And my second oldest, who's actually homesick, listening. right now on Zoom. He was actually four and the cutoff was five, but they let him squeeze in 'cause there's only a few months off. And um they had such a blast being in the office, seeing where dad works. We took pictures and they got to meet the people. So for the last seven years they've been bragging and boasting and speaking about this amazing bring your kid to work day uh to all of my other uh four kids. But of course COVID happened, we all went home and teleworking and all these various reasons. It has been six or almost seven years since I have uh brought my kids to bring your kids to work day. Well by God's kindness the drought has ended and I got to bring them there and all four of them went and they had a great time and I As they were talking to each other, the young ones kept asking the older ones, was this as good as the time that you guys have been telling me about? And I'm happy to report that they said, no, it was better. So they had a great time. Well while I was there, uh I I'm usually surrounded by Christians and I'm usually surrounded by adults with a sprinkling of children. Okay? But there I was greatly outnumbered by children. There was apparently 400 children there. And so a lot of people had two, three, four kids that were there. So I was surrounded by the children And a few things interesting happened. Number one, my mind went back to all the times that I was having fun, and I looked up at my parents, and it was just kind of standing there. And I realized that I had become my parent. I was now the parent standing there, and my kids were now the ones running and having fun. So that was the first thing that was interesting to me. The second thing that kind of What's interesting to me was to see the joy and the happiness and the optimism of all the children. They were just so happy. They just had such smiles on their faces. They all believed that they had a destiny. And that they were going to change the world, and the world would never be the same after their impact on the earth. The joy, the happiness, the optimism. Beloved, do you remember having such confidence yourself? You remember when you were that child that you were going to change the world? The world had been waiting for you to show up and now you have arrived. Well, here's my question. What happened to that optimism, that hope? And how did you deal with the reality-crushing aspect of life where those hopes became dashed and you realize that you weren't the Messiah, but that God was. So today we're going to look at that question. We're going to explore that, and we're going to deal with Elijah as he realizes that same thing: that he is not the Messiah. But that God is. So with that in mind, please open your Bibles to 1 Kings chapter 19. 1 Kings chapter 19 We will begin in verse 1. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done. Also, how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also if I do not make your life as one of them by tomorrow about this time. And when he saw that, he arose and ran for his life and went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and he left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a broom tree, and he prayed that he might die, and he said, It is enough, Lord, take my life. For I am no better than my father 's. So let me remind us briefly of the context that Elijah has just won a great victory. There was this grand test between Elijah and the prophets of Baal. The people were limping between these two opinions. They were half-heartedly worshiping God and half-heartedly worshiping Baal because half the time they believed that Baal was God and half the time they believed that Yahweh was God. They were not Fullheartedly committed to anything. And so Elijah cries out to the people, How long will you limp between two opinions? If Yahweh is God, serve him. If Baal is God, serve him. Of course, the Holy Spirit's testifying to his words, and they know in their heart of hearts, just like you know in your heart of hearts, who the real God is, the God of creation, the God that has In him we live and move and have our being. So the people answer him not a word. They're silent. So Elijah conducts a test. He says that the real God will be the God who answers by fire. You prepare your sacrifice and I'll prepare my sacrifice and the God who is real will send forth the fire. So you remember the story. All four hundred plus Prophets of Baal are out there hooping and hollering and dancing and yelling and cutting themselves and crying out to their gods, and what is their efforts resulting? Chapter 18, verse 29. There was no voice, no one answered, and no one paid any attention. And why is that, folks? Because Baal is not God, and Baal cannot save. Baal can do nothing. Baal is a figment of the imaginations of men So now it's Elijah's turn, and Elijah prepares the altar, and he doesn't hoop, he doesn't holler, he doesn't shout, he's not slain, he's not speaking in tongues, he does none of those things, but rather he prepares the altar, puts water all over it, prays to God and God sends the miracle. He sends the fire and the fire is miraculous, fire like no other fire. It consumes the water. It consumes the burnt offering. It consumes the wood. It even consumes the stones. and the soil. It's miraculous, obliterating fire from God. And so when the people see this, they cry out, verse 39, the Lord He is God. The Lord. He is God. God has been vindicated. The test has proven that Yahweh is the true God. And so Elijah seizes the moment, tells the people to grab the prophets of Baal, grab them, take them down to the brook Hishon, and to execute them there. Now the Berkhishon is a famous area that God has already done past victories at that site. Does anybody remember Sisera, the evil king? Sisera, who was out there terrorizing the people of God back in the book of Judges, and you have Deborah and Barak. This is the scene where God defeated Sisera and his great chariots. And so the place that God had accomplished great victories in the past have now become the place where God has accomplished great victories in the present. And then God tells well God leads Elijah to go on top of Mount Carmel, because now that the fire has come down and God has been vindicated, there's one thing that thou still lackest. There's one thing left, which is namely to finish the droughts. It's been three and a half years since Elijah walked up to King Ahab and said, At my word it will not rain. It's been three and a half years, no rain, famine is spread throughout the land. So you have Elijah, he goes up on the mountain, he prays seven times, and then God finally sends down the rain And at the very end of all of that, there's one last thing. It says that the hand of the Lord came upon Elijah. He girds up, he straps his stuff up. And then he runs and he runs faster than Ahab in his chariot. And I told you last time that this is an indication that most likely Elijah was running between 25 and 30 miles an hour. That's like going on a bike down a hill and just flying down the whole time. Actually, I've been on a bike that fast. He only go about twenty miles an hour. More like a moped. He's the fastest man the world's ever seen. And he does this not because he's some world-class athlete on steroids with the best genetics imaginable, but rather he does this empowered by God 's strength to do the impossible. That's what we have seen Elijah is a man who has been strengthened by God, and his life has been a walking testimony of miracles. He is seen, God bless him. One of the first times I came to this church, I heard a song that I had never heard before, and it was something called like favor Anybody remember that song? It was it was favor and constantly favor of the Lord favor of the Lord will be upon him favor of the Lord you I remember I remember that so I never heard that song and now it's become one of my favorite songs I'm always on YouTube listening to that song Well that is really Elijah's life. Favor of the Lord. Angels surrounding him. Blessing of God. In fact that Wonderful song comes from Psalm 5, verse 12, which says this, which is true of all of us. For you, O Lord, will bless the righteous. With favor you will surround him as with a shield. That's the life of Elijah. Favor, favor , favor, like that song. Favor. Surrounding him like a shield. And so really Elijah's life has been nothing but a mountaintop experience where he's seen the favor of God and he's been blessing him. But there's one thing missing from this scene. You have the prophets of Baal, they're slaughtered, remember. You have Ahab, and he's at least listening and not trying to prevent Elijah and his reforms. And then of course you have Elijah. Winning the battle for the Lord. But there's one other person that's missing from this scene. Does anybody know who that is? She's a woman She's very wicked. Jezebel. Where is Jezebel? Well, Jezebel did not come out. To see this, because really if you recall, remember Elijah meets Obadiah and Ahab and they're out there searching. So there's no time to get Jezebel when all this happened And so Jezebel is back at Jezreel, which is one of the locations of King Ahab's palaces. Now remember, where was Ahab going back to? Jezreel. Where did God strengthen Elijah to beat Ahab to? Jezreel And he beats him to the gates of Jezreel, but he doesn't go into Jezreel because he's waiting to hear what's going to happen when wicked Jezebel hears All that Elijah has done. Who are the prophets that Elijah killed? Jezebel 's prophets. So how will Jezebel respond? Well I mean, God has sent down the rain through Elijah. He sent down the fire through Elijah, and He's even made Elijah become the world's fastest man. So how should Jezebel respond to this miraculous display of the power and the vindication of God? She should cry out like the people cry out, the Lord is God, the Lord is God. She should repent and recognize how wicked she has been. But is that what often happens to sinners? When they're confronted with the truth of God and the sinfulness of their own sin, do they often respond positively In repentance. Well, let's see. Let's look at chapter 19. That brings us all the way up to our context. Verse 1 again. And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had executed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also if I do not make the life of you as the life of one of them tomorrow Is that what Elijah was expecting? Elijah ran all the way here, 15, 16, up to 25 miles from Mount Carmel to Jezreel, to hear the news from Jezebel. And is this what you think he was expecting or hoping? Would you run 16 miles to a woman who would just then threaten to kill you? No. This was awful. This was terrible. Now, what's interesting is when I hear people preach this text or people allude to this text, they often emphasize the fact that Jezebel is a woman. And they often emphasize the fact that Elijah was so strong against King Ahab, and he was so strong against the prophets. And yet, and we're going to see this, that he buckles. against a little small woman. Have you ever heard of someone like that? It preached like that? It's often how it's displayed, but I think that's actually mistaken. Because this is not just a random woman Challenging a man to a fist fight and just hyperventilating over there. Jezebel is no random woman, but rather Jezebel is the queen. And Jezebel has a reputation of killing the prophets of the Lord. As you remember, Obadiah says that Jezebel went out and killed all the prophets of the Lord, except the hundred that he had hidden, fifty in a cave. And so if a woman who's the queen, who fears neither God nor man, who has a reputation of being the most wicked woman ever, and goes around killing people, tells you that she's going to kill you, this is something that you ought to pay attention to. This is not Just some kind of woman just ranting and yelling and screaming. This is a real threat to your life. And so I think that it was very reasonable for Elijah to recognize that she was going to kill him That she says, I am going, she explicitly says, I'm going to kill you, and not just in the distant future. I'm going to kill you before the sun goes down And if I don't kill you, let the gods kill me. I mean, how much more clear could it be? I'm gonna kill you, Elijah. You're dead, you're a dead man. And so unless God does a miracle for Elijah, he is going to die. And so what is Elijah's reaction? Or what would have been your reaction? If someone had just threatened you, who had the means to kill you, and had the reputation and had the history of killing your fellow prophets, what do you think you would have done if you had been threatened Well, let's look at verse 3. He does what hopefully you would do. Verse 3. And when he saw that, he arose and he ran for his life. And he went to Beersheba, which belongs to Judah, and he left his servant there. So what does Elijah do? He hears the news, he turns off his phone, he chuts the phone away because there's a GPS tracker on him, and he just takes off And he runs to the hills and he runs so his legs can't stop. And he gets out of the jurisdiction of Jezebel. Jezebel is the queen of Israel and he goes to Beersheba, and it tells us there that Bels Bersheba is in an area that belongs to Judah. And remember, the northern tribe and the southern tribe are two different countries now. And so he runs out of America, crosses the border to Mexico, and is hiding over in Mexico. That's what's going on here. Now, so far this seems actually quite reasonable. The Bible tells us in Matthew chapter ten, verse six, if somebody is persecuting us that we ought to flee from them. Here's what it says. Matthew 10, 16, behold, I send you as a sheep in the midst of wolves. Therefore be wise and be as serpents and as harmless as a dove. Let me just stop here for one second. Jesus said, I'm sending you as a sheep in the midst of wolves. Now, these are not kung fu sheep. They don't exist. We watch too many movies. The sheep get gobbled up by the wolves. Do you see that? That's why we need the shepherd to protect us from these wolves. So this is a perilous situation that Christ says. He sends us out as these sheep, these defenseless animals that must depend on another, namely our good shepherd, which is who? Jesus to protect us against these wolves. But in light of that situation, if you're a sheep and there's a bunch of wolves, you better be wise and you better be gentle. You better understand who you're dealing with and understand that's a perilous situation. And then Jesus gives us an example of what wisdom in a wolf world, and you're a little sheep, looks like. And he says this in verse 23, when they persecute you in this city Flee to another. So that's what Elijah does. They're persecuting him in Israel, so he flees to another place, namely Judea. So so far, so good, right? He does what we'd all do. He gets out of there. But you know, I used to do a lot of theological debates, and I was doing a theological debate about the salvitic status of children that die in infancy. And if you want to talk to me about that, we can talk about that But one of the things that in that discussion that came up was John the Baptist. And I pointed out, well, what about John the Baptist? He had the Holy Spirit in his womb. And I still remember he had this thick accent And he said, but your child is not John the Baptist. It just always reminds me that that thick accent, your child is not John the Baptist. Well, I bring that up because While it makes perfect sense for us to flee when we're being threatened by a queen that has the power to kill us, I'm not so sure if Elijah here is actually doing what God wanted him to do. Why? Because we're not Elijah. Elijah is not us. Elijah's life does not look like us. We are not being written into the scriptures. We are not doing world-changing miracles. We are not being directed by God every step of the way getting personal messages from God. Are you? Is God sending you personal message or did he give you a book? With 66 books, that's 80 hours long. That's how God directs us in that still small voice. But he directed Elijah, not with a still small voice, but a very loud voice and very directly. So look at verse 3. Chapter 19, verse 3. It says, and when Elijah saw that, namely the threat from Jezebel, he arose. and ran for his life. Now again, if you're just reading that fast, if you're thinking about any normal man, you might not see anything that appears missing in our text. But if you're actually remembering the story in the life of Elijah, there actually is something glaringly missing. So why don't you turn back? We're going to do a tour de force here, very quickly, in Elijah's life. Look back to chapter 17, verse 2. Seventeen verse two. If you look at verse one, he threatens not threaten, he he prophesies against Elijah and tells him that not accept that my word There will be no rain. Verse 2. Then the word of the Lord came to him saying, Get away from here and turn eastward. Look at verse 8. After the brook dries up, then the word of the Lord came to him, saying, Arise, go to Zarephath, which belongs to Sidon, and dwell there. Now flip over to chapter 18. He's there at the lady's house for a while. He raises the dead there. He's fed by never-ending oil and never-ending flour. Then verse uh chapter 18, verse 1 And it came to pass after many days the word of the Lord came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go present yourself to Ahab, and I will send you, I will send rain. Then chapter 36, after all of the things that Elijah does or is about to do, and the fire that comes down, we see this in verse 36. And it came to pass that Elijah said, Lord God, let it be known this day that you are the God in Israel, and I am your servant. And that I have done all of these things at your word. This was not Elijah's idea. This was all God 's idea. And then look at verse 46. Then the hand of the Lord came upon Elijah, and he girded up his loins and ran ahead at the entrance of Jezreel. Do you see anything? A common pattern? Every step of the way, the word of the Lord comes to Elijah and he tells him, Okay, you threatened the king, now flee and flee here, and I'm going to seize you by the birds Okay, the brook is dried up. You gotta drink water, so go ahead to this town and the widow's gonna feed you. Then time to go from the widow's house. Time to confront Ahab. I'm gonna send the rain And then even the test, which we're not told explicitly, but we're told that a that Elijah references uh references back to it, that God this wasn't Elijah's great idea but the God who answers with fire. You try to do that today and God's probably not going to answer you. Why? But he didn't tell you to do that. But he told Elijah to do that. And then how did he run? Because the hand of the Lord came upon him, and he girded him up. Now, in light of that, look again to verse 3 And when Elijah saw that, he arose and ran for his life. Now, church, what is missing there? The word of the Lord's not there, isn't it? The word of the Lord's not there. The hand of the Lord's not there. The Lord is not there. It's just Elijah. Elijah sees And so Elijah responds. And Elijah runs for his life. Now again, most of us wouldn't expect the Lord to tell you, get out of there. But most of us haven't been walking with God and Him directing our every step for the last three and a half years. Is that not true? And so what I think here Is that there's something missing here, and I'm not alone, almost all commentators that I've checked actually see this as well, that this is not what Elijah ought to have done Elijah ought to have waited on the Lord, who will renew his strength. He ought to depend on him, but you say, but he would have been killed outside of a miracle. But Elijah is the man who has done nothing but see the miracles of God In his life. And so he ought to have stayed. And yet he doesn't. He flees. He runs. He decides I'm going to rely on my own common sense and my own strength Apparently the guy could run. Even without the power of the Lord, he could still run. He could still get out of there. And he runs for his life. And he travels quite a far distance. So here's my question. You have the greatest prophet of the Old Testament, Elijah Now operating on his own strength. The word of the Lord is not directing him, the word of the Lord is not empowering him. He's now operating under his own capacities, his own wisdom, his own abilities. So how is he going to do? How is the greatest prophet going to do operating on his own strength? And when we see his track record, I want you to think about how you're going to operate, not the world's greatest prophet, operating under your own strength. So look look with me to verse 4. This is Elijah not in the will of God, pulling up his bootstraps. trying to handle it on his own. Verse 4. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and he came and sat under a broom tree, and he prayed that he might die and said, It is enough, Lord, take my life. For I am no better than my forefathers. Now, this is going to be a little interactive. Is this a thumbs-up moment or a thumbs-down moment for Elijah? This is a thumbs down moment. That is how the greatest prophet in the Old Testament, not operating under the direct guidance and empowerment of God, functions. As a thumbs-down moment. It's a bad moment. He runs off. He's off in the wilderness all by himself. He sits under a tree and he prays, God, kill me. Take my life. Now, does this remind you of any scene? You have a prophet. He's discouraged. He's angry. He's asking God to kill him. He's under a plant. Does this conjure up any other stories in the Bible? This is Jonah. This is exactly what Jonah did. That Jonah's out there, he's the world's most complaining, worst prophet in the Bible. Strangely, he's like the most successful prophet in the Bible. The worst prophet in the Bible who doesn't want his prophetic methods to work at all becomes extremely successful. Why? Because the power is not in the man, the power is in God. I think that's the point of Jonah It's not in Jonah, because Jonah was the most half-hearted, unhappy, disgruntled prophet the world's ever seen, and yet his message converts a whole Gentile people. Incredible. But he's not a good prophet is the point. He's a compla his his message is successful and he gets on a mountain and says, God kill me. This is horrible. People are repenting. I hate these people. You're too merciful. I want the wrath of God to come down upon these people. And so while he's up there complaining, God causes this little plant to come out of nowhere and to to grow over him and to put shade over him. He says, I said, Oh, praise the Lord for this plant. This is great. And then God sends a little worm and he comes and eats the plant and the plant shrivels up. And then he gets back to complaining again. Oh, I hate my life. This is terrible. Everything goes wrong. Even the plant won't stay alive. Kill me, Lord. So here we have two prophets, both asking, God killed them, all alone in the wilderness, complaining against God. Here's what I think. I think that God intentionally puts these two prophets right next to each other, the greatest prophet and the worst prophet in the Old Testament, and puts them in scenes that look very similar to each other because he's trying to show us. That the greatest prophet will turn into the worst prophet if he gets out of the will of God. And if he starts relying on his own strength. He will cry out, please take my life. It is no better than me. And remember, where are we in Elijah's life? It's like we always think our lives are going to be like the Rocky story. You know the Rocky story You start off as a nobody or start off in the in the the Bronx of the ghetto or whatever. And you eventually have a change of life and then you know you get into famehood and all goes well for you. That you get this victory. But in the line of life, where is he at? Is he at the bottom? Rising up or is he at the top? He's at the top of his life, and then he comes crashing down. Do you see that? And you know what that tells me? That tells me no matter how long you've been walking with the Lord, no matter how much spiritual success that you've had, no matter how much you've seen the miracles of God in your life in the past, guess what? You need to be careful because you can still fall. There's another man like this, who is a great man of God, that God said that he served God like no other man in his generation. His name is David As a young boy, he faced off a giant. He grabbed a stone. When everyone else was afraid, he grabbed stones. He expected the miracles of God and he slayed the giant. You remember? Operating in the power of God. He didn't even want the armor of Saul All I need is God in his life, and he could slay a giant. Great man of God. He probably did that around 20-ish. He wasn't probably eleven years old like the little kid books, probably around twenty, maybe fifteen, something like that. Well, by the time he's fifty, he's king. He's powerful. God has answered all of his prayers And then he's not where he's supposed to be. And he goes on top of a palace, takes his binoculars out. Okay, he didn't take that binoculars out. He just looks over and he sees a woman Bathing. And you know the rest of that story. The man who slayed the giant was slayed by Bathsheba and ultimately slays her husband Uriah. What does that mean? What it means is you always need to walk in God's will and with God's strength and God's protection. Because if you do not No matter what your past resume and what God has done in your life in the past, you will find out that apart from me, you can do nothing. John chapter 15 verse 5. Without God, you will not stand. 2 Corinthians 3. 5 says, we are not sufficient in ourselves to think anything as being from ourselves, but our sufficiency is from God. You recognize that? I don't care how much success you've done. I don't care how many Women you have previously resisted, how many times you have not stolen from the offering plate. Doesn't matter your past record at all. The moment that you start walking away from God Your sufficiency disappears. Your strength is not found within yourself. Your strength is going to be found where? In Christ and in God. Romans chapter 8, verse 13 says, For if you we live according to the flesh, and we are by the Spirit to put to death the deeds of the body. How do we resist our evil inclinations? It's not doing spiritual push-ups. It's not even the spiritual disciplines. As valuable as those can be. But how we gain our strength to kill the deeds of the body is by the Spirit of God, by resting in Him. I'm sure you all know this passage, Galatians 5:22. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. How do you get the fruit of the Spirit? By fasting? By meditation? No. We get the fruit of the Spirit by having the Spirit and walking with the Spirit. What I'm trying to say is this: that we are always dependent on God. We see this. Elijah the great prophet becomes a mirror image of the not-so-good prophet Jonah. And it happens at a moment because in the peak of his success, he walks away from God and he starts to operate on his own power, on his own strength. And so here's what I think happened. God could have immediately gave Elijah a word when he went to Jezreel and he was threatened by Jezebel. You see that? He could have immediately just responded, okay, run here, go here, stand there. But he doesn't. Instead, he distances himself, he backs off from him to see what Elijah would do. And Elijah relies on his own strength, and again, we see what happens in Elijah's life. God gave Elijah enough rope to metaphorically hang himself And he does. And if he does that to him, do you think he'll do that to you? Has he done that to you before Has he withdrawn himself? Has he stepped back and see what you will do in times of difficulty? He didn't just come in immediately solve your problems? I think the answer we know is yes. And what is God wanting us to do But he doesn't immediately give us the answer. He doesn't want us to fail. He didn't want Elijah to fail. But rather, he's going to see if we're going to wait on the Lord. And Isaiah 40, verse 31 says, Those who wait on the Lord will renew their strength. They will mount up like wings like an eagle. They will run and not grow weary. They will walk and not faint. We will find our strength if we wait on the Lord. And it might take us up to the very last moment when here's Jezebel with her mighty men coming to take Elijah. It might be at the very last moment that God will then provide the rescue, but we can trust in him. And actually, interesting enough, I think Elijah eventually learned that lesson. Because Ahab dies, we're going to see this at the end of Elijah's life. Ahab dies and his son reigns in his place. And he falls from the top of his building and he crushes his legs and he's sick and he's dying. He probably has some kind of infection. So he then sends his messengers to go and acquire for the prophets of Baal, essentially, to find out if he's going to recover. And a man, Elijah, tells those people, go back and tell your master that he's going to die because there's not a God in Israel. Does everybody remember this thing? Kind of sort of maybe? It's in 2 Kings chapter 1. And so then he says, well who is that man? He describes him and he figures out it's actually Elijah. So he sends off, the king sends fifty men to get Elijah. Probably to come and kill him. And you remember they say, they say, Man of God, come down here. The king tells you to come down here. He says, If I'm a man of God, let fire come down and consume you. And fire came down and consumed them. And then he sent out another fifty. He says, Man of God, the king said, Come down here immediately. He said, If I'm a man of God, let fire come down and consume you. And it consumed them And he sent out another captain of fifty. He said, Man of God, have pity on me. Find my life merciful. And God told him, Go down. Do not be afraid. You will be protected. The reason I'm telling you this story is later on in Eliza 's life, I think he got the message. He no longer flees. Rather, he trusts in God, and God sends down fire to protect his prophet. What would have God done Back in the day of Jezebel to protect this prophet, if he wanted to protect him, send down fire to protect him. But again, he doesn't trust in the Lord. Rather, he acts like us Who often trust in ourselves. James chapter 5, verse 17 says, Elijah was a man with a like nature like ours. Most likely, this is the text that James is referring to. But again, there's hope here, because just as God did not leave or forsake Elijah, so he will not leave and forsake us, even as we act like Elijah, both in his triumph and his failure. So what's the point of all this? The point is this. Be careful. 1 Corinthians 10 verse 12. Therefore, let him who thinks he stands take heed lest he fall. If Elijah could fall, so can we. We need to stay in the will of God, recognizing He'll never leave us or forsake us, but He often will put our backs against the wall And put us in an impossible situation. God, you led me. You directed me. And what did you do direct me? He led him right to the entrance of Jezreel. He led him right into the valley of the shadow of death. And you know what that means, beloved? Your God sometimes will lead you directly into the valley of the shadow of death. And in those situations, you're going to have to trust him. You're going to have to believe in him and say, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. Of course, I'm alluding to Psalm 23. Do you know the interesting thing about Psalm 23? After he talks about the green pastures and the still waters, and after he talks about the valley of the shadow of death, At the end of Psalm 23, it says, Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. You realize that the goodness and mercy includes the valley of the shadow of death? Did you see that? After he talks about the valley of the shadow of death, where God led him, he says, that too is the goodness and mercy of God. And so God will put you in the valley of the shadow of death and have you needing to trust in the power of God to get you through. But he doesn't lead you there to tempt you and test you so you will fail. He leads you there so that you can realize that you are weak, but he is strong. Now, there's two last little details I want to bring out before we end this sermon about the life of Elijah in this moment. I want you to look again at verse 4. I want you to look at the words of Elijah in the depth of his depression and sadness. He says in verse 4, it is enough. Now, Lord, take my life. Today we would call Elijah what? Suicidal. He wants to die. But even in Elijah's lowest moments He's still the prophet of the Lord. And he still knows a few things. And he's still operating still in his Christian faith. Elijah knows That he has to go to God and ask God to relieve his suffering to death instead of going to the physician Or instead of taking matters into his own hand. What I'm saying is we live in a world confused about life and death. Who has the power of life and death? Is it you? Is it the physicians? Is it your friends? Or is it God? The answer is God. Again, he's not taking drugs, causing overdose. He's not doing violent means. He's taking his pain to God We must remember that God is sovereign. God is under control. And you do not have the right to take your own life. Exodus chapter 20 verse 13 says, You shall not murder. That's the sixth commandment. Do not murder. Well, what if you kill yourself? That's called self-murder. You have no right to kill yourself. Unlawful killing of anyone is against God's eternal moral law Genesis chapter 9, verse 6 says, Whoever sheds man's blood by man, his blood shall be shed, for God made human beings in his own image. Do you realize that? It's the image of God. We are the image of God. Sometimes there's been these scenes Where somebody will ask someone to desecrate a crucifix or desecrate an image of Jesus. And they have enough common sense, there's something inside them that says, I don't want to take a beautiful image of Christ, something holy, and to desecrate it Now that's somewhat superstitious, but the principle is true. If something is dedicated to God and holy to God, you should not desecrate it. And if you look at 1 Corinthians, the Bible says, whoever destroys the temple of the Lord, God will destroy him. So it's very biblical not to take your hand and try to destroy that which is holy to God. But you know what's holy to God? Not a crucifix, not even a church building. You are holy to God. You are made in God's image. You ought not to take your hand and to go after it To shed innocent blood. Proverbs chapter six, verse sixteen. Six things the Lord hates. Yes, seven are an abomination to him: a proud look, a lying tongue. hands that shed innocent blood, a heart that devises wicked plans, feet that are swift and running to evil, a false witness who speaks lies, and one who shows discord among brethren. Six things, seven things that the Lord hates. Number three on the list of the things that the Lord hates is a hand that sheds innocent blood. That includes your own life. The Lord hates this. That we would shed innocent blood. I hope you see the point. God is the one who determines life and death. God is the one who decides when we live. And when we die, you do not have, there is no right to die. You don't even have a right to live. God is the one who is your maker, and you stand in his hand, and he determines your days. 1 Samuel chapter 2 verse 6 says, The Lord kills, the Lord makes alive, he brings down to the grave, and he brings up Beloved, do not believe the lie of the world. This is being pushed on us more and more. You have some kind of right to die that your autonomy allows you to take the life of others who are very small and to take the so take the life of yourself as well. But you have no right. You to trust in the Lord. Now what are you to do if you're suffering and if you're in pain? You should try to relieve that pain. There's nothing wrong with trying to relieve the pain, but everything wrong with taking an innocent life The other thing you should do, which is actually what Elijah does do, is you should take your pain to God. Take your pain to him. Go to him. Tell him. Pour out your heart. You actually see this very often. Prophets of the Lord crying out, God, take my life. I can't take it anymore. That's actually a biblical prayer. That's what the prophets do. They pray to God, God help me, I can't take it anymore. And God will give you relief, and God will hold your hand. But don't take matters into your own hand It's not right. You have no authority to do so. Now the last point, which will be our concluding point, I want you to again look at verse 4. He says, it's enough. Lord, take my life. For I am no better than my father's. What does that mean? In his midst of his despair, he cries out, Take my life, for I am no better than my father's. From this verse, from this Passage, it seems that we can extrapolate that Elijah expected that his ministry would result in a mass revival Toward God. If you turn back to verse chapter 18, verse 37, you'll see this. This is what Elijah prays as God sends down the fire. He says, Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that you are the Lord God, and that you have turned their hearts back to you again. Elijah expected that God would use him to cause a mass revival in the land. And he starts to get some glimmer of hope of that. The people respond, the Lord is The Lord is God, the Lord is God. And they even kill the prophets of Baal. He expects them all to turn to God. Ahab seems to be listening, but those hopes are dashed when he the prophet has run out of town. No good deed is unpunished. Can you believe it? He does all of this for the Lord, and now he's run out of town as a fugitive. He believed that his actions would cause the kingdom of God to fall down. And beloved, let's be honest. Don't we sometimes expect that our actions will result in the kingdom of God falling down? If we start coming to prayer meeting, we're going to see results. And if we don't, we're out of it, we're quitting. We expect that we will cause mass revival in the land. And when it does not happen, what do we often become? Just like Elijah. Discouraged. We think we're better than our forefathers. And then a harsh reality comes. The revival that we hope for will not happen. Now, sometimes revival does happen. Right? God does sometimes send revival. But I want you to see this. What did Elijah do that was wrong? What did he do that was wrong? Did he pray earnestly? The Bible says he prayed earnestly. Was he walking in God's will? Up until this moment, he was walking in God's will. Elijah did nothing wrong, and yet the revival that he hoped for did not come down. Now beloved, I'm not trying to discourage any of you. And I pray that as we work toward revival, that we would see that revival that we're hoping for But do you realize that after we get off of this earth, the kingdom of God will not have fallen unless Christ comes back? We are not the Messiah. And our lives are not going to result in the kingdom of God coming down here. We just have to recognize that. And to me, I think that's actually sounds like bad news, but it's actually liberating God doesn't expect you to bring the kingdom of God down. You are a pawn. And I don't mean that in an insulting way. I told you I like chess. What I've discovered about chess is pawns are actually very important pieces. If you go around sacrificing your pawn, I will beat you in chess. Willy-nilly. Because you don't realize the importance of each of those little pieces. But we are not the queen, we are a pawn And God is using us to do our little parts. And when the game is over, guess what? Christ wins. And I know that for sure because I've read the end of the book. Well, Christ wins. I'm trying to tell you it isn't liberating. You don't have to get to the end of your life and cry out like Elijah, I am no better than my father's. God has not brought revival through me Because you and me are often trying to save the world and ignoring the three people in our lives that actually care about our opinions. Is that not true? We ignore the people that we have direct influence on and instead try to get the vast social media world out there and change their lives. Stop it Recognize that you are not the Messiah. Christ is the Messiah, and He is using your efforts to bring down the kingdom of God, but you will likely not see what you were hoping for by the end of your life. That's just true. But it doesn't mean that you're not important. Remember King David again. King David wanted to build what? What did King David's desire in his heart to build? He wanted to build the temple of the Lord, and God said, Not you Instead, what was he to do? He was to prepare his son to build the temple. And his son built the temple. What I'm saying is this, for many of us, what we will discover is at the end of our lives We thought the Lord was going to use us to build the temple, but instead he was actually using us to prepare the one who was to build the temple. Do you see that? We can rest in him. We don't have to cry how the end of our lives, I am no better than my father 's Because the revival that we are praying for, which is not even just a revival of a local church or the revival of this or the revival of that, we want the whole kingdom of God to fall down. We want wickedness to be no more. Is that not what we're looking for? Is that what every child wants to change the world? They don't want to just change their neighborhood. They want to have global impact. And that is reserved for one. And what is his name? Jesus Christ. When he comes down, he will establish justice on the earth. Our job is to serve him and to do what we can, praying for his return and working toward that end for the salvation and the benefit of sinners. This is our hope, and this is a hope that is sure because God has promised that it will happen. Let us go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you That even the greatest prophet Elijah could not bring down the kingdom of God. And if he could not bring it down, Lord, how much less so can we But instead of this being such a cause of discouragement like it was in Elijah's life, well hopefully this will instead be liberation that you don't expect us to do what we cannot do But instead you expect us to do what we can do, to influence those that we can, to bless those that we can, to be small people who serve a big God. You will come back and you will establish your kingdom on the earth. Help us to be found faithful and working toward that end until you return. We praise in Jesus' name. Amen.