All right, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that we could sing these songs and worship you this morning. We thank you, Lord, that you did it all. He paid for all the sins of me, all the sins of the people in this congregation, all the sins of the whole world. Things that I've done, things that we have done before we come to Christ. Every single day that we know Christ and even things that we have not yet done, you pay it at all. And we don't have to hide anymore. We don't have to pretend, we don't have to make excuses, we don't have to redefine sin because you paid it all. And we thank you for that. Lord, we pray that in this service Not only did you pay it all, but Lord, we pray that everyone in this congregation would receive what you have paid by repenting, by trusting, and by believing. We can't do it. We can't convert a soul. We can't change a heart. But we pray that your spirit would touch and move and change and breathe new life. Save the lost, strengthen believers, speak to me, and preach your word. We pray us in Jesus' name. Amen. In 1519 Fernando Cortez arrived in Mexico. Now during this time, Mexico wasn't the country that you think of it. Today, at this time, Mexico was part of what we would call the new world. People were coming from the old world into a new land of new opportunities and all kinds of interesting things. But in particularly in Mexico, it isn't it wasn't like North America where you think of all these indigenous tribes that are very scattered abroad and people in TPs and things of that nature. They're very unsophisticated but they're not very well organized. But Mexico was not like that. Instead, Mexico had the great Aztec empire that was ruling over the land. And these are a strong and fierce people. This Aztec Empire ruled over five to six million people. And its territory was over eighty thousand square miles. This is a huge empire And this nation, this empire was known to subjugate other city-states, other civilizations, and instead of enslaving them, they would force them to pay tribute. So you have this vast empire. ruling over five to six million people, over 80,000 square miles, and they had conquered people after people after people and subjugating them and saying, you must pay us tribute, or we'll come and destroy you. So Mr. Cortez arrives on the shores of Mexico with a meter of 600 men. 600 versus the great Aztec Empire. Who do you think is going to win? Well, what Cortes thought to do in this situation is, since he was so greatly outnumbered, that he'd have to do something radical to motivate his 600 men not to just give up get back in their ships and run off. So do you know what Cortez decided to do? He decided to put those boats to the fire. to burn them and destroy them in the water so that there was no path of escape. They were either going to conquer the Aztecs or they were going to die trying There would be no retreat. Well today we're going to look at an episode very similar to what Cortez did in The Life of Elijah. And he too quite literally burned is instruments of escape. What we will explore is the spiritual significance of these kind of events and what they can teach us in our own lives. So in light of that, please turn to First Kings chapter nineteen and we will begin in verse nineteen. First Kings chapter nineteen and beginning in verse nineteen, the word of the Lord says So Elijah departed from there and found Elisha, the son of Saphat, who was ploughing with twelve oxen, yoke of oxen before him, and was with and he was with the twelfth. And Elijah passed by and threw his mantle on him. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Please let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. But he said to him, Go back again, for what have I done to you? So Elijah turned back from him, and he took the yoke of Oxon and slaughtered them and boiled their flesh. Using the oxen's equipment, and he gave it to the people, and they ate. And then he arose and followed Elijah, and he became his servant. So let me remind you of the context of our story. We've been looking at the life of Elijah. Now Elijah is the great prophet of the Old Testament. He often gets confused with his disciple Elisha, and you can see the reason Elijah knows Elisha and they look alike And they kind of act alike and a lot of their miracles are similar. And today we see where Elijah meets Elisha. Now As I preach this sermon, if I confuse Elijah put a Lyisha, give me a little bit of grace because you've done the same thing. And I just want you to correct it in your own mind. Elijah is the old prophet. Elisha is the new apprentice coming in to replace him. So as you recall, Elijah had had this great victory at Mount Carmel where he's facing off with Ahab, he has the prophets of Baal, there's his testifier, and Elijah becomes the victor of that test and slaughters all the prophets of bail. Then he becomes discouraged by the reaction of Jezebel, who basically sends him to breath to Reb and says, I'll kill you if I ever get a chance. So he runs off And he goes into a fit of depression where he says, Lord, it's enough. Just take my life. God supernaturally strengthens him, for the journey is too far for him, for forty days and forty nights He travels to Mount Sinai. On Mount Sinai, when he gets there, we saw that he's in the same spot where Moses was so many years ago, and God sends by a fire. But was the Lord in the fire? No, he wasn't. And he sends by a tempest, a strong wind. But was the Lord in the tempest? No, he wasn't. And then he sends an earthquake. And was the Lord in the earthquake? No, he wasn't. And then there's a still small voice, do you remember? And the Lord was found in that still small voice. And then Elijah has this conversation with God. And he describes himself as being very zealous for the Lord. If you look at verse 14 I've been very zealous of the Lord God of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, they've torn down your altars, they've killed your prophets with the sword, and I alone And left, and they seek to kill me. God, everyone has forsaken you, I alone have left, and they have even trying to hunt down my alliance. And so God has two answers to the prophet Elijah. The first answer is found at the very end of our passage, where God tells them that you're not alone. Elijah, I have preserved for me 7,000 knees that have not bowed the knee to Baal. I have preserved a faithful remnant. And there always is a faithful remnant. Even when you feel alone, God has a faithful remnant. It's small, but it is still substantial to Elijah. Cheer up. You're not the only one last. I have reserves of people. His second answer Is go and anoint three men. Go and anoint Hazael, the king of Syria. Go and anoint Jehu. the future king of Israel, and go in anoint Elijah, who will be your replacement. And to understand what he's saying here, you've got to go back to verse 4, when Elijah is crying out, and he says to God , It is enough now, Lord. Take my life, for I am no better than my forefathers. And so what Eliza is saying is, I'm done. It's enough. I'm throwing in the towel. Get me out of the game, coach. I am useless. I'm not winning the battle. I'm not gaining the victory. And so what God basically tells Elijah is, I'm not going to take you out of the game. You may think it's over, I'm through. So you may be through, but I'm not through with you. That God still had a plan for Elijah's life. You see that? And his plan was to anoint these three men, Hazel, Jehu , And Elijah. So what we need to recognize is even in our pain, even in our sorrow, even in our distress , Even when we think it's enough, life is no longer enjoyable. Have you ever been there? You just lost the savior of life and you thought You know, I'm ready to go. Beat me up, Scotty. I'm done. Time to get out of here. But guess what? Even when you have lost the Savior of life, God is sovereign. Teach us the number of our days and give us the heart of wisdom. God is the one who decides life or death. And the fact of the matter is, if you're still here, what does that mean? That means God still has work for you. That God still has a plan for you. That God still has a purpose for you. He has a purpose for Elijah and He has a purpose for your life. Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. Does anybody know that by heart? Ephesians 2. 8, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and of yourselves and to get to God, not of works, lest any man should go so you know that. At least you knew it when I started it, right? Like what's that reference? Oh yeah, wait, I know that one. Because that's such a beautiful passage that describes our salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, not by works. It's a gift of God lest we boast You know it. But do you know what comes immediately after God's statement that we're saved by grace alone through faith alone? Not based on works Well immediately after in verse 10 it says this, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for anybody now for good works Which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. See, you're not saved by good works, but you're not anti-good works. Don't be anti-good works because God is not anti-good works. We're just not saved by good works. Good works have their place, but not for salvation. But rather, we were saved not by good works But we were saved for good works, which God has prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Brother, what this means is If you're still walking and breathing, even though you might not want to be here anymore, God wants you here. Otherwise, he would have taken you away, and one day he will take you away. God has prepared good works specifically for you. And sometimes we don't see this because we're too busy looking at our neighbor. We think they have more talent, they have more skill, they have more gifting, they're doing more. I'm this, I'm that. But do you realize that God doesn't want you to be your neighbor? God doesn't want you to be that famous other person. God made you new. And he gave you your talents and your abilities and your spiritual giftings and your weaknesses. He's given you all of that because he wants you to be the best of you for him and not to be your neighbor So take your eyes off of your neighbor and what they have and what they're doing. Put your eyes back on Christ and say to him, Here I am Say me. You've given me giftings. You've given me talents. You've given me abilities. Let me be faithful to you, and then I will hear from you. Well done, good and faithful servant, not because I achieved what God wanted them to do. But because I achieved what God wanted me to do. I'll give you an illustration so you don't just take this from my word. Here is from Jesus. Jesus gave a parable in Matthew chapter 25, and it goes like this: For the kingdom of heaven is like a man traveling to a far country. He called his own servant and delivered his goods. To them. And to one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one. Is this not familiar Did he give everyone the same amount? He gave some five, some two, some one. Now one 's a whole lot less than five, and two 's a whole lot less than five, right? So he gave different amounts. And why? The text tells us. He gave it to each according to their own ability. God gave the one who can handle five, five. He gave the one who can handle two, two, not five, and he gave the one who can handle one me little talent was actually a lot by the way. We gave the one who can handle one, one. And so they went away and he went on a journey. And so the one who had received five talents went and traded with them, and he made five talents. And the one who received two, he went away and also brought back two. And God says to the one who Came back with five and was given five. Well done, good and faithful servant. Yep, talked to the one who gave two and came back with two. He didn't say, Why didn't you bring me five? He said, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Do you see God gives to each one according to their ability. God made you, He shaped you, He gave you your background, your story, and He just wants you to give him back what He gave you He doesn't want you to give back what he didn't give you against somebody else. Do you see? And even the person who thought that he was useless with the kingdom of God, didn't trust himself at all, and didn't trust the master. He still gave one talent to him. And do you remember what the story says he did to that talent? He buried it. God didn't want him to achieve two talents with the one talent, and he definitely didn't want him to achieve five talents with his one talent. He wanted him to receive Achieve one talent would give one talent. You didn't have much, and he didn't expect much from you. For much is given, much will be expected. If you feel like God you didn't give me much, guess what God doesn't expect much from you, but he expects what he gave you. You see? So that's true for each one of us. God has given each one of us a spiritual gift. who are saved. God has given each one of us abilities, influences. How many people can you touch? The people right next door Right? You might not be a slavery who can touch a thousand people. You might not have this or that kind of influence in other people's lives, but you have something. And what God wants you to do is to use what He gave you to give to someone else. And so that's what's going on here with Elijah. Elijah wants to go, Elijah wants to get out of here, but God's saying, no. Elijah, I still have work for you. And again, beloved, some of you want to be out of here too, don't you? You want to go. But God is saying, no, no, no, no, no. You'll be with me soon enough, and we'll be in glory together, and I will take away all your tears. But right now is your only time in history to work for Jesus down here. Do you realize that? You want to be in glory, I get it. But you will be in glory if you trusting in Christ. You'll be up there with him, but you know who won't? What we won't have, or you won't have? The ability to help him down here. This is the season of work. Tomorrow is the season of rest. One day you'll be in glory, in some sense, wishing you were back down here to work for heaven. Work for him now why the day is still here. Because the night is coming when no man can work for him any longer. Elijah wanted to go, but God said, no. You need to anoint. You have some work for me to do. You need to anoint the king of Syria. You need to anoint the future king of Israel. And, catch this is important, you need to anoint your replacements. You realize that? When you're gone, somebody's gonna fill that pew. Or at least somebody ought to fill that pew. And you are supposed to be in parts training up your replacement, your disciple. And we're going to see that right here in the case of Elijah with Elisha. So let's look at it. Verse 19. So Elijah departed from there, and he found Elisha, the son of Saphats, who was ploughing with twelfth yoke of oxen before him, and he was with the twelfth, and Elijah passed by and threw his mantle on him. So one thing I want to point out here in Elijah's Life is this is his worst moments. Outside of this text Elijah is just a good character in the Bible. All he does seem to do is write. He's a very faithful and godly man. But this is his lowest moment in chapter 19 when he gets down in the dumps because he's Spiritually exhausted, and his expectations do not happen. But I want you to notice that after he has this encounter with God, how does Elijah respond? He's right back. You see that? He departs and he immediately gets busy with the next right thing that God asked him to do. God told him to appoint your replacement, and sure enough, he's right out there beginning to do that work. And so what we learn from this beloved , is when you're down in the dumps and when you have your worst moment of your life or you just fall and you sin again, I want you to respond like Elijah did. I want you to ask for forgiveness. I want you to get back up. And I want you to do the next right thing. Don't stand in dumps. Don't keep letting the devil remind you of all your failings and all the time that you wasted. Now is the day to get back up. His mercies are new every morning. And that's exactly what Elijah does. He gets back up and he goes and he finds his replacement, Elisha. Now I want you to notice also that you just have to know this, but I'll just tell you this, that as you as we continue to go through the life of Elijah, he's never going to personally anoint Hazel or Jehu. He was told to avoid three men, but he never does this. And some have concluded from this that Elijah was really still down in the dumps. And he really didn't feel enthusiastic about God's calling for his life. He didn't really, he was basically disobedient for not doing this. But I think that that's actually a mistake, and the text doesn't suggest that. Rather, I think God led him to appoint Elisha as his replacement And he was waiting for God to lead him. He wasn't just supposed to be searching and serious with some guy named Hazel. He was waiting for God to lead him to Haziel to anoint him and lead him to Jehu to anoint him But God never ended up leading a mind to be this. But rather he took them away. He could have left them there, but he took them away into heaven. And so who ended up anointing these two men that Eliza was supposed to anoint, or told that he was going to anoint Elisha, his replacement. And so what I get from this is this. God accredits in some ways what the people that we touch and influence do back to us. Elijah did anoint these two men precisely by training up Elisha and Elisha doing it. Let me give you an illustration of this. Suppose that you had a puppy and you were just a terrible dog owner and you didn't socialize the dog. And what happens if you don't socialize a dog? They become scared and they often will be aggressive toward things that they're not familiar with. Very commonly toward other dogs. Sometimes torture neighbor, the mailman's getting the bite hunt out of him, he gets in New York, he goes after him, right? Or sometimes also children. If you don't socialize dogs around children, they feed children as threats and they can act aggressive towards those children. So imagine that you have a puppy and you don't socialize them and you're neglectful But it's your puppy and you like the puppy and it grows up to become aggressive toward children. One day you thought this dog was going to be your forever dog, but turns out you got PCS orders and you moved. And so you took your dog on Craigslist and gave it to the next guy Or you put them into the shelter and somebody picked them up. So the dog's in your rearview mirror and you just go living your life. But somebody else kissed the dog and you never had kids and you never realized that your dog was aggressive toward children So somebody takes that dawn and they're walking through the park and now this dog attacks somebody else's kid. You never hear about it No one ever sues you, and you're never criminally liable. But are you liable? Are you partially responsible for that poor kid getting mauled by your dog because of your neglect I think we all know the answer is yes. What you didn't do to that dog can now be attributed back to you. You are responsible not just for what you do, but for what those you have influenced ultimately also. Do. Don't take that too far, but don't take it not far enough either. We are responsible for not only what we do, but those whom we touch also do. Now, what that means is it actually gives us a great opportunity. That means that my influence on this world is not limited by my own fingers by my own spatial limitations. There's a day coming where this, well maybe not this church, but some church will bury me. And there's a day coming where some church willings will bury you. How long are our days? Seventy. By way of strength, eighty. Some of you are really hoping for a hundred. That's not very long, people Time is ticking. Psalm 90, verse 12. Teach us the number of days that we may gain a heart of wisdom. You have a very limited time frame. God has a grand mission for you. And what is that mission? Why are you here? What is the mission of your life? Hopefully it's not to become the best violin player. The best video game player, or to eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we die. That's the mission of so many worldly people. But the mission of our life can be summarized in 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 13. Which says, Now thanks be God who always leads us in triumph in Christ, and that diffuses the fragrance of his knowledge in every place through us. For we are to God. For we are to God the fragrance of Christ among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To one the aroma of life to life, the other the aroma of death to death. And what does that mean? That means is your mission in life is to smell like Christ. Your mission in life is to diffuse the flagrance of Christ, which is the knowledge of Christ From coast to coast, to sea to sea, to person to person. You're here to glorify God and enjoy Him forever. You're here to point people to Jesus. Amen. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptize them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. Your mission is the same mission that God gave to Adam when he told him to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. That mission was not merely to have babies. That mission was to make disciples and to spread the image of Christ throughout the whole world so that the whole world comes to be full of image-bearers who love Jesus. That is your mission. And so what I'm simply saying to you is this the way we do that is primarily by spreading the love of Christ to others. We are often me centered. Me, me, me, me, me, me, me. But you know what God wants you to be? Other centered. He wants you to love him, and that love for him pours out the love for others. He wants you to take your eyes off of the mirror and instead put your lives on the uh lives of other people. And to say, let me be a blessing to you all. Let me set your fire, your heart on fire for Christ. I want you to think about the early church, the church that Christ founded, the church with Jesus and with the apostles. Which one of those people are still here with us today? Jesus is up in heaven, and the apostles were all dead. Amen? They were all gone. Their lives were limited just like their lives were limited. And yet Despite their limited line, we still have the byproduct of their faithful testimony to us this very day. And how? Well we read it in the beginning of our sermon, 2 Timothy chapter 2. The things that you've heard from me, you are to give to others. And those faithful men are able to also give them to others. I hope you see the credit. What you need to be doing is finding other people that you can pour your life into, that you can disciple, and then they are to do the same beyond you. This is our mission. And this is what we see Elijah doing. Elijah is finding his replacement so that even when Eliza is gone, his influence will not die from this world. You see that? Even when you're not there in the room, your influence can live beyond you and can spread beyond your physical limitations. That is the mission of Elijah, and that is really our mission. So find somebody that you can influence. Who are your disciples? Influence them, preach to them, teach them, and point them to Christ. There are many disciples everywhere. Find them. You're always discipling. People are always watching you, whether you know it or not. Point them to Jesus. So that's what we see Elijah doing. Elijah is finding his replacement, and he's finding him in Elisha. Now, everything we know about Elisha's background is found in our text. He's a local man. He's in a northern tribe. His father is named Safat. And his father name his father's name means he will judge. Elisha 's name means God will save. Now we're not sure, but it's likely that Elisha 's name is an indication of his religious background. In other words, we can find out things about your family background usually by just your name, actually. So for example, if your name is Muhammad, Or Ali, I might know something about the religious background of your parents. Or you name your kid Elvis or Beyoncé It might suggest something about your view of pop culture or your view of those two celebrities. Is that natural? Or if your name happens to be Lexus, Mercedes or Ferrari Again, it might suggest something about what your parents values and what they like. Maybe kid Ferrari, maybe they like a Ferrari. It also suggests they probably didn't have a Ferrari. Because if you have a Ferrari, you don't mean you have to name a kid Ferrari, you just buy one. The point is that you can often find out things about somebody from their parents, what would their parents name them? And so the fact that Elijah 's name means God will save suggests that most likely, we can't prove it, but most likely he grew up in a Christian home. And a godly home. And a home that God was center, and that the altar was burning for Christ. And we find this man most likely born in a faithful home, and in himself became faithful. We don't find him in a seminary. We don't find him in a library. We don't even find him preaching a sermon out of homeless shelter. Where do we find him? We find them in a field plowing. God will find you wherever you are. You see that? All you have to do is be faithful. Just find yourself faithful, and God will find you wherever you are. He's a farmer Plowing a field and God says, that's my man. That's the one I've anointed. That's the one I have appointed. You see that God chooses his men wherever he wants, doing whatever he wants them to do. Now we're told that Elisha is out there plowing with eleven other kings of people. So there's there's twelve kings of oxen. You got a yoke and you got oxen. You got two of them behind those things. Basically there's to put it into our context, there's a driver and there is twelve tractors out there plowing the field. You see that? And there's he's in the very back of these tractors that are going down Now, a lot of commentators suggest that what you have here is an indication of Elisha's wealth. Elisha owns the field and he's out there with eleven other servants and he owns all these oxen and he has all these servants and he's out there plowing this ginormous field that would need all twelve teams. And this suggests that Elisha was a very wealthy man. And that could be the case. But if you look at the text more closely, what you'll convert see is it doesn't say that these are servants at all, does it? There's just twelve teams of oxen out there. It doesn't even say that the field is his field. So we don't actually even know this is his field or not. And so because of that, I think it's actually more likely that this may or may not even be this field What 's really probably going on here is that back in that time that area in time, people would invite their neighbors to help them plow their field. This is kind of like I don't know if this church does this, but when somebody moves, do people come and help them move? That ever happened? We used to do that all the time. Someone moved and all the young and strong people would come over and we We make them we help them move. Well the Amish are famous for this. Somebody has to build a barn and you call all your other Amish friends and they build your a barn in a day, right? You never do it by yourself, but you they all do it in a day And that's probably what's going on here. One commentator put it like this In that area, the plantable land of nearly all villagers is cultivated in common For those farmers delight to work together, partly for mutual protection and partly for their love of gossip. So they're working together. They're out there having a good time working together. And I think that's probably what's going on here. And so we don't know if Elisha was wealthy or not. In fact, it's it probably wasn't the case that Elisha was not wealthy Most followers of Christ are common people. This is a common guy. He's working on a farm. He's not even serving his farm. He's out there helping someone else or getting help from his farm, farming the field And Elijah comes over there. Now I want you to look at Elijah's reaction when Elisha, Elisha's reaction, when Elijah throws his mantle on him. You see it in the text? He throws his mantle on top of him, and immediately Elisha begins to follow Elijah. He doesn't hesitate, but rather he springs into action and he goes running after him. Double up When Christ comes to you and he calls you, whether he's calling you to faith in him and to believe in him, or even as a believer, when he calls you to serve him, let me ask you this question Is this your reaction? God says, I need somebody to do this for me. I need you to do this for me. Come and serve me. Is our reaction often the action Of Elisha. And we spring into action and we say, Here I am, send me. Or rather, do we usually have a list of excuses and reasons why not yet, Lord I'm too young. Just a little bit longer. I'm not ready. I need to do this. I need to do that And I want you to again contrast our reaction to Christ and Elijah, Elisha 's reaction to Elijah. And guess what, beloved? The Lord sees through all of our lame excuses, doesn't he? He knows, he told you, he knows you're ready. But you can't just keep putting it off. Because to put it off is actually to tell him no God wants your immediate obedience. And we see something similar to this in Luke chapter 9. Why don't you turn there? Luke chapter 9, verse 57. Here we have Christ calling people to follow him. Luke chapter 9, verse 57. Now it happened as they journeyed on the road that someone said to him, Lord, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes. And birds of the air have nests, but the son of man has nowhere to lay his head. He wasn't to follow him until he saw the cost, and then he was nowhere to be found. Then another said, then he said to another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, let me first go bury my father. He came up with an excuse. Verse 60. And Jesus said to him, but the dead bury their own dead, but you go and preach the kingdom of God. And another said, Lord, I will follow you. But let me go first, bid them farewell who are at my house. But Jesus said, None having put his hand to the plough and looking back is fit for the kingdom of God. When Jesus came knocking and he came asking for people to follow him, all of a sudden they had a whole bunch of excuses And again, let me ask you this question. When Jesus comes knocking on your hearts, when Jesus has, bid you come follow me, have you been like these people or have you been like Elisha? Have you followed God sees through it all. To delay is to say no. God says, when you feel his voice, do not pardon your hearts. Because guess what, beloved? You can probably see this in your own life Maybe there were times that you heard God's voice stronger in your life, and then sometimes his voice became more and more faded away. That eventually to delay is to say no and your heart will become harder and harder and harder. It doesn't become easier to follow God, it becomes much more difficult So do not harden your hearts. But when you hear God's knocking, when you hear God saying, Come to me all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest, take my yoke upon you and run from me, for I am gentle and lowly of heart, and you will find rest. For your souls, my yoke is easy, my burden is light. Do not delay. But come, run to him, repent, and receive his blessing And that just this is not just true for unbelievers, this is true for all of us. That when God comes knocking in our lives, we are to respond in faith. And not to come up with a thousand excuses why we just can't say yes now. Lord, I must first pay off my debt. Lord, I must first go through my therapist. Lord, I must first now Just come running to Christ and he will receive you. Now, let's look at what Elisha Elisha says to Elijah. He says, Yes, I will follow you, and he's excited about it. But he does tell him something He asked, please let me kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow you. So he does say something, right? But this is very different than what happened in Jesus' day See, Alai Shuh's reaction is not one of making excuses, but he just has a he has a godly family And he's saying, yeah, I absolutely want to go, but can I please just say goodbye? Like, is it so immediate that I can't even stop for a few hours to say goodbye to my family? And then notice Elijah's response to him. He says And he said to them, go back again, for what have I done to you? Now this is an idiomatic statement. It's kind of Difficult, it's elliptical, it's very short and concise. It's kind of challenging to understand what he's saying here. But here's what I think he's saying His answer, you can see his response, after Elijah tells him this, he goes back and says goodbye to his family. So obviously his response was taken as a positive one. Can I please go back? Yes, you can go back. So it's a positive statement. And I think what a line jaw is saying to Elisha here is he's asking to go back and to say goodbye to his godly family because He loves his family and this is doing his respects. And Elijah 's reaction to this is basically yes. Well what do you think I've done to you? Why do you think that the ministry would be some kind of conflict between you and your family obligations? What is ministry that would cause you not to be able to say goodbye and pay your respects to your family? Does that make sense, Moshai? And from this we extract a greater principle, and it's this There is no conflict between serving God and serving your family. Do you see that? God came here to make your life better, to give you life and life more abundantly. God gave you commandments to love and honor your father and mother. He put love into your heart so that all things being equal, you should be a better father, a better brother, a better husband, and a better all of these things. And so you should never see a conflict, all things being equal, unless they're unbelieving and they're resisting God's will. But if that's not happening, you should never see a conflict between you serving God and serving your family. And even particularly with pastors, this is a minister here, serving God and serving his family. And yet, especially in the life of pastors, it's very common for pastors' kids to be called PK kids, right? And is that usually a positive statement? These are PK kids. They're great. They're loving. They're kind. They're respectful. They're generous. Is that usually what we know with PKs? No, quite the opposite, right? TKs are usually known to be rebellious, to be feisty, to be sneaky, to be disrespectful, and just the worst all around. Kids. Which actually should not be the case. In fact, if a PK kid is that way, do you realize that your pastor doesn't qualify? Hope you know that. If your pastor's children are train wreck Then your pastor himself is unqualified. Even though that is not the case, or even though the American Church doesn't often do that, that is actually what the Bible teaches. Titus chapter 1, verse 6. An elder Must be a man who is blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children, not accused of debauchery or insubordination First Timothy 3. 4. An elder must rule his own house well, having his children in submission with all reverence. For a man does not know how to rule his own house, how will he take care of the Church of God? So the minister, far from having the worst children in the church, should be far from that at all. He should be able to look at a minister's children and say this is what a godly Christian home looks like. And so what I'm trying to say to you is, just as Elijah said to Elisha, go back, for what have I done to you? Recognize that that is what God says to pastors. and ministers, and just all Christians for that matter. What have I done to me that you would think that ministry would conflict with your family obligations? That ministry would be some kind of damaging thing to your families. Well, I think one of the reasons though PKKids are known as PKKids is that pastors have a tendency to become workaholics They have a tendency to put the ministry before their families. Have you seen that before? But the needs of the ministry are higher than the needs of the family. And they're predisposed to this because ministry in some ways is very fulfilling and all of these other things. There's these emergencies and there's these obligations and these expectations that come up. And he's already inclined to do that. So he does those things instead of ministering to his family. And then his family suffers, and then ultimately according to God's word, he becomes disqualified. So beloved, let me just tell you all of this. That do not have unrealistic expectations for the pastor. I don't say that to be self-serving, I just say that because that's what's in the text. Don't have it. Recognize that sometimes the pastor has to simply say, no. I can't be there. I can't do that really important thing. Why Not because I don't want to, but because I can't. The pastor can't. Because he has to do more for his family. Because if he doesn't, you ultimately have no pastor at all. He'll be destroyed in framework. And that's not just true for the pastor. That's true for other fathers or anyone else in the congregation too. Sometimes you have to just say no. I really want to be there, but I just can't Because of the sake of my family. There is no natural conflict between the ministry, serving God, and the family. But if you don't recognize it, you will find that there will be a conflict. In other words, you have to sometimes say No. You have to sometimes say no. I've got a a very wise pastor, much older than I am. I try to take wisdom from people who have been around a lot longer than I have. And he said The number one way that you will upset your congregation or disappoint your congregation is not what you do, but what you don't do. It's not the things that you had to find, but the times that you weren't there and people thought that you ought to have been there. But it's a reality. But guess what? You sometimes just have to say no. And as a congregation, at the same time, recognize who is the true leader of this congregation Or any congregation. Not me. And not the pastor. Who? Christ. Christ leads you. Christ guides you. The Holy Spirit isn't just working in the pastor. The Holy Spirit is working in all of you all Does that make sense? It's a collective thing. If everything depends on one man, we are doomed. But rather if everything is working together through all of us Then all the gifts are being utilized and then we can strengthen one another. What have I done to you? I've come to be a blessing Christ has come to be a blessing in the minister. Christ has come to be a blessing in the Father. Christ has come to be a blessing in your life. Never see a conflict between serving God And the family. There's a way to do both of them and to boost both of them excellence. But it will be intentional. You will have to figure out when to say yes and when to say no and when to pull back Now again, let's look, let's close our passage. Let's look at verse 29. So Elijah turned back from Elijah, and he took a yoke of oxen and he slaughtered them, and he boiled their flesh. Using the oxen's equipment and he gave it to the people and they ate. Then he arose and he followed Elijah and he became his servant So what did Elisha do when he was called? He went back, he said goodbye to his family, he grabbed the oxen, and he cut them off. And then he grabbed a yoke and then used that to start the fire. And then cooked it all, had a huge party, fed them all of this delicious meat, and then he ran off with Elijah. I want you to say a few things here. Number one, what was a life stress attitude of his calling? Did he say, Woe is me, my life is terrible? I used to have the good old days when life was real comfortable. I have my tractor, I have my beer, but hopefully he's got he has beer. He has he had a nice cold drink with some life is good. And now he's out there hanging out with Elijah. Did he say that? Feels hard for me, whoa. I have to serve Jesus. Like he's pretty good. No. He said celebrate with me. Something joyful has happened to me. I get to follow Jesus. No turning back No turning back. How do you view serving Christ? Is it with positivity? Is it with joy and excitement? Or do you walk around moping on a Christian? Life used to be fun, but all the joy has been sucked out by Christ. You never say that, but how is your actual attitude? And I hope to believe it's not that You remember Levi Matthew in the Gospels? Jesus walked by a tax collector, a sinful man. He said, Come and follow me. And immediately, just like him, he followed Christ. And then what did he do? He celebrated a huge party. Inviting all of his friends, all his sinful neighbors, and said, I have found Christ, or better, Christ has found me. Serving Christ is a beautiful and glorious thing. The second thing I want you to notice is This event in Elisha's life is very similar to the illustration that I gave in the beginning of the sermon. This oxen and this yoke was his means of provision. To illustrate this, it'd be like a painter following Christ and taking all his paintbrushes and selling them and giving them away and taking his truck and getting rid of it He's not, he doesn't have a backup plan. If this doesn't work out, well, I'm just going to go back to my old occupation. He gets rid of all of that. And he says, I'm going to follow Christ's full force And so, beloved, when we are chasing after Christ, you don't need to have a backup plan. God is going to take care of you. He's going to provide for you. He's taking you to a journey of a lifetime And so you you need to follow him and to go with him. And the last thing I want to point out here is notice that this was not a private decision. This wasn't I accepted Christ in my heart and I told nobody about it. But rather he tells everybody, and he evangelizes all of his friends and tells them what wonderful things that God had done for me. No turning back. I'm following you Christ. I'm not going to have a backup plan. I'm chasing after you because you will provide for me. And did God fail Elisha? Did Elijah end up homeless? Did Elijah's life become ruined? Was this the worst decision of Elisha's life? No. This was the best decision Elisha Elisha ever made. And the likes of Ham, the person that we're going to see later on as we continue through the series, a great man of God who did wonderful things for the kingdom. But it all began here when he burned his bridges When he burned the ships and said, I'm not looking back. I'm going to set my eyes fully on Christ. So beloved, if you have not yet Depending on your sins and come to Jesus, I invite you to do that. Follow him, even worth it. You'll never regret it. And you don't need to hold on to anything. But just come to him and let it all go and say, Jesus, here I am. Take me. Use me. Maybe you've already believed in Jesus Christ and you're already following him. I invite you to give what you still are holding on to, give it to him. Give it over to him. You can trust him in it. He is trustworthy not only for your soul, but also for your life. Let's go to the end of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for the story of Elijah and Elisha. We thank you for Elisha's willingness to follow you, his excitement, his burning of the ships. Lord, if we're honest, many times it would many of us probably are challenged by this text because we still have the ships. Back there. We still have a way of escape, but Lord we ask that you help us to burn it all and just to trust in you, believing that you will provide, that you will take care of, that you will leave, that you have not called us to harm us, to harm our families, to harm our lives, to make us poor, to make us miserable, but rather you have called us to give us life and life more abundant. Help us to trust you more in the praise in Jesus' name. Amen.