Let us pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that we do know you, that we don't have to be lost or hopeless. But that you are our shepherd, you are our guide, you are our leader, that you care for us. Lord, now I pray for the message that you would use me to proclaim your truth to your people And that you would encourage them, you would strengthen them, you would set their eyes upon you, they would gaze at you, they would be encouraged, that they would be filled with the Spirit. And want to leave here serving you, committed to you, and empowered by you. Fill me as your Preacher, as your speaker, as your messenger, and fill everyone in this room with supernatural ability to hear, so they don't hear me, but they hear you working through me. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. I want you to think about the strongest man that you know in person. I want you to visualize that strong man and how physically he can do things that other people simply cannot do Now if you have that image of the strong man, now I want you to compare that strong man, that strongest man that you know, compared to the strongest man currently alive. And what I think what you will probably discover is that the strength difference between the strongest man you know and the average man And the strongest man alive and that strong man that you know is probably larger. In other words, that really strong man, if he actually was compared to the strongest man in the world, he would be considered a peon. And a very weak man. Now I want you to imagine that strongest man in the world compared to the strongest man that the world has ever seen. And I think what you will discover is that the strongest man that the world has ever seen could take the strongest man today, jacked up on steroids, and rip him to shreds like a torn t-shirt. Well, today we're not going to actually be looking at the world's strongest men or the world's strongest man, but rather we're going to be looking at the world's fastest man. And hopefully at the end of this sermon you will know both who the world's strongest man is and the world's fastest man who has ever walked this earth. And just by the way, a little Bible trivia, who is The world's strongest man. Sam said. The man who was able to grab gates And take them gates of a city, rip them off the hinges with two hands, and carry them up to a mountain. The man who was able to grab a young lion and rip it to shreds with his bare hands. A man who's able to grab a jawbone and put heaps upon heaps. A thousand men were slayed with the jawbone. Yes, the strongest man today would be ripped to shreds like a t-shirt. Well, that's the strongest man. Well, today we're going to discover who was the world's fastest man, and we're going to see what we can learn from this. Now for that introduction, please open your Bibles to 1 Kings chapter 18. 1 Kings chapter 18, and we'll pick up in verse 41 First Kings chapter eighteen, beginning in verse forty-one. Then Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there was sound of abundance of rain. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Mount Carmel. Then he bowed down to the ground, put his face between his knees, and said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. So he went up and looked and said, There is nothing. And seven times he said, Go again. Then it came to pass the seventh time that he said, There is a cloud as small as a man's hand rising out of the sea. So he said, Go up, say to Ahab, Prepare your chariot, and go down before the rain stops you. Now it happened in the meantime that the sky became black with clouds and wind, and there was a heavy rain. So Ahab rode away and went to Jezreel. Then the hand of the Lord came upon Elijah, and he girded up his loins and ran ahead of Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel. So let's remind ourselves of the context of what where we are in the book of Kings. So God has just accomplished this great victory through the prophet Elijah. And this conflict, this issue that's been going on with Elijah goes all the way back to chapter 17. So we're in chapter 18, the end of chapter 18, about the enter the chapter 19. But this conflict begins back in chapter 17, where Elijah the Tishvite comes out of basically nowhere And he confronts the king and he says, except at my word, there will be no rain. That was three and a half years ago. Since that time, Elijah has gone into hiding, and the nation has suffered great famine and economic hardship because there hasn't been any rain. And then God has supernaturally preserved Elijah. First he told him that hide by a brook, and he fed him by the ravens. Then when the brook dried up He told him to go to the widow, and he fed him by the widow's hand of the unending oil and the never-ending flour, which he was able to make cakes Eventually, God tells them after those three and a half years to go confront Ahab once more. So he goes out of hiding, he runs into Obadiah. There's that conversation between him and Obadiah. Don't send me back. Ahab's been chasing for you and looking for you all throughout the world. And if I go back and I say Elijah is here and you're not, because the Spirit of the Lord takes you, he'll kill me And then of course Elijah says to Obadiah, that's not the case. I am going to speak to Ahab. And the Lord promises them in 1 Kings 18, verse 1, that God is going to bring the rain. So then there's that encounter between Ahab and Elijah. And what's the first thing do you remember that Ahab says when he gets his eyes on Elijah? After three and a half years He's looking from everywhere. He tried to kill him. He greets Elijah with what statement? Hear you. Oh, troubler of Israel. And then of course Elijah turns it right back around and said, No, no, you are the troubler of Israel because you have been following these false gods. And then, if that wasn't bad enough that they have evil leadership, he then points to the people and looks at the people and says, how long will you limp between two opinions? If Yahweh is God, follow him. If Baal is God, follow them. But the people look dumbfounded, and often the people look dumbfounded when you confront them with their sin, and they speak not a word in reply. So then the Lord leads Elijah to do this grand test. And the grand test is this. They're going to take two bulls, they're going to cut them, they're going to put them on an altar, they're not going to put any fire on them. And the God who answers by fire, he is the real God. Now, as you recall, there were 400 prophets of Baal and 450 prophets of Asher. So there's 850 people out there. And that's like having seventeen football teams worth of people. Can you imagine? Seven I mean, you couldn't even fit them all into this building if they packed in themselves like little sardines. There were a massive amount of prophets, and there is one little Elijah standing against them And so they agree, and the people agree, this is a great test. Baal is the god of thunder. Baal is the god of storms. And so out of the The storm, he could send the lightning bolt to set the bull on fire. And that's what they expected. So they agree. And God He says, Elijah says that, well, God can also do the same thing because God is the God of all of creation, not simply just the God of thunder. So you remember the scene. You have all of Baal's prophets out there, and they're crying out to God, asking God. Speak asking Baal, their false god, to send down the fire. And does it work? After they cut the bull, place it on the altar, and cry out for many hours. Does Baal answer? He does not. First Kings eighteen verse twenty-nine says, But there was no voice, no one answered, and no one paid attention. Why? Because Baal is a false God. He's a dead God. He's a stone. He's an image. And those who make Baal will become like him. Dead, lifeless, foolish. But they continue on with their practices until they decide that Baal needs more excitement He's not responding to them because they're not sincere enough. They're not acting wild enough. So the text says they may start limping. It's very strange. It actually is the same Hebrew word that it says when Elijah says, How long will you limp between two opinions? It's a very rare Hebrew word. That same Hebrew word shows up when it talks about these prophets limping, your translation might say leaping, or dancing around the altar. Probably the connection is that the people 's limping between God and Baal was trying to connect it to the prophets limping around the altar. In other words, both were defiled before God. To be a prophet limp dancing around the altar in God's eyes, in some sense, was similar to these people wavering between serving God and serving Baal. So they limp around And they were crying out, and of course we have the similar refrain, but there was no voice, and no one answered, and no one paid attention. So, instead of giving up, they were fervent. Their sincerity was pushed to the limit. And do you remember what they did? They pulled out knives. And they didn't slay a liar. They slayed their wrists And they cut themselves until the blood gushed out. I mean, this is a very ghastly and horrible scene. And you can just imagine they're speaking in tongues, they're being slain in the spirit. Blood is everywhere. And yet there was no voice. No one answered. And no one paid attention. I want you to see that. The sincerity is extreme. Can you imagine if you had to pray to God, and the only way God would answer your prayers is if you pulled out a big knife and slit your wrist and had blood gushing out? Something suggests to me that the prayer meeting will be empty. And nobody would want to come any longer unless you really needed something, right? It's just pretty extreme They are very sincere, is what I'm trying to communicate to you. Sometimes maybe even more sincere than us. But sincerity does not matter where there is no truth. We need both truth and sincerity for it to work. And so Elijah gets to start mocking them. Maybe he's asleep. Maybe he's gone on vacation. Maybe you're not crying out loud enough. And again, none of this works at all. So now that's Team Baal, all 850 of them. Now it's Team Yahweh's turn. Elijah is just by himself. There's only one of them. He alone is the prophet of the Lord that stands against all 850 of these false prophets. And so he does the same thing. He prepares. the altar first, remember? He rebuilds the altar of the Lord, and he dedicates it to God with those twelve stones to the God of Israel. Then he himself cuts up the animal, sets it on The altar, and then he does something else. Do you remember what he does? He grabs water and pours it all over the altar and all over the sacrifice. And he does that one time. He does that two times. He does that three times until there's water everywhere. He even dug a little trench around to keep the water there. So this whole thing is soaked with water And it's totally impossible for this thing to catch fire. But then Elijah, the man of God , puts his faith in God, and then he prays. And he calls upon the Lord to send down fire both on the sacrifice And also in the people's hearts so that they can know that Yahweh is God. I want you to look at verse 38. We're almost there. Verse 38 says, Then the fire of the Lord consumed the burnt offering. And the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and it licked up the water that was in the trench. Now, does anyone like to play with fire? Maybe maybe not, right? There's there's a good way of doing this and a bad way of doing this. A bad way is burning your neighbor's property down or just setting fires in the woods. That's called arson, it's illegal. The good way is to get a property and get a little fire pit and throw wood in and burn stuff in it, right? That's the adult appropriate way to be doing this. Well, fire is fun. Fire is fun. This fire is very interesting. I've burned all kinds of things. I found out that even aluminum will burn. Even steel will burn if you get the fire hot enough. I've watched aluminum burn and evaporate and then collect itself into these little balls of fire or these little balls of aluminum. Fire is fun, but you know what I've never seen happen? Stones and dirt become consumed No fire is hot enough that we know of that can do that kind of thing. But that's what our text says, that the stones themselves burned up and the dust That is the soil was also consumed and all the water evaporated. The point is what I want you to see is this wasn't just some little fire or some lightning bolt that came down and kind of tarred the end of the the uh the animal or something like that. But this was supernatural heavenly fire that just came down and just obliterated everything. It was totally annihilating fire And what would you have done if you had seen that on the mountain? You'd been amazed. And you would have said, Surely the Lord is God. The Lord is God. And that's exactly what the people say. They see not just a little spark come from fire, not even a lightning bolt. They see God's heavenly consuming fire come down and annihilate the whole area destroy everything to smithereens and they cry out the Lord is God the Lord is God And so Elijah captures the moment. He sees that the people's hearts have been moved. No one can say anything to this. Yahweh has proven himself, so then he tells the people to seize the prophets, take them down to the brook, and to do what with them? to remove them, to execute them, to kill them. And so this is a moment of great triumph for Yahweh. And so hopefully we would expect that revival would break out in the land and that the people's heart would turn back to Yahweh and they would go and worship Him. We talk about mountaintop experiences. Well, this is the mountaintop experience of all mountaintops, right? We would not expect anything greater than this. This is a moment that has taken three and a half years in the making to produce, and God has finally done it. God has done more than we could ask or ever think. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 20. Now to him who is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that is at work in us. The great God of fire. has sent down his fire from heaven. The wicked false prophets are executed. All we need now is what? God has sent down fire from heaven. What do we now need God to send down? The rain. And that's what our text picks up. Three and a half years since it's rain. Now God's gonna send the rain, and hopefully we will live happily ever after. And all will be well. One could hope. Now look with me to 1 Kings 18, verse 41, because that's all the context of where we are. 1 Kings chapter 18, verse 41. Then Elijah said to Ahab, Go up, eat and drink, for there is a sound of an abundance of rain. Now that's interesting. That's curious. Where is the abundance of rain at that point? It's nowhere. It has not yet rained. And yet the prophet says to Ahab, go ahead and start celebrating, eat and drink and party, because rain is here. And yet the rain has not come. And the reason that Elijah can have such confidence that the rain is coming is because God has already said, back in verse 1, go confront Ahab. I'm going to send the rain. In other words, this is the ears of faith that Elijah has here. He believes that God is going to send the rain. He has such confidence that he tells his enemy, Ahab, to go up, celebrate, for the rain is coming. And why is it that Elijah has such confidence that God is going to send the rain? Why does he have such confidence? Because God has sent the fire. The God who sends fire can certainly send the rain. What's harder to do? Send obliterating fire from heaven? Or to send rain after it hasn't rained for three and a half years? Of course, to send the rain. God believes that the God who sends down fire can also send down the rain. And beloved, here's what I want to tell you: that the God who sent down fire into your heart and the person of the Holy Spirit, obliterating the wicked person that used to live inside of you, changing you with a new heart and a new spirit so that now you love God and love your neighbor. The God who answered you in your life and others can also send down rain. You see that? The God who sent his Holy Spirit inside of you can be trusted one day to send down the rain that we need to bring life and rejuvenation to this earth. you individually and in society collectively. What's that great promise in Romans chapter 8 verse 28? For we know that all things work together for good, for those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose. But you say, But Lord, it's a desert, I see no life I see nothing good out of this. This is nothing but death and barrenness. How could you bring good out of this desert in my heart? Do you see that? That's a legitimate question, especially if you have a real desert living in the center of your heart. And the answer is that God can send the floodwaters into the desert Have you ever seen, you can look at this on YouTube, look what happens to a desert when water hits it. You don't see any life there, but there's actually life embedded in the desert. Well to put a different illustration, something that we've all seen recently, is it wasn't that long ago that we'd look out here and all the trees behind this church were all dead We didn't see any life, we didn't see any buzz, nope, maybe a few birds chirping, but not much. It was all dead out there. And then the heat came And then the rain came. And now it's life and it's vibrant. It's like we can't even remember the dead force any longer. Do you see that? It's the same thing that happens to a desert. When it rains all of a sudden, that desert turns into a tropical paradise. until it stops raining and it dries up again. It's just a cyclical reality. What I'm trying to show you is that God can be trusted to send down water into your life and into your desert and into your personal tragedies, so that one day that desert will turn into the garden of Eden. God can be trusted. God is a faithful shepherd. He sends down fire, and so he can be trusted to send down also the rain. And it's not just in our personal tragedies and our personal struggles, but all of creation, this whole mess of a world, full of its pain, its death its misery, its unhealthiness, will one day be transformed. And if you go into Ezekiel, it talks about this river. Remember this? This river goes out from the throne, and everything it touches it produces life. And vitality. And if you go into the end of the Bible in Revelation, it talks about I saw a new heavens and a new earth and all the old things. had passed away, and there was no remembrance of them any longer, and all things had become new. Or some of you, has anybody memorized Psalm 27? Anyone know that psalm by heart? It's a beautiful and lovely psalm, and I highly encourage it. But Psalm 27 is a very interesting psalm. And it talks about the fact that the Lord is our shepherd and we shall not want. And it starts off really nice that he leads us beside the still waters. He leads us in the green pastures. It all seems good. He restores my soul. He's leading us and it's all well. But then we think, well, is this some about me? Because sometimes I don't feel like I'm anywhere near the green pastures or the steel waters. Right? Sometimes I feel like I'm in the valley of the shadow of death. But even there, I will not fear, for God is with me. His rod and his staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. And then he goes on to say, surely goodness And mercy shall never leave me. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. It's such a beautiful song because it describes everything. It describes the future hope I'll be in the house of the Lord forever. It describes the present trust in the Lord. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. It even describes the fact that Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. But wait a second. Weren't we just in the valley of the shadow of death? How did the psalm work? The reality is, because the Lord is our great shepherd, because he is sovereign, because Romans 8. 28 is true, that even The valley of the shadow of death is part of I shall not want. It's part of surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Even the valleys of your life Are being turned into good. And if you question that, if you think, no, that's just not true when it comes to me, not the pain that I've gone through, not the suffering, not this evil I want you to think about the greatest evil that ever has occurred. The greatest tragedy, the greatest valley of the shadow of death, the very greatest meaningless evil was the suffering of the only true innocent person that's ever walked this earth. We're all guilty. The wages of sin is death. All have committed sin, meaning that anything we get is better than we deserve, because we deserve death. But yet there was a man who never sinned and deserved nothing bad at all, and yet he received mocking, shame, shame stripping, beating, a crown of thorns, ultimately hung on a cross, crucified, suffocating, naked, abandoned by his friends. Who was that man? Christ. And there was ever a valley of the shadow of death that was meaningless and purposeless. It was that. And yet that turned out to be the very redemption of all humanity. Did God not send the latter rain into his desert and bring the Garden of Eden out of that? We could trust God. Here's the point of all that. The God who sends down fire. can be trusted to send down the latter rain. And that's exactly what he does. But I want you to see something. God told Elijah that he was going to send down the rain. And we will see that God does send down the rain. But does he send it down automatically? Does it just come easily? Did he just kill the prophets? Elijah's off riding away, and then God just magically or just supernaturally or without any effort whatsoever sends down the latter rain. The answer is no. But rather he's going to make his servant work for it. Some of us are tempted to think, if God says it He'll do it and he doesn't need me to be involved. You see that? If God says he's going to do it He's going to do it whether I'm involved or not. So what do I matter? Who cares if I strive? Who cares if I struggle? Who cares if I press in? Because God's going to do it anyways. This was actually the fallacy of the hyper-Calvinist. that William Carey so long ago fought against because he said, I want to go and be a part of saving the heathen. The nations out there, I want you to go evangelize them. And there was a apparently the story says it was an old deacon that said, boy, sit down. If God wants to save the nations, he'll save them without you at all. But that young man, William Carey, did not sit down, but said, no, God is going to call me and use me to save the nations. And guess what God did? He used him to save the nations. Here's what God says about the gospel. Matthew chapter 13, verse 31. The kingdom of heaven is like a mustard seed which a man took and sowed in his field, which indeed is the least of all the seeds. But when it is grown, it is greater than the herbs and becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and nest on its branches. God describes the kingdom of God and He says it's like this tiny little mustard seed. I actually haven't seen a mustard seed, but apparently it's very small. A tiny tiny little seed. It's one of the smallest seeds and you plant it in the ground and eventually it grows up and becomes bigger than all the other seeds. She becomes this big tree and these birds rest in its branches. What's the point? The kingdom of God will start off small, but then become this giant edifice that will save millions upon millions. And by the way, beloved, have we not seen that happen in our own day? Well, 2,000 years since this prophecy was given in a parable form, and it started off with twelve disciples of Jesus And now here we are, 2,000 years later, I look across this room, I see the nations represented in this room, many miles away, still worshiping this Jesus. And all across the world right now, on this Lord's Day, there are people worshiping Jesus. This prophecy has occurred Right after this, Jesus gives another parable. He says, another parable Jesus spoke to them. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal till all was leavened. Anybody bake bread? Anybody make fresh bread around here? You take a little leaven, put it in the dough, and eventually it leavens the whole thing. And Jesus says the kingdom of God is like that, that it's like a dough that's unleavened, but then you put a leaven in it and then it leavens the whole thing. Both of these parables are the same. The point is that the kingdom of God will become an expansive reality, a global reality, and millions will be saved. We get a fuller sense of this prophecy in Revelation chapter 7. It says, after these things I looked. And behold, a great multitude which no one could number, of all the nations, the tribes, the peoples, the tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with right with white robes, white palm branches in their hand Revelation chapter 7. Is this going to happen? Are there going to be people of every tribe, every nation, every tongue standing before God? With these white robes, praising him? The answer is yes. So does it matter if you evangelize? We were talking about this in Sunday school. Mr. Jim has his tracks. He goes out and gives people tracks. Does it matter? Should he do it? It's gonna happen. God says it, so does my efforts matter? The answer is yes. We would never apply this to evangelism. We know that just because God will be successful doesn't mean our efforts are useless. Because does not the same Paul say in Romans chapter 10, how will they call upon him whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe On him they have not heard. And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach unless they are sent? As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the gospel of peace, who bring glad tidings of good things. God both appoints the ends and the means. He says, the nations will come, and I'm going to send out my people to go and work toward that end. He doesn't just Appoint the end, but also appoints the means to that end. Well our text is another great example of this. God said he's gonna send the rain, right? So he's going to do it. But is he going to do it without Elijah? No. He's going to send the rain through Elijah, and that gives Elijah hope that his efforts are not vain. There's these uh Native Americans they used to do a rain dance. You ever seen a rain dance from a Native American? They just dance around and hope that it rains. I hope none of you have been partaking in rain dances. Because that's paganism. But not only is it paganism, it doesn't work. Are you out there dancing around your garden hoping that the rain dance will cause the rain to save your plants, or do you have a hose? and go and spraying your garden with water. Probably the latter. Well Elijah doesn't have to do a rain dance because that's pagan, but he can believe that the God who sends fire will in fact send rain, like he said. But again, the point is it's not automatic. He has to work hard for it. So let's look at verse 42 and let's see that. Verse 42. So Elijah told Ahab to go up and eat. Verse 42. So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Mount Cormel. Then he bowed down to the ground and put his face between his knees and said to his servant, Go look up toward the sea. Now stop here. What is Elijah doing on that mountain? It says that he bowed down to the ground and put his face between his knees. What's he doing up there? He's praying. I'm glad you all got that answer right. You know I've read it in the commentators they don't know what this means I have no idea. Who's who's writing these commentaries? We know what this means. He's bowing down on top of a mountain praying and sending out his servant to tell him to go and let him know if it starts raining anytime soon. It's very clear that this is prayer. And if you question that, which you shouldn't, none of you did, you can just go into James chapter 5, and it says that Elijah prayed and it rained. Come on, it's very obvious. So then he sent his servant, verse 43. He said, Go up and look toward the sea. He's praying, go up and look toward the sea. So he went up and looked. And he said, What? There is nothing. Seven times he said, go up again. Elijah had to work hard for it. He couldn't just pray one time. He could have said simply, I'm not going to pray at all. God said he's going to send rain. He's going to send rain, whether I do it or not. And had he done that, God most likely would have sent no rain. But again, most of us aren't that hard-hearted that we would just completely not pray at all. But let me ask you this. How many of us would have prayed once And then God would have not answered our prayer and said, it must not be God's will. I prayed. I checked the block. I asked. And had Elijah done that, what would have happened? There'd still be drought in Israel. There would have been no rain Okay, many of us are better than that, Lord willing. We're not going to just pray once. If it really is important to us, maybe we'll pray three times. How many times did Paul pray for the thorn to be removed from his flesh? Three times. How many times did Jesus pray in the Garden of Gethsemane that the cup would be passed from him? Three times. How many persons are there in the Trinity Three times. Three is a good number. So we're going to pray three times. That's our new test. We'll pray three times. And if God doesn't answer three times, that's it. We're done. No more praying. Shut up the prayer meeting, right? And had Elijah done that, would there be any rain? No, there would not be any rain. What I'm trying to show you is That God made his prophet work. And there was no magic number of one, two, three, four times, nothing Five times nothing. In fact, you remember how many times that Elijah prayed for the widow's son to revive? Three times. Three times is a good number. It didn't work on three times. He had to go back and back and back. And by the seventh time, look at verse 44, then it came to pass the seventh time. Let me stop here. We think about Elijah, but think about that poor servant. Seven times this guy told me to go back. It's not working, Elijah. But he obeyed Then it came to pass the seventh time that he said, There's a cloud, as small as a man's hand rising out of the sea. Seven times. Will we be persistent in prayer? Will we ask and keep on asking? Will we seek and keep on seeking? Will we not? And keep on knocking. It took Elijah, the man of God, the man whose prayers were answered like few others ever have been, seven times. What might it take us? And will you persist? Are we twisting God's arm here? Is Elijah making God do something he doesn't want to do? God told Elijah he was going to send the rain. And yet he then makes his prophet work seven times. Do you see that? What I'm trying to tell you is this. As you persist in prayer, you are not forcing God to do something he does not want. It will never work But the reality is, God has operated in such a way that he likes to be asked persistently. Why? Take it up with him. I don't know why God wants us to ask him so much. I'm just the messenger in telling you that God does want us to ask him so much. He wants us to press in deeply to grab him and say, I will not let you go until you bless me. You're not making God do something he does not want. God is the one who tells you over and over in your Bible, pray without. That's his will. It's his will to do that. He gives this parable of this widow who goes up to this king who fears neither man nor God. And she's just this nagging woman, day after day, crying out for justice. She just can't stand the woman anymore. And says, fine, I neither fear God. Or man. But just to get you out of might, hair, here's the request. And then God says How much more so will God answer his elect who cry out to him? But then he asked the question in that the end of that statement He says, but when he comes to the earth, will he find faith on the earth? The thing is, God is never going to be worn down God is waiting for us to rend heaven and to shake heaven and to continue to cry out to him. And it might take seven times. It might take 70 years. But will you persist? Will you continue to press in and ask him? And I think if you do, you will get the same result that Elijah got. Which is namely that the rain came and it came falling down upon him. I want you to see also though That after all seven times of him continuing to press into God, it didn't just start bursting into rain. But instead, what does he say? I saw, what does he see? A little tiny cloud like a man's hand. How small is this? Somebody got big hands. Look how small this hand is. This tiny little hand coming from the sea. Right? And I think what we get here, what we learn from this, is that oftentimes the breakthrough of our prayer starts off real small It doesn't just burst forth. It also starts off real small and it gives us hope and belief. And then if we keep pressing in, eventually we will see what we were hoping for, namely the rain. And that's what we see here. He said, go say up to Ahab, prepare your chariot, and go down before the rain stops you. And look at verse 45. Starts off as his little hand, there's a little glimmer of hope after persistent prayer. Verse 45. Now it happened in the meantime that the sky became black with clouds in the wind. And there was heavy rain. You see it? It started off as a little cloud. We had to have faith to believe that this little thing coming from the sea was going to be anything. And after a short little while, the sky went dark, and the heavy rain came down. Beloved, be persistent. Trust in God. Keep praying. Keep having hope. Even when you see just that little hand of a cloud coming through. Start preparing for the rain now, believing that God will answer his word. Because he will, because he's faithful. And so Ahab, he runs off, he's getting out of there, he's going to Jezreel. Jezreel is between 16, we don't know exactly, but between 16 and 25 miles. So he's on his chariot, and he's taken off before the rain comes and stops him. And who's in Jezreel, by the way? Jezebel. He has a little palace there. So he's going off. And he's running off. And I'm tempted to stop there, but there's actually one more interesting thing that happens at the end of this chapter. It's really easy to miss. All the excitement has already happened, right? But there's one more really fascinating thing. It's a small little detail. But we can miss it. And this kind of brings us back to the introduction. Does anybody know the fastest man alive today? Anybody know Usan Bolt? He broke the record in 2009. He ran a 9. 56 in the 100-meter dash. Parents I invite you to go on YouTube, it's actually clean, and watch that video. And it's amazing to see this man, the fastest man ever. He runs almost 28 miles an hour. He blows everyone away At the time he was 22 years old, 6'5, 207 pounds of pure solid muscle. 16 years later, no one has ever broken that record. Somebody will. But as of right now, 16 years later, no one's ever broken it. Four days later, he broke the record also for the 200-meter dash. The day before his 23rd birthday. He's the fastest man that the world has ever seen. A hundred meter dash on about thirty miles an hour. Amazing guy. Now, I want you to think about this. This huge six foot five guy, I think he was from Kenya. I think so. Don't quote me on that. No, he was from Jamaica. Jamaican, pure muscle, versus a little Jewish guy. Right? He's probably middle-aged, if not an old man. You 've never run a hundred meter dash chasing each other. Who would win? Apparently the little Jewish guy named Elijah. It's crazy to think about. But that is actually what our text is telling us. I'll tell you. That's a hundred meter dash though, two millimeter dash. Hundred meter, two millimeter. That's very short. Well the fastest Person who ever ran a half marathon actually broke the record just recently. His name's Jacob Capleo. I might be pronouncing that wrong. He ran 13 miles. At a pace of four minutes and twenty-two seconds a mile. You can't run a mile that fast. If you run a mile under six minutes, it's pretty good. Under five minutes, you're flying. He ran 13 miles straight at four minutes and twenty two seconds, just a few months ago. It's just mind-boggling. Now truthfully the guy's probably on steroids. Nonetheless though, you can put you on steroids. You're not going to do that. These are the fastest men ever And yet, a little Jewish man from Israel, who probably never ran a day in his life, could beat all of them. Why do I say that? Well, because our text tells us here, look again at verse 46. Then the hand of the Lord came upon Elijah. He girded up his loins, and he ran ahead of Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel. Now what is what is Ahab? How is he getting there? Is he jogging? Is he running on the backs of slaves? How is he getting there? He has a chariot with a horse. So I did a little bit of math. Somebody anybody have a horse around here? Anybody know how fast horses go? Horses can get up to about 35 miles an hour on short sprints. They can't maintain that speed. 30 to 40 miles an hour just flying, but they can't maintain that speed. Fast as they can probably maintain around 20 to 25 miles an hour for a short distance Or a decent uh a decent amount of distance. So I'm just gonna estimate that basically the chair was going about 20 miles an hour. Because Ahab is taking off. It's going to rain. If it rains too much, his chair is going to get stuck. He's not just leisurely just you know, you know, he's actually trying to book it and get home. And he has the best chariot with the best horse. He's going pretty probably pretty fast, 20 miles an hour. Give or take. And yet it tells us here that Elijah Just grabs his cloak, kind of like ties it up to the side, puts like a little ponytail on the side here, and just books it. And just runs and makes it 16 to 25 miles. Before Ahab's chariot. If you do the math basically, we don't know, again, it's hard to know because we don't know how far Ahab got with his chariot. Was it one minute? Was it ten minutes? Was it thirty minutes? We don't know. So we can't do the full math here, but whatever it was, we know that Elijah was able to travel faster than a chariot, which must have meant that Elijah was going probably between twenty and thirty miles an hour, if not faster. That's like a moped. Can you imagine? Again, Usan Bolt, the fastest man ever, a hundred meter sprint, went about 27 miles an hour for 100 meters Eliza, this little man, with his clothes tied up randomly, is going about probably about 30 miles an hour for 16 miles straight. Again, the fastest man today, on say words, four minutes and twenty-two seconds. per mile for 13 miles, and yet Elijah's doubling that for at least the same amount of distance, if not further. What do we learn from this? What does this all mean? What's all this fun fact? It is fun, and it is interesting and amazing to think about it. But I think what we really learn from this is this: we serve a God Who makes the impossible possible? Is it not surprising that the strongest man ever was not a man on steroids with amazing genetics, pumping out iron day in and day out, but rather A man empowered by God named Samson. Because with God's power, we can do things that no man could ever achieve through genetics and through steroids or anything else that man can produce. Well, is it any surprise that the fastest man the world's ever seen by a mile, and much more than that, is also a man empowered by God? What do we learn from this? What we learn from this is what Jesus says so long ago, John chapter 15, Abide in me, and I in you, as the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, neither can you unless you abide in me. I am the vine. You are the branches. He who abides in me, and I in him, bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do nothing. Where is the source of Elijah's power, of his speed? It has nothing to do with his genetics, it has nothing to do with his youth, it has nothing to do with any human means at all. But rather the hand of the Lord empowered him to do what he could not do. Well, what do you need? You don't need superhuman speed, but you need God to empower you to slay the demons in your life. Do you not? To walk with him, to break the bondage, to empower you to do the work that he has asked you to do. Psalm 127, verse 1, unless the Lord builds the house, they labor in vain who build it. Unless the Lord guards the city, the watchman stays awake in vain. It is vain for you to rise up early. It is vain for you to sit up late to eat the bread of sorrows, for he gives his beloved sleep. What we need is the God of Elijah, do we not? to empower us individually and to empower us corporately, not to do things outside of his will, but to do his will. God has given us a task that's impossible. He wants us to spread his kingdom throughout the earth so that the gates of hell will not prevail against it. That's impossible. There's so many enemies from without. There's so many enemies from within. How can we ever do this? How can we ever accomplish such a task? Well, the Great Commission. What's the end of the Great Commission? What's the very last thing Jesus says at the end of his Great Commission to go make disciples of all nations, baptizing them then, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, for lo, what's the end of it? I am with you. The God who strengthened Samson to pick up gates, the God who strengthened Elijah to run 30 plus miles an hour faster than a chariot is the God who can strengthen you. to accomplish his will. But you have to tap into his strength and not rely on your own strength. Matthew 6 verse 9, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth. as it is in heaven. God has given us a huge task, an impossible task, a task that we could never accomplish in and of ourselves. This is the will of God 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 verse 3, your sanctification. God has called us to do things we cannot do. And the first step to achieving God's will in our lives is to give up and to stop trying to do it in your own power. Because you cannot do it. Elijah could not run this fast. Samson could not pick up those gates. And neither can you accomplish God's will in your life as long as you're relying on your strength. So what can we learn from the fastest man who ever ran on the earth? I think the primary lesson we can learn is Proverbs 3. 5. Trust And the Lord with all your heart, lean not on your own understanding, but in all your ways acknowledge Him, and He shall direct your path Accomplishing God's will has nothing to do with your looks, has nothing to do with your your youth, it has nothing to do with you hitting the squats, hitting the bench press, or training for many hours a day It has everything to do with submitting yourself to the mighty hand of God. And at the proper time, he will exalt you. He will give you power. He will give you strength He empowers all people, and he empowers you, and he empowers his church. We have to pray down his victory and his power. Will you pray that with me? Let's go through the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we have seen amazing things this morning. We have seen you send fire down. Obliterating things that fire cannot obliterate, but your fire can. We have seen you make your man of God wrestle with you seven times. And even after seven times, only seeing a little tiny cloud. And yet you did answer, and you did send a lot of rain. And then we finally have seen this little man. Probably middle aged, if not older. Taken off, going faster than any man has ever run by your spirit and by your power. Lord, give us let these images give us hope And belief that you are the same God that you were of Elijah, and you're our God. And you can help us do things that we could never do in and of ourselves Let us be people of prayer. Let us be people that we see your power in our lives. People would say, how? How can this person do these things? How can this church do these things? And the answer be because we serve you. Because you are our power, our strength and our glory. We pray this in Jesus' name