Good morning. Today we're going to be transitioning from our study of systematic theology of mission, trying to build a comprehensive understanding of missions throughout the whole Bible And we're going to go into how to engage with cult members, specifically how to engage Mormons for Christ and try to win them in evangelism. The reason that we're doing that is because we have a brother in the church that is doing that very thing. engaging Mormons in in Christ and I thought it would be helpful instead of providing this class, you know, several weeks down the road after the Mormons are long gone and the experience is over, to go ahead and front load that now and then be able to provide that to him, you know, my notes or and this recording of that and just be helpful in that regard. In the beginning of the class I argued that coverage is the enemy of all learning. Just trying to get through material. Right? We w want to be able to engage what's going on in your mind and what's going on in your life circumstances. So please again feel free to ask any questions or make any comments during this class. Is that better? Um Oh you didn't oh you didn't actually turn it on? Yeah, I don't think I maybe even Jay turned it on, but I I didn't I didn't turn it on, so it says that it's on. It can be it can be raised up. It can be raised up in the in the back. Alright, so That's kind of the the the purpose of doing the class now is to be able to help and I think it'll be helpful for all of us though really because we've all probably had the experience of a Mormon knocking on our door or if we probably will have an experience of a Mormon or a Jehovah's Witness knocking on our door at some point of our lives. So I think the very first question that we should ask is, should we even be doing this? Is there isn't there a command somewhere in the Bible that may or may not prohibit even trying to engage a Mormon in the first place or any cult member from knocking on a door And at first glance there does appear to be one. And that's in 2 John verse 10. There's only one chapter in that book. This is what it says. If anyone comes to you and does not Bring this teaching, do not receive him into your house, or give him any greeting. For whoever greets him takes part in his wicked works. So contextually, we know that the people that uh John is talking about are essentially cult members, so people who claim to be Christian. but have seriously distorted the truth. These people are probably protonostics, and there's evidence that they deny that Jesus came in the flesh. So they're essentially denying some aspect of the Trinity. And this is a characteristic of most cults And so regarding them, it says, do not receive them into your house or give them any greeting. And this is usually how evangelism happens with Mormons, right? We usually they're knocking our door, we greet them, and then we make a meeting, and then they're in our house. So at first glance, it looks like that this scripture would be prohibiting Engaging in Mormons in that way. But we have to ask ourselves, is this command not to greet them or let them into your house an absolute command? An absolute prohibition. What I mean by that? Well what if they're your family? What if you have family members that are part of a cult, part of Mormonism, Jehovah's Witness or whatever other cults? Is this prohibiting allowing them over for dinner? What about Christmas? What about if they are you see you look out there and you see a Jehovah's Witness or a Mormon in dire need? Essentially you're in a good Samaritan like situation. And that's a that that parable of Good Samaritan is such a good example Because the Samaritans were the enemies of the Jews. They were essentially cult members. Right? But they were and they had no contact with each other. But yet the Good Samaritan is brought up as a good example of taking care of them. So is this prohibiting being a good Samaritan? And then finally what we're really looking at is what about trying to evangelize them? That's to me, can we not evangelize Mormons or Jehovah's Witnesses in our house? Well, I think the answer to that question is going to be found in verse eleven. Verse 10, that's the prohibition, don't let him in your house or make him any greeting. Verse eleven of 2 John says, For whoever greets him takes part in his wicked. works. Now this is the purpose of why we can't let them in our house. Now think about this. Any of the examples that I gave, if they're a family member and you're just showing them love by having a dinner with them, if they're in a dire need and you're helping them and taking care of them off the street. for whatever reason or in the situation that we we're really after if you're trying to evangelize them, how could it be said that you take part in his wicked works? How does greeting someone or having them in your house taking part in their wicked works? Well, obviously it's not. So obviously, this command is talking about some situations specifically. And we need to understand the cultural context to kind of figure out why um that that purpose clause is there. The cultural context of back then we have to recognize that the inns, the places that people the motel fixes and you know, the marriage and all that were not like they are today. Today, you know, based on how much money you want to spend is the kind of quality you're going to get. So some ends are in fact cesspools that you probably don't want to go to. But some ends are very, very nice, and you probably don't want to go to them because they're too expensive, right? So there's all this whole spectrum. There's not really any danger of your life or being exposed to um discussing things at at most um places of staying. But that was not the case back then. Back then you would not want to go to these places. The things that you'd be exposed to, the danger, they just were not good places for any person of morality to ever go to. And so what they would do is A local minister would travel from town to town, right, and they would depend on good people, good quality people, family members, friends, or Christians for that matter, to take them in. So essentially, what this means is a local minister's ministry would depend on charity of Christian folks. And so this is why it says, for whoever greets him takes part of his wicked works. If you're supporting a cult member Right? , By hosting him into his house and making his ministry possible, you are now in fellowship and coronia with that person. Okay? And that is what is being prohibited We see this in the sinning out of the 72, and that's found in Luke 10, and I'm going to start in verse 4 to kind of show you a few things. Luke 10, verse 4. This is when Jesus' commission of 72. Carry out, carry no money bag, no knapsack, no sandals, and greet no one. On the road. Whatever house you enter, first say, Peace be to this house. And if a son of peace is there, your peace will rest upon him. But if not, it will return to you. Remain in the same house, eating and drinking what they provide, for the laborer deserves his wages. Do not go from house to house Whenever you enter a town and they receive you, eat what is set before you. So in this context, this is Jesus sending out these seventy-two missionaries to go out and preach the gospel. They're specifically instructed not to carry extra supplies. Let the go into a house, right? A man of peace will be there, and he will provide for you. Don't go from house to house. He's going to provide for you. It even makes uh indication that the wages is the the the housing and the lodging and the the provision provided by this person. This man of peace is uh a godly well i is someone providing for this minister essentially Okay, that's what we're prohibited from doing. In any fashion, we're not to be subscribing and in any way being saying that I am a part of this person's ministry. Interestingly enough, if you go to 3 John, it tells us that we need to support those who have gone out for the sake of the name. That's what we're supposed to do, support people who are going out for the sake of the name. What uh second John prohibits is Supporting people who have gone out for the sake of the cults, going out for the sake of a false name. We cannot do that. Okay. So if Second John doesn't prohibit evangelizing cult members Then does any scripture prohibit it? And the answer is no. No scripture prohibits that. Instead, we have the Great Commission This is what it says. And Jesus said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Go thereforth and make disciples of all nations. That's the command. All authority has been given to Jesus. Now go in that light, in that respect, knowing that he is the king, and go out and disciple the nations. Notice it does not say, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore hide when the nations knock on your door. It's the exact opposite, right? If we have unbelievers knocking on our door, you know, the last thing we should do is hide, slam the door in their face, say, I know you're part of a cult and and and and and leave them in that state. We need to Try to evangelize these people. We need to recognize that cult members knocking on our door is a perfect opportunity for sharing the gospel with unbelievers. Because that's what they are. They're unbelievers. They're not the devil incarnate. They're just simply lost people who need the gospel, just like all of us. We were all lost and had bad views about Jesus and so forth, whether that was mentally or practically, right? And the gospel is has the power. To save them. Their state of darkness is not greater than our gospel. And we see this in Romans one sixteen. Paul says there For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. It can save it can save anyone, whether they're on a cold or not Acts 13, 48 says this. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. So what's significant is those who were appointed to eternal life believed. We are told we are to go out there and preach the gospel. And we have the confidence that those who are appointed will, in fact, believe. Those who are not appointed to eternal life, well, they will not believe. And we are not responsible for their lack of belief. And we see that in 1 Corinthians 3:16. This is what Paul says about himself. I, Paul, planted, a polished water, but God gave the growth. I never take as a as a missionary, someone evangelizing, never take the responsibility of that person's salvation on your own shoulders, for good or for ill. If someone does get saved, Lord willing, Don't go around bragging and saying that you did it. You didn't do it. And if someone doesn't get saved, don't go around with your head down and feeling like you have completely failed Christ No, because ultimately that we're not responsible for growth. We cannot do that. All we can do is plant and give God the glory. I really love Ezekiel 317 to get my mind around what our job is for evangelism. This is what God says to Ezekiel, Son of Man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. I think of that the watchman of the whole world. God has sent us to go disciple the nations. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give him Warning from me. If I say to the wicked, you shall surely die. And you give him no warning, nor speak Nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life. That wicked person shall die for his iniquity, but his blood I will require at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity. But you have delivered your soul. See our responsibility as the watchman of the world is to tell people and warn people, right? The the first commandment is to love God. The second greatest commandment is to love our neighbor How can we say that we love these cult members, or anyone for that matter, and not share the gospel with them? The fact is, I think we have a responsibility to share the gospel with everybody And we ultimately often fail this, right? But that doesn't give us an excuse to try to continue to fail when we have a perfect opportunity. So as we as we see this wonderful opportunity of of uh people involved in Colts knocking on our door, and we want to share the gospel with them, hopefully. We want to be a watchman, warning them of the wrath to come We should recognize a few things, a few preliminary realities. One, that this is a spiritual warfare. This really is. When we're dealing with cults, really we're dealing with anyone But I would say probably especially, even more heightened when we're dealing with cults, we need to recognize that there's a spiritual battle. Paul talks about this in Ephesians 6 12. He says there For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against rulers, against authorities, against cosmic powers, over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places So this is a cosmic war. When you're gauging with anyone who does not know God, recognize that we're fighting it's not just a conversation between two individuals. But there's a spiritual battle going on there. So how should we respond to the fact that we're engaging in spiritual warfare? Well verse 13 of that same passage tells us Therefore, based on that spiritual reality, take up the whole armor of God, that you may be able to withstand in the evil day, having done all to stand firm. So whenever we're sharing the gospel with anybody, again we need to recognize the spiritual warfare. And our weapons are not just simply out-talking them, outsmarting them, or or any of those things Right? We need to be putting on the armor of God. We need to be using the word of God. We need to be praying that God would open up their hearts. We need to be manifesting the works of the Spirit. We need to be engaging them in gentleness and kindness. and sincerity. We also need to recognize, not only is it a spiritual battle, but we need to recognize that cult members are highly prepared people. These members are trained in sharing their faith with Christians. Why? Because the main converts to the cults are Christians. See when we usually are training, we're thinking about the people who are on our left and our right. We're thinking about our neighbor, we're thinking about people that we go to work with, we're thinking about liberals or whatever. Usually I would say most of the time though we think about probably the secular person who never thinks about God. And we think well how do I engage that person? Right? But they they're not really thinking about that. They're they're kind of ignoring that person because they don't really grab those people. They're a parasitic group. That's what they do. They hunt on people who go to church that speak Christianese that are going to Christian churches. So they're training specifically for you, and oftentimes we're not training for them. So we need to recognize that We also need to recognize that they're preying on people who don't know their Bible. See, the best offense slash defense of a cult of cults is knowing your Bible They prey on people who have a respect for the word but are completely ignorant of its content. They also prey on people who don't know that their particular sect is a cult. Usually people have heard, you know, just from the pipeline or whatnot that Mormonism is a cult, Jehovah's Witness is a cult, or whatever. Right? Usually we have everyone usually has that background. But they don't know why they're a cult. They just know that someone has said they're a cult and stay away from them. Then you have a conversation with them and you start talking to them and they seem to agree with everything that you say Right? And they seem to know the Bible better than you often. And so this is how they pray on pray on people. James White Who, interesting enough, started his ministry, Alpha and Omega Ministries, with debating and evangelizing Mormons eventually stopped and he transitioned to other things. But that's where he began. He said back in 1994 that there was a twenty to one conversion rate. That means for every one Mormon that comes into the Christian church that converts into Christianity, 20 supposedly Christians are converting to Mormonism. So this is the challenge that we're dealing with, right? These people really are good at praying on Christian churches and Christian members. But That does not mean that they're invincible, by no means. 1 John 4. 4 says this: Little children, you are from God, and have overcome them. The antecedent for them is the Antichrist. Those who are professing a false gospel. You have overcome them, for he who is in you is greater than he who is in the world So we need to recognize they're not invincible. We have God on our side. I heard one man say that one plus God is the majority. If God is on our side, then who can be against us? We can win We also need to recognize that even though these people are highly trained in their tasks of evangelizing Christians, they are not biblical scholars by any means. In fact, rather, they are simply proof textures. They can go really far, but not deep at all. They're usually wholly ignorant of the Bible. They just know these little these verses over here and here out of context. So they're cheaply proof textures. Also, we should recognize that they twist biblical language. This is their game. Their game is saying grace, but meaning something else. Saying, I believe in the Trinity, but meaning something else. So, in response to this, we ourselves must be prepared. We must rely on the Holy Spirit, and we must be able to defend our beliefs. A lot of churches are, not this church, but a lot of churches are just simply trying to make churches comfortable as possible, going teaching at the very lowest level. Right? To make everyone just feel comfortable and have a good time. But again, these people are preparing to meet with you. So we need to also be ready to meet with them. Another thing that we must do in our preparation is must not allow them to pretend that we agree. Again, that's the strategy. We agree, we agree, we agree. But I got this Book of Mormon. You ever read it? Read it and pray about it That's your strategy. But our what we need to recognize is once we we recognize that, we must not allow them to pretend to agree with us and that they simply just have a Book of Mormon that's slightly different. But we must point out the differences and be able to share the gospel with them In order to do this, we must know something about their beliefs. Because again, they will literally almost lie to your face and tell you that they agree with you when they in fact do not agree with you. So how do we do this? Well, fortunately, we do not need to become experts on Mormonism. We don't need to become experts on Jehovah's Witness or any other cult for that matter. I remember uh a couple maybe a year ago or so that I was in the mall and a person uh said, excuse me, can I ask you a question I got excited because I'm thinking this is kind of like an evangelist of you know opening the door. I recognize this tactic. I've done this myself. I say, yeah, sure. And then he goes on and tells me basically that he's part of a new group Um that has discovered this great truth that the church has forgotten for all of these years. And this new group essentially basically said that in order to be saved, that you must Take the Eucharist. You must believe that it's the body, the literal body and blood of Jesus Christ, and you must, you know, take the Eucharist from our church. Now I don't even to this day know what group this was referring to. I I really don't But here's what I did know. I know that he was contradicting the gospel. Essentially, he was once again trying to add works Now in the form of the Eucharist with their special church for my salvation. This was basically like baptismal regeneration that most churches practice, just switching it to the Eucharist. Switching it to the Lord's Supper. Now here's what I didn't do. I didn't say, um, what was the name of your group? Let me check Wikipedia, let me get, you know, studied up on your You're l you're a cult, and I'll come back and engage you. I can't engage you right now. I'm too ignorant of your beliefs. That's what I did not do, because that that would have ended the conversation. I wouldn't have been able to share with this person. I saw clearly that they were contradicting the gospel So then I engaged them based on that and said, okay, you're contradicting the gospel. Let me tell you what the real gospel is and let me tell you how the scriptures that you're using are twisting them. And and and and I had uh I think a very fruitful conversation with that with that gentleman. Now that my point that I'm bringing up is I didn't need to become an expert of that cult that I don't even know what name is, and neither do you need to become an expert on even a cult that you do know the name of. Now, this is not to say that gaining more and more knowledge is not helpful, but it's just not necessary. What we need to be able to do is be able to give a defense of what we believe. I don't need to be able to give a defense of what they believe. Okay? And we see this in 1 Peter 3. 15. There it says, but in your hearts honor Christ the Lord as holy Always being prepared to make an offense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and Respect. Absolutely. We need to be engaging with gentleness and respect, loving them, showing them that we love them. But showing them that we love them does not mean talking really lightly or anything like that. It just means not being mean and being essentially a jerk about it. Right? Showing them that you really care about them and you're engaging them and you don't hate them, but you do believe that they are an error. But the point of this scripture is says that we need to be able to give it offense to anyone who asks us for a reason for the hope that we have in us. You do not need to be an expert of them. And in fact, I'm going to argue that you really need to focus on your beliefs and not focus on their beliefs. Okay? Because we see this all the time when people try to tell us what we believe and we're like, you don't know what we believe. And it's quite embarrassing Right? It's not very fruitful. And the fact is we aren't scholars of them. Alright. So let's well I keep using the word cult, and I don't mean that derogatory by any means. But I want to define a little bit of why I'm saying that they are a cult and what that means. So, what do I mean by cult? Well, almost all cults deny the gospel of salvation by grace through faith. None of them have the gospel. They all have lost it. What else? They all deny the Trinity or some aspect of it. Mormonism is quite interesting because not only do they deny the Trinity, but they deny monotheism. They take it to a whole nother level Right? But still most cults deny the Trinity. Most cults are usually restorational. What I mean by that. Usually these cults basically say something like this. Okay, so the church originally was faithful. The apostles, they did good But immediately after the apostles, everyone else went apostate. The church went into the dark ages. The church was evaporated. Then God came and talked to my leader. And the church was reborn through us. That's what it is. Restorational. Also, usually they are, they believe that a new revelation can fundamentally alter old revelation. Right? So essentially when you point a lot of times when you point to these scriptures like, well you don't really understand those scriptures because my later prophet has these scriptures and now we superimpose these later scriptures on these older scriptures And these either are falsely translated, they don't mean what they mean, or this is okay to have, you know, the God of the Old Testament saying monotheism, the God of the New Testament saying monotheism, but the God of Joseph Smith saying, oh, actually that's not true at all Polytheism. Okay. They usually are okay with this kind of thing. What this means is this is pretty much the characteristic of cults. What this means is our best defense Of being able to engage any cult is to be able to biblically defend the Trinity, the gospel, the invincible nature of the church, sola scriptura, and the test of a prophet. That's all we need to do. If we know these scriptures, if we know how to defend these things, almost any cult will be able to engage successfully, even without knowing, being experts on their religion. Now again, the difficulty is though, many cults, especially the Mormons, specialize in pretending to be Christian. If you say to Mormon, do you believe in the Trinity? Most of the time they say, yes, we believe in the Trinity. We believe the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit of God in the Godhead. And we say, you know, do you believe that you're saved by grace alone? They'll say, yes, we believe that we're saved by grace alone. And you don't want to call someone a liar, and especially if you just don't know anything about their beliefs, that's not a very effective way to go. So we do in fact need to know something about the religion to be able to say and to be able to dive in and say, do you really believe that? Define your terms Because if you know what you think they're supposed to believe, then you can start, you know, prying into, okay, what do you mean by the Godhead? What do you is there just three gods? Can I become a God? Is there any gods other than you see? You can start prying in and not allow them to get away with it. What they're doing is a fallacy known as the fallacy of equivocation. Here's a definition of that The fallacy of equivocation occurs when a key term or phrase in an argument is used in an ambiguous way, when one meaning in one portion of the argument And then another meaning and another portion of the argument. So I'm going to give you a simple example of this. Stars are flaming balls of gas. Martin Luther is a star. Therefore, Martin Luther is a flaming ball of gas. That would be a classic example of equivocation. Now, most people don't come out and be so obvious about that But you can see that the word star there has changed meaning. Star originally was referring to a literal physical star out there. Then it went to Martin Luther was a star, and that's not saying he's a little physical star, but he's popular. Then the conclusion is completely ridiculous in concluding that Martin Luther is in fact that flaming ball of gas. That's equivocation. And that's what the cults do. So when Mormons say they again when Mormons say they believe in the Trinity, what they really believe in is that the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit are all gods, but they're separated They acknowledge the fact that they're all gods, but they reject the unity. When we say tri-unity, we're saying that they're unified in nature There's one God, but three persons. That unification is in nature. When they say Trinity, and when they say unification, they're saying they're unified in purpose. They're in agreement. This is radically different than what we say. So let's go into a little bit about what the Mormons believe. Mormons are essentially polytheistic. This is they believe in millions, I mean millions of gods. This is what their own apostle, the Mormon apostle Orson Pratt said. This explains the mystery. If we should take a million worlds like this and number their particles, we should find that there are more gods. Then there are particles of matter in these worlds. That's a lot of gods. Right? So we're saying that the amount of particles in this world Plus a million other like them would be similar to the amount of God that there are. This is an extreme polytheistic view. He also said this We were begotten by our Father in heaven. The person of our Father in heaven was begotten by a still more ancient Father, and so on. From generation to generation, from one heavenly world to another still more ancient, until our minds are wearied and lost in the multiplicity of generations. and successive worlds, and as a last resort, we wonder in our minds how far back the genealogy extends and how the first world was formed and the la and the first Father was begotten So this is kind of a little bit complicated, we're not overly familiar with Mormon theology, of what they're really saying. They are saying that we were begotten by our father Elohim. Our Father God. Okay? But God Himself was begotten by another God. And another God. And another God. And and this whole concept is If I am a Mormon begotten by God who was once himself a Mormon man, he was deified into God, then as I worship this now deified man, now God And if I'm really, really good and really really excellent, I get to become a more than God myself. I eventually get to become a God. I get to take my wives over and we uh reproduce and we have we we do the same cycle over And now I get to be God, and you guys go well not you guys, but you're saying other people get to be people and they get to be good Mormons and they get to be God. And this has happened over and over and over again. It's almost unbelievable that they believe this, but they really do believe this. You almost think that there's just no way. No, they actually do believe this. Again, they believe that man, essentially, man and God are ontologically the same. But that word ontologically means that they share being. They're just in different states of progression. Right? Think about it this way: like imagine a little child playing basketball and then Michael Jordan playing basketball They're ontologically the same. They're both human beings. Just Michael Jordan has progressed in his basketball ability more than the little child. That's what they're saying. They're saying that God and man are ontologically the same. They're the same, one's just more glorified than the other. The God of our universe was once a man And the world essentially was created by him having physical relationships with his many female goddess wives. So, and interestingly enough about Mormonism, we all do not share the same, we have the same father, but we don't have the same mother. Because God is polygamous. At his very nature, he is polygamous. We then, all that all these offsprings, these spiritual offsprings, they're not going to go into their the craziness too far, but these spiritual offsprings then get bodies, and that's all of us. We are the spiritual offspring now with a body of these this God who is essentially polygamous. Now, it should be quite obvious that this is completely opposed to a Christian form of monotheism. Here's what the Bible says. Numbers 21, 19 says, God is not a man that he should lie, or a son of man that he should change his mind. The Shema, which is what the Jews recited twice a day, says this. Deuteronomy 6. 4. Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. James 2. 19 states, you believe that God is one. Good for you. Even the demons believe that and shut it. Now I think the ultimate irony here is James is telling us that the demons have better theology than the Mormons. The demons recognize that there is one God, but Mormons say that there are millions of gods. This is could not be more backwards. 1 Corinthians 8. 6 says, Yet for us there is but one God, the Father, for whom all things came, and for whom we exist. And there is but one Lord, Jesus Christ, to whom all things came and through whom we exist. I think the best scripture to engage a Mormon about this idea of monotheism versus polytheism would be Isaiah 43 10. Which states, You are my witnesses, declared the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am he. Now here it is. Before me no God was formed, nor shall there be any after me. It couldn't be better. This is perfect. This scripture not only declares that there is no God before him. Remember the Mormon prophet said That God the Father was begotten, begotten, begotten, and the mind is wearied as you think back to the original begotten? The original Father? Right? Well, the Bible says Elohim God are God How could God say that if in fact he knows he has a father and he knows that person had a father and so forth. Now look what he says. And nor shall there be any after me There is no God coming after there is no God coming before. This completely contradicts Mormon theologies. And of course, the scriptures could be multiplied. Alright, let me stop here and ask if there's any questions? Did you say the reference for the the was it was it Isaiah? Isaiah forty three ten. Isaiah forty three ten. And the wonderful thing about this is we have the internet. So literally you can go and type in monotheist monotheism scriptures and you will find plenty. Right? You can just think of James. But that that scripture is my favorite, Isaiah 43. 10 Any other questions or or comments or concerns as right now? Jessica? that we change the meaning of the earlier centers, then how we bring it up the Yeah, excellent. Um I'm gonna get to that, but I'm gonna give it I'm gonna give you an answer right now, right, on on that. Essentially I think that you we should point to the fact that God is the God of truth And point them to the law of non-contradiction. The fact is, contradictions cannot exist. I cannot be physically in this room talking to you, and not physically in this room talking to you, at the same time and in the same sense. Okay? And so they do not con they they cannot contradict themselves. They cannot be this statement is true and this statement is also true and they both contradict. And as long as we can point out contradictions, we can show that. Also, we're going to get to it. But we're going to look at the test of the prophets And see what the Bible says. Because the Bible addresses this very issue. It anticipates Joseph Smith and every other cult member. And it anticipates people coming later on and saying, you know, I am a prophet. And in fact, everything you've heard before is false, and believe me. And the scripture wonderfully anticipates that and tells us what we should do to them. And it's not pretty. So um we we'll definitely get into that. But I really think we should press them with the law of non-freddiction. And one thing I have found effective with them is saying, okay, you know what, for the sake of argument, I will agree with you on that. And let me tell you, I had a vision when I was 15 years old. And three angels appear to me. And they told me that Joseph Smith Wait, we don't want to do Joseph Smith, but you see what I'm saying? And just give show them how absurd this actually looks to have a future prophet come in and hear a message and then contradict everything they say. And they will they all the same thing happens with with um any any group. They will reject that as an absolute impossibility. They will become you all of a sudden They will reject the idea that a future revelation could contradict all of their revelation. But somehow when it comes to our revelation, that's perfectly acceptable. Right? It's compartmentalizing. So sometimes we just need to show them the absurdity by giving these other examples and you you'll see their faces. This is crazy. And then you say, well that's what you did to me. You just said that was okay So you should be able to at least see a meal. So that that's how I would do it, but I'm going to show you some scriptures, right? We want to use um argumentation and logic and all that, but we want to use scriptures. And the wonderful thing is scripture tells us this will happen and this is how we deal with it Um any any other questions before we press on? We got some other stuff. There there's a use that as an example as a reference back to people talking about gods like smoky gods Talking about small small like geo small geodes, like even even your process uh the outside. I I'm not exactly sure what you reference. I I do know that the the the Bible explicitly uh recognizes the existence of these small g gods and calls them no gods and in fact says that they are worshiping demons. Um and and again I'm not saying that you should necessarily tell them that immediately, but that's we do we do need to recognize this. It's actually and I'm gonna lean off a little bit and I'm gonna come right back. It's kind of amazing that sometimes you know people are are wanting to grant Um you know, like C. S. Lewis saying that if if you worship this false God that somehow God attributes that to himself? Well the Bible explicitly says that they're worshiping demons And it's idolatrous. So there's just no notion that they're somehow just slightly mistaken and they're worshiping God. The Bible is very explicit. This is a false religion. Their gods are no gods. Their gods are demons who are created beings. Right, and I uh I am is um I am that alone. Mark, did you have something? Yeah I I I think there's scripture that says there are there are the Lord's many and there are God That's in Corinthians. Yeah, I I think that's actually the scripture that I I quoted a book. For us there is only one God talking about God the Father. And again, the Bible does not deny the fact that there are false gods. The devil is called a God. The God of this world. Right? But clearly, the devil is created being and not God ontologically. So this is this, you know, we do I'm glad you guys bring this up. We do need to recognize that other beings can be called gods and and even human beings are called gods Okay, but these are not ontologically God. There's only one uncreated being. These people are like God in some aspect, but not don't have the nature of God. But I think same out of the thing about um Jesus and John 1034, has it not been written in your law? I said you are God, so you call them God and the word God came, and scripture cannot be broken. Uh do you say it's him to uh the Father sanctified into the world your blasting because I said I am the son of God. And uh it looks like Jesus Christ back there with Psalm 82, actually didn't you touch on this couple of couple weeks ago? Yeah talking about the image of God and how and how um these these rulers are being described um like God in the sense that they exercise rulership, which God exercises. They have a similarity Certainly that that is a scripture, and they will go to that. And so being able to correlate that with John 10 and showing that this is talking about human beings, and then correlating John 10 that says there to who the scriptures were written In correlating that with Romans, saying that the scriptures were written to the Jews. There's a whole lot of correlation there, but we do need to be able to handle that um and and and go into that if they if they do that. That's a kind of an anticipation. So I'm going to press on and then we're going to ask any other questions and we'll be able to do it. So what's interesting about the Mormons, as I said, one of the characteristics of a cult is that they deny the Trinity. Well, again, not only do Mormons deny the Trinity, but they deny monotheism. Because what is the Trinity? The Trinity is a belief in monotheism. plus the belief and three persons described in the Bible as God. We put that together in mystery. Usually we have to defend this other part that Jesus really is described as God, the Holy Spirit really is described as God. Fortunately for Mormons, we don't even have to do that. Oftentimes we just have to engage them on whether or not the Bible actually teaches monotheism, which really shouldn't be a difficult task because it's quite clear. When it does come up though, when we might have to defend the Trinity, is when they point out, well you believe that the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit are God So then we might need to actually defend the Trinity in that respect, right? Proving to them that we are in fact not polytheistic, like they are. Okay, so we talked about the first way of engaging them, engage them on monotheism. The second way we should engage them is the necessity of sharing the gospel. And personally, I think this should be front-loaded. One of the very first things you should be doing is sharing the gospel with these people. These people need to be saved. James White once said that he was engaging this Mormon missionary And he said after the end of the conversation, the missionary said to him, You know, this is the first time anyone's ever explained to me the difference between what I believe and what you believe about salvation. And James White commented, that's an absolute tragedy. This person, this missionary, probably spent two years going around America speaking to Christians, hearing about how Joseph Smith is a polygamist. He probably even heard about polytheism and so forth, but he never knew the gospel. And we should not allow that. We should not allow any person that we're engaging with not to recognize that the way of salvation that they have is fundamentally different than ours. I actually just had I had the privilege, I think it was Monday, maybe it was Friday, sometime this week in prepar in preparing for this class to engage with a Jehovah's Witness. And I actually started off with explaining to them the difference between my view of the gospel and their view of the gospel. So just because I started with monotheism doesn't mean that I necessarily think that's always the appropriate way to go Certainly, you don't it's not we're not staging, it doesn't have to be done each way, but I really encourage you if you have any time to engage with these people, you should be telling them the difference between your path to salvation and their path to salvation. The difference between your gospel and their gospel. The fact is, there were many people in the Bible, even in the Bible, and in Jesus. Jesus is just the form of Joshua. There's actually other Jesus in the Bible. There's a very, very common name. So, what this means is there were many Jesuses that were put on a cross and shed their blood. So it's not just simply a belief in some guy named Jesus 2,000 years ago who was killed by the Romans. It's a specific Jesus. A Jesus born of Mary. A Jesus who is the Son of God. We need to believe in the right Jesus to be saved. Not just any Jesus. It's not like there's just some special powers in the syllables Jesus or Jesus or whatever. So when we're emphasizing the difference between our way of salvation and their way of salvation, we need to emphasize the difference between being saved by grace plus works. And being saved by grace alone. Again, this should be fortunate because we should all love and treasure the gospel. So you're all already equipped to engage a Mormon or any cult member because you all already know the gospel. Right? You can engage them even at this very moment. Again, we need to stress, we are not saved by baptism. We are not saved because of perseverance. We're not saved because of good works. These are a result of our salvation, not a cause. When I was engaging in Jehovah's Witness, sometimes I don't get it. And I was just simply saying, here, this is salvation And here's grace on this side. And outside of that, once I'm saved and I'm a new creature, the works flow. That's how it is. What you're saying is grace and works are on this side. And when you add all this, it equals salvation. This is different. I had to say it probably three times. She finally said, yeah, that is different. Right? It is different. And we need to communicate that to them. Again, a lot of times you don't need a bunch, a bunch, a bunch of scriptures. Just one often is good enough. My favorite on this is Ephesians 2. 8, because it perfectly balances exactly what we believe. Here's what it says. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. So clearly the scripture says we're saved by grace through faith on this side. Not of works, just in case we missed it. But works is in here. Works flow out of that. That we are now his workmanship. We are these new creations that are prepared for good works. We're not antinomians Right? And we need to be able to engage that. I don't have time, but I will say they almost certainly will get you to James. So be able to understand James. And this is just off the head that James is simply saying that True faith will have works. It will flow out of it. James is not denying that we're saved by grace through faith. So just understand they're probably going to engage you with James and know how to do that. Now hear what the Mormon says This is what they say. This is their scripture, 2 Nephi 25-23. If you don't want what needs this reference, come to me. For we labor diligently to write, to persuade our children, and also our brethren to believe in Christ. And to be reconciled to God, for we know that it is by grace that we are saved. Sounds good. We know that by grace we are saved. After all we can do. Not good. That's utter heresy. Right? Not we are not saved by grace after all that we can do. Now, they might say, well, you misunderstood our scripture. You meant you read it out of context. Well, this is what their Bible dictionary says in the back of their LDS version of the Bible, under the topic of grace. It says, This grace is an enabling power that allows men and women to lay hold of eternal life and exaltation after they have expended their own best efforts. Do not allow them to tell you that they are agreeing with you. They are not agreeing with you. They understand grace as I'll give you this analogy. We understand that we are absolutely bankrupt. We have no cash whatsoever to contribute. God pays it all. And we live in gratitude. And faith in his promises after that fast. They believe you have a few cents, maybe a few dollars. You know, it's a hundred dollars, you have fifteen, and God says, Well that's good enough, I'll pay the rest. But it's not the same. That's the difference between life and death They also say this about grace. Divine grace is needed by every soul in consequence of the fall of Adam, and also because of man's weakness and shortcomings. However, grace cannot suffice without total effort on the part of the recipient. Grace cannot suffice without total effort on the part of the recipient. This is not good news. Because no one ultimately is putting full effort. This is not the same gospel. Let me end with this. Again, this is fundamentally a different gospel Galatians addresses this, Pastor, is preaching on this. This is what it said. Galatians 1:6. I am astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we said before, now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be accursed. This is one of the scriptures, Jessica, that I would point to. And they said, well, you know, well, we have this new revelation that allows me to contradict the Bible. I'd go to this scripture and I'd have them read this. And I'd point out that Paul says, if an angel Does this, let him be accursed. He says, if I Paul do this, he's an apostle of God. Let him be a curse. If you receive a testimony from the Spirit, a lot of the times they'll say, Well, I have res I know Mormonism is true. I have received a testimony from the Spirit. If a spirit tells you this, let it be accursed. It does not matter who is telling you a false gospel according to the Word of God, they are to be accursed. I do not need to drag Joseph Smith, Brigham Young, or any other cult leader into the mud. I can, and I might have to, but I don't need it here. Because the reality is, even if they are the most moral person that ever walked the face of the earth, if they're like an angel, they are accursed if they're preaching a false gospel. They can't do it. They cannot do it. And I will I will end with this end with uh with this point. Again, one of the things that I I like to do because a lot of times there's so much blinders that don't see their own weakness is apply this to Islam, especially about um Mormonism. Mormonism is unbelievably similar to Islam. Strangely enough, we are more similar to Islam because they're at least still monotheistic. But they're unbelievably similar. They believe that the Mormons and the Muslims believe that God showed up to a prophet in the form of an angel. And told them essentially that everything before was wrong, and listen to me. If they don't accept Muhammad's testimony, Right? How should they expect me to accept their testimony? It's the same story all over again. It's the exact same story. So again, showing them and getting them out of their little circle and getting them to think in a different way might be very helpful. But ultimately Successful evangelism is preaching the gospel. It's not them turning, it's preaching the gospel, planting those seeds. We don't know, we have eyes of faith that some of these people will get saved, some people will be changed. It's very unlikely someone who's been indoctrinated for years and years and years, all their families are part of this. They're a missionary, they're out there serving, is going to just weep on your on your ground and get converted to meet any church next week. It's just unlikely. And if you expect that, then you're going to be disappointed. Most likely. We should just faithfully share the gospel, knowing that God's word is not coming back for it. I have some more material. We We may or may not go into it next time. I'm defended if we have enough. But I'm going to stop there. Please engage them with the gospel. Don't let them out of your house without telling them that they have a different gospel. And I think it's also helpful to engage in what monotheism, because their Jesus is not our Jesus. We do not worship the spirit brother of Satan. Not to get into that, but that's what they believe. That's not what we believe. We worship the creator of the universe, Jesus Christ. Dear Heavenly Father God, I thank you for your word. I thank you that um we don't have to be afraid of of uh a false religion of cults or anyone else, God. That we know that he who is in us is greater than he who is in the world. God, I ask that you would help us not to be afraid of cult members, but to recognize that they are prepared and that we would be prepared, being able to defend the truth that we have in us. God, I ask that you would strengthen us and that we would faithfully preach your word, believing and trusting. That it is your word and your word alone that has the power to change the rebel heart, even the cult number. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.