All right, if you can open up your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12. And we'll pick up in verse 14. Hebrews 12, beginning in verse 14. Pursue peace. with all people, and holiness without which no one will see the Lord, looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God Lest any root of bitterness springing up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance. though he sought it diligently with tears. So last time I gave you a homework assignment, I don't really expect that you did it, but maybe for some of you who did, I'll give you a sticker for bonus. And I asked you to look into this case of Esau crying, trying to do something, finding no place for repentance, though he thought it though he sought it with tears. The book of Hebrews is an often ignored epistle. Precisely because of passages like this. We're gonna I'll remind you when we get there, but it's these kind of passages. We see it in Hebrews chapter 6, we see it in Hebrews chapter 10. And then we see it here, these warnings of apostasy that are absolutely terrifying. People don't know what to do with them. And so you know what we do with it? We ignore it. And we don't want to think about it. But we're not going to do that. We're going to preach the full counsel of God. So before we jump into what this incident with Esau is and what it means for us, And what God is trying to say to us, let's reorientate ourselves quickly with the context. If you scan back up, this is Hebrews chapter twelve is right after the hall of faith, and it gives all these examples of these men and women of God who have lived. lives pleasing to the Lord by faith. And then we finally get from all of these human examples that are good but not perfect to the principial example of Jesus Christ. And we're told to cast our vision upon him and in light of that We are to lay aside every weight that so easily clings upon us. Jesus is the model of faith, and we gain strength from gazing upon him Right? As we see him, we are transformed from one state of glory to the other. And so he's our model of faith and he's the source of our faith. He will bring our faith from beginning to end, from start to finish. You see Arthur and finisher of our faith. After that, he reminds us of the instruction that we see in Proverbs chapter 3, where God addresses us as sons. And he says, which son is not disciplined? If you're a son, a legitimate son who has a father who loves him, he will discipline him. And not out of divine hatred or fatherly hatred, but rather fatherly love. And so as we're dealing with discipline in our lives, though it's painful at the moment, according to verse 11, it produces the peaceful fruit of righteousness for those who have been trained by it. So that's the setup. And so basically, in light of this, in light of the example of Jesus, in light of the fact that our trials and tribulations are God's heavenly love, heavenly discipline for our good, purpose for our ultimate holiness. This is where we should be motivated to strengthen the weak knees, to lift up the hands that hang down, and make straight paths for our feet. Right? Stop feeling sorry for yourself. Stop saying I'm just, whoa is me, but get moving. Get moving with strength and with vigor, with excitement, with love and with zeal. Do you realize that, Christian? That God doesn't just want you to live the Christian life and just drag yourself along like a sloth. Oh, I have to follow Jesus. Oh, I have to do the Lord's Day. Oh, I have to sing these songs. Oh, I have to give 5%, 2%, 3%, 10%. No. God's given us everything. He wants us to be zealous and say, here is my money, here is my time, here is my hands, here is my talent, here is my ability. God, I will be zealous for you. You redeem me to be zealous. Strengthen the weak knees and pick up the hands that hang down. Okay, now verse 14. We are to pursue, in light of this great gospel, how should we then live? We are to pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. We talked about a little bit. We'll scan by this fast. We got to the peace part. We didn't get to the holiness part, but quickly on the peace part. So we're called to live lives of peace. Now I want to draw your attention to something. It says that we are to pursue peace. It does not say that we are to achieve peace. This is kind of like one of my favorite documents, that we're to pursue happiness, but not necessarily get it. We're to pursue these things. We're to seek these things. We're to pursue peace with Christians and non-Christians. We're to pursue peace with those who are easy to get along with and those who are difficult to get along with. And this is why Jesus tells us, blessed are the peacemakers, for they will be called the sons of God. We are to pursue peace. But pursuing peace doesn't mean we'll always be able to achieve it, because like I like to say, it takes two to tango. Just because you asked the girl out doesn't mean she's going to say yes, right? Sometimes she says no, sometimes she says yes. Well, just because you pursue peace doesn't mean you're always going to be achieving it, because the other person has to be willing to reconcile with you You can pursue these things, but if the other person just keeps stiff-arming you and refuses to forgive you, that's all you can do. And that's exactly what Romans 12. 18 tells us. It says, if it is possible As much as it depends on you, live peaceably with all men. As long as you you should have the heart of reconciliation. So often we're so focused on what other people are doing and what other people are thinking and their failings and their faults that we ignore the one person that we have control over, which is Us. Does that make sense? That we're to be people who are being willing to be reconciled. We're the people who are going to do as much as it depends on you to live peaceably with all men. And often what this looks like is going to God and asking God to heal your bitter heart. Say, God, I don't truthfully want to be at peace. I'm angry. I'm hurt, and I'm upset. But Lord, you told me to pursue all peace. So step one, I'm coming to you. Heal this broken heart. Forgive us of our trespasses as we forgive our trespasses. or those who have trespassed against us. For those of you who listen to the memorial, which we prayed about this, the memorial of Charlie Kirk. One of the most remarkable things that happened is that Erica Kirk forgave the man who killed her husband, Charlie Kirk. And what was really kind of amazing is what scripture did she quote to kind of build herself up to that moment where she says, I forgive them? Well she quoted a couple. She quoted what Jesus did on the cross as they stone as they excuse me, they stoned Stephen as they crucified him Forgive them for they know not what they do, but it was also alluded to the Lord's Prayer, forgive us of our trespasses as we forgive those who trespass against us So part of the way that we pursue peace and live peacefully with all men is to be willing to forgive other people. And to recognize it's not an option. You don't get to say, Well, I'm too hurt to do that, or they don't deserve that. You don't deserve God to give you peace. It's not about the other person deserving it. It's about the command of God that just as you have been forgiven, you are to forgive others Those who have hurt you deeply and those who have hurt you shallowly. It does not matter. We are to pursue peace with those who have sinned against us or even those who we feel hurt in. damaged by. Okay, I can talk more about that, but we've got to move on. So we're to pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Now this is where uh It gets challenging for people. A lot of times, people will they see this verse and it causes them some difficulty. They don't really like what it's saying, and so they will look for other explanations of what this text means. What am I saying here? What I'm saying is the way that this text usually hits people causes some ruffled feathers. And if you look at the commentators, you'll see that people will seek a different interpretation than I would say is the plain meaning of the text. So for example A lot of people will say when it says holiness here, it's talking about positional holiness or positional sanctification, i. e. justification. So it's saying pursue to be justified, otherwise you'll never be saved. That's possible, but I don't think that's what the text is saying. Another interpretation, which actually John MacArthur, I was surprised by this, but John MacArthur, who I love, He said that holiness here means sanctification, pursue sanctification, pursue being a holy person, without which no one will see the Lord in you. Right? So you have to be sanctified, you have to be holy for anyone to ever see the Lord in your behavior. But I don't think that is correct either. I think rather The text is saying what I think most of you thought the text was saying at first, blush, which was namely, be holy, live a sanctified, holy life. Otherwise, you will never see the Lord. Talking about most likely the beatific vision. Some think this refers to the rapture when Christ comes. I don't think so. It's probably talking about the beatific vision. Pursue holiness for without which no one will see the Lord. Let me just say a few things, a few interpretive keys here. For me, we should take the plain meaning of the text unless there's overriding reasons not to Axiomatically it can be said, if the plain meaning makes good sense, seek no other sense lest you come up with nonsense. If you've been a Christian long enough, if you study the Bible long enough, here's what you'll find. Every verse can be reinterpreted. Every verse can be made to say something that it doesn't say. If you don't like a verse, you can hire people that usually have MDVs and PhDs. to undo the text and make it say exactly the opposite of what you thought it says. Seriously, every verse could be done that way. And truthfully, we're all guilty of that at some times. And we don't even realize it. One of the ways that we can resist doing this, so we can stand under the text instead of above the text, instead of correcting the text, but letting the text correct us, is to stick very closely to the plain meaning of the text. unless there's very good reason not to do it. Just giving you a hermeneutical principle. And one of the very good reasons not to potentially take the plain meaning of the text is if it contradicts what the rest of the Bible says. Does that make sense? So if you take a plain text and it contradicts what the rest of the Bible says, you have probably misunderstood it. So there is a time not to take the plain text, but I would argue that's about the only time that we should do that. Now, in this text Is there a good reason not to take the plain meaning of this text? Is there any problems? Does this contradict the rest of the Bible to think that this passage says, seek holiness, pursue holiness, for without which no one will see the Lord? I would say the answer is no. There is no problem. Now, can it be understood in a certain way that would cause a problem? Yes. It can. People have tried to take this passage and make it teach that we are saved by works, which is completely False, heretical, and anti-gospel, no truth at all. We'll say by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. Amen? But there's nothing about this verse that contradicts this. In fact, there's nothing in the Bible that contradicts the reality that without holiness nobody will see the Lord. This is just a pithy way of saying what the Bible says in so many other words elsewhere. In other words, if you have a problem with this passage and what it says here, you have a problem with a lot of the Bible. So let's do a quick survey of what I'm talking about. Galatians chapter 6. I love this verse so much because This verse hits really home for me. I'll explain in a second. But Galatians chapter 6, verse 7. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked. For whatever a man sows, that he will also reap. For the one who sows to his flesh will reap from the flesh corruption. But he who sows to the spirit will of the spirit reap everlasting life. It could not be more clear, right? Do not be deceived. Don't be tricked. Don't be fooled. Don't let people try to cheapen grace and distort grace and change it into licentiousness so that you walked away saying that I can reap corruption. I can reap to the flesh, and I won't reap corruption, but rather I'll reap eternal life. No. If you it says right here, if you sow to the flesh, you will reap corruption, but he who sows to the spirit will reap everlasting life Could not be clear. And the reason I love this passage so much is it starts off with do not be deceived. And so many are deceived by this. They distort the gospel and think the gospel teaches that you can live however you want, and no matter what, it doesn't matter. But it's telling you, don't be deceived, beloved. That is not true. And then it adds this, and this is why it's one of my favorite passages. It says, God will not be mocked. To distort God's grace and corrupt it to make it a license for sin, and to think that you can live like the devil and not inherit what the devil will receive would be to mock God. You're not smarter than God. You will not humiliate him. You will not trick him. It will not happen. And the reason this passage hits home to me so much is because this was basically my plan. Now I didn't believe that I could just profess to be a Christian and be saved anyways, but I did believe I could live however I want, I could reap, I could sow to the flesh, and eventually just repent at the very end and reap everlasting life. God will not be mocked. God will not be played with. God is not to be trifled with. Another passage, Romans chapter 2. But we know the judgment of God is according to truth against those who practice such things. And do you think this, O man, you who judge those practicing such things and doing the same that you will escape the judgment of God? And he's talking to Jews here, but really you can apply this to Christians as well. There is somebody out here that recognizes God's law and they judge those who are breaking God's law, but they themselves are doing it. And he's saying, do you think that You're going to escape the judgment of God because you agree that such things are evil, but you yourselves do them? No. Or do you despise the riches of his goodness? and forbearance and long suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. But in accordance with your hardness and your impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourselves wrath on the day Wrath on the day of judgment. God who will render each one according to his deeds eternal life to those who by patient continuance in doing good seek glory, honor, and immortality But those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath, tribulation and anguish for every soul who does evil. For there is no partiality with God. Do you see the point? God at the end of the day is going to render judgment according to our deeds. That's what the Bible says. Those who practice evil will receive hell. Those who practice righteousness will receive heaven. That's what the Bible teaches. Now, we understand the reason why, though, right? Why is that true? Again, is it because God saves us based on our works? No, it isn't. It's because God, when he saves you and he regenerates you, and he makes you a new creation in Christ, you will be changed. Your life will never be the same. You can't say I have God as my Father and the Holy Spirit dwells within me and yet your heart is as hard as a rock And you do not serve him, you do not love him, you do not obey his commandments. Matthew chapter 3, Pastor Neil just preached this. The axe is laid where? At the root of the tree. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. And I could go on and on. And sometimes pastors say that and they ran out of verses. I have not run out of verses. I just want to move on so we can talk about Esau. The reality is the Bible teaches this from cover to cover that if you are a fruitless tree that professes Jesus Christ, you are rotten. If you are a claiming to be a sheep, but you have these big teeth and you eat meat, you are a wolf hiding out in sheep's clothing. You will know them by their fruit. So what we have here is just telling us what we see in a very tiffy way, what we're taught everywhere else in the Bible, namely the children of God will display themselves by their behavior. We are to pursue holiness. And it's not an option. It's not a bonus. It's not saying I sometimes joke and say This is somewhat of a joke, but not really, that I'm working for my Pegasus. I'm working for my mansion. I'm working for my rewards in heaven. And by the way, the Bible, the reason I say that is because the Bible tells us to do those things. We are to work. for these rewards in heaven. But I never say I'm working for my salvation. You see that? Because I'm not. It's a free gift of God. But the point being is That we are to live holy lives and it is not an option. And if you think it's an option, I just want this verse to ring into your head Why am I living such a holy life? Why am I forsaking all of this filth and yuckiness? Partially because it's filth and yuckiness. That should be one that should be good enough. But if you need another motivation to Stir you along, hopefully it will be because you know what this Bible verse says. Without holiness no one will see the Lord. Does that make sense? Everybody tracking this? This is a beautiful way to summarize all of those many scriptures, just like the passage that Those who endure the end will be saved. Such a pithy way of saying so much. Okay. Now in the few minutes we have left, we're going to enter into my homework assignment that I gave you What is going on with this Ethel person? This is, to me, probably one of the most challenging texts in the entire Bible. I think it's probably the most challenging text in the book of Hebrews. A lot of people think Hebrews 6 is the more challenging version, Hebrews 10. Again, I'm referencing those. We'll read them in a second if you don't know them by heart. But I think that this is probably the most challenging verse of them all, precisely because it comes after those verses. Those verses are kind of the theology and Esau is the picture. Does that make sense? You can kind of again you'll see that people will reinterpret Hebrews 6 and Hebrews 10 and all these weird ways. And all these ways to undo them. But then you get to this verse and it feels like, yeah, I shouldn't have done that. Because it says what it says, and everything I thought those verses were saying is now illustrated with this man before my eyes. And it is truly terrifying. So, why is this passage so terrifying? Well, I think here's why. Before I go into all the interpretations, let's give the 30,000 view of this scripture, just glazing over it and see what it's basically saying at the nutshell before we dig into the more controversial parts. Here's what it's saying. Some things in life cannot be reversed. Even when you're still alive. Do you know that, Christian? Some things you just can't undo. Praise be the Lord, that many things you can undo, right? You can be a scoundrel who's a cancer to society, and then you can change and become a positive member of your community. You can be someone that causes the past a great headache and pain. And if you wonder, come talk to me, I'll let you know. But you could be someone who causes the pastor quite a lot of pain, and then you could be someone who helps the pastor. There's a lot of things in life that we can reverse, but unfortunately Some things in life simply cannot be undone. I'll give you an example of that. Imagine that you're on top of a skyscraper, on top of a building, and you have the bright idea to grab a rock and toss it off the building. People have done that. And as a result of that, people have actually killed people because that rock has to come down. Right So just imagine on that building and you grab a rock and you say, ha ha, and you toss. And immediately as you toss, you have this nagging sense of regret and think, oh no, maybe that wasn't such a good idea. Do you have the ability at that point to stop the rock? There's nothing. All you can do is pray that nobody gets hit Right? That's how life sometimes is. Is that once you set in motion certain things, there is no undoing those things. Praise be the Lord that many things aren't like that. But many things aren't like that. I'll give you another biblical example. Do you remember Judas? What did he do on the night that our Lord was betrayed? Jesus told him, go do what you're going to do. And he snuck out like a snake and slithered away and got his money and got his cash and sold the Messiah, eventually kissing him and portraying the Lord with a kiss. And that's where we usually forget the story, right? That's where it ends. And then somewhere in the book of Acts, he ends up dead. Right? Isn't that how we usually remember the story? He sells the Lord and then some point he dies. But we missed the very important scene there. Does anybody remember? What happens in between him betraying the Lord and him dying? Why don't you turn there? Matthew chapter 7. Matthew chapter 27. The part that we always forget, because we don't like to remember this part. Matthew 27, verse 3. Yeah, I hope I'm not stealing your thunder. You'll be back here. I'm sure. Matthew 27, verse 3. Then Judas, his betrayer, seeing that Jesus had been condemned, was what? Anybody see that? was remorseful and brought back the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and the elders, saying, I have sinned by betraying innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? You see to it. Then he threw down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged himself How horrible. This is the part that we always forget. He's just terrifying. He portrays Jesus. He realizes what he's done. It says right there, right? Your Bible says that too, right? It says he was remorseful. It said that he felt bad about it. Anybody have the KJV? Nobody has the KJV here? That's fine. Here's what the KJV says. He says he repented himself. He changed his mind. Clearly he changed his mind. He tried to give the money back. Right? That's what the word repent means. It means to change your mind. And if you truly change your mind, you'll change your behavior. What more change of behavior could you possibly have than someone who took the money and then tried to give it back? They said, we won't take it back. And they say he just tosses it and runs off. That's what it says here. But guess what? It was too late, wasn't it? He could not undo what he did. And he died as a sinner. In the book of Acts, it says that he went to his place. Look at the commentaries. Almost everyone agrees. We're not going to be seeing Judas in heaven. He went to his place, the place of the wicked, the place of the vile, the place of the lost. Judas is the picture of an apostate. He can't undo what he did. We don't like thinking about this because it's terrifying, but that is what we see here. So going to our text. Again, we'll dive into the complexities and the challenges, but here's the very plain meaning of the text Don't be like Esau. I can't resist. I have to stop here. Don't be like Esau is actually the plain meaning of this text, isn't it? That's why he's brought up. Don't be like Esau. And the reason I have to stop here is some of you have been taught never to actually teach the Bible or preach the Bible or believe the text is saying don't be like Esau Don't be like Potiphar's wife. Don't be like Nebuchadnezzar. But that's exactly what the text is saying. Don't be like this. And that's not moralism. That's the Bible teaching you morals from other people's failings. And just like this is don't be like Esau, we saw in chapter 11, there was text after text after text after text that said, be like Moses, be like Enoch, be like, right? It's not moralism. Moralism is saying that that's it. Be like this, don't be like this. That would be moralism. But we are to get our moral instructions from the Bible So don't be that person who hates sermons who simply say, don't be like this. Okay? That's perfectly biblical. Now if that's all they ever leave you with is don't be like this, then hate on those sermons. Because that will be imbalanced. And that's not what the Bible does. But it does sometimes do this. Okay, here's the point. Don't be like Esau who sold his birthright and couldn't get it back. Isn't that the plain meaning of the text? Don't be like this. If you look at all the commentaries, that's not the debate. The debate's over this, him seeking it with Keir's part. What does that mean? That's where all the debate and all the spicy stuff happens But nobody disagrees that the plain meaning of the text is, don't be like Esau, because he did something that could never be reversed. He gave his birthright, and even though he wanted to undo, he couldn't do it. He couldn't restore himself. Now, who does Esau represent? Esau was a member of the visible people of God, wasn't he? He had the mark of circumcision, which corresponds with our mark. So this was a visible person in the people of God, and he sold his birthright. He sold his inheritance. What is your inheritance? What is your birthright? It's salvation. You see that? You see the connection? Don't be like him, a visible member of the people of God, who sells his birthright. You selling your birthright would be salvation. And what does he sell it for? Anybody remember? What does he sell it for? To satisfy his carnal desire. He's saying don't be like that Don't sell your birthright to go run off with the mistress, to go get drunk at the bar every night or by yourself. Or to go do drugs, or to go watch pornography, or whatever you do. I know someone who actually, I believe, sold their birthright so they could watch essentially Horrible shows on HBO. They sold it for that. Don't do that. Don't sell it. Pursue holiness. Apart from holiness, no one will see the Lord. And if it wasn't that bad, it gets worse because eventually Esau decided that it was a bad deal. Because it was a bad deal, right? To sell your birthright for some stew? To sell your birthright for some pornography? To watch weird shows on HBO? Really? Game of Thrones is that important to you? Why would you do that? Don't do it. And eventually you might come to your senses and say, I what am I doing? Why have I abandoned the Lord so that I could watch football or hang out and sleep in? On Sunday. I have sold it for nothing. But unfortunately, in the case of Esau, and sometimes in the case of others, you can't undo it. That's what our text is saying. You can't undo it. I'm quickly running out of time. I'll just tell you this. The closest passage to this is Hebrews chapter 6. Let me quickly just tell you the various interpretations of what it means that he sought it diligently with tears, because that's all the controversy and I don't want to come back here. Some people think the thing that he sought, the repentance, that he found no place for repentance, where he sought it with tears, the repentance here was Isaac. He sought he found no place for Isaac's repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears. The problem with that is the text doesn't say Isaac's repentance, and no one would ever think that. Right. It just doesn't say that. Now maybe you think that and that's fine. I don't think that. Because it simply doesn't seem like it's saying that in the text. It seems like that's an explanation. Others would say, okay, no, Isaac's not here. Clearly this is Esau, and Esau is seeking repentance and all these other things. But they would say, well, if you go back into the text, In Genesis, though, we have no indication that Esau is seeking repentance, but we do have indication that Esau is seeking the blessing. So they'll say that this text is not saying that Esau found no place for repentance and he was seeking repentance But rather that Esau was seeking the blessing. It was the blessing that he sought diligently with tears, not the repentance. Problem solved. That might be right, by the way. That interpretation, very well, might be right. And the closest thing it has to it is it solves the problem, number one. And number two, because if you do go back in Genesis, you do actually see Esau seeming to cry over the blessing and not his own repentance. The reason I personally cannot take that interpretation is because that's not the plain meaning of the text. It simply isn't. The other problem is it says here in our very text that Esau was a profane and sexually immoral person. Where in the book of Genesis does it say that? It doesn't. And if you study the book of Hebrews, you'll see that the author of Hebrews constantly does this. He constantly pulls from extra-biblical sources. to explain things that happened in the Old Testament. So simply appealing to the Old Testament to say he must have meant that, because this is what the Old Testament says or doesn't say, doesn't actually work in the book of Hebrews. Everybody see what I'm saying? You can't do that consistently in the book of Hebrews because Hebrews is constantly pulling out extra biblical sources to explain things that happen in the biblical text. And here to me is the absolute clincher. Quickly, running out of time. Go to Hebrews chapter 6. Hebrews chapter 6, verse 4. And so you turn there or just read it. This passage just sounds way too familiar to what he said already in Hebrews chapter 6. Hebrews 6 verse 24 says, It is impossible for those who were once enlightened and have tasted the heavenly gift. and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, if they fall away, to renew them again to repentance. This sounds way too familiar. This right here tells us apostates can never be restored to repentance. Then we get the illustration, the prototypical apostate Esau seeking repentance but can't find it. It's extremely difficult in my mind to think that these two texts are not connected. Same author, same point, same terrifying message. Here's what I think to put this all together and here's what I don't want to do. I don't want anyone to say, I think he's talking about me, even though I have repented and I have sought the Lord, but maybe the Lord has never forgiven me. That's what everyone's trying to avoid because that is unbiblical and untrue. If you come to the Lord and truly seek him, you will find him and you will be forgiven. If you have repented of your sins, God will restore you. And so nothing in these texts should cause anyone who has repented to say, maybe God still hasn't forgiven me. But here's the very terrifying reality. It's this. You cannot always come to the Lord. You cannot always repent. Even if you want to. I don't have time to prove that, but it's absolutely true that apart from the drawing ministry, the enabling ministry of the Spirit, you can want to all you want, but you can't do it. And I think that's what's going on here. That he wanted to repent, but guess what? He looked in his heart and he found no strength. He wanted to do these things. And I can tell you this, I have seen people like this. People who have come to me, who have apostasized and said, I want to get right with the Lord. I want to become a Christian again. And I said, well, why don't you pray? And they could not do it. They could not repent. They wanted to, but they could not. Because the reality is outside of the enabling and drawing ministry of the Holy Spirit, you cannot come. You can't. You can intellectually desire, but you'll be lost in your sins. So what's what's the takeaway of all this? Remember Esau. Don't sell your birthright. Don't give it up. Hold on to Christ as he holds on to you. Because if you don't, the consequences can be absolutely dire. You can't just apostasize and come back and apostasize and come back and apostasize and come back. It doesn't work that way You have to hold on to Him. You have to pursue holiness apart from which no one will see the Lord. Remember the things that you've seen here. Remember the man in the cage and John Bunyan's great work. And see these things and do not forget. And warn those, warn yourself, and warn those who are jumping off the precipice. That kid with the rock who's about to toss it off the building, grab him and stop him and plead with him. Don't do it. Because once you set this in motion, you may not be able to undo it. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we are absolutely terrified by the things that we see here. We don't even want to see them. We don't even want to believe them. but they are here and we must receive them. Lord, we ask that we would never be an Esau. We would never sell our birthright for Trash for things of no value. Lord, help us to value what you value. Protect us, Lord. Use your word to fear us, to bring fear in our eyes, so that we never depart from you. Keep us afraid. Keep us in love with you. Keep us walking in your ways. Be the author and the finisher of our faith. Preserve us to the end, Lord. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.