Okay. So as we begin, let us recall that as I've argued throughout this class, ninety percent of evangelism It's just showing up and paying attention. So let's keep that in the foresight of our mind as we start to dive into methodology. The most important aspect of evangelism is simply to just do it. The power is always in the message and never in the method. God has made us fishers and hunters of men And as these fishers and hunters of men, we have these two great instruments, one being preaching the gospel, and the second being praying to the Lord of the harvest to bring in the harvest. And through these two means, God is using us as his means of the global restoration of the nations. That's the big picture here. So as we go out there and seek to catch men, we need to reassure ourselves consistently and constantly, preaching to ourselves, that we are spreading good news. and not bad news. That we are out there when we preach the gospel, we're spreading healing and not some kind of disease One person once described evangelism this way. He said evangelism is one beggar telling another beggar where to find bread. And that's a very healthy perspective. Right? We're not when we evangelize, we shouldn't be doing some doing so with a haughty perspective. Okay? We're just a beggar who's received bread. And now we've received this bread and we've been nourished by this bread, and it's just such wonderful news that we want to go and tell other people. That's what evangelism is So what are the big three obstacles to keep us from evangelism? I think we all know, hopefully after this class, we all have a fire in our bones to evangelize. We all want to do it But there are still some obstacles that get in our way to evangelism. So what are those obstacles? Well, one obstacle, as my teacher once said, we've lost our sensitivity to fire and smoke. Another obstacle is we feel inadequate. And the last obstacle is simply we are afraid. So the three obstacles is we've lost our sensitivity to fire and smoke. We feel inadequate and we are afraid. So, what do I mean by we've lost our sensitivity of fire and smoke? Where we need to constantly remind ourselves that people are truly going to hell. Our mission is of great importance. One man once said, I preach as a dying man to dying men. And that's our perspective. Hebrews 9. 27 says, It is appointed onto man once to die, and after this the judgment. There is no second chances, right? Once we die, that's it. The judgment of God. There is no more mercy. There is no more opportunity Mark 8, 36 says, What does it profit a man to gain the whole world and yet lose his own soul? For what can he give in exchange for his own soul? We also see this perspective of the grand significance of human beings in Romans 9:1 through 3. Here's what that passage says. I speak the truth in Christ. I am not lying. My conscience confirms it through the Holy Spirit. I have great sorrow and unceasing anguish in my heart, for I could wish that I myself were cur were accursed. And cut off from Christ for the sake of my people. Now I'll be honest with you, this text really it cuts me at the heart, and in some sense it really bothers me. And the reason it bothers me Is because I can barely understand it. In this passage, Paul says that he could wish himself accursed, cut off from Christ for other people. That if he if he could do this and it would result in the salvation of other people, he would do that. The reason this text bothers me is because honestly, I it's very difficult for me to say that I know what Paul is experiencing here. It's very difficult for me to say that I've ever actually felt this way And I think the reason that I haven't felt this way, and if you're in the same boat as me, I think the reason that we don't feel this way is because we've lost our sensitivity to fire and smoke. And to regain this, we need to get on our knees and ask God to help us to love his people. Because it's tempting to think that Paul's just some wild-eyed fanatic here, but he's not. This is the Holy Spirit. Talking through Paul. Paul is expressing how we should all feel. This is the way that we should feel for people. This is our love for people. The two greatest commandments are this you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. And a second is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Just as we don't want to result in, we don't want to go to hell, we should desperately not want other people to go to hell either. So I think what we need to do is we need to confess to God that truthfully we cannot fulfill the first great commandment to love God or the second great commandment to love our neighbors as ourselves without God helping us. We need to ask for God to help us to love people so much that we have a burden like Paul that we could wish ourselves a curse for those people. We need to also ask God for His help so that we cannot love the approval of men rather than the approval of God. And that's in John 12, verse 43. Paul said in Acts 20, verse 26, this is what he says. Therefore I testify to you this day that I am innocent of the blood of all men. For I did not shrink from declaring the whole counsel of God. Okay? So Paul's saying that he is innocent of the blood of all men. Why? Because I did not shrink from declaring the counsel of the whole God. We think of this text usually as a text about expository preaching, and it certainly can be, right? But it's also a text about our responsibility for other human beings to preach them the Word of God And the whole council of God, the gospel. Paul says a similar thing in Acts 18, verse 6. Here's what he says. Paul was occupied with the word, testifying to the Jews that Christ was Jesus. And when they opposed and reviled him, he shook off his garments and said to them, Your blood be on your own heads. I am innocent. From now on, I will go to the Gentiles. Again, this idea that we are somehow, before we preach the gospel to people, we are not innocent of their blood. The blood is on our head. But then when we do preach the gospel to them, whether they accept or reject, then we become innocent. What this reminds me of is back in Genesis when uh Cain killed his brother, and God was questioning about his brother. His brother Cain said, Am I my brother's keeper? Interesting enough that the Bible is silent on that, but I think as we look at the whole orb of the whole scriptures, we realize we are our brother's keeper. Okay? We are to love our brother and we are to see that their blood is on our head until we evangelize them and share them. We want to be innocent. What Paul is alluding to, of course, about this idea of being innocent of people 's blood on our head and us being innocent, or guilty of that blood, is actually back in Ezekiel 3, verse 17. Through nineteen. Here's what that passage says. Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Whenever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me If I say to the wicked, you shall surely die, and you give them no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life, that wicked person shall die for his iniquity. But his blood I will acquire at your hand. But if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity. But you have delivered your soul So again this passage, if we were if there's any question of whether God views us this way, Paul clears that up. Because clearly Paul is alluding to this passage as talking about we are guilty of people's blood if we don't warn them. God has given us a message. God has given us a warning. Right? John 3. 16. We know the warning that people will perish in their sins if they don't trust in Jesus. And the fact of the matter is that You connect these two passages, it seems to be suggesting that people's blood really is on our head, okay, if we don't warn them for the gospel. Here's what I don't want for myself or anyone else when we stand at the final day and the final judgment for anyone to be able to accuse us and say, you never warned me. That's just something I I I do not want to I don't want on my own conscience and I don't want on your conscience. I want people to be able to say, you know, you did warn me, but I did not listen But hopefully, more so, I'll see people in heaven saying, thank God that you did warn me. Because of that, I believed. If we understand this perspective, other passages of the Bible start to become illuminating and start to make more sense. For example, 1 Corinthians 9:16 says, For if I preach the gospel that gives me no ground for boasting For necessity is laid upon me. Woe to me if I do not preach the gospel. Why is he saying this? Because again he sees that other people's blood is on him. That he's not going to be innocent of their blood unless he preaches the gospel. It's a necessity. He must preach the gospel. The love of God compels him, and the love of neighbor compels him. The fact of the matter is, there are people hurting out there. One great man said, you don't have to die to go to hell. Many of you are already there. People are hurting and we have the solution to their problems now, largely, because most of their problems are because of their separation from God and their separation from neighbor and their separation even from their own ego because of sin. So we have the solution to their biggest problem, their biggest felt need, even if they don't recognize it. One man once said it's the ultimate act of selfishness to value someone else's eternal joy, beginning in this life and continuing on for all of eternity, as less important Than the possibility that they'll think less of us for sharing. And to me, that that really cuts me deep in the heart to think that. I value this person's eternal joy Beginning in this life and going on for all of eternity as less valuable than the possibility that they'll think of me less because I shared. We need to share Matthew 10, 28 says, Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body in hell. So evangelism is definitely serious business. What is evangelism? It's us raiding hell, grabbing people, snatching out of the fire, and bringing them into paradise. True joy, Jesus Christ. And we get this perspective even from Matthew 16, verse 17. Here's what that passage says. I will build my church, that's Jesus saying, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And as Stan brought out one time when we brought this passage up, that this is not just a defensive passage saying that the church will be able to stand the gates of hell. Gates don't attack people. Gates guard people. So the idea that Christ is building his church, how's he building his church? By snatching people out of the fire. Okay? You put these two things together He's telling us that we will be a raiding force as a church going through the gates of hell, grabbing people out of the fire, snatching them, and coming and taking them back out. It's a military metaphor. We also see this idea of raiding hell and snatching people out of the fire from places like Jude 122 and 23. Here's what that passage says. And have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, hating even the garments stained by the flesh. So according to this passage, evangelism is snatching people out of the fire. But this is definitely dangerous business. That's why it says we need to do so with fear. With fear. Well, what are we to be afraid of? Well, we continue with that passage. It says, and even hating the garment stained by the flesh. What we need to be afraid of is not man. What we need to be afraid of is being contaminated as we go into the pit of hell. That's what it is. That's the reality. As we go into the pit of hell, we need to not do so in a trite and cavalier manner. Here's what first Peter five eight says Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. As you go into the lion's den of Satan's playground. We need to go so with fear and trembling, recognizing that this is in fact dangerous matter. And we need to hate the garments stained by the flesh I think of it like this. If you were actually to go into a fire, you wouldn't just go in with regular clothes, you would prepare beforehand. Right? You'd put on your firemen equipment and and stay away from the flames and look for people. Okay? That's what we need to do as we're going in there I think of another passage that has the same idea, which is Luke 22, verse 31 and verse 32. Here's what that passage says. Simon, Simon, behold, Satan demanded to have you, that he might sift you like wheat. But I have prayed for you, that your faith may not fail. And when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. So Satan is no joke. Right? He's not a joke. He's a roaring lion. We need to be preyed up and go in there with fear, hating even the garments stained by the flesh. We are no match for Satan. Satan has demanded to sift you like wheat, but I prayed for you. The only reason that Paul was not sifted like we, and that Paul came back and was able to restore his brother is because of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the power of God. Jesus Christ is the one who can laugh at Satan, not us. We need to take him very seriously. And I learned this lesson the hard way in my own life. When I first get saved , Right? I was amazed at how much God was purging off some of the the dross in my life. Okay? And I and I was I was very happy about that. And even at some point boastful and proud about that And that's why I remember one day reflecting about where God had uh found me and then where God had took me, okay, and was able to purge off some of the extremely gross sins that were apparent. And I was proud, and I remember having a conversation essentially with the devil, boasting against him and telling him that he could do nothing to take me from my Lord. That I had defeated him and that he could do nothing. Well, I can tell you that that was the beginning of the end for me. I honestly believe that I lost the battle at that very moment. And it is interesting that after that moment my life Almost immediately started backsliding and I fell into very bad sin. It was a very dark time in my spiritual life. Satan is no joke. We are no match for Satan Jesus Christ is the one who can defeat him. Do not become boastful. And I can almost hear this message from the heavens. Jamie, Jamie, behold, Satan demanded to have you that he might sit to you like wheat. But I prayed for you that your faith may not fail, and when you have turned again, strengthen your brothers. Okay. And so that is what God did. When I did fall, the only reason I did not shipwreck my faith was because Christ had prayed for me. And that he did find me again as a mud kid and pick me back up And restored me. But do not think of Satan as a joke. He is no joke. This is why James 4. 6 said, God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil and he will flee from you. We often only remember that last part, right? Resist the devil and he will flee from you. But we need to take it all Okay? We need to recognize that God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So let us be humble. How should we be humble according to this passage? Well, by submitting to God first As we then submit to God, He will send the word to help us to resist the devil. And then the devil will flee. That's the way this works. So as we seek to plunder hell, we need to do so with fear, praying that the Lord would keep us all the while as we go in there. Evangelism is risky business. We are interacting with unbelievers, which the Bible describes as not neutral, but in fact children of Satan. 1 Corinthians 15, 33 needs to be taken seriously. This is what this passage says. Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. And whenever you see the Bible say, do not be deceived, you can know that some people are deceived by this very thing. Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. So what am I saying? I'm saying that when we go and seek to plunder hell, we need to do so with sobriety, with fear, and under prayer. We also need to make sure that when we're trying to evangelize people, we don't get over our head. And what I mean by this is some people God has not called you to evangelize. It's just you're not called to evangelize those people. Let me give you some extreme examples. If you're an alcoholic, please do not try to evangelize people at the bar. You will not be successful. You will only make shipwreck of your own faith. Another example, extreme example, is if you're a drug addict, please don't try to evangelize people at the drug house. Okay? And these are extreme examples, and I think we can all agree with this But here's an example that maybe that we we we don't necessarily agree with. If you're person X, okay, and you know when you get around person Y that it's very difficult for you to resist sin In whatever way, please don't try to evangelize person why? Just stay away. God has not called you to evangelize them. So here's the rule. If someone is influencing you more for evil than you are for them for good, stop trying to evangelize them. Run away, cut them off, and go and get safety. We hear this message from uh from passages like Matthew 5 29 verse uh ver Matthew 5 verse 29 through 30 which says, If your right eye causes you to sin, care it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members Then that your whole body be thrown into hell. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. So this passage is saying, if anything causes you to sin, cut it off, pluck it out, run away. Flee from evil. I'm going to give you a story about this. I once one of my simulate professors was telling me about this pastor. I'm not even sure if he was a pastor, maybe he's just a man of God, Bible study teacher. I don't know. Okay, some serious, uh some serious man of God And he started trying to evangelize this young lady. Okay? And the you know, friendship evangelism, we'll talk about that more. We talked about that a little bit. And they were, you know, having good friendships and they were getting along And he started, you know, they started going on all these lunch dates to to this place and to that place and to this place. Now nothing physical happened, but there started becoming this emotional connection. Okay? It was essentially emotional cheating And he knew that, he realized, he woke up to what was going on when he went to a spot that was him and his wife's favorite spot. And it broke into the core because he realized that this was now he was sharing even something that was in between him and his wife. Okay? And so he woke up to this reality and realized that he was justifying, essentially dating someone Right? By justifying that this was some kind of means of evangelism. God does not call you to date someone else for evangelism God doesn't cause you to ever commit sin to evangelism. And we can very easily get trapped into this and get confused about this. Right? They're an unbeliever, I'm just being friendly. Okay, we do need to be friendly, and I'm that's why I have a whole thing about friendship evangelism But we do need to watch ourselves and ask ourselves, are we being seduced for evil? God never calls us to be seduced for evil for evangelism. And that's happening. And we're falling into the pit of hell ourselves as we try to snatch someone out. We need to cut it off and run away So that's the first reason we should cease to evangelize if we're being seduced and if someone is influencing us more for evil than we are for them for good. The second reason we should stop and cease from evangelism is if we've already shared the gospel and they have rejected. They have rejected. Matthew 10, 11 through 14 says this. And whatever town or village you enter, find out who is worthy and stay there until you depart. And as you enter the house, greet it. And if the house is worthy, let your peace come upon it. And if it is not worthy, let your peace return to you. And if anyone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town. Truly I say to you, it'll be more bearable on the day of judgment for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah than for that town. So as we go and try to evangelize, if someone does not, as this pastor says, if someone will not receive you or listen to your words, shake off the dust from your feet when you leave that house or town. Okay, we just shake it off. We're not to keep pounding on the door and try one more time and try one more time. There is a time that they reject us, we dust off our feet, and it says That the judgment will be greater uh and it'll be it'll be greater judgment for them than the land of Sodom and Gomorrah. And if just in case we thought, well, maybe this was just isolated to this one event Maybe this isn't a pattern that we're supposed to do in our Christian life. Well, that should be dispelled by seeing how Paul applies this passage Or this understanding in Acts 13, 48-51. Here's what that passage says. And when the Gentiles heard this, they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord. And as many as were appointed to eternal life believed. Who believed? Those who were appointed to eternal life. Okay, that's the good stuff. Look at the bad stuff. And the word of the Lord was spreading throughout the whole region. But the Jews incited the devout women of high standing and the leading men of the city, stirred up persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and drove them out of their district But they, that's Paul and Barnabas, shook off the dust from their feet against them and went on to Iconium. You see what they're doing If someone is rejecting your message and persecuting you, you don't just keep trying to ram it down their throat. That's not being uh that's not having Of being fearless, but that's just being ignorant and foolish. The biblical example is when they try to persecute you, you don't fight your run. When they reject your message, you don't keep going after them and nagging them, but instead you dust off uh They shook off the dust from their feet against them, and they go on to somebody else. Brothers and sisters, we are not called to win the unwinnable. Sat. We'll call it to win the winnable. For those who are pointed to eternal life believed, we're to scatter the seed and let God grow Matthew 7, 6 says this, do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to hackhew. This is the message that we need to hear. If you gain somebody a dog or a pig because they have rejected your message, do not continue to throw pearls over there and then be shocked as they trample you and attack you And really this is not going to help anybody. It's not going to help them. It's not going to help you. Because after you've been attacked by some pigs and some dogs for a couple times, you're going to stop trying to evangelize anybody. So the people who really do need to hear the message, because you're so beat up and discouraged, you won't do it anymore. And that's not what we should do. So what I'm essentially what I'm saying is, as we seek to evangelize, please exercise common sense Here's an example. If someone looks like it's it's dark out there, and you see some guys coming to you in a threatening manner, and you think that they're about to rob you, please don't try to evangelize in that situation Instead, please run, call 911, and get to safety. Okay? Evangelism doesn't tell us to throw our brains in the sand. Another example of this, one time I was on a train and I see a guy in the back of the train and he's really like spasming out, he's looking angry, he's shaking, he's just acting, it looks like he's on drugs, and he's coming, you know, he looks crazy. Okay. And I'm praying, God sh please show me the person that you would have me to evangelize. Well do you think I was going to evangelize that guy? No, in fact I moved to the other side of the train and get off the train immediately. The guy was crazy. There was no way I was going to try to evangelize this person. Now, if I had the ability to cast out a demon, I might have tried to do that, and maybe I should have tried to do that, but there was no way that I was going to try to evangelize that person. Okay, what I'm saying is when you try to evangelize people, please use common sense Most of the time, God is going to have you evangelize someone that you would naturally most likely become friends with that person Okay. And I I see this all the time when it happens when you enter a new church or enter any kind of building, into a new work. You almost know intuitively there are some people that you very easily have relationships with that person. You can kind of just migrate over to them and you realize I think this person's going to be my friend. And it's very natural to talk to that person. That's the person that God has most likely called you to evangelize Not the person that you see and you're like, mm-hmm I better go on the other side of the room. I'm not saying that you have no responsibility to evangelize, but here's what happens I've noticed. The devil tells you that you need to evangelize that guy, but you don't even like him In fact, you can barely even talk to that person. And God keeps telling you, you need to evangelize not God. The devil keeps telling you you need to evangelize that guy. Okay? And so you're focusing all your attention on that guy, but the guy next to you who you're actually friends with You you're not trying to evangelize that person at all. What we need to do is evangelize the people that God has has put in our lives and the people that we most naturally are able to go over there. Now, I'm not saying we have no responsibility to that person. We should pray about that person. And should seek to maybe win that person, okay? But I'm saying focus mostly on the people that you most naturally have relationships with. Evangelism goes through relationships. Okay, and the people that God has made you to have these natural relationships are the people that you should most likely walk over those natural bridges and go and share the gospel with them Now, when I talk about swines and I talk about dogs, we need to remember that for someone, your swine might be someone else's disciple. Okay. God has made us all different. We're all different ages, we're all different skin colors, we'll have different relationships. Okay? So for me, it might be very natural for urban people and me to get along with And so I have a greater responsibility to walk over those bridges and share the gospel with those people than maybe for someone else who has easy relationships with corporate like white-collar workers. Okay? So just because someone is a swine for you doesn't mean that they're a total swine for everybody else. Your swine might be someone else's disciple. We also need to recognize that we're not too harsh about this idea of swine and dogs, is today's swine might be tomorrow's disciple. So just because someone's heartened today for the gospel and is rejecting, doesn't mean that always will be. Okay, so we need to recognize that as well So if they reject the message, we don't need to keep nagging them and pressuring them, we need to dust off our feet and move on. But what if they reject the message but we have to interact with these people consistently? Regularly. Okay? Because we have those kind of people too, these friends and these co-workers and that kind of thing. What should we do in that situation? Well, I think the answer is in 1 Peter 3, verse 1. Here's what that passage says. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands, so that even if some of them do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of the wives. So this passage already assumes that evangelism has occurred, okay? Because these husbands are disobedient to the word. You can only be disobedient to a word that you've heard. So this is a woman who has tried to evangelize her husband and the husband has rejected. And the passage specifically says that they should not continue to nag him and nag him and nag him over and over again, but rather they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives. So if we evangelize someone and they reject us, we should not continue to nag them and pester them. Okay? Instead, we should win them without a word by our conduct. This assumes that we're living godly ways. Okay. We don't need to be blasphemy the name of the Lord around these people and thinking that God will use them. We see this also in passages like Matthew five sixteen, which says In the same way, let your light so shine before others, so that they might see your good works and give glory to God who is in heaven. There is definitely a place to letting all lights shine before people And after we preach the gospel or before or during, right? And hoping that God will soften them and bring them. And I can tell you this happened in my own life Well I've I everywhere I go I try to make people know that I am a Christian and then I try to live in a way so that I can have some light that's shining. And I know that there have been people that have not been receptive to me at that moment, but then things happen in their life, God starts to soften them. And I've actually had people later on come to me because they know me as a Christian guy Right? And actually become softened and then we can engage them for the gospel. So again, just because someone's a swine today doesn't mean there'll be a swine tomorrow But if someone does reject, we do need to cease from continuing to evangelize them and then now let our light so shine before them Now, when I'm talking about someone rejecting, I'm actually talking about someone who's rejected, someone who's clearly rejected the message. What I'm not trying to suggest is that we should be microwave evangelists. Meaning, I'm going to give you one chance. If you don't say the sinner's prayer of me 15 seconds from now, that's it, you're done. That's not what I'm talking about. If you can continue to engage with somebody, and they're not influencing you more for evil than you are for good, then we need to continue to engage with them Okay. There's no evangelism is a long thing. We're talking about a whole worldview for a lot of these people. It's totally life changing and we need to continue to plant the seed one seed at a time. So the first reason that we don't evangelize is because we've lost our sensitivity to fire and smoke. The second reason we don't evangelize is because we feel inadequate. Fortunately for us, God does not call the adequate, but the inadequate. The power of God is the message. The power of God is what is adequate. Okay? The gospel is adequate to say, not us. People are to smell the fragrance of Christ, not us. And if we saw this last time, if they ask a question that we don't know, we don't need to be afraid to simply say, I don't know I honestly believe it's so empowering to say those words. My seminary professor says that when he does one of these seminars and teaching, he actually has people say, I don't know, several times, to get them used to saying that. Okay? God is omniscient, not us. We point people to God, not us. It's okay to simply say I don't know. In fact, I don't know is way better than a terrible answer that everyone can see the holes through like Swiss cheese It's not going to help anybody. I don't know. But we saw last time, as we say I don't know, we should also respond like the blind man In John 9 25, he said, But one thing I do know that I was blind and now I see. The fact of the matter is, nobody's ever going to get saved by what you don't know. They're only going to get saved by what you do know, Christ and Him crucified. It's the power of God that is what brings people to salvation, not what you don't know. Unless you don't know the gospel. If you don't know the gospel, you're not saved. So you need to hear the gospel as well. The third reason we don't evangelize is because we simply feel afraid. One wise man said, evangelism is a conversation between two people who are nervous. The reality is that is what evangelism is. We're both nervous. They're nervous half the time, and we're nervous half the time. The devil often convinces us that the worst will happen if we try to evangelize. What do I mean? We'll lose the relationship. If you try to share with this person, that's it. They'll cut you off. They won't like you anymore. Or that they will simply hate you. Maybe they'll complain against the boss and you'll get fired Or maybe even worse, somehow you'll be arrested for trying to evangelize. Now, some of these things might happen, but they rarely happen The devil's always trying to convince you that the worst will happen. The fact of the matter is, if you're concerned about this, you will be sensitive to the situation. Okay, and again, we said before, in evangelism, we should exercise common sense. But if we do that, it's very unlikely that any of these things will happen. That's the devil trying to trick you. Again, especially if we're sensitive. Because we need to remember that evangelism is not spiritual mugging. People think that's what evangelism is. To force people to do things that they otherwise don't want to do. That's not evangelism. Okay. And I give you a story about this. There was a guy, two big I guess football players, big guys, right, had become Christian. And there was a smaller guy in the locker room. And they surrounded the smaller guy and said, Listen, you're not getting out of this locker room until you say the sinner 's prayer. And the little guy said, I don't want to say the sinner's prayer. And he said, listen, you're not getting out of this locker room until you say the sinner's prayer. And this went back and forth for a little while. The little guy realized he's not getting out of this locker room until he says the sinner's prayer So he's at the sinner's prayer. Okay, that's not evangelism. That's spiritual mugging. That's not what we should be doing. We're not trying to get people who don't want to get saved to try to get them to do something to supposedly get saved. They won't get saved So what I'm saying is, I'm trying to give to you some relief that evangelism is not putting on high-pressure sales tactics to get people to do what they don't want to do. Don't do that. That's not boldness, that is folly. Someone once said, I won't evangelize people because I love them too much. But I've argued that it's the exact opposite. We evangelize people because we do love them so much. But the reason this person was saying that is because they had been dealing with these high high pressure sales tactics, which we don't want to do. As we evangelize people, we're looking for people who are hurting, they're needy, and they're guilty. We're here to give them good news that will solve their problems, even if they don't recognize it. Don't try to force someone to accept something that they don't want to accept. Okay, so it's not spiritual mugging. So we don't need to be afraid about doing that because we shouldn't be doing that at all. But how do we overcome actual fear? Legitimate fear, right? How do we do it? We overcome legitimate fear of evangelism by relying on the power of the Holy Spirit We find this in passages like Luke 24, verse 49, which says, And behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. If the disciples, the apostles, who were with Jesus for three years in his presence, needed to tarry in Jerusalem until they were clothed with power on high, how much more so do we need to do that? You think we're already saved. But we need to tarry until we're clothed with power on high. Second Timothy one seven says, For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. If you have a spirit of fear upon you, you need to pray for the spirit of power to help you. Ephesians 6. 19 says Pray also for me, this is Paul speaking, that words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. Paul asked for prayer To speak boldly. We need to ask. Finally, Acts 4. 29 through 31 says, And now, Lord, look upon their threats, and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness. And when they prayed, the place in which they were gathered was shaken. And they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness. Now again, where is this? This is Acts 4. Is this after Pentecost This is after they were indwelled with the Holy Spirit, as they go out there and preach, opposition occurs, they get fearful, and what did they say? God, I need more of your spirit. Help me to speak your word with boldness. They prayed, they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and they went out. Okay. So if evangelism is risky business, and we need to do so with fear, we need to do so clothed in power. You need to go in the power of God if we're afraid. Being nervous is never an excuse not to evangelize. It is only an excuse to pray. God, I don't want to do this. God, help me. Help me. Help me do this. So let me stop here and ask if there's any questions, comments, concerns, anything like that Now remember, coverage is the enemy of all learning. Um jumping back to the issue of spline and continual engagement. What would you suggest in a situation where you know somebody is somebody is willing to talk but they have pretty suggest clearly rejected the the method so far. And I mean I've been I've been pretty pretty adamant and blatant about it, but yet they're kind of continuing to to act and probe and all of that. Yeah. Um again it just I mean that's really difficult to answer that question because it depends on on what they're being. If they're a mocker That's it. There's no good. Right? Do not answer a a fool, you know, according to his folly, lest you be like him. So if if this is a mocker, someone who, you know, a Christopher Hitchens like individual, that's it. See you later. I got other stuff to do. Right? We're on we're on mission. And there's other fish out here that we need to go and grab. But there's a difference between a mocker and someone who actually has real opposition and they're really having to get through a lot of stuff Some of the best people, not the best people, some great people who've been saved have been saved through long apologetic sessions. C. S. Lewis was saved through long apologetic sessions. And thank God that people were willing to do that. He had real problems, and he had as these answers really came, he became convinced of one answer at a time and he got saved. Jonathan I say C. Jonathan Martin, good friend, he used to go to church. Um he tells me that you know he there was a uh soccer club at it at uh at his college and there was a all Christians there and then some like atheists came and said, Hey, get up , hey perfect and he he joined the team And they said they would engage him with apologetics and he w they would just be knocking down all of his opposition time and time again. Eventually they knocked down all of his opposition. He was essentially a deist And and then they just confront it and I'm like, well, you know, you need to make the next step. And so this was a long term thing. And I and I'm sure in some of that time, it seemed like this guy's awesome, this guy's not uh not coming around. But they were willing to willing to do that. And and I can think of two other examples, this guy named David Wood online, and he was an atheist and a Christian in prison shared with him, you know, time and time again. They were just arguing back and forth, back and forth. Okay? And this guy eventually gets saved. And then David Wood gets out of prison and goes to college and then he's talking to a guy named Nabil Kureshi And and we know Nabil. He he was a Muslim guy. And this guy and Nabil were arguing back and forth for for three years. People were saying, Why why are you wasting your time with this guy? You know, go go get someone else But he wasn't doing microwave evangelism. Nabirel Kharashi gets saved, and he becomes a wonderful and great apologist to the Muslim world. This guy was worth all three years. Right? So but again, that was David Wood's personality. You know, if you struggle with argument if you're argumentative then maybe God has called you to win argument of the people. But if you're not, maybe not. Okay? So it just it's that sensitivity of seeing, is this person really, are we like making progress here? Or we just, you know, this guy just like to argue for argue. This guy is just a mocker. I'm done with you Right, so is that sensitivity. Rosaria Butterfield was a um uh a militantly homosexual And and led all of the homosexual uh organizations on campus and was vandalized for long period of time. Um her book is an amazing testimony to how to um share the gospel with love. And she's she's essentially won over by not only the word, but the word made manifest through uh just the loving care of this man and his wife. Amen. Yeah. Completely changed your life Like she's married, has kids militantly evangelists. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Praise God. And again, so today's swine might be tomorrow's uh disciple Okay. And and the the big the big key is this is this, you know, person uh a m is a my stands, this person, you know, wanting nothing. And at that point, again, we don't just cut off all evangelism, we start doing that, winning them over by conduct, by love. By serving evangelism, by serving them and loving them, and saying, Why are you doing this? Because the love of God compels me. So don't just give up completely. By I wouldn't suggest an hour session for you know seventeen years. I mean, just the point where it's too much. I was looking for a near idea of you, keep one up and for you. Yeah, yeah. So talk to Ramesh. Ramesh I forgot about that. I I knew that, but I just I Ramesh got saved by a an older gentleman uh uh Christian, willing to argue with somebody for a long period of time. You know, willing to to say no, they had real objections. And he was willing to continue to engage this person and and narc down those arguments one step at a time, and I'm hope I'm sure we're praying for him, and he eventually got saved. So again, that's that that's where that microwave evangelism comes in. We're not trying to do that. But if someone is seducing for evil runaway. Okay? If someone's a mocker and all they're doing is just mocking and they really don't want to hear any argumentation, just cut them off and move on. Okay, so let's continue. So now we're going to look a little bit more about methodology and getting a little away from the principles here. Oh, that's really just stuck training. Of course. Um but maybe not gauge then repeatedly pregnant use and I can probably continue praying and trusting out the word by Yes. I think yeah, thank you for that question. Yeah. Um pray for them, uh let your light show shine before them. Servant evangelism we're gonna talk about, loving them, that kind of stuff. transitioning into that. In fact I'll tell you the the most fearful thing is when you stop praying. Okay? So if the Holy Spirit uh causes you to stop praying for that person, things have gotten really bad for them. Um because you are the means of salvation. Right. God causing you to pray. I remember um Augustine's mother was comforted um by I can't remember I think it was but anyways, she was comforted by essentially a pastor and saying with a mother like you praying for Augustine, he is sure to get saved Now I wouldn't necessarily give that much comfort, but it did happen. She did pray for him faithfully and she and he did get saved. So the power of prayer is amazing. Okay, so let's transition to methodology a little bit. The first and most important step to evangelism is praying down the victory. We need to, again, praying for people by name specifically, and by just asking God to make us sensitive to uh opportunities to evangelize. Or God help me be used to save your people. Or just simply I usually pray things. Sometimes it's just shorter the better. God help me find your people as you go out in public. So that's the most important step. We absolutely have to pray down the victory. The first method, which we talked about last time, but I'm going to hit this again because it's the most important method, I think. For most of us, and it's the most applicable is the friendship evangelism. It's very simple. All we need to do is talk to people literally about anything. Does not matter. We just need to be friendly. Then as we develop these relationships, these natural friendships about talking about the weather or whatever, that's small talk. We need to begin to pray for them. God please save this individual. God please use me as the means of that salvation. And we need to start looking for opportunities to share. God, please help me to share. Give me an opportunity. Give me an opening. As God does bring that opening, then we need to share. One thing I've noticed with that. Is actually cautious about the things that you're talking about and how you talk about as you're establishing those relationships. All they want to talk about is they went out clubbing, they went the Melissa. As a Christian, you can talk about about you know the activity but we don't need to condone it through our words. Because if we start condoning what they're doing then we've already lost the battle in some sense. Well you all of a sudden change Yeah. Yeah, absolutely well yes. Um so I want to cover everything I'm gonna say is never sin. Um I I really mean that. Never never send and that kinda goes back to what I was saying, of the influencing you more for evil than for good. And and and so um the fact of the matter is As we represent Christ, people should change in our presence. It's very natural. That they will just coming under the conviction, they see that you don't cuss. that you don't talk about these things, right? And and they'll stop talking about it. If they don't, and instead you start talking like them, run away. They're influencing more for evil than for good. So so absolutely. Um but what I'm talking about is literally anything except some. Uh the weather. I mean it does not matter. We're all pretty good at this. Like, you know, and even if we're not good at getting everybody, we still we all have friends, or at least somebody that we can talk to, and we can literally talk about something. I'm literally just talking about we need to get this person talking, okay? We need to get their lips moving and our lips moving and we start developing relationships. You can't have a relationship with someone who you never talk to. So we just need to get them talking. We need to pray God to save them. We need to pray for opportunity to share. When opportunity does arise, we need to share This method can be done over a long period of time or within just a few minutes. What do I say within just a few minutes? I'm going to give you an example of my own life of how I use this method in a very short period of time So I wake up and I pray down the victory. I ask God to please use me as a means for his global restoration to save the sinners. Something like that. Show me your people. Okay? So I so on my way to work I catch a a train and then I go in the subway. So once I'm in the in the subway, I'm again I usually pray this for again when I enter into the subway. It's very simple, God use help me to find your people And so then I'm in the subway and I'm laying down tracks. We'll talk about that. And then the subway stops. I get onto, you know, on one subway, gotta go off of the subway, get on the next subway. And as I'm leaving, I see this person sitting on a bench and I feel the prompting of the Holy Spirit. You ask God to make you sensitive, he will make you sensitive. And I see this person sitting on the bench and I think they're playing on a cell phone or something like that And I feel the prompting, the un um the the the prompting of the Holy Spirit to go and to share this person with the gospel. So I hand them a tract which give them the gospel Say can I give this to you? Hand him a track, right? Try to get on the train. The train left. Okay, this is interesting. Um okay, what are you doing here, God? Why'd you you know why'd you let me miss the train? Okay, it is what it is So I saw it walking down the platform. Maybe there's someone else here that God's going to want me to share the gospel with. I see this lady at the very end And again something in my spirit said this is not the kind of person in my profile, this is not the kind of person that you know I would normally like to talk to. This just it doesn't seem like I should try to evangelize I just knew this I got a prompting over here to share and I'm getting a prompting not to share with this person. I'm thinking, am I being a coward or am I being a fearful? I'm just like I don't want to do this because I know it's gonna happen. I'm just supposed to get a reject, I'm gonna get discouraged, and then I'm not gonna wanna you know lay down tracks on the subway because we're probably gonna get on there together. So I don't We get on the we get on the subway. I saw laying tracks on the on the rest of the subway, and then I'm sitting at the very end and I see a Middle Eastern person. Okay , young man who looks friendly. Now this person is in my profile Okay, and I'm we could talk about profiles, but basically people that I would naturally become friends with. Person does seem like someone I would naturally become friends with, it's just easy. And so, you know, now you have to understand, I am an introvert, I really am I really don't want to talk to this person. I really just want to sit here and do nothing. Actually I want to read Greek. That's what I want to do. But the but I'm like, you know what? This person is my profile. Here's someone from the Middle East. Right. I I want to share with he looks friendly. Let's go for it. So again, I feel nervous like everyone else does, and I pray down the victory and ask for boldness. And I see that this individual has a book. So we I know I gotta have we've gotta get some conversation going here Yeah, right? And so I just asked him, you know, s get some conversation going, ask him what is he reading. He tells me he's reading this book. And then again I asked him just the simple, easy stuff like where you from, blah blah blah. I noticed that he has Arabic on his sh shirt and I asked him You know, what what does that say? He tells me that the the that this is like raising awareness for the atrocities going on in Syria or something like that. Right, I compliment I tell him, I thank you for making awareness. And so this is what like that. This is about a minute and a half now. Right? And now he's getting up and ready to go So I tell him, God bless you, have a good day, and then I say, can I give you this hand of a track? And he walks off the train. Now the reality is I do not believe Because I've been in these situations before, that if I wouldn't have engaged them with some kind of small conversation, I don't believe that first off I would have tried to hand him a track. Number one. Number two, even if I would have tried to hand him a track, I'm pretty convinced he probably would not have accepted it So what I needed to do was engage them in some kind of small talk, some kind of friendly relationship, ask for opportunity, and then jump on that opportunity when it arrives. So this can be done within two minutes on a on a subway train, how much more so can this be done with family and friends and people at work that you have relationships with for long years? time. This method can work. It can work long time or short time. I could tell you many more stories about this, but I think that is sufficient. Okay. So friendship evangelism is a relatively easy method. What people usually struggle with is one praying for opportunity. Two, when they do have these relationships, praying for these people specifically. We have not because we ask not. The second thing that people struggle with is when they already uh that they're not praying and they don't have these opportunities, is W when does God open a door to share the gospel with this person? Okay. So they have the friendships already, but opportunity doesn't arise And again, I think this is really related to prayer, primarily. We're not praying for opportunity, so we're surprised when we don't get it. We shouldn't. We should be praying for opportunity. Okay. So what what happens when opportunity does arise? Then this is the question, and sad that we don't have more time. How do we go from the secular to the sacred? Okay, we have the friendships, we have the relationships. How do we go from talking about the weather to talking about the Lord of the weather? Right? This is the challenge. And the way to do this is called bridge The the bridge that I used was pretty straightforward. Can I give you this? It's the bridge. You literally can do that. Can I give you this? Yes, here's the track. God bless you. That's the easiest bridge if you want to do track ministry Which I do think is a great ministry. We can talk about that later. Another kind of bridge would would be can I ask you a question This is should we familiar? Can I ask you a question? Literally, that's how you go from the secular to the sacred. Can I ask you a question? I say, yes, can I ask you a question? He said if you die tonight, this is one kind of this is a very strong bridge, but this is a this is the way I've done it. I've done this many, many times, especially if I'm knocking on your door We go from talking about inviting the church to can I ask you a question? We're bridging from the secular to the sacred secular to the sacred. And can I ask you a question? Yes, if you would have died tonight, and God will ask you, why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? Move straight into them. Right? And we're straight engaging. So that that's another way to do it. We actually see Jesus doing this exact method In John chapter four, um I'll just uh just invite you to read that. Uh this is the story of the woman in and Samaria. It's very interesting. I'll read a little bit of it Verse 3. And he Jesus left Judea and departed again for Galilee. And he had to pass through Samaria. Why did Jesus have to pass through Samaria? Jews avoided Samaria Why did he have to pass through? Because he had a divine appointment. This is why we need to ask God, praying down the victory. God, please make me sensitive. Please bring me your people Okay? Because if we do, God can give us divine appointments as well. We move on. The next thing from verses six and five and six, we have Jesus being tired and sitting down at the well. What is Jesus doing there? He's showing up and paying attention. That's what he's doing. Right? He shows up and pays attention. What happens? A woman comes to him. What does he say? He starts engaging her in conversation. What does he say? Please give me some water He's getting the lines of communication going, right? He's making some some small talk, essentially. Okay? Then she says, hey, you're a Jew, I'm a Samaritan, what are you doing? Why are you talking to me? He says, if you know the gift of God and he who was speaking to you, you would have asked me to give you living water. What's he done? He's bridged from talking about regular water, the secular, to the sacred. And now he's engaging on evangelism. Okay? That's this friendship method. You need to do a bridge. So what are some bridges? I'll give you some examples, and again I can send this in an email to anyone who wants them Is there a religious background bridge? Here's how we can we can bridge over. We can say, were you brought up in a particular religious tradition And this is just normal small talk conversations. You start talking, conversation going down. Hey, you know, well you do you have any religious background? You know, what kind of religious tradition were you from? If they say that they're a Christian, Baptist, whatever, you can ask them, what does their church teach about how a person becomes a Christian? Why we can ask them that? Because whatever their church teaches is probably what they believe. Again, it's a very easy way to start talking about the gospel. This is my favorite bridge, or one of my favorite. You can ask them a simple question, are you interested in spiritual things? I've used this bridge many, many times. Right? Are you just interested in spiritual things? Most people will say yes. And again, you can this is again engaged. Now we can start talking about spiritual things. And we have the greatest spiritual thing, Jesus Christ. If if they're a nominal Christian, you can ask them something like, through the years, have you come to know Christ personally, or are you still on the break? Are you still in the process? Talking to a nominal Christian, they say I'm Christian, they say I'm Catholic, but they're not practicing, you can ask them that. Are you still on the way to knowing J Jesus Christ personally? Are you still in the process? I mean how do you come to know or are you still in the process? Another bridge we can ask them is called the intellectual bridge. And this would be, are there any specific concerns or problems that's hanging you up in your spiritual walk? Or are there any specific uh concerns or problems that's keeping you from being a Christian? I like to use this bridge a lot, especially from people who I can kind of see that they're hostile to Christianity. Hey, let's hit it right there. Let's go. What is it? If we don't know, I I don't know and go around and find out. But usually if you do this long enough you you start to realize. Another bridge would be has anyone ever shared with you how to become uh how to have a personal relationship with God Just ask it. Has anyone ever shared that with you? Would you be interested? Hobbies bridge. It's very common. People talk about uh you know, what are your hobbies? What do you like to do? And usually when you ask them a question, where they they ask you a question. So we're sure how to how come we always sanitize our life from Jesus Christ? You know, we'll talk about anything, which what are you gonna do for this weekend? And we'll talk about everything but church. Why do we do that Why not? You know what am I going to do this weekend? Well I'm going to church. I'm going to game night at my church. I'm I'm always talking about church because church is part of my life, and I'm not going to standardize that. Right? What is one of your hobbies? I like reading, and I especially like reading the Bible What why why can't we say that? Why are we afraid? I like reading and especially the Bible. I like listening to sermons. Whatever. Just gate engaging them and sharing with them that they're Christian Another one of my favorite bridges is simply asking them their opinion. In your opinion, what do you think the meaning of life is? Do you think that there's life after death? Do you believe in God? In your opinion, what is a Christian? In your opinion, what is wrong with the world? Do you think that people are fundamentally good? Just ask them questions. Right? Just engage them from the secular to the sacred. We have no time. Um couple more. Um is there anything I can pray for you about? If someone's hurting, or is it simply saying, I'm going to pray for you? Why are we afraid to say that to people? They're hurting, they're right in front of you, they're your friend. I'm going to pray for you about this. Or is there anything I can pray for you about? And all kinds of other bridges. If their name is Sarah or their name is Abraham, I mean Abraham's trying to be obvious, if their name is one of these names like John, we can ask them, do you know the meaning of your name? Is that bridge? Or did you know that your your name is of a famous person in the Bible? If they're from another country, you can simply ask them, where are you from? I'm from Mongolia. Interesting. What is the major religions in Mongolia? Let's talk about religion. What is your religion? Then they're gonna say, what is my religion? I am Christian. And again, this is the way to go from the secular to the sacred. And then finally, if you uh there's also the personal testimony bridge. You can say things like, as you as you let them know that you're a Christian and and that and so forth, um, you can say something like, you know, I wasn't always this interested in spiritual things. And then again jump into your testimony. Okay, if even if that you were saved from a very young age, do have you ever backslidden? Right? You can still go into this, I wasn't always this interested in this spiritual things. Or, you know, I wasn't always like this and then jump into your testimony. Okay? We just need to be able to do it. And just need to to try it. Okay, trying to bridge, asking God to help us to be able to get into these conversations and we will be able to get into these conversations. If they're obviously resisting, okay, back up. We're not trying to spiritually mug anybody. We're trying to feed people who are interested in the gospel and then try to share with God. All right, so I'm gonna stop there. Um is there any final uh questions, comments, concerns about um did anyone ever come up to you and try to vandalize anything? Yes, I have. Um it's really interesting. Whatever evangelism technique that I do, I always seem to get other people trying to do it to me It's very strange. Uh I think it's God trying to encourage me actually. You know. So I lay I lay tracks uh down because one God originally evangelized me through that method, and I feel like I see more track than anybody else. People are constantly giving me tracks. And I'm like, yes, someone God, you're doing this to somebody else's life. This is amazing. So I get encouraged that way. Um I do remember this this um Can I ask you a question, Bridge? which is fantastic, and it just cuts right to the chase, is I remember walking through the mall and someone just said, excuse me, can I ask you a question? And I knew what they were doing because I know that bridge. Regul people don't ask me those questions. Right? To ask that question was an evangelism uh technique and and we were ready to go and and I I quite enjoyed that. So again it's just depending on who you are. If you're if you're finding a secular person, can I ask you a question? They might be thinking, not this again Okay, that person's hard. You know, move on. Flute from that person, but someone who's spiritually sensitive, um that that can open the door. So certainly God has on that. Let me close and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God, thank you so much for your word. Thank you so much for your people. God, I ask that you would help us to be wise in evangelism. to to be able to share our Christian life, not sanitizing our life, but letting people know that we're Christian, praying for people, praying for opportunity. And being able to, um, when we get nervous, God, that we would pray down boldness and that you would fill us with boldness. We know that you are delighted to answer these prayers and that you would help us to share the gospel with uh hurting and dying people. Jesus name I prayer.