Well, good morning. Today we're going to be looking at how the sovereignty of God relates to evangelism. Thus far in our study, we've looked at how mission is at the heart of the Bible. We know that God is not a tribal deity, but rather God is the God of the entire earth. Genesis begins with man in the garden. He is commanded to fill the earth, to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth And we saw as we trace that all the way throughout the Bible, that revelation ends with the earth being full of people of God redeemed. Every tribe, every tongue, every nation, every people are redeemed. The earth is full of God's glory through his people. God's ultimate plan from the beginning is happening or has happened. We saw that evangelism is central to our existence. Not only is it central to why we exist and what's our purpose, but it's also central to the entire meaning of history. This is God's plan unfolding. Next, we talked about how we should share the gospel to cult members, that they're not the devil incurrent. We don't need to be intimidated by them. But we know that God has a section in the new heavens and new earth of redeemed cult members. And we want to be a part of that. And we want to share the gospel with them. Last week we talked about the horrible fate of hell. And we saw its relationship to evangelism. We saw that hell is a place of eternal conscious torment, there is no escape, and there is no hope. So once said, Outside of hell stands a sign, abandon all hope here. In light of that horrible reality and how that relates to evangelism, I argued that Spursion said it best. O my brothers and sisters in Christ, if sinners will be damned, at least let them leap to hell over our bodies. And if they will perish, let them perish with our arms about their knees, imploring them to stay, and not madly to destroy themselves If hell must be filled, at least let it be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let no one go there unwarned and unprayed for. The reality of hell should cause us to be more motivated to share the gospel. Be more motivated to pray to people and want to see them come to know our Lord Jesus Christ. So today we're going to be talking about, again, how evangelism relates to God's sovereignty. It is often charged that reformed theology destroys evangelism. But is that true? Is it true that if you believe in reformed theology, if you believe that the Bible teaches that God is sovereign over the events of human history, that that in fact would destroy evangelism? If I've argued that the whole Bible is built around missions, then how could Romans 9, with God inspired, destroy missions? God is the author of the whole book. The whole book's about missions, so there should be nothing in the book that would discourage missions from happening. I'm going to argue that God's sovereignty doesn't destroy missions. Rather, it grounds it, it supports it, and it encourages it. So let's look at a passage talking about God's sovereignty to kind of see the tension and to see what we can make of it. So please turn your Bible to John chapter 6. That's John chapter 6. And I'm going to begin reading at verse 37. Here's what the Word of God says. All that the Father gives me will come to me. And whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me but raise it up on the last day. So look again at verse 37. All that the Father gives to me will come to me. All means all. God will not lose any of the elect. All that the Father gives to the Son will, in fact, in time and history, come to Him. Verse 39 says, And this is the will of him who sent me, the Father, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me. But I will raise it up in the last day. The question is, will the son fail to redeem any of the elect? The answer is, of course not. All of the elect will be saved. We see this reality also spoken of of Romans 8, verse 28. I'll begin reading there. Here's what it says. And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. For those who he For those who are called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers And those whom he predestined, he also called. And those whom he called, he also justified. And those whom he justified, he also glorified. This passage has been called by some the golden chain of redemption. And the reason it's called the golden chain of redemption is each one of these steps are chained together. Nobody falls out of the chain, and nobody is added to the chain. Here's how the chain begins. Those whom he, God, foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. So if God foreknows you, you are guaranteed to be predestined to the end result of being conformed to the image of his son. What does that mean? That's glorification. That's what it's talking about. When we will be like him, because we will see him as he is. Okay? So this is what it says. For those he foreknew, he predestined, those he predestined, he called through the gospel. And converted them into people of God. We were born again. That's talking about regeneration. Then it says, those whom he called, those who were born again, he also justified. That's God taking your sin onto him onto Christ. Purging it and giving his righteousness to you. So if you've been born again, you've been justified. That's the gospel. That you've been saved of your sin. But this is the even greater news than that. Those whom he justified, he also glorified. So if you've been foretowned, you're predestined, if you're predestined, he calls you into existence as a cre as a Christian If you're a Christian, you've been justified, if you've been justified now in time and space, here this moment, you will be glorified. There's no way you're falling out of this. But it all begins with God foreknowing you. No one is added to this chain, and nobody falls out. A pastor once said that the doctrine of God's sovereignty does not lead to gospel indifference But to gospel zeal. The reality that no one falls out of this chain should not lead us to not want to evangelize and to be indifferent about people's soul, but rather make us zealous to go and evangelize and see people saved because we know that they will in fact be saved. Revelation 21 Gives the fulfillment of Romans and John. Here's what Revelation 21, beginning at verse 22, says And I saw no temple in the city, for its temple is the Lord, the God, the Almighty, and the Lamb. And the city has no need of sun or moon to shine in it, for the glory of of God gives it its light, and its lamp is the Lamb. By its light will the nations walk And the kings of the earth will bring the glory into it, and its gates will never be shut by day, and there will be no night there. They will bring into it the glory and honor of the nations So clearly, here in the new heavens and the new earth, the vision is that the nations will be walking and the kings of the earth will bring its glory into the new heavens and the new earth. They will bring into it the glory and the honor of the nations. As we said, the nations will be in the new heavens, new earth. Nobody is not going to show up in this book And this passage of Revelation. Everyone who has been saved will be saved and will be showing up in this vision. So that's all good news. Hopefully that encourages you at some level. But there's a problem. And here's the problem. If God promises that all that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out. If God promises that all he foreknew he will finally glorify, then does that mean that we don't need to evangelize? Because the elect will be saved. You see the problem? If all the elect are guaranteed to be saved, does that mean that we somehow don't need to evangelize And I'm going to argue absolutely not that this does this is not the proper response. This is not what the doctrine should lead you to. Let me give you a historic example of this problem. William Carey is often called the father of modern missions. In 1787, when he was giving a talk about the church's responsibility to share the gospel. The church's responsibility to fulfill the Great Commission and to be actively pursuing missions? A hyper -Calvinist object saying this Son, when God is ready to save the heathen, he will do it without your help or mine. Should that be our response? Because God is going to save the heathen, because God is going to bring the nations. He's going to do that whether we do anything or not. That we can just be indifferent. And not care about their flight? No, I don't think so. Rather, what should be our response? I think that we should absolutely publish the gospel. We should not say what will be is what will be. But rather, where should we be and where should we go? That should be our response. Let's look at an example of how these two things relate: God's sovereignty and human responsibility. And I think Esther provides a wonderful example of this. In the context that we're going to look at in Esther chapter 4, we have Esther's people, the Jews, they were being threatened by utter annihilation. What was happening is we had this deceitful man named Haman trying to destroy the Jews. And he would have to set up this plan to go ahead and wipe them out. And she had a godly man in her life named Mordecai. And this is what Mordecai says to Esther. This is Esther 4, starting at verse 13. Do not think to yourselves that in the king's palace you will escape any more than all the other Jews. For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews from another place. But you and your father's house will perish. And who knows whether you have come to the kingdom for such a time as this. So when we look at verse 14, we have to ask ourselves, was the fate of the Jews in jeopardy? What does verse 14 say? For if you keep silent at this time, relief and deliverance will rise for the Jews from another place. Were the Jews fate of whether they were going to exist as a people on the shoulders of Esther? No, they weren't. If Esther failed to do her commission, if Esther failed to do her mission, God would deliver the Jews in some other way. That's what it says. But rather, what was that jeopardy? Well, we see that in the latter part of verse 14. Here's what it says: But you and your father's house will perish. So here we have God's sovereignty and human responsibility. That Esther had a mission, and God in fact used Esther to accomplish that mission. But the fate of the Jews were at no time at jeopardy. I will argue the same thing is true about the fate of the elect. The fate of the elect are not in jeopardy of our failure to say uh to share the gospel or to pray for them. However, we cause ourselves great harm and lack of opportunity if we don't get a part of God's mission. Let's look at another example of God's sovereignty relating with human responsibility. We can find that in Matthew. 26, beginning in verse 20. So at Esther, we have a positive example of we have an opportunity to be a part of God's global restoration of his elect. But that in no way suggests that God's elect are in jeopardy because we sometimes fail. So it's a positive example. But let's look at a negative example: Judas. Matthew 26, beginning in verse 20. When it was evening, he reclined at table with the twelve. And as they were eating, he said, Truly I say to you, one of you will betray me. And they were very sorrowful and began to say to one after another, Is it I, Lord? He answered, He who has dipped his hand in the dish with me will betray me. The Son of Man goes as it is written of him, but woe to the man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed It would have been better for that man if he had not been born. So look at the very first part of verse 24, verse A. The Son of Man goes as it was written of him. This has been predestined. This is not some kind of cosmic oopsie or accident God did not fall off the throne and not know that Judas was in fact going to do this. This was predestined. Not only was it predestined, it was foretold in the scriptures. It was right there for all to see, written down, way before it ever happened. But look at the latter part of verse 24. But woe to the man by whom the Son of Man is betrayed. It would have been better for that man if he had not been betrayed Born. The fact that it had been predestined long ago and scripturated in no way negates the curse, the woeing of Judas, who actually brought it about. Judas is cursed. What is it w what's the curse of Judas, by the way? It's very severe. It's not just some kind of minor infraction. He betrayed the Son of Glory. It's probably one of the worst sins that could even be imagined. And the curse is, of course, the lake of fire itself, because it says it would have been better for that man if he had not been born. Well this is interesting because this is again a further confirmation of the doctrine of eternal conscious appointment in hell. Why? Because if Judas was going to be thrown into the lake of fire, And one day he was going to get out of the lake of fire, how could it have been better for him not to be born? That doesn't make any sense That's our hope. Our hope is that we're going to be in heaven. If Judas is going to be in heaven, because universalism is true, this scripture makes no sense. Furthermore, if Judas, after being in hell for a short period of time or even a long period of time, was going to simply be annihilated and to cease to exist. Then how would his ultimate state be different than if he had never been born? It's not worse than if he had never been born. It's as if he had never been born, because he they both cease. to exist. The only way the scripture makes sense is if we have eternal conscious torment. But back to the main point is the fact that it was predestined and no way negates the human responsibility of Judas. And this isn't just an isolated incident. I think the best example actually is found in the Old Testament in Isaiah chapter 10. This is in Isaiah chapter 10, beginning in verse 5. Here's what it says Woe to Assyria, the rod of my anger, and the staff, the staff in their hands is my fury. Against a godless nation, I will send him And against the people of my wrath I command him to take spoil and to seize plunder And to tread them down like the mire of the streets, but he does not so intend, and his heart does not so think. But in his heart is to destroy, and to cut off nations, not a few. For he says, Are not my commanders all kings? Jumping down to verse 10. As my hand has reached to the kingdoms of the idols, whose carved images were greater than those of Jerusalem and Samaria. Shall I not do to Jerusalem and her idols as I have done to Samaria and her images? So looking at verse 25, we see that Assyria is called the rod of God's anger. What this means is that Assyria is being used as the instrument of God's judgment on a godless nation and a people of myrat. We see that in verse 6. Now, what is this godless nation and people of myrath? This is Jerusalem. These are the apostate people of God who have abandoned their God. So that you have the context. Assyria is being used as the instrument to punish the rebellious people of God. Verse 7 though. Does Assyria know this? Is Assyria simply being obedient to God? Absolutely not. Verse 7 says this: But he does not so intend. And his heart does not so think, but in his heart is to destroy and to cut off nations, not a few. So God is using Assyria without their permission, and not only without their permission, but without their knowledge. They're not simply being commanded by God and saying, Yes, God, I will obey. They're not doing that. They're going out there to destroy. They're going out there to do evil. Let's look at verse 12. Let's look at God's reaction to a serious pride in evil actions. Despite the fact that God's using them. Verse 12. When the Lord has finished all his work on Mount Zion and on Jerusalem, this is after God has used Assyria as this agent of wrath. That's what it says. He will punish the speech of the arrogant heart of the king of Assyria and the boastful look in his eyes. For he says, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom, for I have understanding and remove the boundaries of peoples and plunder their treasures. Like a bull, I bring down those who sit on thrones. My hand has found like a nest the wealth of the peoples, and as one gathers eggs that have been forsaken, so I have gathered all the earth And there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or chirped. Shall the axe boast over him who hews it, who hews with it, or the saw magnify itself against him who wields it? As if a rod should wield him who lifts it, or as if a staff should lift him who is not wood Therefore, the Lord God of hosts will send wasting sickness among his stout warriors, and under his glory a burning will be kindled like the burning of fire. So here we see that after God has done using Assyria, he is going to punish them because they so arrogantly thought that they had done this all by themselves. This is why I say they are completely ignorant that they are being used by God. They don't even realize that their power and their strength and their ability to knock down Jerusalem is directly from the God of Jerusalem. They're completely ignorant of all of this. And in fact, they are boastful and they are prideful. And they think that this is coming from themselves. And God says in verse 16 that because of this, he is going to curse them. But you have to see the tension He used them, he empowered them, he sent them, but yet they did not know it. They so did not intend it. They wanted to do evil, and then God will curse them. He will punish them. The way to put this succinctly is they intended it for evil, but God meant it for good. But we need to be careful. We need to be very careful here that we do not blaspheme God. What do I mean by that? Because God tempts no one with evil. And because the fact that God is using Judas, the fact that God is using Assyria in no way means that God tempts them into committing that evil. That is blasphemy. Here's what James 1. 13 says about this. Let no one say when he is tempted, I am tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and himself tempts no one. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin And sin, when it's fully grown, brings forth death. Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation and shadow due to change. So we see very clearly in verse 13 that God tempts no one. Not the devil, not Adam, not believers or unbelievers. He tempts absolutely no one. Not even Assyria, and certainly not Judas. Look at verse 14. God's not the one tempting, but rather, verse 14. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. So here's what we do know. God using Assyria, God using Judas, God using all these things in no way suggests whatsoever that God entices them to do that evil. In fact, it said in those other verses that they sought to destroy. That was their evil desire. I want to destroy. God allows them and even purposes them to do that for his purposes, but he in no way tempts them to do that. Verse 15 of our passage in James says, Then desire gives birth to sin. You first have the evil desire I want to destroy, I want to betray the Son of Glory, I want to sin. Then that desire gives birth into sin. You actually actualize that sin. Then what happens? Then that desire leads to utter death and destruction. Verse 16 says, do not be deceived. What he's basically saying is, listen up Don't let your human fallible reasoning spoil this great truth. What's the great truth? Verse 17. Every good gift And every perfect gift is from above, is from God, coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change. Now, what does this have to do with anything? We were just talking about evil, and now all we're talking about is good gifts and perfect gifts coming from God, and there's no shadow of change from him. How are they related? The answer is that from God does not come evil, from God does not come temptation, but God comes goodness and perfection and gifts unto men. Then he goes on to say that with God there is no variation of changing. He's immutable. He's changeless. Why is it saying that? Because evil will never come from God. God will always be the father of lights. God will always be the one giving good gifts and perfect gifts. God will never start tempting people with evil. Not in the past, not in the present, and certainly never in the future. From God comes all good. Every good thing. Every good gift comes from the Father. But he never tempts anyone with evil. Let's look at another example of God 's sovereignty and human responsibility mixing together. Here's a famous example It's in Genesis chapter 50. And we'll begin in verse 15. That's Genesis chapter 50, beginning in verse 15. Here's what the Word of God says. When Joseph's brothers saw that their father was dead, they said, It may be that Joseph will hate us. and pay us back for all the evil that we did to him. Verse 16. So they sent a message to Joseph, saying, Your father gave this command before he died. Say to Joseph, please forgive the transgression of your brothers and their sin, because they did evil to you. And now please forgive the transgression of the servants of God, of the God of your father. Joseph wept when they spoke to him. His brother also came and fell down before him, and said, Behold, we are your servants. But Joseph said to them, Do not fear, for am I in the place of God? Verse twenty. As for you, you meant evil against me, but God meant it for good, to bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. So verse 20A, the beginning part of that, clearly states, you meant evil against me. They were committing a heinous, sinful act against Joseph. They hated him. They were jealous of him. In fact, they thought they could get they could uh undo the prophecies of God in his dreams. What will come of these dreams? Well We know what happened at those dreams. The very thing that was dreamed upon came about by their evil actions of throwing Joseph into the pit and really trying to murder him They certainly meant it for evil. But the latter part of that verse says, but God meant it for evil for good. The very act that the brothers meant for evil is the very same act that God means it for good. The former statement does not negate the latter. The latter statement does not negate the former. It is both true that they meant it for evil And that God meant the same action for good. And we see this throughout the whole story of Joseph. Not only did his brothers mean it for evil, but many people in Joseph's life meant it for evil. And God continuously means that very thing for good. And what's the good? The text tells us. To bring it about that many people should be kept alive as they are today. We see that all of this was sending Joseph into Egypt so Joseph could raise up and to save his people, not just his people, but really everybody in that area. What's so wonderful about this is we as believers have this same promise. When we go to hard times and people sin against us, we can find comfort in this verse as well. Knowing that we don't have to deny that they meant it for evil. We know they meant it for evil. But we also know that our Heavenly Father, through whom all good things come from Him, means it for our good. Where do we find that promise? Romans 828. For all things work out good for those who love the Lord. We have that very same promise. Now Full disclosure. I am not sure exactly how all of this comes together. The text simply doesn't say. It just says they meant it for evil. And God means it for good. The text says that God never tempts people with evil. Right? And they intend it for evil? But God never tempts people for evil. And he just doesn't, that's all it says. It doesn't tell us exactly how everything fits together. This is called a mystery. Psalm 139, verse 6 says this. Such knowledge is too wonderful for me. It is high. I cannot attain to it. Proverbs 3. 5 says this. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. And all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. I'm going to not lean on my own understanding. I'm going to recognize that both truths are taught. I'm not going to be wise in my own eyes. God doesn't tell us exactly how both of these work, but both are true, and we must believe them if we want to be faithful to God's word. Deuteronomy 29, 29 says this: The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things that are revealed belong to us. And to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. The Bible recognizes that things will be mysterious. And we're not to try to pry into God's mystery, or even worse, abandon one truth for the other so we can get rid of the mystery. Rather, we are to obey what God has revealed to us. I think Calvin says it best here. He says this, when God shuts his holy mouth, I will cease from inquiry. I'm just going to believe what God tells me and not try to pry any further. The fact is, we don't need to have perfect knowledge of how God's sovereignty and human responsibility relate to be Obedient children to God's word. Think about this. Does a child need to know all the facts of why a parent is commanding something for the child to obey it? No. They just need to obey their father's command. We need to be obedient children. God has given us a commandment. That's what it says in Matthew 28, 19. Hopefully a familiar verse. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father. and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. This is in the imperative. This is a command. This is not an option. This is something that we must do. Here's what it doesn't say. Go therefore and figure out perfectly how God's sovereignty and human responsibility relate, and then you can make disciples of all the nations. I thank God that he didn't say that, because if he did, the gospel would have never gone out at all. Nobody in this room would have been saved. We'd all be still in our sins. Here's what 1 Corinthians 13, 12 says. For I see through a glass darkly, but then face to face. Now I know in part, but then shall I know even as I am known. We all see through a glass darkly. We don't know everything. One day this will all make sense. One day we'll completely be able to reconcile God's sovereignty and human responsibility. But now we must hold detention. Someone has likened these two doctrines to two lines that appear parallel. And as we look out in the horizon, we see the lines and they continue to seem parallel. But we know off in eternity these lines come. Together. We know that God knows how these things work together. And we know that this all makes sense to God even if we can't fully grasp it. And it's so wonderful that we can't contain the infinite God in this finite, insallible brain. Why would we think that we could figure out everything and how everything works in God's world? Jesus said, I tell you earthly things that you do not understand. And you want me to tell you heavenly things? What we need to do Is grasp one truth, God's sovereignty, with one hand, and grasp another truth of human responsibility and another. But what often happens if we is we try to grab one truth with both hands. And we abandon the other. One truth in one hand, another truth in another. Otherwise, we get into all kinds of error. I'll give an example It is a great problem when you take one doctrine to a conclusion that the Bible never takes it. That is a perversion. That is a great error. Here's an example found in Romans 3:8. And you're going to see how people distort the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ by taking to conclusion that the scripture never draws. Romans 3. 8 says this. Why not do evil that good may come? As some people slanderously charge us with saying, their condemnation is just. Here's what they've done. They've taken the gospel of Jesus Christ. That God takes our sin. He puts it on his son. He vanquishes that sin and he gets glory from that. Your sin ends up with the glory of God. That's what's going on here. Right? And people have taken that beautiful truth that God gets glory over all things, including your sin, and saying, if that's true, then why don't I just continue to sin? That way, God can get more and more glory. That God's grace can abound and abound and superabound Right? If God can save me of my sins and get glory, how about I become an even greater sinner so that God can get even more glory? Is that What the gospel is supposed to lead us to believe? Is that the conclusion that the gospel leads us? No. Rather, look what he says These people slandishly charge us with saying that. We never said that. This is his argument to defeat them. Their condemnation is just. He needs no argument. He's saying that such a wicked person who would take the gospel and twist it, Jude says they twisted the gospel and traded it in for sensuality. Such a person who would trade the gospel of Jesus Christ for sin shows that their heart does not know God at all. Their condemnation is just I would argue that this is the exact same thing with hyper-Calvinism. Why? They take the truth that all the elect will finally be saved, that the elect is not in our hands, but in God's hands. And they take it to a conclusion that the Bible never takes it. What's that conclusion? Evangelism is unnecessary They take a truth of God and pollute it and change it and make it to be a justification of sin. And my argument, primarily, is their condemnation is just. They have twisted the Word of God. Doesn't the same Bible that contained Romans 9 also contain Matthew 28? We don't jettison Matthew 28, the Great Commission, because we know Romans 9 is in there. And we don't jettison Romans 9 because we recognize the Great Commission is in Matthew 28. This is all in the same book. This all comes together. We need to obey both text and believe both text Furthermore, is this the practice of the apostles? Did the apostles abandon the Great Commission or abandon the truth about God's sovereignty? No, they didn't. Please turn your Bibles to Acts 4. 23. And we're going to see what the apostles did with this truth. How did the apostles relate to God's sovereignty relating to human responsibility? Acts 4. 23. To give you some context, this text comes right after the apostles were commanded to stop preaching the gospel by apostate Jews who refused to bow the knee to Jesus Christ. Here's what it says in verse 23. When they were released at the apostles, they went to their friends and reported what the chief priest and the elders had said to them. And when they heard it, they lifted their voices together to God and said, Sovereign Lord, who made the heaven and the earth and the sea and everything in them Who through the mouth of our father David, your servant, said by the Holy Spirit, why do the Gentiles rage and the peoples plot in vain The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord and against his anointed. For truly in the city They were gathered together against your holy servant Jesus, whom you anointed, both Herod and Pontius Pilate, along with the Gentiles and the people of Israel To do whatever your hand and your plan had predestined to take place So we see clearly that the apostles had a strong emphasis on the sovereignty of God. In verse 24, they actually call God sovereign Lord. And verse 25, they show their knowledge that the events that are happening to them were already enscripturated in the Bible in Psalm chapter 2. This is exactly like Judas. With the fact that his actions have been predestined and enscripturated in the Bible. Look at verse 28 though It says, all of this is happening, all those things that are happening to them, right? All the opposition from the enemies of God, all this is happening, to do whatever your hand and your plan has predestined to take place. They recognized that all of this had been under the sovereign hand of God. And it's scripture-rated in Psalm chapter 2. So what is their response to recognizing that God is still on the throne and that all of this is happening under God's sovereign hand? Look at verse 29. And now, Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness. While you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they all prayed, the place in which they were gathered together was shaken, and they were all filled with the Holy Spirit and continued to speak the word of God with boldness. We see the apostles' recognition that God is the sovereign Lord over history, including the events of their persecution, does not lead them into fatalism. It doesn't lead them to say what will be is what will be. No, rather, they recognize that the same sovereign Lord who's sovereign over history has given them a command. And that command is to spread the gospel. And the same sovereign Lord, who's over history can give them power to be bold. They don't respond with fatalism, they respond with prayer. They respond with dependence upon the Holy Spirit. The same God who is sovereign over history has also sovereignly given us a command to pray. He's also giving us a command to witness. How can we recognize God's sovereignty over the things that happen, but then ignore his sovereignty when he commands us to do something? That is hypocritical. That's trying to justify our sin. Here's what James 4. 2 says. You have not because you ask not. Let's look at another example of seeing how the apostles responded to this idea of God being sovereign. Please turn your Bibles to Acts chapter 18. Acts chapter 18, verse 9. The context here is that Paul is ministering in the city of Corinth. He's out there being an evangelist trying to spread the gospel. He recognizes that God has given him a command to go and share the gospel and witness to people. And here's what happens in verse 9. And the Lord said to Paul one night in a vision, Do not be afraid, but go on speaking, and do not be silent, for I am with you. And no one will attack you to harm you, for I have many in this city who are my people. Now when it says, do not be afraid, we know that means that Paul was afraid. When it says, but go on speaking and do not be silent, this obviously means that he was tempted to stop speaking and to start being silent. So, what does God do to encourage him to not give up this mission, pack up his bags, and leave? He says, I am with you. The sovereign Lord of history is the same sovereign Lord that is with Paul. Not only that, though, he says that no one will attack you or harm you, for I have many in the city who are my people. He reminds Paul that his ministry is to go and grab people. And there are elect people in that city. So when Paul gets this revelation that God is with him, God is with us, right? God will never forsake us. The same thing true for us. And we get to the realization that there are electric people in that city. What is Paul's reaction? Does he pack up his bags and leave like a hypocalvinist would do? Does he stop witnessing saying what will be? There'll be elect, regardless of whether I stay here. No. Look at verse 11. Here's what Paul does in relation to this response or this revelation. Verse 11 says, And he stayed a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. So we see that the revelation that God has people out there should not lead us to hyper-Calvinism, should not lead us to gospel indifference and to justification of our sin, but rather should invigorate our mission. It should encourage us. We should recognize that we are guaranteed to be successful. Yes, will we find unbelievers who reject the gospel? Of course. Will we even have great discouragement as we see people seemingly converted but then apostate a few years later? Yes. But we also know that real, genuine believers will in fact be saved That God's people are contained in your city, in your sphere of influence. There are people there. So do not be afraid, but go on speaking and do not be silent. Jesus declares the same thing when he says, I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And if we're wondering if maybe I'm not understanding these texts correctly, Paul explicitly makes this very point in 2 Timothy 2. 10. Here's what he says. Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. So as what what is what is Paul's motivation to keep going to endure the isolation, the rejection, the beatings, I endure everything for the sake of the elect that they also may obtain. He presses on. We see this in the parable of the sower. To remind you, there are four soils. Three are unbelievers. One outright rejects. Two, appear to believe, and apostatize shortly thereafter. But we know that there is a good soil out there. And we know that if we spread the gospel far and wide, God will use us to plant his seed in the good soil. 1 Corinthians 3. 6 says, I, Paul, planted Apollo's water, but God gave the growth. John 4 says, For here the saying holds true. One sows and another reaps. I sent you to reap for that which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into. Their labor. God has a great harvest. And He sends some out there to reap where they have not even planted But some also, which is seems like what we are doing often, is we're called to plant, and someone behind us is called to reap. The question is, will you trust in God if God gives you a ministry of primarily planting? See, you're no better because you reaped that which you didn't plant. In fact, I had a professor that say, if you ever have the opportunity to reach somebody, share the gospel and they break down and they they convert right in front of you, you should ask immediately, how has God been working in their lives? In your life. And almost certainly they will not say, I've never met God, I've never heard of God. You're the first person that came up. Almost certainly they'll mention grandma, who was praying for them day and night. They'll mention all of these times that other people were sowing in their lives, and you just happen to be the last person reaping. What I'm trying to encourage you is don't just want to be a reaper and don't judge your ministry success by whether you can reap. But rather be faithful to God and to so. So to God. Returning to hypercalvinists for a second. They have fundamentally misunderstood The purpose and meaning of election. Why? Because they think that election is salvation, but it's not. Election is onto salvation, but election itself is not salvation. How do I prove this? 2 Thessalonians 2. 13. Says, but we ought always to give thanks to God for you, brothers, beloved of the Lord, because God chose you as the first fruits to be saved. God chose you to be saved. How? Through the sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. To this he called you through the gospel. Through our gospel, so that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Here's this in sum. When God elects you, He not only elects the end, your glorification, but the means. Which is the gospel. But you are saved by grace through faith. Faith. So if God elects you, this means that God is guaranteeing that He's going to send you somebody who will preach the gospel to you. Not only that, he promises that through the Holy Spirit he'll break your heart of stone, turn it into a heart of flesh, so that you see Jesus Christ as beautiful. And wonderful, and you will accept the gospel. Not only that, he promises that the Holy Spirit will walk with you throughout your life, and so that you will never apostasize And so that you will ultimately be with Christ in glory. God not only predestines the end, but also the means. All of this is part of God 's plan. What is so wonderful is that in Matthew 4:19, this is what Jesus says about this idea of God not only predestinating the ends but the means. Let's look at what God means to bring about salvation is. Matthew 4. 19 says, follow me and I will make you fishers of men. Who is the means? You are the means. God is using you to be the fishers of men. And we need, as fishers of men, To use the right instrument. And what is the right instrument? The gospel. For it is the gospel that is the power of God unto salvation for all those who believe. Not Your beauty, not your intellect, not your friendship. It is the gospel. Not that any of those things are bad. But that is not what saves anybody. It is the gospel. That's the instrument What is interesting is everyone hopefully recognizes Matthew 4. 19, but not many recognize this is actually an allusion back to Jeremiah 16. For the sake of time, I'll read through this fast. Jeremiah sixteen says this Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when it shall no longer be said, as the Lord lives, who brought you up Who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, but as the Lord lives, who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country, and out of all the countries where he had driven them. to their fathers. What he's saying is there's going to be a day when all the people of God are going to be saved. Passover is going to be eclipsed by your salvation. That's what he's saying. Right? But look how he's going to do that. Verse 16. But behold I am sending for many fishers. To sound familiar. I'm going to make you fishers of men. Behold, I am sending many fishers, declares the Lord, and they will catch them. And afterward I will send for many hunters, and they will hunt for them from every mountain and every hill and out of all the clefts of the rock. The fact is that God's global restoration of saving the nation isn't without you. It is through you. It is by making you a fisher of men. It is by making you a hunter of men. And going out there and shooting through the gospel. Unfortunately, I've run out of time. But not only that, and maybe we'll look at this next time, but also through prayer. Someone has said that prayer is talking to men about evangelism is talking to men about God, and prayer is talking to God about men The fact is, I don't have any time here. But the fact is we can find many, many scriptures where even the Apostle Paul prays that you would pray for him for open doors. And for him to be able to speak how he ought to speak. If the Apostle Paul needed prayer, how much more do we need prayer? Someone else said, we plant the seed in evangelism, we water it through the tears of our prayers. There is no greater contradiction than the Arminian who prays for God to save people, except a Calvinist who does not. The question is, are you doing either? Are we praying for people, for salvation? Trusting that God, through his sovereignty, will hear our prayers as the means of catching people Are we sharing the gospel, being willing to sow and not see the fruit reaped? 90% of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention. Alright, let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for your word. I thank you, God, that you have made us fishers of men and hunters. I thank you, God, that as we saw in Esther, even when we fail, we only do damage to ourselves. And we only prevent ourselves from greater and further glory and the joy of seeing us being used by you, but we know that ultimately all of the elect will be saved. God please help us to hold both tensions together and not jettison one for the other. God, please use this time to be the means of saving your people People. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.