So last class we started looking at at particular strategies and methodologies of how to share our faith. And in this class, we're going to continue that conversation. We know that God wants to save a people for Himself. We know that God wants to make us fishers and hunters of men. In the light of all this, we should regularly offer ourselves up to our Lord and ask God to use us Let us remember Isaiah's call, which is found in Isaiah 6. 8. Here's what it says. And I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for us? Then I said, here I am, send me. As a reminder, this comes directly before This verse. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost, for I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for my eyes have seen the king and the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken from the thongs from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips. Your guilt is taken away, and your sin atoned for. So as we see Isaiah's call, we recognize that the very first thing he realizes as he says, Woe is to me, Woe is me, for I am lost. I am a man of unclean lips. He sees his own sinfulness, and he also recognized that he dwells in the midst of sinful people. After he sees his need for forgiveness, then a seraphim comes over and cleanses him of his sin. And this for us represents Christ taking away our guilt. We first come under the conviction of sin, then we get the reassurance that Christ Has taken away our sin, and then we have Isaiah's call. Now Isaiah, in light of the salvation that he has received, the forgiveness In gratitude, when God says, whom shall I send? He says, here I am, send me. And this should be This should be the way that we act. When we see our sinfulness, we see our forgiveness found in Christ, we should also say, here I am, send me. We should be ready to go on mission for our Lord who has saved us, who has redeemed us So as we strive to now go with the power of the Lord and in the gratitude of the Lord to go on mission for the Lord who has saved us As we try to begin to do this, the very first step of doing this is calling down the victory in prayer. We pray to the Lord of the harvest, asking him to use us to bring his people to us. Okay? We ask the Lord to use us by bringing his people to us. And then when he does bring those people to us, then we ask the Lord to help us to give us boldness to be able to share the gospel with them. And this is what I call the first step and the most important step of evangelism. This is calling down the victory. Before we can have any success in our evangelism, we need to first ask the Lord to prepare the heart. to bring the people, give us boldness to then speak to the people after he has brought them to us. The second method of evangel well, that's the first step. The first method of evangelism would be friendship evangelism. Here I've argued that 90% of evangelism is simply to show up and to pay attention. So as we're going through life, we need to be looking for opportunities to share the gospel. We're looking for those divine appointments that we saw in our Lord's life in John chapter four with the woman at the well We're looking for those gospel opportunities among our friends, among our family members, coworkers, neighbors, homeless people, strangers, cashiers, pizza delivery men. People sitting on benches, anybody and everybody. As we go through life on mission for the Lord, looking for his people, we have to ask, where are they? God, bring them to me. Show me where are they And we see this actually being taught in the Great Commission itself. So can you turn to Matthew 28 verse 19? Matthew twenty-eight verse nineteen to be a familiar passage. It begins this way Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and of the Holy Spirit. So we see that where it begins with go. And in the English form that we have here, this would be an imperative. The implied subject is you, you go, therefore, and make disciples The second command, the second imperative would be to make the disciples. So we 're commanded to go and we're commanded to make disciples. But actually that word go is not an imperative, it's a parsible. And a parsible is just an ing word. So it's literally going, therefore, make disciples. And we see this communicated really nicely in the International Standard Version, which says, therefore as you go, disciple people in all nations. So the command isn't so much to go, that's already implied in your life. As you go or while you go through life, you are to make disciples. That's what this text is saying. So as we go through life, we need to be looking for gospel opportunities. And when we find them, We need to initially engage the subject, the person that we think maybe this is someone who God wants us to make a disciple. We engage them initially by starting a conversation. We can talk about anything. Small talk, the weather, really anything as long as it's not sinful, of course. Now for introverts, at this point we might need to pray. Because we really don't want to talk to people So we need to ask God to help us to get out of our bubble and to engage people in conversation. You're never going to witness to someone about the gospel who you never even begin talking to Every conversation or every relationship begins with an initial conversation. So as you see someone and you think maybe this is somebody that God wants you to speak to and bring into your life, To make them a disciple of Jesus Christ, we need to engage them in conversation. And oftentimes we need to begin that process by praying. So once we begin to conversate with them and converse with them, right, we need to then continue to pray with the Lord while we're talking to them. We can do two things at once, right? Asking the Lord to help us to find an opportunity to share the gospel with them. And not only that, asking God to save this person. This doesn't have to be a deep and complex prayer, but that's just the kind of attitude and the kind of conversation we want to have with the Lord. So then, as we're praying for opportunity and God to save them, once an opportunity does arise, that's when we start to engage them with the gospel or a topic related to the gospel. For a lot of people in this generation, pre-evangelism is actually necessary. What do I mean by that? Well, if somebody doesn't even believe in God, they're not ready to understand properly that Jesus Christ is his son. They don't even believe in God. And in today's culture, a lot of people don't believe in absolute truth anymore. This is the attitude. If religion works for you, that's nice, but it doesn't work for me. So the way that I like to engage people who don't believe in absolute truth is giving them a few thought experiments. The first the first thought experiment I give is saying if somebody doesn't believe in gravity, okay, and they walk off a bridge, what's gonna happen? Is their belief in gravity gonna have any effect on the result of what happens to a person as they walk off a bridge? No. They're going to fall. The second thought experiment is let's say, what if somebody was blindfolded? Right? And they put some some earmuffs on them and they spun them around and then push them into oncoming traffic. With their belief in the oncoming traffic, which they don't believe in because they're confused and not sure what's going on, would that have any effect on the incoming result of a car coming and hitting them? Would that person not be hurt, of course. Right? Because our belief in truth does not affect truth. The last example I like to give often is people in the past used to believe that the earth was flat So the common belief, not just a single individual, but many people believe that. Did that belief that the earth is flat ever result in the earth being flat? No, it didn't. The earth was round regardless of whether people believed it or not. The fact of the matter is, truth is truth, whether people believe it or not. But then I connect, and most people agree, I I've not really met anyone who would agree or disagree with any of those examples. They seem to be quite intuitive But when it comes to religious matters, they think that somehow that is different. But I point out to them: truth is truth, whether we're talking about physical things or we're talking about spiritual things. A lot of people have what I call the salad bar approach to spiritual matters. What do I mean by that? You just grab a little bit here, I like a little bit of that, I want to put a little bit of this on it. But the reality is Just because we like something or something that's comforting to us has no ability to affect the truth. It's either true that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, or it's not true It's either true that Muhammad is a true prophet or it's not true. It doesn't matter if I find comfort in it or not, it's either true or true, or it's false, it's false. The reality is: if Islam is true That means that all who do not believe in Islam and all who do not recognize Muhammad as the prophet are going to hell. And the reality is, I don't want to go to hell. So if Islam is true, I want to know that. It's not comforting me for me not to believe in the truth. Likewise, if Christianity is true and I don't believe it, I'm going to die in my sins. So whether or not we believe in something that is true has no effect. Whether it's true, this is true for physical matters, this is true for spiritual matters. Now, at this point, if I'm engaging the person in this kind of conversation, trying to illustrate that truth is truth in both physical and spiritual matters, depending on the circumstance, I will then bridge to the gospel or I'll stop there. Okay? If the person is becoming hostile and losing their mind, at that point, probably not going to go into the gospel. We probably need to do continue some groundwork there. But if the person is receptive and they are seeing this truth, then we can start bridging over to the gospel. And I'll say something like this. Now, after I've established the consequences of Christianity being true or false, I then say, I believe that Christianity is true. And the principal reason I believe Christianity is true is I was once blind and now I see. I have come to know God personally. He has changed my life. I love him, and I now have peace with God. Then I'll ask the person, do they want peace with God? Do they want to know God personally? If they do, say yes, then I'll begin to share the gospel with them. We need to remember we're not trying to win the unwinnable. We're not trying to win an argument. We're ultimately trying to win a soul. We're not trying to turn swine into sheep, but we're looking for people who God is already working with and God is already bringing them into conviction. We're looking for people who are needing. We see their need for God. And we see this in passages like Matthew. So can you turn your Bible to Matthew 11 verse 28? That's Matthew chapter 11, verse 28. Or beginning of verse 28. I'll begin reading. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart And you will find rest for your souls, for my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. So what does this text presuppose? It presupposes that there are people who labor and are heavy laden. And these people are looking for rest for their souls. And so when Jesus says that his yoke is easy and his burden is light, this is attractive to them and they want to come to the Savior to get that easy yoke. and that burden being light. Jesus' offer is attracted to them. They recognize their need. Now some people at this point might object. They might think of passages like Romans 3, 11, and 12, which says, None is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks God. All have turned aside together, they have become worthless, no one does good, not even one. So they might say, there is nobody who's seeking after God according to this passage So how do we reconcile this reality? We reconcile it by realizing that Romans 3 is talking about the man and his natural condition. in and of himself, without the Holy Spirit working on them and changing their hearts and breaking the heart of stone. God is able to make the proud humble. He is able to make the one who is not righteous into him who is righteous. He is able to make the one who does not seek God actually seek God. And we actually see this in our very passage in Matthew. So let's go back up to verse 27 and see what it says. Here's what it says. All things have been handed over to me by my Father, and no one knows the Son except the Father, and no one knows the Father except the Son and anyone to whom the Son chooses to reveal him. So, what I'm saying here is no threat to Calvinism, it's no threat to the sovereignty of God. Because who is it that the Son chooses to reveal the Father to? It's the people of verse 28. It's the people who realize that they're heavy laden and those who are seeking rest for their souls. Now, this desire to get under the burden of sin and get into the arms of the Savior to see their need. Is not produced by themselves in and of themselves, but is produced by the Holy Spirit who is working on their heart, opening their heart, and that they can see their need. Now, these are the people that we're looking for. We're looking for people who the Holy Spirit is already at work, who they're already starting to see their need. So once we think that we might have found one of these people, that is when we begin to try to catch them. And we begin to try to catch them through Friendship evangelism, which we talked about a little bit. But in order to test if these are in fact the right people, because people just don't have a big sticker that says I'm elect on their head Okay? We we we don't know. That would be wonderful if we could just avoid that's we call this sniper evangelism. We could just avoid all the people who don't want anything to do with God and we could just go straight into the people who God was already working. Unfortunately we we don't have those kind of eyesight. I'm going to try to give some techniques to help try to find some of these people, but unfortunately, we just don't have that kind of eyesight. So, in order to try to test the water, so to say And to see what's going on in their life, we need to test the spiritual temperature of people before we just jump right in. , And we we all know this. Before we ever get into a pool or before we eat to a shower, don't we put our hand in to see the water? Or we just go ahead and jump in. Right? We all do this. We test the water before we jump in So what I'm recommending is before we just jump in and rush in for evangelism to somebody, we should test the water to see the temperature, see what is going on there. Otherwise, if we just go rushing after everybody and just go uh just do that kind of uh evangelism technique, we'll end up casting our pearls among the swine. And we get warned about this in Matthew 7:6, which says, Do not give dogs what is holy, and do not throw your pearls before pigs, lest they trample them underfoot and turn to attack you. Now, it is not courageous to go around rushing around and try to evangelize everybody indiscriminately. It's really not courageous. It's rather foolish and ignorant. We should never get the idea that good results will come from when we send. Now it may seem like when we send, sometimes immediate Immediately good results do seem to come. We get some sense of satisfaction, things seem to go fine in the beginning. But I promise in the end we will never regret any act of righteousness And we will always regret every act of sin. Sin always bites in the end. We cannot expect the blessing of God while we break his will. So in this example of casting pearls among swine, here's what will happen. If you just go and do this indiscriminately and just act believe that's courageous, but it's rather foolish. What will happen is you'll be attacked by the swine. That's what it says. If you cast your pearls upon a swine, they will attack you. People that attack are not usually very encouraged. They become very discouraged and they say, you know what, I'm not going to evangelize anymore. Right? That's what happens. You become discouraged and you don't evangelize anymore. And so because of this loss of motivation, you stop looking for the sheep. And so you stop finding sheep So again, it may seem courageous, but it's really not courageous. We need to hear God's warning here. We need to test the temperature of people before we just jump in and be attacked by tons and tons of sworn. So before I jump in and give some strategies of how to test the water, test some spiritual conditions, and see whether the person is receptive at that very moment for evangelism, I'm going to stop here and ask, are there any questions? or comments at this point. Okay. So we'll jump in. Let's see how we can test the water. The first way that we test the water is simply by showing up and paying attention. Here I'm just suggesting that we use common sense. We observe the way that they act. This is more of an art than a science. The fact of the matter is you cannot engage someone in a gospel conversation if you can't even talk to them. Okay? So can conversation work? Can this person is this person approachable? Is this person right now in the mood that seems to be applicable to have a conversation with them. If you can't talk to them, you're probably not going to be able to share the gospel with them. The the second way that we test the water and spiritual condition of people is simply by relying on the Holy Spirit. We need to be in constant conversation with God. God asking me, God, show me the people that you would like me to show. Prompt me. Give me a, not really a sign, but just prompt me and lead me to show, tell me that this is someone that you would like to share with me. My seminary professor of evangelism gave this story once, and he gave a story of he was he prayed that prayer in the morning because he often prays that prayer. It's a great prayer. Show me your people. It's called praying down the victory, right? But then he says that his wife asked him to go to a choir concert. And she promised that it was only going to be about an hour. And he really didn't like these choir concerts, but he just did it for his wife Well the concert ended up being about two hours long. And at that point he was very frustrated and very irritated. See he's not having that spiritual conversation with the Lord. His sin And his hatred for his wife has now brought some separation from him and God. So that conversation is being disrupted. Okay? So then they stop and he's fuming in the car. And then they stop at a gas station and he goes in to pay for the gas. But at that time, the Holy Spirit, he says that gave him a prompting to evangelize or try to evangelize the lady across the counter But he says that he told God I'm not going to do it. He said he said what no one should ever say. No Lord. See no and Lord don't work. If he's Lord, then you say yes and you obey Okay, so he's arguing with God. No, I won't do it. I just refuse. So he pays for the gas. And as he's walking out, he says this trucker with tattoos all of his arm. comes across and just asks the lady very bluntly, lady, do you know Jesus? And she says, no, I do not know Jesus. And I've actually been waiting for someone to come and to talk to me about Jesus. And now this trucker is now having this evangelism conversation with this lady. And my seminary professor said that he he left that gas station in tears. Right, because he knew that he was disobedient to his Lord. And so the funny thing is his wife came back in the car and thought he was crying for the way he had treated her. But but that's not what was going on, right? There was there was much more going on there But the point I'm getting at is the Holy Spirit will often, if we ask, we have not because we ask not, if we ask, God help me to find your people, the Holy Spirit will often prompt us to people to talk to. And anyone who's ever been walking with the Spirit and asking for these kind of things, they will know. You will get that prompting and say, this person? Sometimes I sometimes I have um some kind of conversations with God in this way. I'm like, you really want me to talk to this person? Are you sure? I don't know about this. And and we have back and forth conversations that way. But we we need to rely on the Holy Spirit. And oftentimes the Holy Spirit will prompt us to speak to someone, and again, sometimes it's easy and sometimes it's not so easy. So then we say, Well God I'll speak to that person, but you gotta give me boldness. Because I can't do it without you. We also need to recognize that oftentimes the Holy Spirit will have us to speak to someone or to share a track with them or whatever to somebody and we'll see those kind of good results like I gave that example. But other times we won't see any immediate results. Sometimes it's like God, I thought you told me to share with this person, but that didn't go really that well What's happening here? Well, Isaiah 55. 8 says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways, declare the Lord. So prompting of the Lord often has some success and often it'll work, but sometimes the person does not seem accepted. So what I do in these situations is I say, Well, God, you told me to do that. And then I tell God, I said, God, I can't keep doing this unless you comfort me. Right? Because this didn't work. This did not this I feel discouraged. And the Lord, again, He'll encourage you. He'll take that away Right? And he'll give you his presence. So the second way is to rely on the Holy Spirit. The third way is to create a profile. We should recognize the people who are most receptive to us. These are the people that you're most likely to become friends with. And I gave the example of, you know, if you start a new job, you know, you kind of start migrating away from certain people and migrating to certain people. It's just this kind of intuitive thing that you can't quite explain, but you're like, I think that person is probably going to be friendly to me. I think we could probably connect. That's sometimes a surprise, but usually you're pretty good at this, right? Use that in intuitive common sense. And those are the people that you're most likely to win. Another way is to look for people who are simply friendly. Friendly people you can usually talk to. Unfriendly people, not so much. I give the example of the guy who looks like he's about to commit a murder is probably not the best person to evangelize at that moment. Probably stay away from him, call the police, and engage him when he's calmed down. Okay? You don't want to engage people who are just not engageable at that very moment. Now when I talk about creating a profile of people who are most likely to be receptive to you, what I'm not talking about is racism God delights to save the downcasts, the poor, the needy, the down and out, the failures, the immigrants, the prostitutes, drug users, homeless people, even felons. So I'm not talking about just avoiding these down and out people. No. But I am saying that the people that you're most likely to become friends with is the people that you should be on the top of your list of trying to engage Right? And and these other people and and and God by the way God saves other poor people to save other poor people. Now he will use you sometimes But God has poor people out there to save other poor people. He has felons out there to save other felons. He has people from the hip hop culture who he often uses to save people from the hip hop culture. So let's not have this messiah complex. Well, I need to get everybody. No, you need to get the God, the people that God has placed in your life. But we have this idea that God loves the down and out, the downcast, from passages like Matthew 1119, which says The Son of Man came eating and drinking, and they say, Look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. Yet wisdom is justified by her deeds So Jesus was not too good to associate with these tax collectors and sinners. So again, when we're talking about profile, I'm talking about people that you think that you could have a conversation with that seem to be most receptive to you Okay. But sometimes you are going to have to get out of your bubble. If you're depending on how high you are on your way up here, you next need to come down here, right, for these people. Okay? Because oftentimes these people are the most receptive. At least at least my profile. Now I'm different than some of you, most of you, but my profile is usually these down and out people Okay, that it just it kind of works well. But but also you should maybe keep a running profile in your own mind and say, okay, these people again seem to be less receptive to me. And at least for me I've noticed that the people who are down and out at least are more receptive to me. Okay, so just have this profile and just see the people who are most receptive to you and you're able to talk to the easiest. Another scripture talking about God's love for the down and out can be found in 1 Corinthians 126 Which says, For consider your calling, brothers, not many of you are wise according to worldly standards. Not many were powerful. Not many were noble. So again, we see that God is constantly grabbing these people who are on from the fringe of society that have been rejected, right? And God loves that person and brings them in. It's really quite wonderful. is, you know, when in back in elementary school, elementary school kids can be absolutely vicious. You can really see the total depravity in these kids sometimes. times. And and what is and some of the times that this happens is when they're creating you know sports teams, right? And they're like, you know, I'm captain, you're captain, we want not that guy. And it's almost like a battle like we don't want him on the team Write the last kid out. It feels absolutely terrible to be that kid. Well what I'm saying is that's the kid that God often saves. He's quite wonderful. That the person that the world doesn't want is the person that God often does want. So another thing I would say about creating this profile is look for that kind of person. Look for that person who is off by themselves and kind of reject it. Say, you know what, I'm gonna reach out to you. Because that's what that's what Jesus does. He reaches out for those people who reject it and comforts them and says, I'll be your friend. I know in my own life, some of the sweetest times I've had with the Lord is when I've been completely rejected by everybody. Okay. And all I had was Jesus Christ at that point. Because he was there to comfort So as I'm recommending to try to, and these come some in some ways seem different, but you need to blend these, people who are most receptive to you and the down and out and the people on the fringe of society As I recommend to try to witness to these people on the Fringe of Society, again I recommend using common sense. Don't get over your head. Don't put yourself in a dangerous situation unnecessarily. And just rely on the Holy Spirit. If you're walking in conversation with the Holy Spirit and you're using common sense, these things will go okay. But I think for most of us, that's not a problem. I don't think most of us our problem is casting too many pearls among the swine. I think most of our problem is not casting pearls among anybody. Right? I think for most of us our problem isn't being you know foolish and putting ourselves in unnecessary danger. I think for most of us the problem is putting ourselves in any danger whatsoever. Most of us are experts at avoiding persecution. And so I think that we need to to not uh act so cowardly and to approach people and willing to be rejected. And as I said, when I'm rejected, I just ask the Lord to comfort me And I just tell him, God, I can't keep doing this unless you comfort me. And I can tell you, the Lord does comfort me. The fourth way that we can prompt and see people's spiritual condition and their receptiveness to uh the gospel is just to ask people questions. You know, we often talk too much. Let other people talk. Ask them questions, and I'm guilty of that more than probably anyone else here. And when we ask questions, what we're doing is we can easily bridge from the secular to the sacred. Okay. By by asking questions. So what what's some of these questions? Well my one of my favorite questions is just again, we're just asking just being assertive, we're just being accusative. What we ask them is are you interested in spiritual things? The only good thing about the the New Age movement is it really has brought up spiritual things in people's lives. And also materialism and secularism causes all kinds of pains and heartaches It ultimately doesn't lead to success. So a lot of people are looking and spiritually hungry, and they recognize that there's more to this world than Netflix. They recognize that, right? Netflix and Twitter is not all that there is to the world. And so a lot of people are actually, in fact, spiritually interested, and they're interested in spiritual matters. And again, don't do so much talking. Ask them if they're into spiritual matters and be generally interested in what they have to say. And this is a good, a good, um A good way to enter into that kind of spiritual conversation. If you're interested in their spiritual beliefs, then they're more likely to be interested in your spiritual beliefs. That's how that works The second question is you can ask some things like what happens after death? Everybody has to have a uh some kind of concept of what happens after death. We're all going to die. We can ask them simply whether or not they believe in God. Another uh good question I like, especially talking about people who are in the fringe of society, is asking them what their family's religious background. Do you see somebody and they look like they're not from this country? Well, if they're from this country, their parents are probably not from this country, just ask them where are they from I'm from Bolivia. Okay, I don't care if you know the answer to what the main religion is in Bolivia. Ask them, well what is the main religion in Bolivia Catholicism? And then again, this is a way to enter in that conversation. What's your family's main religious background? Then we can jump into, well, what's your religious background? And then what's my religious background? You see this? We're going from the secular to the sacred. We can just simply ask them, what do they think about Christianity? What's your thoughts? It's good religion, bad religion, why is it a bad religion? Another thing you can do is if they say that they're Christian, a lot of people are nominal Christian, you can ask them, what does their church teach about how a person becomes a Christian? And the reason this is a good question is because you ask them what their church teaches, and most likely they also believe what their church teaches. So you're asking how do you become a Christian and they'll tell you, and then you can assess what they say and then you can share what this is what I think. And this is a perfect way to enter into gospel conversation. Another thing you can ask them is just ask them if they have any intellectual problems that keep them from becoming a Christian So if you're talking you can kind of see that they have a different worldview and and they're you know coming from a secular kind of perspective and they they seem to you know have some hostility of Christ towards Christianity. Don't just immediately say they're a swine, I'm out of here Right? But instead like okay you seem you know well do you have any intellectual problems? Do you have any difficulties? And again just if you're not an expert on all of the objections with Christianity, that's okay. Remember we said, I don't know. If they ask you a question you don't know, I don't know. Let me get back to you on that and then and try to follow up. But the truth is, a lot of these questions are not new. Everyone thinks that they're just like this new person who thought of this new objection that no one else has ever No, these things are constantly being repeated. And in fact, most people are getting their questions and getting their worldview from the media. So they're all asking the same questions because they're all being fed by the same media. So again, once you just start you know recognizing these things, then you'll be able to be uh better prepared and be able to answer those questions on the spot. Another way we can engage them in conversation is just ask them who do you think the most influential person in history was? Now I really like this question. I like to ask people this because everyone knows the right answer. Everyone knows this Jesus. Right? Sometimes people will say Muhammad. But pretty much Jesus or Muhammad, come on, it's like not really that that difficult. One of these two people. But I've noticed a lot of people refuse to answer Jesus. They're like, okay, I'm not answering Jesus. And then they'll ask somebody else. So just be prepared for some ridiculous answers to this and just try not to laugh. But but you know they say their thing and you okay why do you think you know Christopher Columbus was the most influential person ever in history? And then after you do that then you can engage them and tell them why you think Jesus was the most influential person in history. Another question, another bridge that you can ask people to begin them in gospel conversation is simply just to be again assertive here and just say, can I share my spiritual journey with you? Or another way to do it is you've been friends with this person for quite a long time and it's kinda weird, right? It's like it's like knowing someone for a long time and then not knowing their name is kinda kinda weird. You know. like oh this is not good you almost avoid them because you're like uh I don't know your name. A lot of the time just being assertive and that that's the best way to do it. You know instead of calling somebody not I'm sorry I forgot your name. Please give me your name. Right? That's usually the best way to do it. So sometimes the best way to do it, just be assertive and say, you know, we've been friends for a long time. And we talked about many things, but I've actually never talked to you about one of the most important things in my life And that's my spiritual journey. Would you mind if I share this with you? Oftentimes they'll be interested. They'll be okay with that. Or we can just ask them simply, can I share with you the good news about Jesus Christ Or can I share with you how you can have a personal relationship with God? So after, usually after I ask one of these questions, my favorite again would be are you interested in spiritual science? That's my favorite question. And I see that they're they seem to be spiritually open, or if I get a special prompting of the Holy Spirit and and um to see that they're receptive Then I'll usually ask them if they died tonight and God said, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? So that that's one of my favorite gospel conversations and my favorite gospel questions because whatever their answer is is really their gospel. It's really what they are resting on to be saved. So let me stop here and ask if there's any questions or comments at this point. So you talked about building your profile of who you most typically would evangelize with you most closely relate to. I see a problem in that in that it raises the easy objection, well they don't fit my profile. So would it be better to to focus on building your own profile for how you eas most easily evangelize the different different populations than focusing on a specific population that you most easily uh c can associate with. I mean you know the the disciples were were quick to say, well, why why are we reaching out to the Gentiles? Jesus clearly wanted to go to the Gentiles. And I s I see an easy, you know, cough out for not talking to someone. Well They don't they don't be my a profile that I've built in my head. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, so uh so none of these things are mutually exclusive. Um we we do need to um have profile. I I think profile is helpful. I think relying on the spirit is helpful. Looking for people who are meet the profile of the people that God seems like He does save often, which are the down and outs are helpful. I guess here's the issue that I have or or the concern that I have. I think for a lot of us there are tons of people in our profile that we're not witnessing to whatsoever. We're not reaching the people who we're already friends with or the people that we we can talk to, right? And and instead of focusing on these people, we're focusing on the most difficult targets You know? So if you're hitting this like off the park, then then fantastic. Start reaching out. You know? Stop going after that guy who looks like he is about to commit a murder. and figure out how to evangelize that guy um at at that time period. But but I think we need to focus on on these people. And as I as I start to talk about handing out handing out tracts, um the profiling really does become uh even more important in that in that regard um because there's just too many people. And and like I said, if you just start you know going and public handout tracks, everyone will start saying, I don't want disguise crazy You know, you'll you'll turn everybody off. If you just start doing indiscriminately like that, right? Or you'll be thrown out of them all. You're not gonna make it very long. So what I'm saying is we do need to selectively target. And and really everybody does this. The police do this, that's how they they They they identify smart people. The the government does this. I'm not going to tell any secrets. But the government does this. They can't they can't get everybody. Who are the people most likely to commit terrorism? Alright, we're going after that guy. Because they can't screen everybody. Everybody does this People looking for spouses to this? When I talk about profile, I mean just a lot of people just look around and look at your spouse and notice that they look like you. They act like you. Those are people who make your profile. I'm just saying that God often will save your friend The pe the closer the people are to you, the more likely God is going to use you to save them, is all I'm saying. So again, I'm not trying to say mutually exclusive, I'm just trying to give kind of a guidance and help. to say these are the people that you should be primarily focusing on and and focus on these people and and then branch out from that and then pray for extra boldness for that other person across you know across the street or whatnot. So that that's how I think those two things. Or if you don't d disagree, just ignore me and just keep going. Go after whoever you want. You know, just keep doing it. But but I will say if you do start uh meeting a lot of swine and getting very, very discouraged, then maybe just remember that conversation. the prompting of the spirit. I mean God has spoken to us, His word is very clear that we're to go out and evangelize. Right? That's that's the clear prompting of the Spirit. I will say that there are certain people that through prayer I've felt particularly drawn and compelled to go talk to. Yeah. And I think that's what you're referring to. Um Yeah, yeah. So you're right. Um w we have uh they call this spheres of influence. Okay. We have a responsibility for all the poor, right? I mean, we have money, we see it says if you see your brother in need and you close your heart, how can the love of God reside in you? That 's in John. Okay? So, but there are poor people all the way on the other side of Africa. And then there's, you know, the poor person in this church right here. Who do I have greater responsibility to take care of? That person or this person? This is also this applies for other kind of things. Imagine you know there's a missionary in our church that needs to go out Or there's a missionary organization way out there that I'm not sure. Who am I more responsible? Who has God placed in my life? So that's all I'm saying. We have a responsibility for everybody. Okay. Um but but again I I think and I like that clarity, we do have a responsibility for everybody. And and we do want to witness everybody, but again we we don't need to have a messianic complex. We don't need to save everybody. Again, if you're having a very difficult conversation, uh very difficult time even having a conversation or being in the presence of somebody, that's just going to be somebody that's really going to be difficult for you to share the gospel with. Okay. And then and but that guy that's right next to you your best friends with, that you haven't shared the gospel with, come on. Let's let's get the gospel over to them. Let's let's be willing to walk over there. So I I'm agreeing with you. I'm just saying that I often feel like that's who we're always thinking about, the guy on the other side of the room that we never talked to. And I've also noticed That I have people, I've been friends with people who I'm able to get along with them, but they're able to get along with this other person, but I'm not able to get along with that other person very well Okay? And I'm saying that I think God has this person if he's a Christian has a much better responsibility of trying to we reach this guy who he's friends with than the guy that he doesn't even like me And I need to work on that and try to figure out some people just don't like you though. It's just a sad reality, you know, let's go back to school. There's some people that just don't like you, they're just not in your click. Okay, and and so yes, you have a responsibility to witness to them, but it's just not as great as the responsibility um to the person right there. And again, as I'm talking about being prompt in the Spirit, I just ask, just try it, just try this. Wake up in the morning or before you go out and say, God, please help me to find people that you would have need to share with you. with. And I I will say that it's amazing. And you you reference this too, you know what I'm talking about. It's amazing where you just get this extra prompting for this particular person. Right? And it's like literally you're just gonna walk by. You're just gonna walk and you just Okay, I'm going to share with this person. Right? And I'm going to try. So that that's all I'm encouraging there. Alright, so let's let's press on. Um So again, my favorite question, this comes from evangelism explosion, was if you died tonight and God said, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? And I just love that question because the answer will be the gospel. Now, the mass majority of people will say that God will let me in because I'm a good person. I mean, I've had this conversation with many, many people, and that's the mass majority of the response. And so this is when the evangelism technique that comes from Way of the Master becomes very, very effective. And so Way of the Master suggests engaging them like this. If God were to judge you according to the Ten Commandments, would you be innocent or guilty? You're saying that you're a good person. Okay. If God's going to judge you based on the Ten Commandments, innocent or guilty. So the first question we ask them is, have they ever lied? I've never had anyone say that they have never lied. Everyone has lied. Then we ask them, have you ever stolen? Sometimes you get some pushback, sometimes they say no. You have to clarify, what about something really small? Stole a pack of gum? Anything? Sometimes they continue to say they've never stolen, and then you say, well, you just admit it to being a liar. Have you ever stolen? It's usually light in the mood and they admit that they have stolen. Have you ever lied? Have you ever stolen Have you ever lusted? Jesus says to lust with your eyes is to commit adultery in your heart. Have you ever hated? Jesus says to hate your brother is to commit murder in your heart Have you ever used the Lord's name in vain? That's to use the Lord's name like a cuss word. Right? Most people only know the name Jesus when they're hitting something on their foot. To use the Lord's name in vain. That's called blasphemy. And again, almost everyone has committed these sins So we then tell them by your own omission you have omitted to lying, to stealing, to committing lust, which is to be an adulterer at heart, to hate, which is to be a murderer at heart, and to blasphemy, to use the Lord's name in vain. So again, if God were to judge you according to the Ten Commandments, would you be innocent or guilty? And many many people at this point will claim, well, I'm only human. We've all done this. So somehow that's going to be okay. At this point, I say precisely. That's why the Bible says all have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. Yes, you are a sinner, and just like everyone else, the fact that other people are guilty of sin does not let us off the hook. All that suggests is that they need forgiveness just along with you. And an example of this is imagine a thief who's caught in his thievery Standing before a judge and saying, well, you know, you I should be innocent. Yes, I I committed the thievery, but I should be innocent because a lot of other people have committed That's. That that doesn't that doesn't work. You he's like, okay, those people need to go to jail too. And in fact a lot of those people are already in jail. You have fun with them You see what I'm saying? The fact that other people are sinners has no effect on whether or not we are sinners or that's no legal defense of getting out of it. Other people often say, okay, yes, I've lied, I've stolen, I've committed adultery, you know, or at least I've lessened in my heart, committed adultery in my heart. But you know, I'm still a good person. I still don't murder, I still don't rape people, I'm not killing, you know, I'm not I'm a good person And again, I think a helpful illustration here is again bring them back to the judge. So imagine again that you have stolen and you've been caught in front of, and you're standing before a judge. And yes, you say, yes, I have stolen, but really you should let me off the hook because last week an old lady was crossing the street and I stopped and and I helped her across. And then even more, I gave her five bucks. And I've done many things like this all throughout my life. Okay, what would the judge say? He said, I'm glad that you know stopped for the old lady gave her five bucks. That was actually really nice. I wouldn't have done that. That's very, very kind of you. But you're not before us because of the old lady incident You're before us because you've stolen. So the ver the very fact that you've got good things in your life are inconsequential to what we're talking about here. That does not it's not a defense of getting you off the hook So likewise, the fact that people have done good things in their life are not going to let them off the hook as they stand before God for lying, stealing, lusting, committing adultery, all these other things. Now some people at this point will say, yes, but God is forgiving. God is a forgiving God. And again, we can say, yes, he is forgiving But Hebrews 9 27 says, It is appointed onto man once to die, and after this the judgment. The forgiveness of God has resulted in God providing a way of escape We do not presume upon God's forgiveness. We accept the way that He has provided so that we can be forgiven. And what way has He provided? John 3. 16 For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. This is the way that God has provided forgiveness. At this point, if the person is still with us, we can then go through the basics of the gospel. God saw that we were sinners in need of salvation. So he sent his only son. Who came from heaven down to earth to live a sinless life? He was hated by humanity and rejected because he convicted them of their wickedness. So they delivered him over to death, which he submitted, so that he could take our sins in his body on the tree, and die, and therefore providing forgiveness for all who can trust in. Him. Three days later he arose from the dead, proving that he really was the Son of God, and now he's ascended at the right hand of the Father, declaring the good news of the gospel through us. Which is, all who believe in him, he gave the right to become children of God and to be forgiven of their sins. At this point we can ask them whether or not they believe this, whether or not they know God, and whether or not they want to have peace with God. If they say that they do, we can point them to scriptures like Romans 10 9, which says, If you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. So we need to confess with our mouth and believe in our heart, asking God to save us. We can then ask them if they would like God to save us And if they say yes, we can lead them in a prayer similar to this. Dear God, I repent of my sins. I ask you to save me. I believe that Jesus Christ is your Son. He died for my sins. I turn my life over to you. I ask you to be my Lord and Savior. In Jesus' name. Amen. Now as I say that, please remember two things. Evangelism is not spiritual mugging. No one is saved based on repeating a prayer, so do not pressure them. A lot of people go wrong here. If I can just get them to say this prayer, they'll be saved. No. They must believe in their hearts So simply just twisting people and forcing them and saying, I just want you away from me. Okay, I'll do the prayer. That's not what I'm recommending here. I'm talking about preaching the gospel to them, asking them if they believe, asking if they want to call on the name of the Lord. If they say yes, then you can ask them if they would like to pray and ask God to do that The second warning I will give about using any kind of sinner's prayer or any kind of prayer like that is do not give them assurance of salvation. Why? Because we have no idea if they're saved. All we know is that they repeated a prayer after you. The truth of the matter is True assurance only comes from the Holy Spirit. Romans eight fifteen says, For they did For you did not receive the spirit of slavery to fall back into fear, but you have received the spirit of adoption as sons by whom we cry above. Father. So where do people get assurance from? It's from the Holy Spirit testifying to their spirit that they have received the adoption. And so they cry out, Abba Father. They overflow with love for God. Okay, so d don't get focus on giving them assurance. I say don't give them insurance, rather give them discipleship. Rather plug have them begin reading one of the gospels. Plug them into a church and meet with them regularly. We do not want to abandon these people to the devil. The Great Commission says we are to not only make disciples, but we're to baptize them and to teach them to observe all that I have commanded you. So some people are a little nervous about this idea of using a centers prayer. And the reason that they're nervous about the idea of using the center's prayer is because it has been abused. So many people, if I can get to the center's prayer, I can check it off, they give them assurance of salvation, and the person goes away thinking they're saved because they They did the center's prayer and they have no relationship with Christ. And that's and then again, I'm not suggesting that in any regard. And I'm saying that we we definitely need to warn against that. And we definitely need not to do that. So if for people who are very cautious about using the center prayer or don't want to use the center's prayer, I recommend doing an alternative, which is just saying something like, I'm going to give you a model prayer to pray. And you need to pray something like this in order to be saved. So I don't need you to pray with me. I'm just going to show you the kind of thing that you need to pray to God in order to be saved. And then you can pray, and then they can listen, and then they can pray to God on their own time. And this is actually a part of how I got saved myself As I remember uh reading uh some of the tracts and reading the sinner's prayer. I didn't repeat after that prayer. I just saw the kind of thing that we needed to ask God. And so later on when God worked in my own life and I got convicted, I prayed to God and I did I gave you that testimony. I prayed to God something like, I repented my sins, I asked you to forgive me. Now, why do I where do I get this idea that we need to call upon the name of the Lord? Acts 2. 21 says, And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Luke 1113 says, If you then who are evil know how to give good good know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your heavenly father give the Holy Spirit to those who ask him? Romans 10. 13 says, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Romans 10 9, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is the Lord, and believe in your heart, you will be saved. So the natural result, and the way we put this together, I put this together, is the natural result of the Holy Spirit regenerating your heart and causing someone to believe is for them to call upon the name of the Lord and ask him to save them, which has already been accomplished in their life. Okay? That's the natural result. Just as as God saves us and regenerates us, we will continue to walk with Christ. It's just like that we will call out and ask God to save us. Why would you try them to take the place of the Holy Spirit and have them for that's a you know that's a great question. So now what That's a great question. Here's the difficulty. As I look through the scriptures and say, well, okay, they preach the gospel. Right? They call on people to call upon the name of the Lord to be saved. We don't get how they closed it. We don't get that information. But but actually we do a little bit. And they say You need to repent and be baptized. So if you actually follow in the book of Acts, how they closed it, it was by telling them they need to repent and be baptized and then baptizing them. But I feel very uncomfortable suggesting doing that, and I know the elders here are very very uncomfortable suggesting doing that, and I've never done that. So what what I what I do and and And and again, if you don't want to do it, then that's fine. Is I tell people, you know, then either I tell them that here's a prayer that you you need to pray to God to get saved, and you can model that to me, or if you would pray with me. But I always leave people with with telling them that they need to continue to call upon the name of the Lord until they have assurance that they are saved. So I don't try to give anyone assurance. And that's just how I personally close the conversation. and how I've been taught pretty much through osmosis. Now I might be wrong there, and I'm more than willing to be corrected in that matter. But that's how I close it, by telling them this is the model prayer of what you need to do to call on the name of the Lord. Now let me let me close this and then I'll ask many questions. Bottom line is, we need to make sure that we tell people and communicate to people that they are not saved by good works. They are not saved because they make a prayer. They're not saved by going to church. They're not saved by reading the Bible. We are not saved by an object or a good work, but rather we are only saved by a person, and that's Jesus Christ. We need to point people to the Savior and communicate very clearly that He is their only hope and He is their only Savior. If you're communicating any way to someone that you have done this, therefore what you're saved, you have not preached the gospel. Christianity is about having a relationship with Jesus Christ. You're trying to point people to the Savior. You're trying to get people who will, as Martin Luther said, Christianity is a life of repentance. This isn't something that we do once. We don't call upon the name of the Lord once. We consistently call upon the name of the Lord. If you confess your sins, He is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. The Christian consistently calls out and confesses their sin, consistently recognizes that Jesus is their Lord and Savior. We have a few minutes. Any any other uh questions or comments on on any of that What a feeling has a very short time. How like I'm always feeling or uh We approached the stoplights. By the homeless. Lovely. So I'm glad you asked that. Um let me try to run through this fast. Next class we're going to talk about evangelism methods. We're going to talk about four methods. Servant evangelism, which is simply loving our people, showing them the love of Christ in practical ways. Doing good deeds for people, right? That's the mean of evangelism Then we're going to talk about giving tracts to people. Then we're going to talk about inviting people to hear the gospel through inviting them to church. By the way, I have to hit this. Um it's Easter. Easter is coming up. So a wonderful way uh a wonderful way to sometimes we we make fun of people for being an Easter and a Christmas only uh Christian. Don't make fun of that person. Continue to invite them. They need to con if if they're only come twice, praise God that they came those two times. Many people won't come at all. So we do need to take advantage of Easter and and Christmas and invite people to come to church to hear the Word of God, to grow. How's that person ever gonna get saved? So we can definitely uh try to win souls by inviting them to hear the gospel. And we can invite them to not only church and and and and take advantage of Christmas and Easter. But we can invite them to listen to a sermon, go to a Christian concert, watch a Christian movie, all kinds of things. Okay? And then the last way is is doing evangelism through written communication, that's writing letters or stuff like that. So we're going to talk about that more in depth. So to answer your question, Amy, homeless people, please, again we talked about the people on the fringes, please don't just look at homeless people and spit and just get away from it Please don't do that. Instead, look at homeless people as an opportunity to share the gospel. Now yes, if you're at the stoplight, you probably aren't going to get out of your car and have a long conversation. And that might be dangerous. You might not want to do that. So what I do personally is I keep one dollar bills in my pocket almost every time. at all times and I keep a tract. And I refuse to give a track to a homeless people without giving them money. That is to me despicable. I cannot do that. Right? So I will give a homeless person a dollar in a track and tell them God bless you and pray that God will rescue. So I see homeless people not as people who are to be despised, but people as gospel opportunities that God can save these people. Now, I'm not saying to be anybody's sucker. I only give homeless people one dollar and a trap once. Or maybe I'll give it to him quite later. But if I see this guy every day, he's not getting, you know, $265 for me every year, especially when I see tons of this. I would be out of money But at least if I see a homeless people I have not seen before, you're getting that you're getting that dollar and you're giving that track because I I can I pray that God will will save homeless people and rescue them from their soul. Yeah, I'll give you some tracks, right? Yeah yeah, I God can save and we're gonna well I'm I'm glad we're we'll stop there and we'll talk about tracks. I love tracks, give people tracks. Um homeless people, my my wife had uh she created these little goodie bags for homeless people. We put tracts in them. Okay. But but sometimes you don't have those. And unfortunately I didn't see enough homeless people and some of that stuff got rotten. It's like candy and stuff. So But so that's a good idea, but sometimes it doesn't, you know, it just doesn't work. But but yeah, a dollar and some tracks, always carry tracks. Cal um um Spurgeon said that always carry tracks everywhere you go. One thing that my father taught me about as he came across someone and even with the idea of getting money like salia was this we actually offered the woman we go buy her meal. We actually sat with her and it had our entire lunch with her and used that opportunity to talk to her. She knows where we came from or like we just came from church on Sunday. So I mean obviously the car is a little bit different, but there's a Yeah, that's just wonderful. I I encourage that. Okay. Very much so, I believe, is track ministry. with with with random people. Less applicable, I still think applicable with friendship evangelism, people that you're hanging out and conjugating with, but very applicable with with uh with as you're working out in public. You know? As I walked out of Safeway, I saw someone that met my profile, the Holy Spirit prompted me, gave them a track, and they were very receptive. Right? That's the stuff I'm talking about. That that we can do that Um and and we can we can use walking by people in safe way as gospel opportunities. But I'll stop there and we'll talk about tracks more uh next time. Dear Heavenly Father God, I ask that if I have taught your people any error, that you would protect them, that you would erase their mind from and that you would not lead them in any error. God, I ask that you use me and use this class to strengthen your people and encourage your people to share the gospel with us. dying in the lost world. God use us as your hands and your instruments to save your people. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.