So last class, we talked about the relationship between God's sovereignty and human responsibility. We saw that God's sovereignty ultimately, when understood correctly, should invigorate us for evangelism. The reason being is that we know that we will be successful We know that there's an elect out there. We know that God will lead us to the elect, and God will use us as his means to save the elect. We saw that this was Paul's exact attitude in 2 Timothy 2. 10. Here's what he says. Therefore I endure everything for the sake of the elect. That they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. So in this text we see that the motivation for Paul to be willing to endure all the things that he did. endure, which we know were persecution, pain, stoning, rejection, hunger. He endured very great trials. He says that he endures all of this for the sake of the elect. So the fact that he knew that there was a chosen people out there that God had redeemed from the foundation of the world, waiting to hear the gospel and to believe, gave him motivation to go through his trials. It did not make him um inactive. It did not make him think that he could stay at home. It spurred him on. And the latter part of that verse it says, so that they that being the elect also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. What he's saying is that the elect, in order for them to obtain the salvation, God has made Paul the means and his suffering, part of that means For them to believe in the gospel. God not only predestines the ends, the elect salvation, but also the means. In this case, it was his suffering Jesus also has a similar similar attitude when he says, I will build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. What's happening here is Jesus is guaranteeing the fact that his church will be built. There's absolute certainty that the church will in fact be built. Not only that, but he says that the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. There's no chance in the world that the hell is going to defeat the church, for hell is going to be able to prevent people from being snatched out and saved from the fire and get to be with Jesus forever. But again, this should not lead us to idleness, but rather it should encourage us. We should be encouraged that hell cannot destroy the church. We should be encouraged that as we go and seek to win souls, we will in fact find them. In the end, we can think of it this way. Christ will be victorious. Here's what he says in John 6. 37. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. Christ will be victorious. All that the Father gives to Christ will in fact come to him. When did the Father give these people to Christ? from the foundation of the world. So what happens is the Father gives people to Christ before time so that in time they will actually come to him. Now all that the Father gives outside of time will come to him in time, and Jesus says, I will lose nothing. He will lose none of these people, but all that was given to him he will raise up in the last day. This of course is the eschaton. This is what we get the term eschatology from, right? It's the final destination of these people will be with Christ. So this morning, we're going to continue to unpack this theme of how God's sovereignty relates to evangelism and prayer. Ultimately, we'll see that God's final victory is not despite his people, but through his people, especially their evangelism and their prayer. There is no question of whether or not Christ will win the nations. The question is, how will he win them, and how does this relate to us and our efforts? So we're going to return back to a central passage of evangelism. We've gone here many times in the past, and we'll probably go here many times in the future. That central passage, of course, is the Great Commission found in Matthew 28. Starting in verse 19. Here's what that passage says. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. So the question that we're going to pose to this text is, who is being commanded? Who is being commanded to go, to make disciples, to baptize, to teach? Who did Christ say that he will be with until the end of the age? If we look at verse 20, it explicitly tells us, behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. What this means is that we are Christ's means to gather the nations. This is further confirmed By Matthew 4. 19. Here's what Matthew 4. 19 says. Follow me, I will make you fishers of men. So what is Christ's means of gathering the nations? What is Christ's means to gather the fish of men? You. I will make you fishers of men. He did not have to do this He could have simply sent out his Holy Spirit and convicted everyone instantaneously and downloaded the information of the gospel straight to their brains. He could have sent out angels. He could have written it into the sky. But he did not do that. Instead, he decided to use us. I'll call this loving condescension. He decided to allow us to be part of his global restoration of gathering the nations We saw last time that Matthew 4. 19, familiar passage, I will make you fishers of men, actually has an Old Testament root. It comes from an Old Testament passage, and that's Jeremiah 16, starting at verse 14. Here's what that passage says. Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when it shall no longer be said, as the Lord lives, who brought you who brought up the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt. But as the Lord lives, who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country and out of all the countries where he had driven them. For I will bring them back to their own land that I gave to their fathers. Verse sixteen. Behold, I am sending for many fishers, declares the Lord, and they shall catch them. And afterward I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain and every hill and out of the clefts of the rock. So how is it that Christ is going to redeem the people of God? Well, we can look, we can figure this out by tracing this passage a little bit. Verse 14 and 15 says, There's a day coming where the people of God will no longer look to Passover. Passover will be eclipsed. Now, this is quite amazing. Because if anyone who's familiar with the Old Testament, the people of God are constantly looking back to Passover. Because uh or the Passover and looking back to what God did in the Exodus. Because it's quite an amazing event. Here you have the strongest government in the world enslaving the people of God. Here, God, with a mighty hand, rescues the people of God and gives them the promise of the land. This is an amazing event, but this event is prophesied that it will be coming a day where this Passover will be eclipsed by a yet greater restoration. What is this greater restoration? Well, in the greater restoration, the people of God are not isolated to one place, Egypt, but they're scattered all throughout the world. They're in all these countries, all over the place. And God is going to rescue them from every one of those lands and bring them back to the promised land This is a global restoration. This is God saving all of the elect. And this event is what will eclipse Passover. But how is God going to do this wonderful and mighty event? Is he once again going to send a Moses who's going to break the nations? Is that what this text says? No. In fact, if we we find out what it says in verse 16. Is what it says, Behold, I am sending for many fishers, declare the Lord, and they shall catch them. So how is it that God's going to rescue the people from all the nations? It's through not one Moses, but many, many It's by raising up an army of fishermen to catch the fish. Verse 16b further confirms this with repetition. There it says, Afterward I will send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain and every hill and out of the clefts of the rock. This is the very passage that Jesus is alluding to. So when Jesus says that I will make you fishers of men, he's saying that you will be the fulfillment of this passage. You will be my means of gathering the nations. You will be my means of eclipsing Passover. Because I'm going to make you catch all of these people. Now the question for ourselves is: do we view ourselves this way? Do we look in the mirror and see ourselves as fishers of men? Do we look in the mirror and see ourselves as the Lord's mighty hunters to gather his people? I hope so, because that's the way Jesus looks at you. That's the responsibility Jesus places upon us. Now we have to ask ourselves: what do fishers do to prepare To catch its fish. Right? So if you're a fisherman and you see fish out there, what do you need to do in preparation for that? Do you not need to grab the right equipment? How about waking up early and going to where the fish are? Any good fisher is not going to try to fish right here, because there's no fish here. You need to have the right equipment and you need to be at the right place at the right time. It takes preparation. But not only that, any other good fisherman knows that they can be at the right place, at the right time with the right equipment, and still catch no fish. Even with all those things, they still need to rely on God. But ultimately, if we don't even show up to the right place, you'll never catch any fish. We need both. We need to be prepared, we need to go where they are, and we need to rely on God. And this is the exact picture we find in Luke chapter 5. Luke chapter 5, verse 1 says this. On one occasion, while the crowd was pressing in on him to hear the word of God, he was standing by the lake. And he saw two boats by the lake. But the fishermen had gone out of them and were washing their nets. Getting into one of the boats, which was Simon's, he asked them to put out a little from the land, and he sat down and taught the people from the boat. And when they had finished speaking, he said to Simon, Put out into the deep and let down your nets for catch. Verse 5. And Simon answered, Master, we toiled all night and took nothing. But at your word I will let down the nets. And when they had done this, they enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking They signaled to their partners and the other boat to come in and help them. And they saw and were filled, and they came and filled both boats so that they began to sink. But when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I am a sinful man, O Lord. Verse 9. For he And all who were with him were astonished at the catch of the fish that had taken. And also were James and John, sons of Zebedee. Who were partners with Simon. And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on, you will be catching men. Kind of a lengthy passage, so let's break it down. Verse 4 gives us the events of what happens after Jesus is done teaching. Right? So Jesus sees some boats, he gets on the boat, he pushes out because of a large crowd. He starts teaching. Verse four begins to tell us what happens after that. Or what does happen after that? This is what Jesus says put out into the deep and let down your nets for a catch. So after he's done teaching, he starts saying, let's go fishing. Now this is quite odd because we would not expect Jesus, the great teacher, to immediately start going on a fishing trip. Something's going on here. So let's look at what Peter's response to Lord Jesus in verse 5. Here's what the mighty fisherman Peter says: Master, we toiled all night and took nothing, but at your word I will let down The nets. So do you have to unpack what he's really saying here. Basically he's saying, listen, I'll do the fishing, you do the teaching We've been doing this all night. There are no fish out there. But you know what? I don't necessarily believe you, but you're the Lord. I will simply submit to you. That's what he's saying. What happens next? Verse 6 tells us the result of all these things. And when they had done this, they obeyed. They didn't believe, but they obeyed. They enclosed a large number of fish, and their nets were breaking. So even though they didn't necessarily believe Jesus, they went ahead and obeyed, and they got a superabundant catch. So large, in fact, that the nets were breaking. Not only that, when they finally got the nets up there, they were able to fill two boats and they began to sink. So the question is, what does this all mean? Is this all simply about fish? No, it's not. Look at verse 8. Look at Peter's response. Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man, O Lord. Now this is quite odd. If you're a fisherman and you go fishing and you get a super abundant catch, your most likely reaction is praise God. This is a great day. But yet that's not Peter's reaction. Peter's reaction is, get away from me. I'm a sinful man. Right? It's very strange. But it's not that strange because if we biblically uh mind it, we can see that this harkens back something that should remind us. And that of course is Isaiah 6. When Isaiah is caught up to heaven and he beholds God, he says Woe is me, I'm a man of unclean lips, I am undone. When sinful men come into the presence of Almighty God, they see God as how great He is and immediately see how they fall short of that. So what's happening here is Peter's recognizing that the person he just doubted is the Lord himself. And then he recognized his own sinfulness. But it's not only that though. That is the main part of this text, which is something more. Look at verse 10. We see that this is also communicating some kind of powerful picture of what God is going to do. Verse 10 says, And Jesus said to Simon, Do not be afraid. From now on you will be touching men. Here's here's what here's how you put this together. What he's saying is that you have properly recognized me as the Lord. But do not be afraid, because of course Jesus Christ is going to propitiate, he's going to take the sins from Peter. But not only that, now the sovereign Lord, instead of being Peter's enemy, is going to be Peter's Friend. He's going to be the sovereign Lord is going to be behind Peter and allow him to be a great fisher of men. The same God that we are afraid of is the same God who is our greatest help. So we we need to also recognize that God will be our supporter. God is the one who's commissioned us, God is behind our mission. But we like Any fisherman must use the right equipment. And what's the right equipment? Romans 1. 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. So the the right equipment to catch the fish is the gospel. It is only the power of the gospel That can save a sinner and deter them is the power of salvation for everyone who believes. Not our friendship, not our relationships Not our intelligence, none of that. Those things can be helpful, but ultimately it's only the power of the gospel that can save a sinner We see the same thing in 1 Corinthians 1. 21b. It said, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. It's the foolishness of preaching. That God has appointed. Not your own foolishness, hopefully. It's the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. But not only is the right equipment preaching and the gospel and evangelism, but also prayer. I'm going to try to prove this from a few passages. Can you turn your Bibles to Matthew 9? Matthew 9, and I'm gonna begin at verse 35. That's Matthew 9, beginning at verse 35. Here's what the word of God says And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them, because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest So in verse 36, we see that Jesus sees the crowd and has compassion on them because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shadow. And this kind of ties into the class that we had about the horrible realities of hell. When we see people and we know that they're not only destroying themselves in this life, but they're destroying themselves for eternity, we should be moved with compassion. That's what Jesus has. Jesus is knows all about election. Jesus knows all about the sovereignty of God, but that does not stop Jesus from seeing people going to hell and having compassion on them. We too should have compassion on them. But what does the Lord's compassion lead to? What is his plan because of this compassion? Well it leads to verse 37. Look what he says. The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. His great plan , his great reaction to the desperate need of the people is by telling us to pray to him to send out more laborers. See that? That's his plan. The question is, when we see the compassion of the nations and the people and our friends, are we having the same reaction as Jesus Christ? Is it resulting in us to pray to Him to send out more laborers? Are we praying this? This is not an isolated or obscure passage. This idea of praying to the Lord of the harvest to send out more laborers and to see the nation saved. No, it's not. Matthew 6:9. Familiar passage. It's what's called the Lord's Prayer. Here's where it says. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us of our debts, as we also forgive our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. The question is when we have this model prayer, is how often should we pray this? Well, look at verse 11. Give us this day our daily bread. So as long as you need food, which is of course daily, is how often we should pray this? Our daily bread. This is a prayer that should be prayed daily. And what kind of things should we pray daily? Well, verse 12 asks for forgiveness of our sins. The latter part of that says that we should also ask for God to help us to forgive others who sinned against us. Not only that, verse 13, we should be praying, don't lead us into temptation. We should be praying for sanctification and deliverance of sin. Verse 9 tells us that we should be praying thanksgiving and praise to God. Hallowed be your name. But not only that Look at verse 10 again. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. This is an evangelistic prayer. What it's saying is, just as we constantly need for God to help us to have food, to overcome sin, as he deserves praise, so he deserves for us to ask him to help us evangelize. Not just us help the gospel to spread throughout the world. This is something that we should be doing daily. Why do I say this? Well look at Matthew 24, 14. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, then the end will come. So what is stopping God's kingdom from coming, his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven? It's the spread of the gospel So as we continue to pray for God's kingdom to come, what we're really saying is, God, let your gospel continue to spread so that your kingdom can come. We're not asking God to break his own word. We're asking God to fulfill his word. Here's what William Carey once said. He said, expect great things from God, attempt great things for God. Now here's how I break down that statement and how I understand it. When he says, Expect great things from God, I believe this is the salvation of the nations. What could be greater from God than to redeem All peoples, tribes, tongues, and nations, so that they bow before the throne and be before him who is worthy of our praise. That is the greatest thing we can ever expect from God. And we should expect it because he said it will happen And so then on that latter part of that statement, when he says, attempt great things for God, I understand this as a salvation of a dead sinner. What greater thing could you ever attempt than to see someone who is spiritually dead be changed? I don't know if anyone's ever tried to change someone, or even yourself, you know it is nearly impossible to do that. To change a dead sinner And to have them to be a vibrant believer who loves Christ is an impossible task. And this is the great thing that we should attempt for God. But I think that William Carey's statement is lacking something. I think he lacketh one thing. So this is how I would change his statement. Expect great things from God, attempt great things for God, pray great things to God. I think he lacks this idea that we should be praying great things to God And so here's my question for all of us. Are we praying great things to God? What kind of great things? Lord of the harvest, send out laborers into your harvest. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. These are certainly great things. And we don't need to just pray these things once, but as I tried to prove from the Lord's Prayer, we should be praying these things earnestly. Continuously, daily. Let's look at 1 Peter 3. 7. Try to make some sense of all this. 1 Peter 3. 7 says this. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life so that your prayers may not be hindered. May I contend, for many this scripture makes no sense Sure, we all get that Peter is trying to motivate the husband to love his wife. We all get that, right? But I think the thing that doesn't make any sense is the the the warning The purpose clause that he gives. What does he say? Because if you don't, your prayers will be hindered. Here's my question. How many Christians actually care about this at all? How many people could actually be motivated by their prayers being hindered? What do I mean by that? If your prayers were hindered, what would that affect? How would that motivate you and spurn you on to live a holy life? I argue that this should be a terrifying reality. Why? Because we should be praying big things. If God isn't answering my prayers, this is terrible. Because I'm praying big things. What kind of things? Well, we should be praying for our own sanctification. We should recognize that our sanctification, our ability to overcome sin, as we saw in the Lord's Prayer, is based on our prayers to the God who can change our evil hearts. Not only that, but we should be praying for the sanctification of others. We should be interceding for each other. If God is hindering my prayer, this is very detrimental because I can't be praying for your sanctification. Not only that, we should be praying for our own evangelistic attempts. If God is hindering my prayers, then my evangelism is vain because I can't catch any fish without the Lord of the harvest being with me. Not only should I be praying for my own evangelism, but I should be praying for other people's evangelism. And God hindering my prayers will be detrimental for their ministry. All of these things should affect us and that's what Peter is assuming that we recognize this, so when he's threatening that your prayers will be hindered, this should be a great and terrifying reality that will say I better make sure I have proper relationship to my wife or any other Christian for that. We should be praying big things. Praying for the salvation of our children or other people's children, for our friends, for the success of the gospel. for open doors for the gospel, for our churches to grow, for Christian maturity, for overcoming sin. Should we be praying big things? An example of this we can find is in Colossians 2. 2 about some of these praying big things. Colossians 2. 2 says this. This is Paul speaking. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word. To declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear which is how I ought to speak. So in verse 3, we see clearly that Paul asked for prayer. He asked that God may open to us a door for the word to declare the mystery of God. That was not Colossians? Colossians 14. Sorry about that. It is in the Bible. I'm sorry. I didn't make that up. Thank you. Um Colossians 14, I'm sorry. Okay. In verse 3, though, we have that Paul asks that God may open a door to us for the word to declare the mystery of Christ. Now we have to remember who is this saying? Again, it's the Apostle Paul. He's the one who got his own personal commission in Acts 9. 15. Here's what Acts 9. 15, Paul's personal commission says. He is a chosen vessel of mine to carry my name before the Gentiles and the kings and the children of Israel So God had already prophesied the very act of saving Paul that this guy is going to be his chosen means to preach the gospel all throughout the world But yet, Paul doesn't say, well, this is guaranteed, so I don't need prayer. No, he actually asks us to pray for him. And what kind of things? For God to open the door for the word. The mystery of Christ. If Paul needed prayer for his ministry, why do we think that we don't need prayer for our ministry? Or put it differently, if Paul needed prayer for his ministry, why do we think any missionary out there doesn't need our prayers as well? How much more do they need? Our prayers. They're not an apostle. They need our prayers. This isn't just some kind of sentimental thing. Please pray for me. No, this is the Bible. The very Word of God that says that our sins will be forgiven if we trust Jesus Christ is the same word of God that says we need to be praying for other people's ministry. That there that the Word of God can go forth, and that an open door will be brought to them. Not only does he ask for open doors, but verse 4 says, that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to speak. Paul is asking for you to pray for him so that when he is trying to communicate the gospel, he can communicate it in a good and clear way. I find this absolutely incredible. Where do we get the gospel from? It's primarily from Paul. It's his scriptures that he gives us such a clear picture of the gospel, but yet Paul here asks for us to help him through prayer that he may communicate the gospel effectively. Now again, if Paul needed this, how much more do we need this when we're trying to share the gospel? I don't think here though that Paul is saying that somehow he's having some kind of brain slippage or brain freezes and he doesn't know how to do the gospel anymore I think what he's saying is he's recognizing as a man that when he's trying to give the gospel, oftentimes it's a stressful situation. And we're oftentimes, because of the stressful situation, we're often tempted not to give the gospel, but to water it down so the person in front of us is not offended. But yet Paul is saying, pray for me that I don't do this, because this is not the way that the gospel should go forth. Again, if Paul needed this, we need this, and our brothers out there sharing the gospel all throughout the world also need this. Paul is completely dependent on prayer, or we completely dependent on prayer. Every time a missionary has ever come here, I've always seen them always beg us to pray for them. I think that they're begging us to pray for them, not again to be sentimental, not to sound Christian or sound to be speaking Christianese, but because they recognize out there that they can have no success without the Lord of the harvest. activating them and opening the door for them. The success of evangelism, I'm arguing, is completely dependent upon prayer. Prayer is the most powerful weapon that we have. Paradoxically, I will argue, prayer is the most neglected weapon that. We have. Here's what John Piper says. I do not tire of saying to our church the number one reason why prayer malfunctions in the hands of a believer. is that they turn a wartime walkie-talkie into a domestic intercon. I'll read that again. He says, I do not tire of saying to our church The number one reason why prayer malfunctions in the hands of believers is that they try to turn a wartime walkie-talkie into a domestic intercom. What is he saying? He's saying that prayer is supposed to be a wartime weapon where we see strategic targets out there are sanctification, the spread of the gospel, these kind of things, sanctification needed in other people. And we're supposed to walkie -talkie that back into God so that God Through his power eliminates the enemy. That's what prayer is. It's a weapon. But instead, we make it a domestic intercom calling in more pleasure for us. I want more convenience. I want more entertainment. I want more pleasure. And this does not work. And so what do we do? We keep calling in these pleasures. It's not working. We say this thing is useless. We don't usually say that with our lips, but we feel that way. It's not working, and we jettison it. I believe that the devil, that one of the reasons that prayer is, another reason, should I say, that prayer is difficult for believers is because the devil often believes in prayer more than we do. Why do I say that? Because the devil's been around for a long time. And the devil has seen lots of prayers answered. He sees the power of prayer. He believes in it often more than we do. So the devil's main aim is to keep you from praying. Because he knows if he can keep you from praying, he can gain major strategic advances and hinder your ministry Why do I mention the devil? Because he's a real person. And the Bible teaches that we really are in a real spiritual battle. This is not myth. This is not pretend. Ephesians 6:12 says this for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness. Against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We are wrestling with the devil, not only the devil, but with his entire army of demons. They do mess with us, and they do try to prevent us from praying. I've noticed that the two hardest things for the believer to often do is to read God's word and to pray. And of these two, I have found that prayer is often the most difficult thing for us to do. Here's what one pastor once said I find it true that in my own life that prayer is one of the spiritual disciplines that is most difficult for me to engage in regularly. This is a pastor. This is a leader of our church saying that he admitting that prayer is difficult for him to do regularly. It is. It's very difficult. Another pastor once said this. If you want to humble a man, ask him about his prayer life Now, here's what I'm not trying to do. I'm not trying to beat you up. But rather I'm trying to encourage you. I'm trying to tell you that the devil is trying to keep you from praying for a reason. And it's because it's so powerful. It is so powerful. 1 John, can you turn your Bibles to 1 John? 1 John 5. 13 is an incredible text. And it's all about prayer. 1 John 13 shows us the utter importance of prayer. Here's what it says: I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God. That you may know that you have eternal life. And this is the confidence that we have toward Him. That if we ask anything according to His will, He hears us, and we know that He hears us in whatever we ask. We know that we have the request that we have asked of him. So verse 13, we're all probably familiar with this Because there's a great passage that tells us that we should have assurance of eternal assurance, excuse me, of eternal life. But the question is why in this passage This John so concerned about us uh us having assurance of eternal life. It's not simply an end, but it's a means to an end What's the reason? Verse 14. And this is the confidence that we have toward him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. Here's what he's saying. The reason I want you to have assurance of eternal life is so that you can pray. Because you can't have confidence that you can go to God with your request if you think that God is mad at you If you think that you're a dirty sinner that God wants to destroy, you have no ability to pray. The only prayer that you can really pray is trying to reconcile your relationship with God. So he's trying to say, I want you to understand that you're saved. That way you can have confidence to pray to God. Now what kind of prayer does he want us to give? Well, we look down at verse 16. Here's the example of the prayer that he wants us to ask. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, He shall ask, and God will give him life. So the very example of prayer that he gives is other-centered prayer. This is called intercessory prayer. He wants us to have assurance of our salvation so we can make requests to him about others, about other people. Verse 14 says that if anything we ask according to his will, he hears us. This is God's promise. The God who says that he cannot lie, he will not lie, promises that if we ask him something according to his will, he will hear us. James 4. 2 says, you do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. The problem is never God. God promises that He will answer our prayers. The two central problems is that first we do not ask. And secondly, when we do ask, we do not receive because you asked wrongly to spend it on your prayer. pleasures. God says, ask me according to my will and I will do it. Unfortunately, so many times we ask according to our will and expect God to amen that. He will not So what kind of things can we guarantee to know that it's according to God's will? How about this? To open doors for the gospel To help believers communicate the gospel as it ought to be preached, to send out more laborers into the harvest, for God's kingdom to come and his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven, for Christ's church to be built. Do we know that all of those prayers and all of those requests are according to God's will? Yes we do, because all of those requests came from God's Word Himself. And all of those requests are big requests that we cannot have hindered We have a great opportunity to be part of God's kingdom. I remember when I first got saved, I would constantly pray to God, God, use me. Here I am, a redeemed sinner. God used me. And I wanted to be used for great purposes. Well, what greater purpose would be than any of these requests? Open doors for the gospel. Believers communicating the gospels effectively as they ought. too. Sending out more laborers into the harvest. For God's kingdom to become and his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven and for Christ's church to be built. There are no greater bequest than this. Matthew 7-7 says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Nark and it will be open to you, for every one who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and the one who narks it will be open. God has told us many times in his word that if we ask according to his will, he will in fact hear our prayers. But God doesn't just want us to ask once. Often we have all probably prayed these prayers once, but he wants us to do this continuously, earnestly, fervently. We have an example of this in Luke 4. 5. It's an incredible parable. Here's what it says, Luke 4. 5. And he said to them, Which of you who has a friend Will go to him at midnight and say to him, Friend, lend me three loaves. For a friend of mine has arrived On a journey, and I have nothing to set before him. And he will answer from within: Do not bother me, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed. So so so what's the context? Here's what happens. You're sitting there at your house and another friend of yours shows up late at night. Okay? You don't have the right stuff. There is no stateway that's 24 hours available anymore in this kind of place. So what do you have to do? You have to go to your neighbor and hope that he has the right goods. So you go over at midnight and bang on the other neighbor's door so that he can give you stuff. He's your friend. He can give you stuff so that you can properly serve someone else. That's the drama. That's the scene. But look what the man says, this friend of yours, this so-called friend. He will answer from within: Do not bother me, the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed I cannot get up and give you anything. Leave me alone. I don't feel like getting up. That's what he says. Verse 8. I tell you, though he would not get up to give him anything because he is his friend And I love the way that the NIV translates this. Yet because of his shameless audacity, he will rise up and give him whatever he needs. What's he saying? Because the friend keeps banging on his door and nagging him, he will finally get up and give him the bread so he can be serving his other friend. Now the point of this parable is that what's being said is, if a wicked friend, after you persist, shamelessly be persistent or shameless audacity, Well, give you what you need. How much more will the holy God give you what you need if you are persistent? God wants us to be persistent. I think oftentimes we get discouraged because we think, oh, I'm just going to pray once. And if I don't know if I don't see anything coming my way, it must not be God's will. No. God explicitly tells you to have shameless audacity and keep banging on that door until God answers your prayers. Luke 18, verse 1 says this. And he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not to lose heart. So, this is an incredible parable because the beginning of it tells you what the meaning of it already is. He wants us to continue to pray and not to lose heart. Verse 2. And he said, In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, Give me justice against my adversary. For while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because his widow keeps bothering me, I will give her justice So that she will not beat me down by her continual coming. And the Lord said, Hear what the unrighteous judge says. Will not God give justice to his elect? Who cry to him day and night? Will he delay long over them? I tell you, he will give them justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth. For me, this text cuts me to the heart. Why? Because verse 7 says very clearly that God will give justice to his elect who cry to him day and And he's not going to delay over them long, but he'll give them justice speedily. That's good. That's great news. That makes my heart sink. But look at the latter part of verse 8. This is what cuts me. Nevertheless will the Son of Man, when the Son of Man comes, will he find fate on the earth? The reason I said this cuts me is what he's saying is this. The Lord will keep answering his people's prayers. But as the Lord delays his coming, will his people keep praying to him? Will they have the faith to keep praying to the Lord as the time goes longer and longer? And we, by very definition, are the people farthest away from the first coming. And so we are the people who he's delayed the longest. So though the Lord comes now, will he find faith on the earth? Will he find us continuing to be steadfast in prayer? Or will we simply give up? For we lose heart. This is terribly illustrated in the life of the apostles in Mark 14, 32. Here's this passage that illustrates people giving up on prayer. And when they went to a place called Gethsemane, and he said to his disciples, sit here while I pray. He took with him Peter, James, and John And began to be greatly distressed and troubled. And he said to them, My soul is very sorrowful even to death. Remain here and watch. And going a little farther, he fell on the ground and prayed. If it were possible, the hour might pass from him. And he said, Abba Father, all things are possible for you. Remove this cut from me, not what I will, but what you will. And he came and found them sleeping. And he said to Peter, Simon, Peter, Simon, are you asleep? Could you not watch one hour? Watch and pray that you may not enter into temptation. The spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak. And again he went away and prayed, saying the same words. And again he came and found them sleeping, for their eyes were very heavy, and they did not know what to answer him And he came a third time and said to them, Are you still sleeping and taking your rest? This scripture is absolutely terrible because often are we not the disciples sleeping. Are we not the people who cannot watch and pray, but are rather taking a nap? We're supposed to be like Jesus praying and overcoming the enemy, but unfortunately we're often like the disciples. Let me try to bring this out a little bit more. How many times did Peter betray the Lord? He betrayed the Lord three times. How many times did Peter fail to pray? Three times. It is my contention that Peter lost the battle in the garden. It's my contention that we often lose the battle in the garden, just like Peter when we fail to pray. On the flip side, Jesus won the battle. In the garden. Now some might say, oh yes, but that is Jesus. Of course, he is not an example for us. He is Jesus. He always does what is right, not like us But that is incorrect because Hebrews 2 seventeen says Jesus had to be made like his brothers in every way that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest and the servants of God in order to make atonement for the sons of his people The whole book of Hebrews is telling us that Jesus was just like us, saved sin. He was truly man. He really is our example. He gives us his Holy Spirit to follow after him. Not only that, James 5. 16 says this, the prayer of a righteous man has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain And for three years and six months it did not rain on earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and on earth bore its fruit So here is the example of Elijah as the examples of the effectiveness of a praying man or praying person. And it explicitly says that he's just like us. Because ultimately, God is not answering your prayers because you're some kind of stupid Christian or something like that. It's ultimately answering your prayers because they're his prayers. They're his requests. They're according to his will. The prayer of a righteous man availeth much. D. L. Moody once said, The world has not yet has yet to see what a man can do with a man fully consecrated to him. By God's help, I aim to be that man. Brothers, will you consecrate yourself to God by being a person of prayer? Another great man once said, The world has not yet seen the potential of man who is not willing to receive. the credit. The reality is the ministry of prayer is not glorious. It should not be. It is not something that others should see. Matthew six five says when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret, and your father who is in secret will reward you. So prayer by definition is not glorious. Prayer by definition should be secret. Paul gives this analogy, when he gives this analogy about the spiritual gifts and the connection of the body in 1 Corinthians 12, 23, here's what he says. The parts of the body that are seen, that seem to be weaker, are indispensable. And those parts of the body that we think less honorable, we bestow the greater honor. And our presenta unpresentable parts are treated with greater modesty, which our more presentable parts do not require But God has so composed the body, giving greater honor to the part that lacked it. What is he saying? He's saying that prayer is one of the greatest spiritual gifts. Why? Because it's not exposed. It's covered. But these covered gifts are absolutely indispensable. And in fact, they have the greater honor. Because your father who sees you in secret will reward you. He sees it. You get glory from Him. It's unseen by man, but greatly honored by God. Here's what Spurgeon once said Spurgeon was asked to account for why his ministry was so successful. He said without hesitation, My people pray for me. Spurgeon believed that the success of his ministry was because of the faithful prayers of his people. And I think that as we've seen throughout the Bible, Spurgeon was absolutely correct. In sum, God has a plan to win the nations. His plan is not without you, but through you. He makes you a fisher of men. And as a fisher of men, we need to use the right equipment. What is the right equipment? It's evangelism, sharing the gospel, the only message that has the power of salvation within it. Not only do we need to be sharing the gospel, but we need to be praying for salvation. Sam Storms sums it up this way. The God who is pleased to ordain the salvation of sinners based solely on his good pleasure is no less pleased to ordain that he will save them in response to the prayers and evangelism of his people. Whom he previously saved through the same means. Recall that evangelism is when we speak to men about God. Prayer is when we talk to God about men. Both are terribly neglected and both are absolutely essential. Let us do as one great man once said: plant the seed in evangelism and water it through the tears of our prayers. We cannot expect the kingdom to advance in our lives if we're not praying. Prayer is absolutely essential. Okay. Any we have a little bit of time. Any questions, comments, concerns, amends? So you use the analogy of fishermen. The thing that kept coming to mind was any anyone who's gone up to you can go buy all the equipment in the world. You can get the best equipment, but at some point someone has to teach you how to use it. Um what's the analogy with what you present for mental is you can have God's word. You can memorize literally the entire Bible But whereas the training courses know this is how you you know, how you learn what it means to evangelize. Yeah. Uh analogies are always dangerous. He can go strange places. I don't think he went to a strange place, I think he went to a helpful place, but they can't do that, right? Um I I think there's a couple answers to that. One Um John says that you have no need for a teacher. We don't go too shream here. But he says you have no need for a teacher. The Holy Spirit is your teacher So I I think there's some truth to that. I I I'll tell you this. When I first got saved, I like many people, I wasn't saved as a small child was saved as uh a teenager, I started sharing the gospel to everyone I could find And that was some of the most fruitful season of my life. One of the reasons because there's a bunch of unbelievers that's seen God's transformation. Right. transforming power in my life. That was a lot better than any argument I could ever give. So the point being though is I just had zeal. I wanted to share the gospel. So I think often, and this is the complexity of this classes That I will get into what you're saying about how to actually share the gospel, right, and all of that other stuff. But honestly, one of my strongest contentions is just do it Just share the gospel. Okay? The same gospel. Every Christian is equipped to share the gospel. Why? Because if you're not, you're not saved. Because you must know the gospel to believe it to be saved. So you have the ability, stuttering and all, or whatever. To share that with somebody else and God can use that. So the very first is we just need to share the gospel. The second being though is absolutely the church should be equipping people. And hopefully that this um Man, I've been doing a good job. Hopefully I'm trying to help uh equip that and and to actually to actually share that. Not only that, we should have uh ministries where where one of the problems is the church is being blamed for not being able to do everything in an hour. Or two hours on Sunday. The church is way past Sunday though. It should be people getting with other people. You know. One person saying, I'm not very good at evangelism. You seem to have a gift of evangelism. Not saying me, but someone else. Or maybe me. Who doesn't matter doesn't matter. Going saying, Hey, can you help me? Can you take me along? Right? Why does it have to be limited to just here and now? We're not evangelizing anybody here and now. We're just talking about evangelism. Evangelism is out there. And so we definitely need to be um Going next to each other and saying, you know, I like Way of the Mass, I don't like Way of the Mass, I like Evangelism Explosion, whatever. And getting these things and cross-pollinating each other. And in the workforce we call this best tactic. They say we don't want to have cylinders of excellence. That's absolutely right. We want to have the whole the whole body being excellent and being trained out there. But the main thing is what I really am going to argue, and I and I'll have some classes on this, it's just do it. 90 % of evangelism is showing up and looking around. Saying, God, where where? Where where should I go? I can tell you that I'll tell you one one time one time that I evangelized someone just recently is that here I am walking through the metro and I'm just praying That God show me someone to share your gospel with. And I see this person. And the Holy Spirit led me to go to this person. Now I'm on the metro. I don't have a lot of time. I don't have there's no time for friendship evangelism. I gotta train, and he does too. He doesn't want to talk to me. Right? But I'm just God show me. And the Holy Spirit said I should be able to talk to this person. Not saying audibly, I just felt the Holy Spirit leading me into that person. Right? So I pull out my track and I try to give it to him. He looks at me like he's gonna punch me. This may not encourage you to do this, but I'm just hey, he looked very angry at me. And and I walk away. Trusting God. But the point is, he looked kind of angry at me. And I was like, oh, okay, whatever And but then he took it. He then took it. Then later on when I got onto the next train, and I'll explain why I did that later. Um got onto the next train, guess what I saw? I saw him reading distract. Many people would say that that that kind of evangelism is useless and shouldn't be done. I'm just telling you that that person was reading the gospel. And I thank God for it. I don't get any glory for that. But that's what God did. So I think the main thing is that we need to be relying on the Holy Spirit. We don't have because we don't ask. How many times do we go in public and say, God, show me someone to witness to? I know somebody, I've heard about this person, who walks around campuses praying, God, show me someone to witness to. They don't hand out tracts, they just talk to them. Go around campus. Pray. So Jamie, you're you know you brought up a lot of scripture um and and focused in on the uh the We should be praying big prayers. Um the application of the local church in our corporate gatherings as we pray, which should be the all of what we're praying for. Right should be you know uh big things or small things So y I think it's the golden name. It's about. Right? Um I think I think that I I'm very encouraged by the fact that in our evangelism section we're praying for the nations. That's a big prayer. Right. That's an absolute wonderful prayer. We're praying for the salvation of children. Um I think that's that's all wonderful. Um I I think we can we can uh get extreme though here and say, well I'm just gonna big I'm just gonna pray big prayers and not little prayers Thank you. John. It says, Beloved, I pray that you that all may go well with you, and that you may be in good health. As it goes well with your soul. See that? He's praying that all things go well with them. And he be in good health. So some people, I know, get so extreme on this. We don't care about your health requests. You pray for that by yourself We're just gonna pray for salvation. And I'm saying that's unbiblical. That the fact is that here is the wonderful John in scripture. He he says I don't want to write very many things. I want to speak to you face to face. And one of the few things he wrote is I pray. That not only your soul prosper, but that you be in good health. So I think that we should be praying all things. If the Holy Spirit is leading you to pray about something, pray about it. You know? If I'm telling you if my knee starts hurting, that's gonna be a major prayer for me. It's my knee and I and I hope I'm not looked down upon for that. Right? Um but at the same time we c we I I think that that's not the problem in the church usually Usually the problem is not about knee pain. We're pretty good at that. We're not so good often about praying these big prayers, right, in our daily lives. We're very, very narrowly focused. Right? And because here's the amazing thing, and this is