So good morning. Last class we looked at how God has made us, the church, fishers of men. We also saw that the Bible also calls us hunters of men. And this distinction between fishers of men and hunters of men is really just synonymous parallelism. They're really the same concept. We saw this from passages like Matthew 4. 19, which says, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. What this means is that God is using us as His means for His plan of the global restoration of the nations. God could have done it in many ways, but in God's loving condescension, he decides that he wants to allow us to have a part of his plan. And it's so wonderful. Not only has God decided to entrust the salvation of the entire world through us earthen vessels. But the more glorious thing is he is guaranteed through his Holy Spirit that this means we'll actually be successful. And we saw that in passages like Revelation 7. 9. Here's what that passage says. After this I looked and behold, a great multitude that no one could number, from every tribe, from every nation, from all the tribes and peoples and languages. Standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands So God will use us, and we will be successful for gathering the nations, people from every tribe. Every nation, peoples, and languages, it's a reversing of Babel. Babel will be brought back with all these people serving God. We then saw, as we continued to look at this analogy of these hunters and fishers of men, that we must use the right instrument. And the right instrument is the gospel, which has the power of salvation to all who believe in prayer. Then, as we continue to look at this analogy of fishermen or hunters, not only do we need the right instrument, but we need to use those right instruments in the proper way. And the proper way that I tried to argue was to just use them. These instruments are so powerful and so effective that if we just use them, just dip them in the water, the fish will jump out. That's the power of our God. That's the power of the gospel. And that's the power of prayer. The reason being is the power of the gospel It's always been in the message of the gospel and never been in the method of the gospel. And I tried to prove this from passages like 2 Corinthians 2. 15, which says, For we are the aroma of Christ to God, among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To one a fragrance from death to death, to the other a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things? The fact of the matter is, we cannot help but be the aroma of life to life to those who are being saved. And that's really good news. Likewise, unfortunately, we cannot help but be an aroma of death to death to those who are not being saved. Because ultimately, we are to smell like Christ. We are to be little Christ, little messiahs representing the great Messiah, Jesus Christ. And if people don't like him, they won't like you. Or put it differently. If they don't like him, they do like you, there's something wrong. And that's not evangelism. We saw this elsewhere in 1 Corinthians 1. 18. This is what that passage says. For the word of the cross is foolishness for those who are perishing. But it is the power of God to us who are being saved. There is no intellectual argument, there's no sophisticated speech or nice outfit that will make a message to some that seems like foolishness become The power of God. It won't happen. No amount of C. S. Lewis reading or any other books. I love C. S. Lewis. Don't get me wrong. But none of that is going to change the fact that for some people they will see the cross and say that is foolishness. Likewise. No amount of your friends in their atheistic reading, no matter how many books of Charles Darwin they have read Or anybody else for that matter, none of that will prevent, when they hear the gospel, it being the power of God for salvation. Because it's ultimately the power is in the message and not the method. As one man once said Successful evangelism is presenting the gospel in the power of Jesus Christ and leaving the results up to God. I think that bears repeating. Successful evangelism is presenting the gospel and the power of Jesus Christ and leaving the results up to God. Brothers and sisters, we are called not to be fruitful, but rather to be faithful. All we can do is plant. We cannot make it grow. Here's what another passage says. I, Paul, planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth. Or John 4. 38 says, I sent you to reap for that which you did not labor. Others have labored, and you have entered into their labor. Her job is to be faithful and not fruitful. God is responsible for being fruitful. And oftentimes God will use multiple people planting, multiple people watering, and later on God brings the increase. So if we're planting, right, and someone else is watering, we're not seeing any growth, we shouldn't automatically think that we have failed, that we need to scratch this method and come up with a new method. No. God is often During like John 438, having other people start to plant and water and then send somebody else to go back and to reap. In light of all this What I tried to argue last time is that there is not one method of evangelism that works, but every method of evangelism works. And I gave a few examples I said that it would work if we handed gospel tracts to strangers. I said it would work if we invited people to come to church and they hear the gospel. Door-to-door evangelism works. Friendship evangelism works Even writing letters to your friends and family, telling them either your testimony or the gospel, that can in fact work. In fact, I met someone like that. Their cousin got saved. So what they did is they wrote a letter and gave an evangelistic book to this person. They read it and they got saved. It's incredible. God can do that kind of thing. Even sharing our personal testimony can work. The reality is all evangelism can work. We just need to be faithful to do it. I also pleaded with you last time not to limit your evangelism to simply building up the local church. Okay. I'm not against the local church. In fact I would I am I love the local church. I think every person should be getting into the local church. But my point being is the kingdom of God is bigger than this local church. The kingdom of God includes all of the local churches. We should not limit our evangelism to what will cause another body to be here. But we should be thinking, how can we get another body somewhere in some church? Because the reality is, if you evangelize someone and they go to the church right down the street from them, with their mom or their cousin or anybody else for that matter, you have the net growth of the Christian faith has grown Right? We're to build the kingdom of God, not simply our own churches. Now, hopefully, in our evangelism effort, we also build our own church. Right? Because we're a lighthouse, we're a forechurch for God. But don't limit your evangelism to that which is going to ensure the most likely possibility that they're going to be sitting there next to you. Because you'll really be limiting your ministry. There's already the absurdity of this. Imagine trying to imagine not evangelizing someone at work because they live on the other side of the city. That would be crazy Right? You should be willing to evangelize them and then send them to ninemarks. com, just one site, and then say, hey, go to that church over there. Because we're trying to build the kingdom of God, not just our own churches. I also exhorted you all not to just want to be reapers, people who leading people to the Lord's Prayer and seeing them converted immediately, but also be willing to be sowers. And believing with the eyes of faith that God will bring those people to belief. Are we willing to be the other people? 2 Corinthians 5. 7 says, we walk by faith, not by sight. We want to be people who are willing to sow. Right? Willing to do even little steps, things that might not be impressive to anybody else, but believing that God can, in fact, use them. One man said that it takes about twenty-five presentations of the gospel For someone to accept. And 24 of those presentations, they rejected. But and then the 25th, they finally accept. And oftentimes, if someone accepts, we think we're real good stuff. We think we did something really special. We're like, write that down. What did I do? But the reality is you're just number 25. All 24 rejections are just as important as number 25. And what I'm trying to encourage you is Most of us will have to be 1 through 24, just statistically. Okay? Are you willing to be 1 through 24 Are you willing to be one of those people that get rejected so that someone else can come on in an airplane, ask them if they know Jesus, they break down in tears, get converted at the moment, and they go sell all their friends Are we willing to be 24 rejections for that one acceptance? I encourage you to be that. Corey Ten Boom says this. When I enter that beautiful city and all the saints around me appear, I hope that someone will tell me it was you who invited me here. And that's my great hope. My great hope is when I get into heaven, I'm going to be greeted by people that are going to say, you know, I didn't even know you. Or I barely knew you. And you know, something that you did was a part of the reason why I later accepted the gospel. I shared my testimony with you, and really almost of all the people that were people that I will greet and say thank you for doing that Almost none of them I was able to thank at the moment because I didn't get saved at the moment. They were part of my twenty-four rejections. Well when I do see them in heaven I will thank them because they were faithful. And they were no better than the twenty-fifth acceptance. We need to remember, as a great man once said, ninety percent of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention. But that's the 90%. What about the other 10%? Furthermore, what do we do about passages like 1 Peter 3? 15, which says, always be prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason for the hope that is in you. Yet do it with gentleness and respect That part when it says always be prepared seems at service to contradict what I just said. 90% of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention Well, showing up and paying attention doesn't sound quite like always being prepared. Moreover, what do we do if they ask a question that we don't know the answer to? How many people of us, or people in general, hesitate to share the gospel because they feel inadequate? They feel that they don't know all the answers, and they're sure that maybe this person can ask them a question that will stump It's a hesitation. them Most people don't want to share the gospel because they recognize that they are fallible and finite. And they don't have all the answers. And they're afraid that they will be inadequate for the task. Well, I have interesting news for all of us. This is a common temptation. We all go through this at different times. The interesting news is that none of us are truly adequate for this task. That's why Paul says, who is sufficient for these things? The answer is nobody. But I do have good news. God doesn't call the qualified, he calls the unqualified. The reality is God can use you in your failures and in your ignorance to still save a soul. Here's what 2 Corinthians 4. 7 says. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellence of the power may be of God and not of us. This is a lovely scripture because it describes us as the earthen vessel. But we have this treasure of the gospel of the Holy Spirit inside of us. And the reason God does this It 's so that it be it can become very clear that the power is from God and not us. My evangelism teacher in seminary Said that he once had a conversation with Billy Graham. And he asked Billy Graham, after all of these years of you sharing the gospel and evangelizing, when you're in a one-on-one situation, do you still get nervous And Billy Graham, he said that Billy Graham looked at him like he was an idiot and said, of course I get nervous every time. And Billy Graham said, I think the reason why God allows me to get nervous is otherwise we would think the power comes from us instead of coming from God. Okay? So what I'm trying to get at here is we can never no matter how much you polish this up and no matter how much knowledge you put inside you can never stop being an earthen vessel But you are a container for the treasure of the gospel, so that the power may be of God and not us. He goes on in that passage and says, We are hard-pressed on every side. yet not crushed. We are perplexed, but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, struck down but not destroyed, always carrying about in the body the dying of the Lord Jesus, that the life of Jesus also may be manifest in our body. See? We are weak, but God is strong. We are being destroyed, but we are manifesting God through our body. He goes on and says this, for we who live are always delivered to death for Jesus' sake, that the life of Jesus also may be manifested in our mortal flesh. That's evangelism. Evangelism is not showing people more of you. Evangelism is showing more of Jesus through you. Okay? People get converted by seeing Christ's beauty. Nobody will ever get converted by seeing your own beauty. They might become your friend, but they're certainly not going to be Jesus' friend unless they see him. So, what do we do though if someone asks us a question that we don't know? How do we handle this situation? Please turn your Bibles to John chapter 9. John chapter 9, beginning in verse 13. We're going to look at two things if we go to this passage. We're going to look at how not to answer questions. The bad example. And we're going to look at how to properly answer questions. The good example. That's John chapter 9, verse 13. Here's what it says. They brought to the Pharisees the man who had been formerly been blind. Now it was the Sabbath day when Jesus made the mud and opened his eyes. So the Pharisees again asked him, how he had received the sight. And he said to them, He put mud on my eyes and washed, and I see. Some of the Pharisees said, This man is not from God, for he does not keep the Sabbath. But others said, How can a man who is a sinner do such signs? And there was a division among them. So they said again to the blind man, What do you say about him? Since he has opened your eyes, he said, He is a prophet. Verse 18 The Jews did not believe that he had been blind and had received his sight until they called the parents of the man, who had received his sight, and asked them, Is this your son, whom you say was born blind? How does he now see? His parents answered, we know that this is our son and that he was born blind, but how he now sees, we do not know. Nor do we know how he nor do we know who opened his eyes. Ask him. He is of age. He will speak for himself. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews, for the Jews had already agreed that if anyone would confess Jesus to be Christ, he was to be put out of the synagogue. Therefore, his parents said, He is of age, ask him. So in this portion of our text, we get a great example how we don't want to answer questions. We don't want to answer questions like the parents. Here's what they basically say. Go ask someone else. And say don't want to answer questions. Don't talk to me. Go talk to somebody else. And why did they say that? Verse 22. His parents said these things because they feared the Jews. Now, this passage reminds me of another passage of the Bible. And I would argue it is one of the saddest verses in the entire Bible. And that's John 12, 42. Hear what the word of the Lord says. Many, even of the authorities, believed in him, but for fear of the Pharisees, they did not confess it. So that they would not be put out of the synagogue, for they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. The reason I say this is one of the saddest passages is because here we have authorities, religious leaders, experts of the Bible. And this says that they believe that Jesus was a Christ. But for fear of the Pharisees, their fellow co-workers, right? They did not confess it, so that they would not be put out of the synagogue. They like their position and their comfort more than they like their profession of Jesus. Then it goes on to say, for they love the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from. Oh God. That is John twelve, verse forty two. Okay. So just like the other passage that they know the truth But they are afraid of the Jews. So in this passage, these people know the truth about Jesus, but they love the glory that comes from men more than they love the glory that comes from God, and so they won't profess the truth. Now really, this is a temptation for all of us. In the beginning of this class, I said one of the most difficult things about evangelism is we know that we're going to be in a Roma of death to death to some. Or we're going to speak a message of fallenness to some. And they are going to reject us, just like they rejected Jesus. And God has built us as social creatures. And we don't like being rejected. And I argued back then that this is actually a good thing. This is why society, by and large, keeps people from being crazy. And and and going and pure anarchy happens, right? Because I know that if I do something and it this person doesn't like it, I feel bad and I feel shame and it keeps me in check. That 's also the reason why church is so important. Right? So you have this godly influence or all these godly people and the expectation of godliness it is raised, and so we then conform. This is a good thing But there's also a false shame. And this would be a false shame when we love the glory of men more than we love the glory of God. And we need to be willing to accept the stopping of men For the approval of God. So we all have this temptation to answer questions like this. Go ask somebody else. I don't want to answer that question. I don't want to offend you. But we don't need to do that. So what's the solution? How do we not do that? How do we overcome that temptation? Second Timothy 1. 7 says this. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. The way that we can make sure that when we have that temptation to compromise , And not present the gospel as we ought to. We need to go back to the spirit that God has given us, the spirit not of fear, but of power. And this is exactly what we see the apostles doing. Acts 4. 29 says this: Lord, look upon their threats and grant to your servants to continue to speak your word with all boldness. While you stretch out your hand to heal, and signs and wonders are performed through the name of your holy servant Jesus. And when they had prayed, the place in which They were all gathered together, were shaken, and they were filled with the Holy Spirit, and continued to speak the word of God with all boldness. Okay. These people were already saved. This isn't just this passage isn't just for the charismatic. This is for us. You see what's going on here? They see the temptation, the compromise So what do they do? They feel the spirit of fear of wanting the glory of men more than the glory of God. So they go to the Lord in prayer. And they specifically ask, God, help us speak your word with all boldness. And what happens? God loves to answer prayers like this. And what does he do? He fills them again with the Holy Spirit And allows them to continue to speak the word of God with boldness. So what do we do when we're afraid and we have fear? We go to passages like this and we say, I have a spirit of fear. I want the spirit of power. And we ask God for that spirit of power by praying. And he will fill us with his Holy Spirit and allow us to speak with boldness. So that's how we shouldn't answer. We shouldn't answer like these people. Who cowardly decided to say, go ask someone else. But rather, how should we then answer? Well, let's continue our passage of John. John chapter 9, verse 24. Here's how we should answer. So for the second time, they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. He answered, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see So how do we answer a question that we do not know? We say this. The answer to that question, I do not know. One thing I know, that I was blind, and now I see Brothers and sisters, we do not need to be afraid to say, I don't know the answer to that question. But what we do need to do is tell them what we do know. Because the reality is, nobody's ever going to get saved by what you don't know. But it's what you do know that people will get saved. And what do we know? We know the gospel of Jesus Christ. Because it's the gospel that has the power of God for salvation to all believe all who believe, to the Jew first and then the Greek. It's the gospel in Christ and him crucified, him raised on the third day, seated at the right hand of God. And one day he will return to judge the quick and the dead. We point them to the gospel. I don't know the answer to your question, but I do know Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And I do know that he is what you need, not only for this life, but for the next. One of my professors once said, you don't have to die to go to hell. Many of you are already there. And that's the truth. Right? Christianity isn't just good news for the next life, it's good news for this life. Because the reality is, sin brings separation between you and God, your biggest felt need, whether you know it or not. It brings separation between you and other people, isolation, and it brings disgust and separation from your own image of yourself. Sin is bad news. And the fact of the matter is, when we give people the gospel, we are giving them good news. And we need to remember that as we feel Damn it. We're not spreading diseases around here. We're spreading good news. Which I know that the problems in your life are largely related to The fact that you rejected God. God has warned you, you've ignored his side, you jumped over, and then you're mad. Because of the consequences that God warned you about. But what if, so that's what we do with most questions. But if it is a serious question, because most of the time the questions they're going to ask you are smokescreen questions. They're just sending this out because they continue once to have their sin and reject God. So we answer just like that. I don't really answer your question, but I do know one thing. Christ and Him crucified. But if it is a serious question and not just a smokestream, here's what we do We admit, I don't know. There's nothing wrong with saying I don't know. I'm fallen and infallible. I'm not the Messiah. Jesus is. Jesus didn't say I don't know. I don't know, though. Okay? So we say I don't know Then we share, of course, what we do know, the gospel and whatever is going on in the life. But then we write down the question. And then we go back and use the body of Christ. And the body of Christ is really big. And the wonderful thing is we have the age of the internet. And there's almost no question that this person has raised that some this question is old. This question is that been have the answer to these things. Okay? You can literally just type the question into the internet on your smartphone and get it in like seconds. But even if that's not good enough, we have the body of Christ. You can go ask people around your church or people you know Hey, I so this person asked me a question, what do you think? And most likely, somebody would out there, who knows? So then you get the answer. You tell them, hey, I don't know, I'll find out. You now found out. You go back and you tell them the answer and you continue to engage them for the gospel. We shouldn't be intimidated by the fact that people will ask us questions that we don't know. Of course we won't know them. But not only that though, we also need to never forget about the Holy Spirit Because the Holy Spirit will often give us things to say in that moment that we didn't even know prior to that. If he wants you to say something at all, sometimes he doesn't want you to say anything, like Jesus, when he stood before, you know, his his accuser. God held him to be silent. But sometimes when God does want us to say things, he will give us things to say. Why do I say that? Luke chapter 12, verse 11 says this. And when they bring you before the synagogues and the rulers and authorities, do not be anxious about how you should defend yourself or what you should say. For the Holy Spirit will teach you in that very hour what you ought to say. You see that? So remember, be prepared. You've got to balance these things. First Peter said, be prepared. This says, don't worry about it. The Holy Spirit is what is going to give you what you need to say. And I can tell you, I've experienced this very reality, not being dragged before synagogues But I have experienced the reality of the Holy Spirit teaching me things to say in that very moment. Oftentimes, verses that I do not know and I have not memorized, all of a sudden, will come rushing to my mind and I can quote them. I usually can't quote the reference of where they are, but I know the Word of God, and I'm able to quote them on the moment. Oftentimes arguments that I have never known, I am suddenly able to make And sometimes they surprise me and I'm shocked. And I'm like, you know, that's really good. I start writing it down. This is great. And I actually have learned many times through that through that experience. While actually teaching Either through a one-on-one setting or an evangelistic setting, I'll have the Holy Spirit working through me, and I really will make arguments that I've never heard before. And they were good I say that I often experience it so much that I the the Holy Spirit really is my teacher in many ways, and I tried to learn from him Other times, God will have me, not only am I saying that God will use things that I don't know, but oftentimes God will use things that I do know. I can't tell you how many times that I've been recently learning something, and God will put me in a situation while I'm evangelizing, and in fact, that thing that I just learned is immediately applicable. Right? That's what Salah God he'll do that. Other times, God will have me remember things that I have once forgotten. I have forgotten, and all of a sudden I remember it right in time. God is wonderful and God can uh use us in that kind of way. So we don't need to just go in there into the battle thinking that we're going in there alone. But we know that the Holy Spirit is going in there with us us. And if God really wants you to say something, still have you say it. Yes, it's a powerful God. God can spoke. God spoke to a donkey. God spoke to a donkey of a man, Balaam. How much more can God speak to us? But this is also why, though, this n I'm not totally trying to despair studying. Most of the time, God has used things that I've already studied Right? I'll study Mormonism and there's no Mormons around. All of a sudden, years later or even recently Mormons will show up. And this thing that I was like, why did you have me line chat? All of a sudden will become applicable at the moment. And so we actually see this reality of the Holy Spirit using a vessel and giving people things to say in this very passage, in our passage of John chapter 9. We're going to pick back up in verse 26. Here's what he says. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered, I have told you already And you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to be his disciple? And they revile him, saying, You are his disciple, but we are disciples of Moses. Verse 29 We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, Why? This is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he hath opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and he does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a blind man , a man born blind. Verse 33. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You are born in utter sin. You would teach us? And they cast him out. Now I'm going to argue that this blind man's argument is absolutely brilliant It's a bur where did he get this wisdom? Where did he come up with this? Did he sign up for an apologetics class about what to do if a man born blind gets sight and how to argue against Pharisees, proving that Jesus was in fact from God? Of course not. He didn't prepare for this. He had no time to prepare for this. But God gave him the things to say at that very moment Where did this man get this wisdom? Well we know it's from the Holy Spirit. I'm going to try to prove it. Luke chapter 12, excuse me, Luke chapter 21, verse 12 says this. But before all this, they will lay their hands on you and persecute you, delivering you up to synagogues and prisons, and you will be brought before kings and governors for my name's sake. This will be your opportunity to bear witness Settle it therefore in your mind, not to meditate beforehand, how to answer, for I will give you a mouth and wisdom which none of your adversaries will be able to withstand or contradict. Okay? So we have here God telling us that He's sometimes going to bring us before even kings. And this is our grand opportunity to bear witness to Jesus. But then amazingly he says, don't meditate on what you're going to say. Don't meditate. Don't be anxious about that. But I will give you things to say. And these things that will come out of your mouth, these words and this wisdom, will be of such a high quality that none of your adversaries will be able to withstand it or to contradict it. Now, does this mean that if God gives you this, which I believe he will, because he says he would, does this mean that people will get saved automatically? Well, the answer is no. And we know that actually from our passage in John. John chapter nine, verse thirty four says this. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us? And they cast him out Now, what argument are they using? They're not using logic. It's an ad-hominin attack. They just dismiss him. And they just attack his character. But the reality is they couldn't really give him a good answer. That's not a good argument. This is not convincing to anybody. Right? So they were not able to withstand it, but that doesn't mean that they were converted. In fact, they were more hardened and they cast the guy out. And so too for you. God will often have you evangelize people. God will speak through you. He'll have you silence them. Even sometimes the silent people continue to speak. Just bad argumentation. Right? But that does not mean that we have failed. Because we need to remember that God has not called us to be fruitful, but God has called us to be faithful. We also need to remember that successful evangelism is presenting the gospel and the power of Jesus Christ and leaving the results up to God. Who knows if these people eventually got saved? We don't know. We don't know. We don't know what God was doing. We can trust in Him. I can tell you from personal experience, I've used the same argument on multiple people. Okay. One person I have seen the scales fall off their eyes and God work in their heart and then become convicted. Same argument Another person, I presented these arguments, and they wanted to attack me, essentially. They were hard as a rock. There was no effect on them whatsoever. Okay? Because ultimately, successful evangelism is just presenting the gospel and laying the results up to God. The arguments were the same, but the heart and the soil were different We need to remember Isaiah's call. We find that in Isaiah 6, verse 9. I'll read it. And he said, Go and say to this people, keep on hearing. But do not understand. Keep on seeing, but do not perceive. Make the heart of this people dull, and their ears heavy, and blind their eyes, lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their hearts And turn and be healed. Then I said, Oh uh, how long, O Lord? And he said, Until cities lie waste, without inhabitants, and houses without people And the land is a desolate waste. So what happens if God calls you to have an Isaiah 6 ministry? What is that to you? Jesus says, you follow me. God wants you to not only witness the people who will accept the gospel, God wants you to witness the people who will ultimately reject the gospel. That's what God does. He sends us out to go out and be witnesses. Some aroma of death to death, and some an aroma of light to life. We will just have to bear the aroma of death to death to get to the aroma of light to light. It's just the way it is So let me stop here and ask if there's any questions, comments, concerns about anything I've said so far. If we look up an answer on the spot on our smartphone, uh how can we be sure it's a video? Rely on the Holy Spirit. Honestly, I I have not used my smartphone in that way. Uh well, no, that's not true Um one time I was just recently I was engaging with a Jehovah's Witness, which I might talk about a little bit later, and we were dealing with a passage in Colossians. Right? And I remembered, I believed in the Holy Spirit, I remembered that I had seen this passage before and that there was a footnote That gave me a reference to Psalm 89 that calls Jesus the firstborn. That's what I'm saying is I remembered that somewhere in there there was some help. somewhere. But I couldn't remember the reference. The Holy Spirit doesn't usually give me the reference, I'm telling you. He all he usually gives me the scripture, but not the reference. And and so I I couldn't remember. And so then I I said, wait a second. On my smartphone I can go and look up the ESV notes and let's see, hopefully ESV, come on. Will you have the reference? Sure enough they did. So they have to click on it and jump to the reference. Right? So I have used it like that. Honestly, in a one-on-one engagement, I've not said, hey, just wait a second, let me Google this answer. That that just doesn't really work very well. Um I mean Yeah, I guess you can do that. I have not done that. What I'll usually do is say something like, you know, I don't know the answer to that question. I this is what I do know. And you know what? Let me write that down. And let me follow up on that. Right? Because uh one of my favorite proverbs is don't go to your neighbor's house too often, otherwise he'll hate you. So I've noticed that people have a tolerance for conversations about 35, 40 minutes, maybe an hour It was really good two hours, but that's about it. And I have a lot more to say than two hours worth of information? So a lot of times you just gotta leave things, you know. Let me get back to that. Okay, let me not give you a bad answer. Let me give you a better answer. Let me go back and study that Okay, so um I was kind of joking about smartphone, but I mean maybe on your your way out you can start Google and you know. But but really we have a big body of price and we just don't need to be afraid not to be able to answer questions My professor used to say, I have two master's degrees and a PhD, and my kids ask me questions that I don't know. Okay? We just don't know all the answers. But the amazing thing is the answers, the questions are really not that diverse. Everyone thinks they're unique, they 're not. Right. Jessica? answer to but it's a really really complicated question like answer that involves like an entire paradigm like the problem we will kind of How do you deal with that so much if you don't know how to answer that particular question in that context maybe? But would you be willing to have a Like how do you deal with that kind of thing for your time? Yeah, I mean desperate times go for desperate measures. Okay. Sometimes you do need to regroup and say, you know what, I'm not ready for this. Can we meet next Tuesday? Right? Sometimes you do need to do that. Oh sometimes you just need to go for it. Right. Um but but I would say, again, I mean, as much as I'm saying rely on the Holy Spirit, which I absolutely believe, um that does not that's not an excuse for being lazy. You know, and the reality is uh theodicy which you're talking about the problem of evil. I think that's right, theodicy. Um that's a question that everybody has. I mean you just need to start formulating an answer to that. How do we deal with the problem of evil Right? And and here's the thing. A lot of people think that uh brilliant is saying really big words, being really long-winded, and making no one understand what you're saying But look what Jesus did. Someone said that Jesus used almost very few three-syllable words. Almost all of his words were one syllable and two-syllable. Okay? Jesus kept things simple. So what I would be doing with the theodicy or those kind of problems with evil is just thinking like how can I really simplify this? How can I m more professor said, keep it simple, stupid. I don't like that stupid part. No one's stupid here. But he just keep it simple Right? And so we do need to say how can I how how can I simplify this and make it, you know, sharpen this, make this really pointy and short. Right? Almost every quarter line is really short and pointed and just and firing that out Give me that question too about the the difference between apologetics and evangelism. In your mind, what's the difference? Um situation. To be completely honest, it's it's situational. Um and we will we'll talk about that one share. I gotta We gotta it's a great question, so I gotta keep it moving. Um but um I think it's situational, to be completely honest. Right? Um evangelism is sharing the gospel. Um apologetics is is dealing with objections. to sharing the gospel. And and sometimes they're necessary. Some people, um, they grow up in a Christian home, they have a Christian perspective, there's almost no barriers Right? You can go pretty much straight into the gospel. You are a sinner. You need Jesus. Repent right now. Maybe don't want to do it like that. But they're almost ready for that. Right? Other people walking around with all these objections thinking that there's all kinds of problems, you gotta knock down those barriers, right? And and prepare the soil to engage them. So I think mostly demonstrate apologetics and evangelism is just situational. Of when it when it can when it can be engaged. But the reality is, if if you're talking to a Muslim who thinks the Trinity is Jesus, the Father, and Mary, there's some real problems there. Okay? Yes, they do believe that. And so actually in the Quran. That is not the Trinity, and you don't want to get people to believe that. So there's there's preparing that soil through evangelism and apologetics. Great discussion. I love it. Let me press on a little bit. So now we're going to transition to looking at methodology. Okay. Thus far, we've talked about the 90% of evangelism, and I went into how to address questions that we don't know. Let's remember that 90% of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention. It is not following someone else's method, but just doing a method. Okay? We don't need to follow someone else's method, but we just need to do a method. So as I go into some of these methodologies and look at this, the reality is some of these methods will appear more to some of you than others. And that's okay. Because God has made you unique. Right? Just do something. You don't have to do my method, just do a method. Now, what I have decided to do In my own life, is that I've decided that I won't criticize other people's ministry. Okay? I'm not going to criticize your ministry. I just ask, please don't criticize my ministry. I respect your ministry, you respect my ministry. It reminds me, this idea of respecting each other's ministry, reminds me of something that happened in D. L. Moody's life. Here's what happened. A lady once criticized D. L. Moody for his methods of evangelism in attempting to win people to the Lord. Moody 's reply was, I agree with you. I don't like the way I do it either. Tell me how you do it. The lady replied, I don't do it. Moody responded, well, I like the way I'm doing it better than the way you're not doing it. Okay? We just need to do it. I'm not saying that any of these methods are perfect. They're situational. They're also based on what based on you. Okay? If you're Billy Graham and and you have this great audience, then then mass revivals may be your method Okay? But if you're not Billy Graham, that's probably not going to work very well for you. We all need to just do what God is doing in each of our own lives. So I'm just going to give different methodologies. Right? And you pick which one you think is going to work best for you and based on your personality and your situation. This idea that uh not criticizing each other's ministry and and just biting each other reminds me of something that happened in my own life So here I am on the metro and I'm passing out tracks, right? Pulling tracks down. And after I get done, I don't feel that good about myself, I feel a little bit good I'm just being faithful. No, this is whatever. And then this person comes out of nowhere and says, he taps me on the shoulder and says, you know, you see those two people sitting over there? You would have been so much more effective if you would have just spent time talking to them. It's all about the face-to-face. And I looked at them and I said, you know That's fine. That's something that you can do. Go right ahead. His face got really red. It was just saying, I'm just trying to tell you something you can do And honestly I was not trying to be mean or jerk to this person. What I'm trying to get at is though It's very easy to criticize someone else's ministry and tell other people how they should do it while we do absolutely nothing. Okay? If that person believed that the best way to engage these two people on the metro was to go sit next to them and talk to them, they should have done it. And I will pray for them. And I will rejoice that they're out there doing that. And hope they rejoice what I'm doing. Because this is this is a big effort, right? This is a big team effort Now, let us remember, brothers and sisters, that God is more concerned about our ministry than we are. If we believe this, this will absolutely change our lives. I'll say it again. That the Holy Spirit is more concerned about our ministry than we are. This truth will really just blow your mind if you get a handle with this. Right? What I'm trying to say here is that we think that we're doing something great for God, but we're not. We're just trusting God and we're believing that God will use us To save souls. God wants us to be successful. God wants to use you as a bishop of men. We just need to rely on him. So I'm running out of time. So the first and most important step to evangelism is to wake up every morning, or at least before you go out in public, and pray something like this. God, help me find your people today. Or, God, make me sensitive to opportunities to share your gospel. Or it can even be even more simple. Show me your people. Okay? The first and most important step of evangelism is to wake up in the morning, or at least before you engage people, and say, God, help me find your people. Help use me as your means of saving people This is an absolutely essential step. James 4. 2 says, you do not have because you do not ask. We must pray, God opened the doors for me to share the gospel and help me, when that door is open, to speak as I ought to. Absolutely crucial and essential step for evangelism. Here's what one man of God once said. When I'm walking in submission to my Lord, I bump into more people accidentally that need Jesus than I could ever run down on purpose. That bears a beating. When I am walking in submission to my Lord, I bump into more people accidentally that need Jesus than I could ever run down on purpose. Right? We believe that God is the great evangelist. God is the great evangelist. We are the junior evangelists. He just allows us to tag along We need to trust in him. Fact of the matter is, you will never evangelize someone that the Holy Spirit hasn't beat you there to them. We're trying to rely on the Holy Spirit. This is why John Piper calls prayer a wartime walkie-talkie It's a weapon. Right? What we do is we call ahead to headquarters and call down the strike of heaven on people, preparing the soil, before we ever get there Which is the interesting fact is, why is it that the United States has the most powerful military in the world? The reason being is they called down strikes And completely blow up the enemy to smellereens before the Calvary ever gets there. That's really what the tactic is. Here's a base, boom, there's no more base. There's a few stragglers out there, the cavalry comes up, rolls them up. Right? That is the power of the United States military. Well, what we need to do is call down strikes from heaven by prayer, asking God to prepare soils and bring people into our lives, blowing up the enemy, and we just roll up and clean up the mess. So, therefore, what I'm really trying to say is that praying beforehand, that God would open up hearts and show us his people, that God would give us boldness. And open doors for the gospel is the absolutely most important step of evangelism. It's often the most neglected step. And this is really why I believe, fundamentally, why we're not as successful in evangelism as we otherwise would be Right? This should be a prayer that's consistently on our lips as we go out there. God help me be sensitive. Help me. Show me. Show me The second step of evangelism is actually engaging the enemy. In that analogy, it's cleaning up the mess. It's after we have prayed down our prayers and blown up the enemy, then we need to engage the enemy. And so the first method of engagement, of actually engaging an enemy down there on the floor, is I'm going to call this the friendship method of evangelism. It's about friendship evangelism, or I'll say it's Sam Peter's method of evangelism. Now who is Sam Peter? Sam Peter is a evangelist that I've met in this church. He goes around all the world And he goes around sowing the gospel, right? And reaping in this great harvest. From last I checked, I think he has 240 people. Right? That part of his network, part of his children, that that his ministry has reaped in since like 2011. That's incredible. That's just unbelievably incredible. Luke 7. 35 says, wisdom is justified by all of her children. In fact, one of Sam 's children is actually someone sitting in this very church. Right? It's our beloved sister Kim back there. She knows Sam. And Sam was part of witnessing to her life. So what's Sam's method? Here's what he does. He goes all around the world. And when he shows up all around the world, he literally just goes and talks to people. He shows up places and starts talking to people After he's done talking to them, engaging them with small talk, whatever, politics, weather, all kind of stuff, he then usually gets their contact information. Then he sets up a meeting with them where he can meet them for lunch, for coffee, whatever. Right? In between that time, between the time he initially meets them and this meeting, he starts to pray for them diligently. Because he's relying on the power of the Holy Spirit. He's calling down strikes from heaven. He even goes so far to say that he usually recommends fasting one meal a week for this person, and using that time instead of eating to pray for them. Then all the times where he's praying for opportunities, praying for salvation, looking for opportunities, gets with them, and again he just talks about small talk and whatever Okay. And eventually he says that oftentimes an opening, God will show him an opening to get into the gospel. And he will then, after that friendship, right, engage them with the gospel. And the amazing thing is, he says that they often believe. That's it. That's his method. To go around, make friends with people, talk to them, pray for them, fast for them. Pray for opportunities to share the gospel, hang out with them, love on them, meet any needs that he has, that he can meet their needs. Right? Opportunity arises, he shares the gospel, these people get saved It's so simple, but yet it is so effective. Then what he does is after he's done that, because he's all around the world So then he plugs these people into already established churches. He's not afraid to build other people's churches. He's willing to build other people's churches for the glory of God. Amen. And so then he continues to disciple them, teaches them this method I told you about five minutes, not only teaches them in the head, but teaches them in the heart, in the action. They go out and do it. They go out and disciple other people and continue his ministry. It's incredible He's changing the world one person at a time, one prayer at a time. And the fact of the matter is we can do this very same method. He says this method works in India, it works in Pakistan, it works in Afghanistan, it works all around the world. That's all you have to do. All you have to do is pray to God, God give me opportunities. Go around and be friendly and make friends with people. Talk to them, hang out with them. Pray for these people by name specifically. If you want to fast you can fast. And just tell me what he said. That's what he does. I don't think that's a necessary part of this the the ingredients Okay? Then when the opportunity arises, bring up Christian-related topics and uh and engage in apologetics if necessary. Share the gospel and walk Watch God save people. Because the reality is God is the great evangelist. He's the one who saves people. Now I want to tell you a story about so out of time. I want to tell you a story about how this actually worked in my own life, but I simply can't because I don't have enough time. So, let me just say this. What I'm encouraging you, the the first method of evangelism, the most important step, I'm really trying to nail down here so you have something to take away Is really you need to pray. You need to pray specifically. God make me sensitive. When you're going out there. If you go out there and don't ask for God to make you sensitive, why would you think he would make you sensitive? Why would you think that God would help you bring people to Himself? Go out there and ask God, help me to evangelize people, help me to be sensitive, help bring your people to me. Then look around for people. The Holy Spirit will often nudge you to people. I can tell you this happens all the time. You just get this overwhelming sense. I should evangelize this person. Sometimes you don't want to. So what do you do? God give me boldness Help me. I'm going for it. It's amazing how often these people will be the exact people that God wanted you to speak to. Sometimes God wants you to speak to people who will reject. But sometimes God wants you to speak to people who will accept. Since I've been doing this, I cannot tell you how many people I have met that God wanted me to speak to and to accept. We have not because we asked not. And not only am I talking about person exotic stranger, but I'm talking about people in your own life. Think about the friendships that you already have to people that are not saved. Start praying for these people. Start asking God for opportunities. Start ministering to these people in whatever way you can, whatever need they have, minister to them. And wait on God to open up opportunities to bring in beyond. Be interested about them. God will open up opportunities. You will have opportunities to share, and I do believe that you will see people saved. We have to be faithful to do that. Please stop there. Um any questions, comments, or concerns, alibis? Okay. Let's go to the word in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your kingdom. We thank you that you have often made it so simple for us that we don't have to uh come here with tricks and gimmicks and even advanced argumentation at times, but we can just rely on your Holy Spirit, God. I ask that Sam 's uh model and the the fruit that you have caused in his own life would be encouraging on encouraging to all of us and that we would wake up in the morning and pray that you would help us to be sensitive to the people that you would have I ask that you would help us all be better fishermen and hunters of God for you. God, give us a great harvest and allow us to witness in whatever way we can, even if we don't immediately see the results. And Jesus name I pray. Amen.