Well, good morning. This morning we're going to talk about the relationship between evangelism and the doctrine of human depravity. Last class, we saw from Matthew 4. 19 that Jesus said these words, Follow me, I will make you fishers of men. From this text and many others. We saw that we are God's means for his global restoration of bringing back the nations to himself God could have done it many other ways. God could have sent out angels. He could have sent his Holy Spirit to download the gospel directly into the minds of unbelievers. He could have written it in the sky. But rather, what he's decided to do was to give us the gospel to save us and then give us a commission to go and spread that gospel to save others. This is why he says, I will make you fishers of men. And as we thought about this analogy of fishermen, we examined what do fishers do to catch their fish. Do they not prepare to catch the fish? Do they not grab the right instrument? Wake up early, go to where the fish are, and even After doing all of that, they must rely on the Holy Spirit for the catch. We saw that in this analogy also corresponds to us in the sense that we also need the right instruments. What are the right instruments? Well one, the gospel. Romans 1. 16 says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. to the Jew first and also the Greek. First Corinthians 121b says, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe. The first right equipment is the gospel. The second right equipment that we must use as fishermen of God, the catchmen, is prayer We saw this in texts like Matthew 9. 37, which says this. Jesus said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest Here Jesus is telling us because of the great harvest of souls out there that we should pray to him to send out more laborers We saw other places, like the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6. 9. It says this, Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is. in heaven. This pra this prayer at its root is an evangelistic prayer for God's kingdom to come. God's kingdom can only come when God's elect are saved. We're not asking God to break his word, we're asking God to fulfill Another text that has this idea of prayer being the right weapon or equipment for evangelism or being bishops of men is Colossians 4. 2. Here's what that text says. Continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us. This is Paul and his ministry team that God may open to us a door for the word to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison, that I may make it clear, which is how I ought to say speak. So Paul is completely dependent on prayer. He's dependent on prayer that he got opened the door for the gospel Not only that, but he's also dependent on prayer that he might communicate the gospel effectively when those doors are open. Paul is completely dependent upon prayer. But last time, after we concluded, our brother here, Matt, asked a very thought-provoking question. Here's what he said. He says, just as fishermen need to have the right equipment, So also they need someone to train them how to use that equipment. You see you see the point he's making? That okay, we yes we need the right equipment, but if you just go out there with all the right equipment because you looked on batfrow. com and found it all And you just show up there at the right time because you Google that, it's not going to help you very much if you don't know how to use it. Well, what's this for? How do how do I use this? And he was essentially saying we need also people to train us how to use the equipment. And he's absolutely right, and I am in that. So that's what we're going to try to do today. We have the right equipment, but what do we do with this right equipment to gather the fish? So let's dive in I 'm going to try to show how the doctrine of human depravity informs us how to properly use the instruments of prayer and of evangelism. So, in order to do this, we first must look at, though, what is the doctrine of human depravity. Hopefully you're all somewhat familiar with this, and I'm not going to try to prove this too extensively, but I still want to bring it from the word. So please turn with me to Romans 1. Romans 1 starting in verse 18. It's Romans 1 starting in verse 18. I'll jump in. Here's what it says. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. Who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power. And divine nature has been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world, and the things that have been made, so that they are without excuse. For although they knew God They did not honor him as God or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were darkened. Claiming to be wise, they became fools, and exchanged the glory of the immortal God for images resembling mortal man and birds and animals and creeping things. So look at a few things in this text. Look at verse 18. It says that men in unrighteousness suppress the truth, despite the fact that the truth is clear. They know God. Oh, excuse me, verse 20. They are without excuse. Verse 21. They know God, but they do not give him honor or give him thanks. The latter parts of verse 21b said, God gives them over to these three things, a debased mind, futile thinking, and darkened heart. The fact of the matter is, they are not ignorant of God. They intentionally suppress him in unrighteousness. Verse 22 says. That this giving them over, God giving them over to their sin, they are completely ignorant of that reality. Why do we think that? Because it says that they claim to still be wise, but yet they are truly fools Verse 23 tells us kind of the end result of this giving over, this oppressing of God. What is that? They exchanged the immortal God for mortal things The immortal God was switched from mortal things. Idols. These idols are idols of men, birds, animals, and creeping things. As we continue to read through the rest of this passage, these basic structure is going to be repeated over and over and over again And the reason is because Paul wants to really hit you over the head with the reality that men are truly depraved. They have suppressed the knowledge of the truth. They have exchanged God for idols. He's going to continue to show you that men in unrighteousness suppress the truth, and as such, they are without excuse. God, in response to men suppressing the truth, gives them over to their sin. And they, in response to that, exchanged God for idols. Let me try to show you that. Just keep those themes in mind. Let's go up down to verse 24. Romans 1, 24. Therefore, God gave them up in the lust of their hearts to impurity, to the dishonoring of their bodies among themselves. So this is God again giving them over to their sin. Keep going. Because they exchanged the truth of God for a lie. That's verse 25. Suppressing the truth. The re the latter part of that verse. And worship and serve the creature rather than the creator who was blessed forever. Amen. Again, hammering that idea of exchanging God for ideas. Verse 26. For this reason God gave them up to dishonorable passions, for their women exchanged natural relations for those that are contrary to nature. And men likewise gave up natural relations with women and were consumed with passion for one another, men committing shameless acts with men, and receiving in themselves the due penalty of their errors. This whole section, again, is God giving them over to sin and what it looking like. Verse 28. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, again, suppressing the truth. God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. The pattern continues. Do you see that? They suppress, God gives them up. And so what does it look like when God gives them up this time? Verse 29. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness. evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossips, slanders. Here it is. Haters of God Insolent, haughty, boastful, inventors of evil, disobedient to parents, foolish, faithless, heartless, ruthless. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them, but give approval to those who practice them. The incredible thing about this passage is this is the state of people that God tells us to go and witness to. This is your fish. These people, these people who hate God, who transferred the truth of God, who have suppressed the knowledge of God and exchanged it for idols. Does it now make sense why the disciples ask this question? Who then can be saved? Jesus then looked at them and said, with man this is impossible, but with God all things are possible. possible. That's Matthew 19, verse 25 and 26. The reality is, man is spiritually dead. Didn't God say in Genesis 2. 16, You may surely eat of the tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it you shall surely die. But the question is, did Adam die in the day that he ate of the tree? Well look at Genesis 5. 5 Thus all the days that Adam lived were 930 years, and he died So we see that Adam died physically nine hundred and thirty years later than when he ate of the tree. But you remember the command was, in the day that you eat it, you shall surely die. So did he? Well he definitely didn't die physically. I'm going to argue that he died spiritual spiritually. Because what is spiritual debt? Spiritual death is separation from God. Separation from that intimate relationship with God This is why, in fact, spiritual life is the exact opposite of that which is knowing God or having an intimate relationship with God. Hear the word of the Lord in John 17:3. Here's what it says. Now this is eternal life, that they may know you, the only true God, in Jesus Christ, whom that you have sent. So true life is knowing God, not suppressing God, but knowing God and having that intimate relationship restored. So spiritual death is that intimate relationship being separated from God. This is also why sin is known as a separation from God. Sin separates you from God. That's not just a cliche. The Bible actually teaches that. Here's what Isaiah 59. 2 says. But your iniquities have made a separation between you and your God, and your sins have hidden his face from you so that he does not hear. Sin is separation from God. Spiritual death is separation from God. Spiritual life is knowing God and being connected with Him. So, did Adam spiritually die when he ate the forbidden fruit? Please turn to Genesis chapter 3. Please turn to Genesis chapter 3. We're going to look at this text. And see, did Adam spiritually die? Starting in verse 6, here's what the word of the Lord says. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, And it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was desirable to make one wise, she took its fruit and ate. And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked. And they sown fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths And they heard the sound of the Lord walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. among the trees of the garden. But the Lord called to the man and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid. Because I was naked and I hid myself. Again, spiritual death is separation from God. Look at verse 8. The man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. Verse 10. I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid. The very end says I hid myself. Adam and Eve were spiritually dead. They were separated from God. We have in this text a horrible reality of intimacy with God now turning into fear. Worse yet, we have love for God now becoming hate. Why do I say that? I don't see hate in this text. I do. Look at verse 11. And he said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord said to the woman, What is it that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate. So who does Adam blame for his sin? He blames both God and the woman. Why do I say he blames God? Verse 12. The woman whom you gave to be with me. He is clearly blaming God and saying that God is responsible for his sin. This is clearly hostility. Toward God. His mind is darkened. He is so twisted that he sees the gift of God now as a curse. Just a few Chapters a few chapter over, he's saying, Blessed be the name of the Lord. Out of you know, that woman is bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. He rejoices in God for this woman, and now all of a sudden, he's blaming God. for this woman. Not only does he blame God, but he blames the woman. Now what is completely absent from this scene is repentance. We have no repentance here. We have blame shifting, blaming God and blaming women. But what is amazing is there's something that's not completely absent from the scene. What is that? Grace. Man has no repentance, but yet God has grace. Look at Genesis 3:15. I will put enmity between you and the woman Between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. The proto -evangelium. We know this is the first gospel. This is God promising that man messed it up, but God is going to fix it. Through the seed of the woman, who's going to destroy Satan. This is God's grace. Look at verse 21. And the Lord God made for Adam and his wife garments of skin and clothed them. More grace. They were naked. They were ashamed. But here God sacrifices an animal for them on their account and places them with clothes. This is God's grace. This is foreshadowing what He's going to do with the Messiah. He's going to take their nakedness and shame and clothe them in the righteousness of Christ. Look at verse 22. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us, in knowing good and evil. Now lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life. And eat and live forever. Therefore the Lord God sent him out of the garden of Eden. So even verse 22 is an act of God's grace. We don't usually think of it this way. That God banishing Adam and Eve from the garden is actually an act of grace. Why? Because Adam was in a sinful state. And to leave him in this sinful state would have been a curse. So he banishes them from the garden, so he doesn't get to live forever. So he can die to live as Christ to die is gain. So he can die, he can go be with God with perfect harmony and one day wait for the resurrection. And one day Adam will return back into the garden. And we saw that in the beginning of our class, in the end of Revelation. This is an act of grace. This text illustrates that we are completely dependent on God's grace for the salvation of a sinner. God can be dependent on for grace, but man can only be dependent upon for hostility and hatred for God. Now some might be tempted to say, but what this text has only to do with Adam. What does it have to do with anyone else? I would argue it has everything to do with everyone else. Why? Because Adam is a federal head. What that means is Adam represents all people. We see this made explicit in Romans 5. 18. Hear the word of the Lord. Therefore, as one trespass led to the condemnation of all men. So, one act of righteousness leads to the justification and the life of all men. For as by one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners So by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. So we see here that Adam's spiritual death spreads to all of humanity. Adam wasn't just kicked out of the garden, but we were all kicked out of the garden with him. I never saw the Garden of Eden. I was never there. But yet I was kicked out along with Adam. Adam didn't just become a sinner, but as verse 18 of Romans says, by one man's disobedience, the many were made sinners. Now the fact is, we often don't like this kind of text. We don't like the idea that Adam represented us perfectly and his sin was part of what made us sinners. But here's the the the interesting thing about this. For as much as we don't like that, we absolutely rejoice in the fact that Christ's obedience can be applied from him to our account. You see? If Adam's sin did not result in our condemnation and us becoming sinners, then Christ's obedience could not result in our justification and are being made righteous. This is the way of our God. This is also why Ephesians 2 says this. You can turn there. Ephesians 2. Verse 1. And you who are dead in the trespasses and sins, and which you once walked, following the course of the world. Following the Prince of the Power of Air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind. And were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. Why is it that we were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind? Because we were born sinners. And it wondered that how the child can recognize this reality. Children are born sinners. We are people born with evil passions. Even this text says it. Right? We lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and of the mind. Anyone who's ever struggled with sin, recognize that their flesh is screaming to do evil things. But not even just the flesh, even the mind. The mind is constantly telling you to do evil things. The only difference between us and them is now that we have been born again and regenerated, we now resist. The signals of the flesh or the signals of the mind. But we were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. That's the bad news. But look at verse 4, which is the gospel. It's the good news. But God, being rich in mercy, Because of the great love in which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And he raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace in us and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Jesus. This is one of the the the greatest tiny little words, but God. But God being rich in mercy. Because of the love which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses and our sins, made us alive together with Christ. God raised us from a state of spiritual death In the same way or in a like way that he raised Jesus Christ in a state of physical death. He raised them up. Why did he do this? Because of his great love and his mercy, and because he wanted to show that in the coming ages, this is verse 7, the immeasurable riches of his grace toward us in Christ. Christ Jesus. This magnifies Christ's name. No. What does any of this have to do with our evangelism? How does this inform our evangelism? I would say much in every way. Why? Because how can you raise a dead sinner from the grave? Will your friendship raise a dead sinner from the grave? Will your argumentation raise a dead sinner from the grave? Will Abraham free snacks and pizza raise a dead sinner from the grave? How can you do it Again, hear the word of the Lord. With man, this is impossible. But all things, with God, all things are possible. So, what is the best way to evangelize? I'm going to argue any way is the best way to evangelize. We just need to do it. Why is it that the best evangelists usually are new believers? They don't have much knowledge, they don't have much practice, all they have is zeal, and all they do is just do it. Ninety percent of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention It's asking God to show us people to witness to, to open doors and allow us to speak as we ought to speak. James 4. 2 says, you have not because you ask not. Now some of you might be thinking, you cannot be serious. The solution can't be just do it. There has to be more to it than that, but the reality is, no, there isn't. Romans one sixteen says For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also for the Greek. The power has always been in the message and never been in the method. To illustrate this We already saw. And illustrate this. Let's go there. 2 Corinthians 2. 14. 2 Corinthians 2. 14. Here's what it says. But thanks be to God, who in Christ Jesus always leads us in triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere. For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To one, a fragrance from death to death. To the other, a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things? For we are not like so many peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. Look at verse 14. Through us he spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere. We are the fragrance of Christ. Verse fifteen for we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. We are just supposed to smell like Christ. We're supposed to be his fragrance that he spreads all across the world. Okay. That's what we're supposed to do. Look at verse 15. To one, a fragrance from death to death, and to the other, a fragrance from life to life. We are the aroma of Christ, but there are two reactions. To one, a fragrance from death to death, to the other, a fragrance from life to life. Everyone wants to be a fragrance from life to life. And no one wants to be a fragrance from death to death. But here's the reality. You don't get to choose. Which one you're going to be. Both are the same aroma. And that aroma is Christ. To some, Christ smells like death. To others, Christ smells like life. It's the same message, and in fact, it is the same gospel. So many of us want to have sniper evangelism. What do I mean by sniper evangelism? We want one shot, one kill. That's what it is, right? We want to just have a technique Where we can only get people who are going to be the elect, and we never have to be rejected, and then we judge in every other method, saying it's something wrong with it, or something of that nature. But I have bad news. If you're waiting for a method that will prevent you from being an aroma to death to some, you will never evangelize because no such method exists. John 3. 19 says this. And this is the judgment. That light has come into the world. The light is Christ. That the light of Christ has come into the world, and people love the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works should be exposed. We will smell like death to some. Why? Because as verse 19 says, people love the darkness rather than the light because their works are evil. No. The people that you're trying to evangelize, they love darkness. And that's bad enough. That's the fact that they love darkness rather than light. But it actually is worse than that. Because the latter part of that verse actually says And everyone who does wicked things hates the light. So not only do they have a love relationship with the darkness, they have a hate relationship with Jesus Christ, the light Is it any wonder that Romans 130, which we read in the beginning, says they are haters of God? Not only are they haters of God, but they're haters of Christ. For everyone who does wicked things, everyone hates the light and does not come to the light lest his works should be Is it any wonder, Jesus said in John 3. 3? Jesus answered him, Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Or, is it any wonder that Jesus said this in John 6, 4, 4? No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. Now, brothers and sisters, I know that this is a hard word. Nobody wants to be an aroma of death. This is why Paul, in the latter part of that Corinthian passage about the aroma, says this. Who is sufficient for these things? This is also why Paul says in Colossians 4. 2, continue steadfastly in prayer, being watchful in it with thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, at the same time pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word to declare the mystery of Christ. On account of which I am a prison I am in prison, that I may make it clear which is ought which is how I ought to speak. Paul did not forget the gospel there. Paul doesn't want to be in a Roma of death just like you don't want to be in a Roma of death. Paul is tempted to water down the gospel and not smell like Christ anymore around people who will reject the gospel so they don't reject him. And that's why he asked us to pray for him to not do that. He is utterly dependent upon prayer, upon God not to do it. He doesn't want to be the Roman death any more than we do. If we get this truth about this aroma of death and how the same gospel offends people, other parts of the Bible start to make sense Here's what Luke 6, 2 says. 6, excuse me. Luke 6, verse 26. It says, Woe to you, Woe to you when all people speak well of you, for so their fathers did to the false prophets. Now this scripture is absolutely staggering. Woe to you when all people speak well of you? Isn't that what we want? Isn't that the goal? How to make friends and influence people? Don't we all want to do that to make friends? But this scripture says, woe to you when all people speak well of you. For so their fathers did with the false prophets. Or 2 Timothy 3. 12 says this Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. We don't sometimes feel that. The reason we don't sometimes feel that is because we're not being the aroma of Christ around enough people who will smell it as the aroma of death. Because where they smell it as the aroma of death, they will let you know in more than one way. The fact of the matter is, we can't stop being the aroma of death to those who are perishing. Because it's Christ's aroma. It shouldn't be our own aroma of death. Let me be clear about this. It's Christ's aroma that's the aroma of death to other people. 1 Corinthians 1 18 says this: For the word of the cross is folly for those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. We cannot stop being folly to those who are perishing. But here's the good news. We also cannot stop being the aroma of life to life to those who are being saved. Or put it differently. We also cannot stop being the power of God to those who are being saved. This is certainly good news. Why? This means that friendship evangelism works. This means that letting your light so shine before others that they might see your good works and give glory to the Father who is in heaven, Matthew 5. 16, it works. This means encouraging friends and family to read one chapter of Matthew works. Giving an evangelistic book works. Witnessing to a family, witnessing to family and friends works. Debating unbelievers works. Writing letters telling people about the gospel works. Sharing personal testimonies works Door-to-door evangelism works. TV evangelism works. Revival meetings work. Lithicum face painting evangelism attempts? They work. Inviting friends and family to church, it works. Sharing the gospel with your children, it works. Sharing tracks with a stranger works. Placing tracks in public places works Overseas missions works, local missions works, everything works. Don't you see that every evangelistic attempt works because it's never been about the method. It's always been about the message. I know that all of these methods work because I have heard personal testimonies from people about almost every single one of these methods working in their lives. Why? Because evangelism can only work if God opens the heart. Or vice versa, let's put it a different way. Evangelism will always work when God opens the heart. We see this in Acts 16, 14. Here's what that text says. One who heard us, who's the us, that being Paul and his missionary team Was a woman named Lydia from the city of Thytira, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention to that which was said by Paul. You see that? If God opens the heart, they will listen. Because that's what it means when God's opening the hearts. We need to be faithful to give the message. God is the one who will decide that if he's going to open the heart or not He's the one who gets to decide whether we're going to be an aroma of life to life or an aroma of death to death Now what I want to do next is I want to share my own personal testimony and to show you how all of these things actually come to play. This is not just theoretical somewhere up there. I can actually show you my own life how all of these things come to play Before I do that, I want to ask if there's any questions or comments or concerns thus far. So I know personally and I know a lot of folks that will say, well, the Bible also says be prepared to give a defense for the faith that you have. So how do you balance The method, you're absolutely right. The method isn't isn't as important as the message. But how do you balance when most people's hesitation is, well, they're gonna ask me a question I'm not gonna know the answer. And how is that matching up with scriptures as I'm supposed to be preparing into the tenants? Yeah. That's actually a really good question. And to show you kind of where I am going , the main point of this class is to try to encourage you, just do it. It's the 90%. 90% of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention. This is the 90%. The question that you've asked You're already anticipating, is the other 10%, and which we will get into, right? How to bridge. How did Jesus do it? How did he go from secular things talking about water and to bridge into the gospel? How can we do friendship evangelism? Okay, when we do start sharing the gospel, what are some kind of best tactics and techniques? Right? There's certainly best tactics and techniques and and and and wisdom that people have learned and And so forth and sharing all that stuff. Um, so the the there is certainly the same thing, if I was doing a lesson on preaching, this would be the very same message essentially, right? Just preach it But then there'll be other ten percent about okay, you know, let's do an introduction, conclusion, let's you say what I'm saying? That th th th this doesn't this is not there is that other ten percent Okay. But but as I as we talked about kind of last time, stuttering and all people can be saved. Because God can open their hearts. Right? And sometimes that's the most impressive thing is someone going, you know, that isn't prepared. Sometimes he's real crafty and slick. It it turns you off. Right? And that's the other part, and I'm gonna jump into my testimony because I don't wanna uh it's gonna take a little time. And it will ask questions. Um if if you're too you know, artificial, then it can turn people off. And again, we want to make sure, and this is what I do want to clarify, we want to make sure that we are the aroma of Christ. And it's Christ that they smell, not us. Okay. So every method works except when we sin and and and and and and and uh cause people to be offended by our sin. Okay, so We don't want to be doing that. But certainly there are best tactics and there there are ways that are more effective than others. So let me jump in and I'll ask any questions. Hopefully we have time in the end. If not, you can come Talk to me. I'm going to jump into my own personal testimony to see how all of this comes to life in my own story. So I grew up in a Christian home until I was about five or six. I remember my parents would read me the Beginner's Bible. It's all out. The Beginner's Bible. But I also remember that my parents did not get very far, and I know this is because I don't remember getting past Samson. Look at the beginner of the Bible. It didn't take that long to get to Samson. It's not very impressive. But this was the foundation of my belief. I also remember my parents taught me about the Trinity I'm sure they taught me about the gospel, but I simply don't remember it. I just remember about the Trinity. Interesting thing, though we teach your children about the Trinity, they'll know that Jesus is the Son of God. which is foundational to the gospel. So I didn't know something about the gospel. I also remember my parents would read me gospel tracts and I would look through little pictures. My family stopped going to church after I was around five or six. Though I believed in God, I had completely forgotten about him. I just didn't think about him. I believed in God, but he was just not part of my life. Then when my dad became uh when my dad when I was eleven, my dad became an atheist, and it was the very same person who evangelized me or tried to evangelize me when I was five and six. Now was telling me that God was just a pack of lies. And that God was fairy tales told to adults. But I cannot explain why, but I simply did not believe him. I didn't argue with him. I was silent, but I did not believe him. God protected me. In fact, what's interesting is that God actually protected me through means. What was the means? Years prior, in one of those tracks that I had read, there was a story about a young boy and an older male. I think it was his uncle, some father figure. Okay? And they were in a car, and the young boy was trying to evangelize the older man. A young, zealous boy he had just got saved, apparently. He was telling the older man about Jesus. And the older man convinced the younger boy, oh, all of that is just a pack of lies. It's not true. It's not true. And I the boy was like, well, I guess you're right. I guess it isn't true. The preacher lied to me. And the older man drove the vehicle onto some train tracks and a train came and smashed him. Then they got before God, two unbelievers now, because he had rejected his faith. He had prophesied in that little small car ride. And God had sentenced them both to hell. And then in hell the boy accused the uncle figure, saying, You lied to me. There really was a God. But the young boy comforted himself with saying, At least we're here together At that point, the uncle figure rips off his face and reveals that he was truly a demon. And that he had lied to him all along to get him into hell. And I remember reading that as a small boy. So then, years later, when my dad, the uncle figure Was telling me that Jesus was the pack of lies. I saw him for what he truly was. A Satan figure trying to steal my soul and to send me into hell. So I didn't believe him. But by the time that I was thirteen or fourteen, I had become a total juvenile delinquent. I was getting into all kinds of trouble. I believed in God, but I simply never thought about him. I remember one day, looking like a thug, sitting on a mall bench, local mall, not too far from him And I remember a tiny Asian woman walking up to me and saying, I have a blessing for you. And she gave me a track. Now some might think that would never work Talking to a stranger, giving them a track, no one would ever read that. But you would be wrong. Because I did read that track And God did speak to me through that track. And I did see that woman, not as an annoying Asian woman, bothering me on a bench, but I saw her for what she was: a messenger of God. I smelled the aroma of life on her. Did I get saved at that very moment? No, I didn't. But I did read the track. I continue to get into very serious trouble in my life My dad was gone and my mom became desperate. She started talking about me to her friends at work and all the kinds of problems that she was having. Because people do that, right? How's your life? Terrible. My son is driving me insane So, one of her friends told her about an inner city ministry in Baltimore that dealt with troubled teenagers. And her son was going to it, and she invited me to go to it And I went because when you showed up there, you got to play video games. And afterwards, there were some singing and some teaching, and afterwards you got pizza. So I figured, a bunch of kids my age, video games and pizza, I'll go there. Not a big deal. Now some of you might be thinking that is a bribe. God would never use that to save anybody, but you would be wrong. Because God did use that in part. Because after the video games and before the pizza, they had Christian contemporary music. And then they had a short lesson. When I remember they sung a song, and here was a song. It's called Here I Am to Worship. And here's the lyrics I'll never know how much it costs to see my sin upon that cross. It repeats it. I'll never know how much it costs to see my sin upon that cross. Here I am to worship, here I am to bow down, here I am to say that you're my God. You're altogether lovely, altogether worthy, altogether wonderful to me. To this day, I simply cannot explain it, but I sung that song with all of my heart. It showed me the greatness of God. It showed me the great exchange of my sin being placed on Christ. On that promise. It showed me a glimpse of the gospel. Now did I get saved at that very moment? No I didn't. In fact, a couple times later, I nearly got into a fight at that small group and I was essentially kicked out and never returned. I continued to get into trouble. One other day, I remember walking through a checkout aisle and looking over at the candy section, and do you know what I saw? I saw a tract. And I picked it up and I read it. And God ministered to me through that tract. Because I saw it, but what it was, it was a message of God. Now some of you might be tempted to say God would never use somebody putting a tract in a public place, let alone a checkout aisle. That is literally. God would never use that method. But you would be wrong, because God did use that method Did I get saved? No, I didn't. At that point. I did not get saved. In fact, my life hit an all-time low after that event I was nearly nearly beat to death by a group of thugs, and I was miraculously saved by God. I can tell you that story later, but for the second time, I won't. Everything in my life was completely falling apart. And so because of this, my family became so desperate that they started attending church collectively and taking me with them. But it wasn't a very good church and I don't remember it very much at all. At the same time, because of all the trouble I was getting into , They were kicking me out of my neighborhood and all kinds of other problems. My parents were sending me off to live with my grandma in Kentucky. And so my relationship with my dad was falling apart. Because he had a turn back. He's back, he's seeing this troubled kid, all kinds of problems, it's completely falling apart. So my dad recommended to rebuild our relationship for me to read one chapter of Matthew from the NIV. The NIV version. Imperfect as it is. That's what God used. And so I agreed. And so I read one chapter a day. The first chapter was chapter one. It was about the Christmas story First I had to suffer through the genealogy. Then I went to the Christmas story, and I thought that was just somewhat interesting. The second day, I read chapter 2, which was more about the Christmas story. I still thought it was interesting, but that's all. Day three, I met John the Baptist. And at this point, I became convinced that I was headed to hell. The fear of God had come upon me, and I realized that I was going to hell. Day four is when I met Jesus. And I believed I continued to read all the way up to the Sermon of the Mount. And I realized at that point that I did not know Jesus personally I had heard things about Jesus, but I did not know him personally. And at just being around Christians from osmosis, I guess, I knew that a person related to Jesus Christ was required to be saved. And I knew that's something that I liked. As I continued to read about Jesus, and I didn't know him personally, I also realized that he was beautiful and that he was wisdom incarnate So that day, all by myself in my room, I prayed to God and asked God for forgiveness of my sins. I asked Him to save me. And I said something to the lines of this: If you will take me, you can have me. And that moment I was saved. And my life has never been the same. So if you look at my testimony, you'll see how many different methods God used to draw me. You'll see that parents reading during Bible time was used. My parents teaching me about the Trinity was used. Reading gospel tracts were used. A stranger sharing the gospel with me through a gospel tract on a bench was used. A youth ministry that I only went to for pizza and video games were used. Even Christian contemporary music was used. A stranger leaving a gospel tract in a public place was used, and my dad asking me to read the Bible. One chapter a day was used. Can you now see why 1 Corinthians 3. 6 says, I've planted, Apollos watered, but God gave the growth Or John 4. 38 says, I sent you to reap for that which you did not labor. Others have labored and have entered, and you have entered into their labor. The fact is, what evangelism works? All evangelism works. We just need to do it. We need to rely on the Holy Spirit. We need to pray And we need to share the gospel. Ninety percent of evangelism is just showing up and paying attention. I'm convinced that we often limit our evangelistic attempts To that which will make us reapers and not sowers. Put it a different way. We're often limiting our evangelistic attempts by whether or not we can build our own local church. But of these things that I mentioned in my own testimony, which of them included people from a local church? None of them. Not saying that these people didn't go to local churches. But it wasn't a local church ministry. It was people going and serving God and planting seeds. Okay? I didn't live that far from here. This church was here. I am ultimately now a member of this church. Okay? So people willing to build the kingdom of God for other churches is what brought me here to your church Are we willing to do that for other people? Are we only going to say, I'm only going to do ministry that's going to build this church? Okay? The kingdom of God is bigger than the local church. This local church is included in the kingdom of God. But it's bigger than that. And we need to be willing to spread seeds that God can use and that God can bring people into other local churches. I'll give you one example. We do door-to-door evangelism. From what I know, recently there has not been a single person that comes to this church from that ministry. Some of you might be tempted to think that is useless, evangelism. It has been completely unfruitful. But the reality is, what's most likely? That we knocked on someone's door, shared the gospel with them, and then they would show up to this church? Probably not. Probably what you what's going on is they have a friend at work that's been sharing the gospel with them for weeks now. And then you knocking on the door planning the gospel made them decide, you know what, I'll take my friend's offer. And they're at the other local church down the street You see what I'm saying? That we have to be willing to trust in God to plant the seeds of the gospel and let God know what he will ultimately do with that. Because the kingdom of God is so much bigger. All evangelism works. We just need to do it. Okay. Any questions or comments or concerns about any of this? Okay. Let's go to prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for your word. I thank you for your truth. I thank you, God, that you are so much bigger than us. I thank you, God, that we cannot stop being the aroma of life to life to those who are being saved. And God, I ask that That this class would encourage your saints to do any and every means to share the gospel, believing that you are so great and so powerful and that you can change hearts and open doors. whether we can see it or not. Help us be people who walk by faith and not by sight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.