Judges 6, 25 through 32. That night the Lord said to him, Take your father's bull, and the second bull, seven years old and pull down the altar of Baal that your father has, and cut down the Asherah that is beside it, and build an altar to the Lord your God on top of the stronghold here. with stones laid in due order, then take the second bull and offer it as a burnt offering with the wood of the asherah that you cut down So Gideon took men of his servants and did as the Lord had told him. But because he was too afraid of his family and the men of the town to do it by day, he did it by night. When the master of the town rose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was broken down, and the asherah beside it was cut down, and the second bull was offered on the altar that had been built And they said to one another, Who has done this thing? And after that they searched and inquired, and they said, Gideon, the son of Joash, has done this thing. Then the men of the town said to Joash, Bring out your son that he may die, for he has broken down the altar of Baal and cut down the ashera beside it But Joas said to all who stood against them, Will you contend for Baal, or will you save him? Whoever contends for him shall be put to death by mourning. If he is God, let him contend for himself because his altar has been broken down. Therefore on that day Gideon was called Jerebul. That is to say, let Baal contend against him because he has broken down his altar. So the title for this talk is Super Bale Sunday. I'm not satisfied with my relationship with Jesus Christ. I want more. There are some things that we need to do as a family to get closer to Christ. And on Super Bowl Sunday, when our country bows down to worship its God of sports and entertainment, I've become angry. But I'm not angry at them, I'm angry at my own idols. I am angry and unhappy that we as a family may have, not may, we do have some idols. And this is why I have labeled this tark. To you, Super Bale Sunday. And I hope as we remember it, this day will always become a permanent marker of change for this family. We live in the most safe and secure country on the earth. And yet we live in spiritual darkness. We are in greater danger from our spiritual enemy in this place than perhaps any other place on the earth. We live in the richest country in the world, and yet we are not just spiritually poor, but rather we are spiritually starving. We live in one of the most sought-after and fun cities in all of the country. But the people here do not have joy. Do you think, Christian family, that you are not affected by this? Do you think That you yourself are immune? No, you're not immune. In fact, you're being caught up and even swept away in the security, the comfort, the riches, and even the fun of this world. And I'm not satisfied. And you are on notice right now. I'm putting you on notice. Our spiritual life is not what it ought to be. No, not at all. And it starts. I am not satisfied. I am not content. I am not happy. In fact, I am very angry. I have righteous indignation at myself. for my continuous and current lack of spiritual maturity. So we are going to start making changes around here. And I don't even know precisely what they are But what I do know is that everything in our lives needs to go under scrutiny. We need to look at everything that we own and everything we do. And if we find idols, we need to pull them down. We need to pull down the idols of self-love We need to pull down the idols of entertainment, idols of money, idols of comfort and security, idols of fun, idols of family, idols of friendship. idols of cultural norms, things that we think are normal because that's what our culture teaches us. But it's not normal. It's in fact disgusting. And I'm going to pull them down. Idols of the beach, idols of soccer, idols of investing in the stock market, idols of clothes, idols of warm weather. With the comfort and security that is found in them. I am not satisfied and you are all being put on notice. We need to take these idols out of our lives. At this moment, we can think of ourselves as Gideon, or as he was later named as Jerevable, because we are going to tear down the idols in our lives. We will no longer bow down to these. Filthy idols that are destined to burn. Now some of you will be mad at me as I tear down the idols. But of this, I honestly do not care because this is the path that God would have us to go. Let the idols contend against me if they themselves are God. In fact, I challenge you not simply to be angry at me, but to be angry at your sin, be angry at your spiritual weakness. Be angry at your spiritual stupor. And in fact, I want you to go tell your cousins. Go tell your friends. Go tell even one another. You tell them that I am angry and that I am not satisfied with our spiritual condition. And they may question you and they may question me and say, what are you doing? But guess what? They questioned our Lord before us. They questioned Jesus. The apostles questioned him. Everyone questioned him. They thought he had lost his mind because he dedicated his entire life to follow the will of his Father in heaven. So when someone thinks that I'm being crazy, when someone thinks that you are being crazy, you just tell them that you're following your father and you're following your husband. And I hope as I say that to you, you realize that I am not talking about me primarily, but rather I'm talking about your heavenly father, and I'm talking about your heavenly husband, Jesus Christ. Do you think that I do this because I have some great spiritual maturity or great spiritual insight? Something that you do not possess, but something that I alone possess? Not at all. In fact, I am primarily angry at myself. I am angry that I have not been a better leader. I am angry that I have not served you better in the past. I'm angry that I did not do this years ago. But I can I can only start today. I can only start now. So today I am tearing down these idols Today I am like Jacob who has planted the idols of his family now under the tree to start afresh and to follow our Lord, I am tearing down the idols because that is what God is calling me to do. And I'm doing this Because God has appointed me as your spiritual father and your spiritual husband to lead you in Christ, not lead you in the idols that I have once led you in. So please pray for me and pray for yourself. Pray that you will have yourself a righteous and burning anger against these idols that infest your spiritual lives and that is starving you out and knock down every idol no matter how hard, no matter how deep, no matter how entrenched it is in your life. Knock them down and destroy them and place them on the altar of Christ. Do not be afraid, for you have nothing to be afraid of. God will protect you. you as he protected Jerebbal, also known as Gideon, as he protected Christ, as he protects his people. Isaiah 4110 says Fear not, for I, that's God, for I am with you. Be not dismayed, for I am your God. I will strengthen you, I will help you, I will uphold you with my righteous hand. If God is with us, Who can be against us? So what does this all mean? What is in fact going to change? I want you to think about this and I want you to hear me very clearly. What is going to change? Everything is going to change. Just resign yourself to it. Everything is going to change. Give your heart to God and give him everything. We need to re-evaluate and reassess everything and everyone that is in our lives and ask ourselves this central and most important question Does this honor the Lord or is this an idol in my heart? Does this bring me closer to Christ, or is it tearing me away? And if it does not ultimately lead to our main purpose in life, which is to glorify God and enjoy him forever. If this itself is not causing me to glorify God and enjoy his presence and who he is, it needs to come down and it will come down this very day. I don't care what it cost me. I don't care what it cost you. It will come down, and God will one day say to me, Well done, good and faithful servant, you led your family to the Lord. And I pray that God will say to you, Well done, good and faithful servant, you followed your father. In the ways of Christ, even when it cost you much. You followed your husband in the ways of Christ Even when you did not want to, because you were in love with your idols, but you gave it to me, and I took that love and gave it back to me. See, we want to have a greater heart for the for the Lord. But you will never, we will never have a greater heart for the Lord as long as idols crowd out the Lord in our hearts. So let us give ourselves to the Lord and say, here I am, send me, I'd bury these idols under this tree never to be seen again.