James chapter two, beginning in verse fourteen. What does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he have faith, and have not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto him , Depart in peace. Be ye warmed and filled. Notwithstanding, you give them not those things which are needful to the body What doth it profit? Even so, if faith hath not works, it is dead, being alone. Yea, a man may say , Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works, and I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? So I want to start off tonight by asking a simple question of what is the greatest truth? We think about there's so much truth out there, there's so many facts and various information, but what is the greatest The greatest truth. I would argue the greatest truth is found in the very first chapter and the very first verse of the Bible. And some of you might be familiar with that verse in the beginning. God created the heavens and the earth. The greatest truth is that there is a God. He is the reality behind all reality We want to think about he is the being behind all beings. In Acts 17, 27, the Bible says that God is actually not far from each one of us. For in him, that's God, we live and move and have our being. So there is a God who created everything, and in fact, that God is closer to us than anything else. You guys are sitting in chairs, you can think about your position of your bodies to the chair, but in fact God is closer to you than Your chair. He's closer to you than anyone or anything else. The Bible actually tells us that God literally holds our very existence together. What's holding you together right now? Why don't you just fly apart into the oblivion? Well the Bible says that it's God who is upholding your very existence in his hand or in his word. Hebrews 1 3 says God upholds the universe by the word of his power. That's all things. All of creation, all of the entire world, this giant ball that we see, we sometimes cease to be amazed But think about it. There's a giant ball out there suspended by nothing, floating around the sun. And here we are, being held by God. So I want you to know today that you are not alone. That life is not an empty void where you simply live and breathe and eat and sleep. And then one day you will die and become the food of worms. This is not your story. This is not the story of history. We are so much more than simply a bag of flesh that is waiting to die. In fact, we are human beings with supreme dignity. I like to tell people that you are an immortal person. You will live forever. We're all trying to seek immortality, but you don't have to seek immortality. You will live forever. It's kind of a a shocking statement to think about that we are all immortal beings. And in some ways that is Good news. Nobody wants to be a bag of flesh waiting to die. And we know that we're not simply bags of flesh waiting to die. And so I want you, when you leave this place, to look in the mirror and tell yourself that I am in fact an immortal being that will live forever. I'm not a worm, I'm a man. I'm a man made in the image of God, and that means that I have supreme value because God places supreme value on each and every one of us in this room. And so all of that is very good news. But on another level, on a deeper level, that might be in fact very bad news. And the reason why it's bad news is, is because as immortal beings, you will in fact live forever. Whether you live forever with God and dwell with Him in perfect harmony and peace, or whether or not based on your sins, you'll be banished ultimately to reside in hell with the devil and his angels That's where the immortal beings go. They're not gonna stay on this earth. This earth is going bye bye. Sometimes people I remember this we were uh We were doing an outreach event and we had it was a fair event and these kids were were having these little uh notepads they wanted us assigned to help the Chesapeake Bay out And he was saying, you know, sign this, we're trying to make the Chesapeake Bay out and make it more healthy. And I said, do you know what's going to happen to the Chesapeake Bay? And he said, well, I don't know, it'll get dirty or it'll get clean. I said, no, no. Do you know what ultimately is gonna happen to the Chesapeake bay? And I said, it's going to burn The Chesapeake Bay is going to burn along with everything else. And the kid said something very interesting. He said, then what's the point of this? Well, there was some point to that, but ultimately this will all burn and go to dust. We're not going to stay here. We will either go to God and be with him forever, or we'll go to dwell with the devil and be with him. Forever. Now I want you to imagine a place that is designed specifically for the worst beings imaginable. As you think of the worst beings imaginable, what do you think of? You think of child molesters, mass murderers, Stalin, Hitler, maybe the person that you hate that hurts you more than anybody else? Where would God place such an individual like that? Maybe even you can think of the worst individual, the devil himself. What do you think a righteous God would do to such an individual? Hebrews 1031 tells us, it is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. It's not a game. It's not a joke. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of an angry God. Jesus describes hell as a place where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. Mark 9. 48. Jesus also says it's a place of weeping and gnashing of teeth. In Matthew 5, 30, Jesus describes hell as being so bad that it would be better for you to rip out your eye and to cut off your hand than to continue to send and to go into this place. It's pretty graphic language. Could you imagine ripping out your eye? In cutting out yeah this is pretty much the worst things that could happen to me. I like these eyes. I have glasses and all, but I like them. They're useful to me But Jesus says that hell would be better. Hell is so bad, such a terrible place, it would be better in this life to have no eye, to have no hand, than to ultimately be sent to that place. Hell is no joke. It is a reality that millions of people are headed there. How many people? Well, Jesus says in Matthew 7. 13, enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide. And the way is easy that leads to destruction, and those who enter by it are many. So in this saying of Jesus, Jesus tells us that Narrow is the gate. It's skinny. It's small. And in fact, there are very few who will find this narrow gate and that will one day enter into it. You just have to look around and say, there's only few people that you know that will ultimately find this gate of salvation. And he says, but broad is the gate and wide is the way that leads to destruction. It's very easy to go on the path of destruction. In fact, you don't have to do anything. You're already in that direction. All you have to do is do nothing, and you've already done enough sending to earn yourself a one-way ticket to help. And that broad way that leads to destruction is a place that many not only will find, but have found And in fact, statistically, it's very unlikely that there's not somebody in this room right now that's already headed on that easy path to destruction. And I hope that everyone under the sound of my voice will one day not ultimately end up in hell But if you do, I can almost guarantee you that you will be wishing you could get out of there. There is no party in hell. It's not going to be fun. It's not going to be games. It will be quite a miserable place. And when you are there, you will wish that you could get one more chance, one more opportunity to get right with God God, wishing that you could wake wake up from your super and come and be saved. But of course this does not have to be your story It does not have to end up that way. You don't have to end up in a place of regret. I tell you, a lot of decisions I make in my life are based on this concept of regret. I think, okay, five, ten, fifteen, twenty-five years from now Will I regret this decision? And if I do, I don't do it. Or at least I try not to do it. And then when I start doing it, I say, come on. You said this is a bad idea. You know this is ultimately going to end up bad for you And that's how it is for many people. They they know that ultimately they're headed to destruction, but they think, well, just one more time, just one more day, just a little bit more. Of course, that is the path to destruction. And that doesn't, hopefully doesn't have to be your story, and I hope that it isn't your story. And in fact, I think God sent me here so that it doesn't have to be anyone's story. Here, that we can all go to heaven together. We can all be forgiven of our sins. We can be cleansed from all of our guilt. Not just our guilt, but our shame. Does anybody walk around with shame, things that they are ashamed of, things that they wish they never would have done? I know I do. God can take all of that shame, all of the guilt, all of the defilement, he can take it all away. And it's that he'll give you a free gift. That gift really is free. It will cost you absolutely nothing. One of my favorite sayings is there's no such thing as a free lunch. If it sounds like it's too good to be true, it is too good to be true. Don't get duped into a free lunch. But this is not a free lunch, this is a free gift. And just because it cost you nothing, doesn't mean it didn't cost him everything. It costs Christ everything, it costs him his life, but now he offers that gift to you for free. That gift is found in Jesus Christ and in him alone. There is no other way There's no Buddha. There's no self-help plan. There's no I'm just not going to listen to you plan. You cannot listen to me all you like. That's not going to get you to heaven. Denial will not get you into heaven. You can close your eyes and say he's not there all you want, but guess what? You're still in this room and he is still there. You have no more power to erase God from your mind by doubt and disbelief than you have the power to erase me. By the power of doubt and disbelief. It's not powerful at all. We should align our beliefs with reality. The free gift of God is described in Romans 6. 23. We read there, it says, For the wages of sin is death But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So let me just break that down a little bit. A wage is something that you deserve. You earn that, right? You work and you get a wage. You get a paycheck Well, the paycheck for your life is death, is eternal death. If we think about our life and if we compare it to the same commandments, We all fail. I'll skip the first five of them. Well, I'll go to the fifth. Honor your father and your mother. How have we done that? Okay. I imagine we all have it done very well, and if you think so, I would venture the bet that your parents would think not. We have not all honored our father and mother as we have ought to. We have not all we might not have killed anybody, maybe we have. But we all have had anger problems and hate and lashed out on people and said mean and hurtful things to them We have failed in that way. We have failed in the category of sexual purity, whether it's been lust of the mind or the eyes or or even the body. We have all failed in that way. We've all stolen, whether it's been small or great. We've all lied. We've all coveted. We have failed the same commands. You don't have to wait and wonder what God is going to say. He says right here, the wages of sin is death. If you commit one crime, that's it. You are guilty. And what's the punishment? It is death. That is bad news. But the free gift of God It's free. Is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That is the good news that you can be forgiven. And again, it's free, costs you nothing All you have to do is to accept it. Now, how do you accept this free gift from God? Romans 10. 13 tells us. For everyone, everyone's everyone, right? No exceptions. Doesn't matter if you're black, you're white, you're tall, you're pretty, you're ugly, does not matter. This says, for everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Everyone can be you There's no discrimination here. Everyone can be you. For everyone who calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Now what is this calling on the name of the Lord means? We all have cell phones or well at one point had cell phones. We can call somebody. We know what calling means. What does it mean to call God? What's his phone number? His phone number is prayer. All we have to do is call out to God. Jesus in fact gives us a parable of shows us what this calling out to God looks like. It's in Luke chapter 18, beginning in verse 9. I'll start reading. Luke chapter 18, beginning in verse 9. Jesus also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves, that they were righteous, and treated others with contempt. Two men went into the temple to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. And the Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed thus. God, I thank you that I am not like other men, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector, I fast twice a week. I give tithes to all that I get. But the tax collector standing far off would not even lift up his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying God be merciful to me, a sinner. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the others. For everyone who exalts himself will be humble, but the one who humbles himself will be exalted. What does it look like to call upon the name of the Lord who looks like this man? He beat his breast, put his head down, and said, God, be merciful to me. sinner. I want you to think back in your memory and go back in the Rodex and to think back and say, have you ever done this? Have you ever beat your breasts and said, God be merciful to me, a sinner, or have you just presupposed that God of course would be merciful to you? He won't. He will not be merciful to you unless you call out and ask. But all those who ask, you will receive his mercy. All you have to do is be like this man and beat your breasts and say, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus said that that man went home justified. That man went home with a free pardon from God, saying that your sins are completely forgiven. All we have to do is call out to God and ask him, God, forgive me for all of my sins. Take away my sins from me, Lord. I trust in the cross of Christ to receive your forgiveness Now what is this cross? It's not a piece of jewelry. It's not just something that stands over here. What is the cross of Christ? That is where God sent his son, Jesus. On the earth to live a perfect life, the life that you should have lived. The life of not lying, not stealing, not committing adultery, not lusting, not coveting, all of that life that you should have lived, Christ lived that perfect life. And then he was unjustly killed, and God placed on Christ all of the sins of the world. That's all of our sins. All of our sins were placed on Christ so that anyone who believes in him can receive perfect forgiveness So they kind of summarize this. Christ lived the perfect life that you should have lived and died the death that you deserve So that if you receive him, his righteousness, his perfect life gets accounted to you. So when Christ looks at, when God looks at you, he sees his son. Perfect. And your sins have all been placed on Christ. It's a perfect exchange. It's a free gift. All you have to do is receive it. I find this amazing. If I were to stand up here and say, you all could be saved by just coming and climbing a mountain. Many of you, hopefully, would climb that mountain. It would be a very good trade-off. Just climb the mountain and you would be saved How many of you would be willing to do such a thing? I know I would. A mountain for salvation? Come on. I'm climbing any mountain. I don't care how high that mountain is for salvation. But when we say just believe in Jesus, you just sit there What's going what's what's going on? Why is that? Why is it that when it we will try anything and everything, we'll try good works, we'll try religion, we'll try anything, but we won't repent and believe I think I know why. It's because of spiritual warfare. Because it's the only path to true salvation. And it will cost us everything. Because we'll have to forsake the life that we so cling on to. and embrace the light. And so many of us don't want to do that. Because we think that we'll die. We need that. It's killing us, but we need it. But the truth is if you give it up, then you can have true life. He who gives that up will find it. We're not be saved by our good works. By our good works we are completely condemned. Sometimes I ask people, if you were to die tonight and stand before God, and he said, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would you say? Sometimes I hear, I'm a good person. I'm not sure if anyone in this room would say that. I know I certainly would not have said said that because I was a vile and wicked sinner. And that's actually is somewhat to my advantage. Because there was no question in my mind that I was going to hell. Okay. I don't know how you feel, I don't know if you think you're a good person, but I can tell you you're not perfect and that is the standard. And actually you're blessed. You're blessed if you actually can see that you are not a good person because that's the first step. I'm not a good person. Okay, then I need someone who was a good person. I need righteousness because I don't have it. And that's the gift that is offered. in Christ. It's just that easy. All you have to do is place your trust in Jesus. John three sixteen, probably the most famous verse in all of the scriptures. You see that sometimes in Sports events and you you just see John 3. 16, right? I'm sure everyone has seen it. Well let's think about what it says. John 3. 16. For God so loved the world. Everybody. All people. Everyone. Everyone in this room. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. life. That is good news. It's unbelievable that God loves us. We don't deserve it. We've been running from Him all of our lives. We've been rejecting Him all of our lives, and yet God still says, Come to me. Come to me. I love you. I want to be reconciled. I want to be your friend. I want to be your God. I want to take it all away. If you simply bow the knee to me and truly repent of your sins. Jesus actually tells us, here's Jesus' invitation to you. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden. And I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light. How many of us are laboring under some kind of yoke, some kind of burden, some kind of guilt, some kind of shame, some kind of reality that we know that we're headed to the grave and we know that we're not ready to meet God. Somehow we think we just have more days, more days, more days. But those days are going by so quickly. Just think about it. Some people might not live for ten more years, but let's say you have a full life. I bless all of you. I hope all of you have full lives. Okay, how long is our lives? You know, if if we're doing really well, how long my grandma, she's 91 years old, she's healthy, she's strong, she's losing her mind. So sad. Her body is strong, but her mind is mush. is becoming mush. That's our destiny. That's what's gonna happen. Even she was so healthy, she she ate, she's little tiny little Japanese, she's so healthy. But her mind is turning to mush You cannot escape the grave. We're all going to be there. Are we ready to meet the Lord? Do you see your need? Do you labor? Are you heavy laden? If so, come. to the Lord Jesus and he will give you rest and he'll give you a peace that passes all understanding. And I can tell you I personally tasted and come and seen that the Lord is good. I've personally been there. I've been Following after the devil, I've been living like the devil and I have come and tasted that the Lord is good. All I did was cry out. Get on my knees, cry out, and say, God, if you take me, you can have me. And He changed my life for the better. And He can change your life as well. Now, this all brings me to the text that we began with today. Now some of you might be sitting there and thinking, me and Jesus are cool. Me and Jesus, we're we're cool. I got that. I know. I know Jesus. That's what my grandma would say My grandma says every time I try to evangelize her and tell about the gospel, we're we're cool. Me and Jesus are cool. They're not cool. My grandma, bless her soul, is an alcoholic. The scripture is very, very clear that drunkards will not inherit the kingdom of God. She is fooling herself. She is not cool with Jesus. She does not know Jesus. She knows about Jesus, but Jesus and her have not been reconciled. And there very well might be some people in this room who are kind of like my grandma. Me and Jesus are cool. I got that. I'm here, right? Well, are you and Jesus cool? Does in fact Jesus know you? Is Jesus your personal Lord and Savior? And that's really what our passage is all about. Is asking, do you have a true relationship with Jesus Christ? So let's go back in James 2, verse 14. What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? Can a faith that has absolutely no good works, that lives like the devil, that's clearly still in bondage to sin, can that faith save you? It's a rhetorical question. The answer is obviously not. There's nothing wrong with faith. I spent the whole beginning of this sermon telling you that you could be saved by faith alone, and I stand behind all of that. Because you can. But this text says, can the faith that simply says, I believe in Jesus, but I live like the devil, my life has not been changed, can that faith save you? The answer is no What good is it? It's trash. It is absolutely useless. If you say Jesus and me are cool, but have no true relationship with Christ, And you know this because your works show absolutely no evidence of knowing him. The bad news is that faith cannot save you. It is useless. That faith is in fact dead. And that faith will ultimately lead you to hell. And it's not that faith can't save you. It's that dead faith can't save you. Just like a dead doctor can't save you. A dead anything can't do anything for you. It's dead It's not alive. You need something that's real. You need something that is vibrant, not something that's merely a sham. And that's what our passage continues to go on. Look at verse 15. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things that are needed for the body, what good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have work is dead. So here the Apostle James is giving us an illustration. Imagine, and this happens to me sometimes, I walk by somebody who's in need Okay? Somebody who is hungry, poorly clothed, right? And I just say, God bless you. God be worthy. And I have a pocket full of cash. God bless you. I hope you I hope something help I hope somebody helps you. I just keep walking. That person 's probably what a jerk. This guy doesn't care about me. If he cared about me, why don't you buy me a sandwich? Why don't you do something for me Why don't you show me by your actions that you really do care about me? Well we all know what that looks like. We know that person isn't a line. We're not fooled as we're so hungry and cold and they just said, God bless you, be warm, be filled. Have a nice day It's a shame. It's not true love. Well, if we can see that, we're human beings, we're not stupid. If we can see that this is totally inauthentic and not true, how much more can God not see that I often give an illustration of a a person who is an abusive situation. He says that he loves you, but he obviously doesn't because of his behavior. His behavior shows very, very clearly that he does not love you. And all your friends know it, and all your family knows it, but sometimes we're the only ones who don't know it. Okay. But the point is, we're not confused. He doesn't love you. Clearly, his behavior is indicative of someone who's a scumbag and someone who does not love. You. Well, if we can see that, how much more can God see that? God's not fooled. God knows our hearts, He knows our minds, He knows if we say yes, I love you, Jesus. But have no true relationship with him. We cannot fool God. We cannot be fooled. God knows what is in our heart. God does not want hypocritical, fake religion. God doesn't want you just la showing up and pretending to have a true relationship with him. But rather he wants you to have a true relationship with him. To truly get on your knees and cry out and ask God to save you and he most certainly will. So I just asked you and I exhort you today, if you think back, have you ever actually cried out to God with sincerity and said, God, I'm a sinner? I need you. I know I'm headed to hell. Please forgive me. I know that you accomplished it all on the cross. I accept that. Have you ever done that? Would you simply have intellectual facts that you can spill out about Jesus Christ? If you can't actually remember doing that, I exhort you to cry out to the Lord this very day. Make sure that you have actually cried out to the Lord and done this. I tell you, I've cried out to the Lord many, many times. Because Why not? I want to make sure that I'm going to heaven. And Jesus says that if we call out to the Lord, then we will certainly be saved. So I just exhort you to do that. If you need someone to lead you in prayer, I am here and willing to do that for you. Or you can do that all by yourself. Because Jesus wants to hear from you, not me. If you want someone to help you lead in prayer, I am more than willing to do that. Let me leave you with the words of Jesus. Jesus says in Revelation 3. 20, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him and he with me The Lord Jesus Christ knocks on the door of your heart. And some of you may or may not feel the conviction of God. And that's Christ knocking on your door. And if you hear that conviction, don't resist your heart Don't stop it out. Don't close the door. Because you're blessed that you hear that conviction. Because there might be a day you grow so callous you can't even hear the voice of God any longer. And if you're already there, all the war cry outs. As you very well might be so hardened that you can no longer hear his voice. Please join me in a word of prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we ask that everyone under the sound of my voice would ultimately one day be in heaven Together that we could look back at this time and know that you did a work in us and ultimately God help us to uh trust in you. God help us to repent of our sins and accept the free gift that you have offered us in Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.