Is that limited, is that piece of advice limited to needing wisdom about how to positively endure trials No. It's just true generally. Does that make sense? And so it might, but is it applicable to needing wisdom about how to positively endure trials? Yes So just keep that in mind. So backing quick quick survey back to verse two. We're given that command to count it all joy, to see see past the trial and the pain and to recognize the blessing producing patience, and that patience produces sanctification, and ultimately that sanctification results in final What's the final product? Glorification. Glorification. We have the golden chain of redemption. We are redeemed We are regenerated, we are justified, we progressively become more sanctified, and then ultimately we will be glorified. Now that's a mouthful, and it all kind of rhymes. Does everybody understand those terms? To be redeemed, to be regenerated, to be justified, to be sanctified, and ultimately to be glorified. It's okay if you don't. Everybody get those terms? Because it really is crucial to understand those terms lest you fall into all kinds of theological errors. I'll give an example. If you don't understand that glorification is where you will ultimately end up and not where you immediately come upon when you're saved, you'll start believing in sinless perfection. You ever heard of those people who believe that you can have this extra blessing of the Spirit and you can avoid all sin entirely and you can walk around perfect on this earth? You ever heard that? It's a doctrine called sinless perfection. Actually John Wesley, who is the author of many of our hymns, Good Brother, God bless him, actually taught this doctrine. That's false teaching. Which is explicitly uh labeled as false teaching for Ishawn. If anyone says he has sinned, he does not have sinned, the truth is not in him. Okay, so what people do with this era of confusing glorification with sanctification is saying that they can be sinlessly perfect now But how could you possibly believe that when you are constantly sinning? James says we all stumble in many ways. Just ask somebody's wife and you'll discover that they're a sinner. Just hang out with them long enough Well what they would do is they would redefine sin to make it no longer just a violation of God's law, but they would make it a willful kind of mean-spirited violation of God's law. You see, they changed the definition of sin so that they could keep on to their doctrine. But the main point is We need to not confuse these various categories. We don't want glorification to be sanctification or different. Sanctification is your progressive growing in holiness in this life. Glorification is the perfection of that so you no longer sin. Everybody see that? Now, what could be the error of confusing justification with sanctification? Somebody define justification for me. What's justification? Ruby? You got this? Yeah, uh justification is God declaring a sinner to be righteous on the basis of Christ Okay, perfect. And what's sanctification again? You got it, Oric? Yeah, the process by width, like believer the I guess getting to your glorification is that growing in holiness. We never actually make it to glorification, but we are moving in that direction. Glorification is perfection, and we're moving from the spectrum of really, really bad to slightly better. Does that make sense? Now, what could be the problem of confusing justification with sanctification and seeing them instead of two different things, confusing them and morphing them and combining them? What could be an error? Go ahead uh it produces a an understanding of salvation being by works. That's the biggest error, right? Because justification does not include any works But sanctification is a lot of hard work. Is that not true? Is it not hard to be sanctified? Is it not hard to say no, to stop, to repent, to refuse to do things that are near and dear to your heart? That's a lot of hard work There's a Bible passage that says work out your salvation with fear and trembling. It's a lot of hard work to be sanctified. It just takes a lot of effort. How much effort does it take to be justified? None at all. Right? None at all. None at all. What what's another possible error of confusing justification with sanctification? Well you could think that. Again, that's the just as I am false well, just as I am is is sung to try to prevent that error, saying that you have to clean yourself up, sanctify yourself before you get justified. No word justified, then sanctified And we'll we're gonna get back to that moving on from this. But I think another error is justification is free of works. It doesn't include works. Works are not even in purview at all. Does that make sense? Like d just as I am. Again, you're justified. You can be just as entrenched in sin. You can be there there needs to be no life change whatsoever with the process of justification. You become just as filthy, just as I am But sanctification is inherently a life change. It's becoming, it has to do with works. Sanctification is measured by your heart changing, by your actions changing. You can't say I'm growing in sanctification, but my heart is just as cold to God. I'm growing in sanctification, but my works are just as evil. You see? Sanctification does do what works, but not for salvation, but a progressive growth. So we just need to make sure we get these categories straight. There's sanctification. And there's justification and there's glorification, and we should not confuse them. Otherwise all kinds of errors creep in. Alright, mini theology lesson over. Back to our text. So, we're told, if anyone lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. And he gives liberally without reproach. But then verse six, but let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for he doubts it like a wave of the sea driven and tossed by the wind. Let no man suppose that he received anything from the Lord He is a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. So briefly here, so more of a recap. Can somebody explain what this double-minded man is? What's a double-minded man? What's a double-minded man? In this context, verse eight. And it's usually you don't believe when things aren't going your way. I like it. He loves me? He loves me not. I love God and I believe his promises. I'm not so sure anymore. I guess I'll try them again, right? Double-minded, this this instability, this testing, there's a good testing of God. The good testing is, God, you told me that these are your promises You told me to walk out in faith and I'm gonna walk out in faith on your promises. That's a good testing of God. God tells you to do that. If he tells you that he's going to He says, Trust me, and you trust them. You're testing God, but that's a good testing. But then there's a bad testing of God, where you're stepping out on things that are your own making that aren't the promises of God Right? Or you're coming up with these own conclusions saying, well, God, if you're real, as soon as you say that, it's all wrong. God, if you're real, then X, Y, and Z. But God never said he would do X, Y, and Z That's double-minded. Is by allowing your faith to be crowded out by doubt. Has that ever happened to you? Have you ever felt like this? Where you believe and you don't believe and you believe and you don't believe If you have, how have you gotten out of it? Or what what have you found helpful in those kind of situations to be a double-minded man? One of my favorite scriptures is I believe, help my own beliefs. But that's not obviously being double minded. No, but that's letting down but you're right. That that's not double minded per se. That's almost the remedy of not being double minded It's when those doubt come in. When those doubt say you can I I heard someone say that the animal that you feed grows Or the plant that you water grows. And again, that sanctification. That we do, if we're honest, we're all double-minded to a small degree We all have that voice of doubt in the back of our heads. But the question is, what do you seed? When you hear that doubt, do you see that doubt as a solution, as a voice that's tempting you, as something that you want to feed and to linger on? Or do you see that doubt as a great enemy that you run away from And so I agree with you, Miss Brenda, that um you don't have to be false with God. God knows if you're doubting God knows if you're struggling. You don't have to pretend like God doesn't know. He already knows all these things. And so what you can do is pray that prayer. God, I'm doubting. I'm scared of that. I don't want to be a double-minded man. Help me. I believe. Help my unbelief. Anything else that people have found helpful to not be this double-minded man? Uh I think you know going to another first uh share. Yeah. It might be the best. I should reverse I could uh help you with that style within the double line. Yeah, I heard two I have two different things in there, I like them both though. Can you turn that down? Turn this mic down please. Um one is to to have battle buddies, to have brothers in Christ that you can consult to, that you can confess your sins They can pray for you, to have that intimacy with each other. And I think many of us can testify of the benefits of iron-sharpening iron and not having to walk this Christian life alone And a lot of what I try to do to people, especially new Christians, or really just Christians, period, is to try to tell them, you and Jesus is not enough. Because everybody just wants me and Jesus. But the Bible teaches it's supposed to be me, Jesus, and a whole community of individuals walking together, mutually supporting each other, praying for each other, loving on each other as we walk together into the kingdom of God It's not just you and Jesus. Jesus came to redeem you to be a light in the world. And what does Jesus say? He said, I am the light of the world, and now you are the light of the world because my light's in you. And then what does he warn against? He says, Don't put your light and put it where? Under a basket to be influencing absolutely nobody Right? But was instead supposed to put a supposed to be a city on a hill. It's supposed to be illuminating. So many of the commands of God simply cannot be done alone It's not just about you and Jesus, about you, Jesus, and a community of people walking together. Now, why are we tempted to want to reject that community? The Bible is clear that we're supposed to walk in community, so why might we be tempted to say, nope, me and Jesus at Starbucks with with with the earphones on? Me in my podcast. Why might we not want to actually spend time with the community as God wants us to do? Sin that you might be dealing with. Sin that we're dealing with. Sin draws you away. Sin causes you to not want conviction. Not want to have those conversations. Not want those things brought up. You don't you don't want to hide. Any other reasons maybe sin might draw you away from the community? Yeah, they cared the kingdom, which he promised to those who love him. But you have dishonored the form of It is not the rich who oppress you and they themselves. Is it not the rich who oppress you and they themselves drag you into court Amen. And then this is 1 Corinthians chapter 1. Where is the wise? Where is the scribe? Where is the disputer of this age? Has God not made foolish the wisdom of this world? For sense in the wisdom of God, the world to wisdom did not know God, it pleased God through the foolishness the message preached to save those who uh believed. And then verse 26, for you see your calling, brethren. Not many were wise according to the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of this world to put shame the wise God has chosen the weak things of the world to put chain that which are mighty, and the base things of the world, and the things which are despised, God has chosen the things which are not to bring to nothing the things that are. And why did God do this? that no flesh should glory in his presence. So I I think I think you're absolutely on it in uh James chapter two verse five Listen, my beloved brethren, has God not chosen the poor of this world to be rich in faith and heirs in the kingdom? And so a prerequisite, try to explain this, a prerequisite of coming to Jesus is realizing that you need to come, is to recognize that you have a need. But the rich often are proud and don't think that they have a need. So then they hear the message and they're offended. And they think, I don't need this Jesus. Jesus is for those who need him. I don't need anything. I've made it in this life. You see? And so it's very difficult for them to humble themselves, but you come to a poor person who's in desperate need, and it's a lot easier to point to someone in desperate need to their need Because not only do you need food, not only do you need advice about this horrible situation and why it's so terrible, but you also need spiritual advice about Jesus. And this is actually a great pathway to evangelism. This is what Jesus did. Jesus healed people's physical needs and it said, oh, by the way, you have a spiritual need You see that? And and just um uh just a tidbit for us, this is a great path of evangelism for you. My brother Ruby here uh was uh thinking about, he did not do, but maybe next time, was thinking about shoveling out cars Remember this Ruby? Sh back when we had the big snowstorm, shoveling out cars and then giving gospel tracts or having gospel conversations with those people. Because who wouldn't Listen to you after you shovel the car out. You're all sweaty and they need your help. And now, hey, who's this government who helped me? And now I'm gonna help you even more by giving you some Jesus. Does that make sense? But but the rich guy, he has this big old plow machine. Get out of here. Right, drives off with BMW. I want nothing to do with you. Who are you? I don't need you, you need me It's always very difficult. So that does not so so let's not get crazy. There are rich people who got saved And there are Christians who have been prospered and became rich and they didn't lose their salvation. So it's not just this this dichotomy, but it is true though. It is very difficult to talk to people who think that they're better than everybody else. and to think that they have no need. It's very difficult to have any conversation with them, let alone having a gospel conversation, because God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. So with that background, let's go back to verse 9 And I think that helps us understand what this puzzling and confusing passage means. So back to verse 9. Let the lowly brother, which I think is probably correctly translated as poor. Does anyone have a translation that says poor in verse 9? Oh you guys all good New King James Version people. Translation are you reading? L L T V N and that's it, fine. Okay, fine. Fine, fine, fine, fine. Lowly circumstances probably mean lowly circumstances when it comes to wealth. But I'm not we don't have to go there. It's fine. Does it have poor on your footnote? The poorest person who walks with God decides trial is better off than the wealth and for extended riches. Okay. Good enough. Good enough. But lowly lowly is fine. Lowly in what way? Well they're lowly economically. They're lowly in sadness. I what I'm simply saying is I doubt this is just saying the sad brother I don't think what's being communicated is the the the brother who's depressed versus the brother who's happy. That's not what it's talking about. It's talking about lowly economic condition, the person you look down upon The lowly brother, the the brother who doesn't have the nice car church. Right? But truthfully, back in this situation, there were a few rich people, but the whole church is poor. We're actually very lucky and not lucky blessed. We're very prosperous in this nation that we can still be Christian and still have decent jobs. Many times that wasn't the case. That to choose Christ was to choose against your career. Because you couldn't be part of the guilds anymore. Or you'd be excommunicated from the Jewish ecosystem. And now you're Jewish, like Paul for example, you're Jewish, so people hate you because you're Jewish, but now the Jews hate you because you're Christian. And then you can't get you can't go over to the paganism because they're pagan and they're worshiping false gods. And so you're stuck. And barely you can't you can't get a lot of good jobs, is what I'm simply saying. So, in verse 9 it says, let the lowly brother glory in his exaltation. We have this paradox. In one sense, he's lowly , in another sense, he's exalted. What's going on here? In what sense is he exalted? Even though he's lowly he's lowly, but he's exalted. And he's supposed to glory in his exaltation, but he's lowly. What's going on? He's spiritually exalted then. Lazarus is in the kingdom of heaven. Right? Yeah. The rich man is in hell. So, you know. Yeah, the rich man. put all his faith in his riches and stuff. He was blind to the street. No, I think you got it. Now this is true of actually of all believers. Now just Poor brothers, or this is true of all of us. We all can glory in our exaltation. And how have we been exalted? By the inheritance that we have received. Ms. Brenner? No again. Oh good , I don't know. Go ahead. I was gonna say that um And he also he was taken as prisoner to he was raised up. Is there another example like that? Joseph, taken into slavery, falsely accused, thrown into prison, left into prison, David. Chased around town for no good reason, or a shepherd at some point, so lowly and small that he was dismissed and not thought possible to be a king, only to be exalted in that situation? Yes, exactly But w I think we'll interrupt you. You can say jell job. Uh yeah, just just But what the thing that we're exalting in is the fact that we have genuinely been made rich in Christ. And that Though we do not possess our inheritance now, it is a real and true inheritance. Yes. And just as you were saying that there are many passes that come to mind. One of them is 1 Sithians chapter 5 While says to the Corinthians, All things are yours, whether Paul were Apollo's receipt. For the world or life or death, for the presence, all things are yours, your Christ, and your Christ is God. Um and I remember a friend of mine in college, I think I might have told you , stumbled over this verse. Yes. And he stumbled over the fact that Paul was saying to regular Christians of the world was there. Yes. But it is. Amen. No, amen. This reminds me of a conversation I was having with with Maurice. But if you go to Ephesians chapter one, Ephesians says that we have received an inheritance and that the Holy Spirit has sealed us and is the guarantee of the purchased possession. So if you have the Holy Spirit within you, that is a guarantee of your future glory. And 1 Peter, you can turn there if you want. This is what 1 Peter talks about of your inheritance. So one book over, verse 4. Well verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again. to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. Okay, so we we've been begotten, we've been born again, but to a hope. To a hope. And what's that hope? Verse 4. To an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, that does not fade away, reserved for you in heaven. Isn't that amazing? Just think about that. Think about that. How the the Bible says in Psalm ninety, the days of a man are what? Seventy. Seventy. And by way of strength? 80. And you can say, no, no, no, modern medicine. That's changed that. Look at the stats. They're not good. It's still about 70, 80. And we can say, okay, maybe 90. But even ninety I say a hundred. That's not very long, people. Isn't that crazy? If you're real young, you think that's long. If you live any bound of time, you think that's not long at all It's a very short period of time. Hopefully your treasure is not here on this earth. Because if it is, it's fading away and it will be gone before you can even enjoy it If you've been on this earth for any period of time you will bury people and bury people and bury more people and it's very depressing because we're all dying, we're all aging But this says that you have an inheritance in heaven reserved for you, unfading, undiminished, constantly growing. And there's a little time I have left. This is the exaltation that he's talking about. You say, glory not in your riches, or don't even worry about your lowly estate, but put your mind in heaven in your heavenly reward. And truthfully, this is what I think. I think we don't actually think about this enough. Or even worse, we think too lowly of our heavenly reward. I think many of us actually think, whether we acknowledge it or not, that when we get there, we'll be slightly disappointed But if we actually think about what our heavenly reward will be like, it will excite us and cause us to rejoice. And despite our lowly condition, we will always have a song and a pep in your step Does that make sense? Do you really believe when you die, you're going to glory? Psalm 1611, God will show me the path of life in your right hand. is the fullness of joy. Pleasures forevermore. This is the God of pleasure. This is the God of glory. This is the God of exaltation. I'll show you one more passage. Romans chapter eight, let's go there real quick. This is how the Christian, despite his condition, and I will accept the NIV now, any of your humble conditions You don't have to be economically poor. Any humble condition can glory in his exaltation because he has this promise. Mr. Dennis, can you read? Romans chapter eight, beginning in verse thirty one. And I'll tell you when it's a little bit of a Then little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit shall we say in response to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How will he not also along with him graciously give us all things? Think about what he's saying. If God is for you, who can be against you? Highlight this. I'm going to look at some of your Bibles. I want some of these verses highlighted. This is amazing. If God is for you, who can be against you? Can the world be against you? Can your friends be? Nobody can be against you. God is the one who justifies. Who is Him who condemns? We're saved. The judge has dismissed our case. We're going to glory. But it gets better. We're not just not going to hell, is what I'm trying to say. It's not just that you're not going to hell, it's that you're going to glory. So much. So much. Look at verse thirty-two. Just I want you to think of this logic. He who did not spare his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? In other words, what was more valuable than Jesus? What could God have given you that was more precious than his own begotten son? Nothing. So if he was willing to give that for you while you were yet center of Christ died for you, what do you think he'll give you when he glorifies you? You see, you can't exaggerate this. That's what the pastor says. That while you were yet sinners, he died for you, and he gave you his son while you were not redeemed. Now that you're reconciled to him, it says he will freely give you all things. So when he says one day that he will glorify you, make you incorruptible, give you the earth, make you co-heirs with Christ, maybe that's not an exaggeration. Maybe he means what he says. Because he does. And when you get that vision before you, you recognize that heaven is a lot better than we thought it was. Glory is going to be a whole lot better. It's not just the absence of pain, but it's the presence of true glory. And it makes all of these futile efforts seem so futile. They say he who wins is the guy who dies with the biggest toys. What is that? No matter how much you accumulate, it never produces happiness, does it? And even if it was it it doesn't. And even if it could, it wouldn't be good enough. All things he will give to you. So this is why, beloved, we can exult and have joy despite our circumstances, or even in the midst of our circumstances, knowing that this will never take us from our inheritance and it will never take us from Christ. It's just testing us. And as we go through these tests, it only proves that these passages and the promises contained in them apply to us. So set your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. Consider these things. Reflect on these things. And last application, what should you be pursuing? More of this stuff down here? That will perish and be destroyed? Or more of the things up there? Undefiled, unperishing, never-ending Randy Alcorn says, the moment you die, the moment you die, you'll know exactly how you ought to have lived down here. Do you have to wait until that moment? Or can you see even now? Wait a second. In light of eternity, is this worth my time? Why am I holding on to this? Why don't I release this? This is not worth it.