All right, let's open our Bibles to First Kings chapter nineteen. All right, First Kings Chapter 19. Before we jump in and read , who wants to open us in the discussion in prayer? Heavenly Father, I want to thank you for this day. I want to thank that we were able to gather and meet on this Lord's Day uh in the morning. Uh thank you for the sermon provided with uh um Elijah and pray as uh we uh continue to discuss Elijah and uh the the great successes and the pitfalls that he went through that we will learn from this and uh uh be stronger closer toward than two. All right. We this is a a kind of a longer passage, so let's uh break it up. So can I have a few volunteers to to read some of the passage. Thank you, Mr. Dennis. Anyone else? Let's see here. Right, we'll go down through eighteen and we'll just split it uh half and half. So uh how about Mr. Dennis, the first nine verses and then the last Now Ahab told Jezebel everything Elijah had done and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. So Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah to say, May the gods deal with me, be it ever so severely, if by this time tomorrow I do not make your life like one of them Elijah was afraid and ran for his life. When he came to Beersheba in Judah, he left his servant there, while he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness. He came to a broom bush, sat under it, and prayed that he might die. I have had enough, Lord, he said. Take my life on no better than my ancestors. Then he lay down under the bush and fell asleep. All at once an angel touched him and said, Get up and eat. He looked around, and there by his head was some bread baked over hot coals. and a jar of water. He ate and drank, and then lay down again. The angel of the Lord came back a second time and touched him and said, Get up and eat, for the journey was too much for you So he got up and ate and drank. Strengthened by the food, he traveled forty days and forty nights until he reached Hurib, the mountain of God. There he went into a cave and spent the night, and the word of the Lord came to him. What are you doing here, Elijah? So he said, I have been very zealous for the Lord God of hosts, for the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant Torn down your altars and killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and they seek to take my life. Then he said, Go out and stand on the mountain before the Lord. And behold, the Lord passed by, and a great and strong wind tore into the mountains. And broke the rocks in pieces before the Lord. But the Lord was not in the wind. And after the wind and earthquake, But the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, a fire. But the Lord was not in the fire. And after the fire, a small, sorry, a still small voice. So it was when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in his mantle and went out and stood in the entrance of the cave. Suddenly, a voice came to him and said, What are you doing here, Elijah? And he said , I have been very zealous for the Lord, God of hosts, because the children of Israel have forsaken your covenant, tore down your altars. And killed your prophets with the sword. I alone am left, and they seek to take my life Then the Lord said to him, Go, return on your way to the wilderness of Damascus. And when you arrive, anoint Hazel as king over Syria. Also you shall anoint Jehu, the son of Nimshe, as king over Israel, and Elisha, the son of Shabhath Pat of Abel Meholam Mehola you shall anoint as prophet in your place It shall be that whoever escapes the sword of Haziel, Jehu, will kill. And whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha, will kill. Yet I have served seven thousand in Israel, all whose knees have not bowed to Baal, and every mouth that has not kissed him. to be a nobody in a sense. Because we like to hear about the stories of Elijah when he calls down fire, but God also leaves out um hang out his uh failings too. And I don't know that I would want all my failings in life on display for everybody to read about. I mean so I think it is nice that you mentioned So there are the seven thousand, which is almost everybody, right? Yeah. Most people are not known and um so it's a big blessing to be in the actual Yeah. No, no, I I definitely agree. Um there are there are two people in the Bible that we have a decent amount of details on Outside of Jesus, that there is nothing negative spoken of them. Does anybody know who those two people are, or even one of them? Someone that we have a a decent amount of details, but nothing negative in the Bible about them. Job? Job? Oh, there's bad stuff about Job. He's complaining. He he does complain, um, and he is rebuked by by God. Now I'm not saying he was a total sinner, but Job was not perfect in his Enoch, yes. Um but we don't have a lot of details about him. But fair enough, Enoch. Joseph? Um Well he was kind of a a rascal in the beginning. Possibly. Possibly. Um and in that his treatment of his brothers sometimes may have gone a little bit too far. But but Joseph is But Joseph may be we might be able to say Joseph. Joshua, yes. Uh that's what I was thinking of Uh Joshua, we know a lot about Joshua, and I can't find anything wrong with the guy. And not just me. It seems like everything he did that's recorded was right. A lot of a lot of details and he was and actually does anyone know by the way uh what Joshua's name is in uh Greek? Yeah. What's that? Anybody say it? Anybody know it in Greek? Jesus. Do you know what that also is in Greek? Jesus. It's the exact same name for Jesus. Jesus and Joshua have the exact same name. It's Jesus or Yesus. And I don't know the Hebrew. But anyways, the Greek is certainly Yesus or Yesus. Funny enough about that. In the KJV , In in a certain place in Hebrews, it says that Jesus did not deliver the people out of Egypt. And uh it's just kind of a strange thing, but it's really talking about Joshua, not Jesus. And so that's a that's just an interesting fact um in the KJV and in your Greek Bible. So yes, the the Christ figure of Joshua, I can't find anything wrong with him. He seems to do everything right at least That's recorded in the scriptures. Can anyone think of the other person? Daniel. Daniel. Daniel's another person. We have extensive amount of details and from what I could see he did absolutely nothing. wrong and Daniel in some sense is a Christ figure and his life foreshadows Christ. Now here's the deal though. Did Daniel or Joshua ever do things that are wrong? We had to, right? Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. We go to James and says that we all stumble in many things So there that's no exc exclusion for these individuals. It just so happens that they didn't seem to have any major moral failings, and God just didn't record their moral failings that it was not relevant to their story. Now, I want you to think about this though. For a second. We this got a few names, so let's say, you know, let's say four. Let's say there was five possibly people in the Bible that we know nothing bad of that we have except the details. I would argue there's only like two. Good. She's a woman. I'm not saying she is bad. You know what? I I don't I have no response besides she was a woman. I actually do not that's a good point. Maybe Ruth. No, you may make me think about that. I don't know. Probably you might be right about that. Maybe Ruth. By the way, I was not saying that a woman is a bad thing. That did not come out right. Um No. Um we're all gonna memorize 1 Peter chapter 3 verse 7. Husbands, you need to memorize this, especially after that blunder. Husbands, dwell with your wives with understanding, giving honor to the wife as the weaker value. Amen? That's what you should do. Okay. No, but that that might you might be a good point. But here's the real point of all of that is simply to say That it's amazing how few people in the Bible we actually don't have have that are that aren't in this category is what I'm trying say. The Bible is full of our heroes of the faith that actually have recorded transgression and sin. And does anybody know why that is? Because we're all sinners, and because the Bible is not trying to sanitize the sinful failings of its heroes. And yet, are these people still heroes? Is Elijah still the greatest prophet of the Old Testament, despite us zooming in to his worst moment in his life? The answer is yes. Yes. And what this means for us is well a few things. Number one, it means that Elijah's not the hero of the story, and that's why the Bible can be raw and honest about his family. Because there is coming one who is the hero of the story, and he is Jesus Christ. And the Bible's constantly through showing out the transgression of its hero saying, not that one. Not that one, not that one. Center, center, center, righteous but center, righteous but center, until we finally get to him who is the Lamb of God that takes away the sins of the world. Right. Now interesting enough about that, this is one of um we talked about this in Sunday school a little bit, uh Islam. Islam's whole Spew. The whole the whole the whole claim is that the Bible is corrupt. I think I told you this about the Quran. The whole Quran can be summarized in basically uh two different statements. One, the Jews are evil, and two, the Christians are foolish. Right? The Jews are evil and Jesus is not the Son of God. That's the whole Quran, essentially. And if you talk to If you talk to a Muslim apologist and they try to tell you about why the Quran is superior to the Bible and all of this, they will point to uh recent scholarship of a secularist. and try to point out uh going into the Greek manuscripts about the New Testament. But in the Old Testament, they don't they can't play that game So what they do is say, well, obviously the Old Testament is corrupt because all of the heroes of the Old Testament are fallen, and since the Jews are so evil, they just corrupted the stories of good men. And then they'll point to like a story of Noah as an example and say, Oh, Noah is is a righteous man, but look, he got drunk. Or they say Lot, Lot is a righteous man. You see that in the New Testament, right? And then we've got some unspeakable things that happen in Lot's life. And they say that the Jews are just so evil that they corrupt their own stories and their own heroes, which is actually absurd. absurd, right? Corrupt people would sterilize the stories of their heroes and make them perfect. And we see that all throughout history. And sometimes we do that ourselves and we 're telling. Actually, you know, we do that every time a funeral happens. Have you noticed that? It doesn't matter how wicked the person is that's in the grave at their funeral, they're all saints. And they're all with God. That's our tendency is to sterilize, to maximize the good attributes, and to minimize the the bad attributes. And in fact, there's a a perfect example that's right now. in the movie theater that's making millions of dollars. Can anyone think of that? Mike. Michael Jackson. And has this movie caused controversy? Oh yeah, it has. You know why? Because all it does is point out all of Michael Jackson's You know what's not included in there? Not a reference at all to any possible Problem. Right? If you watch that documentary, I haven't, and I don't plan on it, but I just heard that if you watch that documentary, all you'd walk away was this is the greatest man that's ever walked the earth and he had a terrible father. Remember that blame chip I was talking about? His terrible father and amazing man, and you never hear about anything bad that he did. The beautiful thing about the Bible is it's wrong and honest. It tells us everything about these people. Because, again, this is what happened, number one, and two, they're not the hero. And number three, here's the point I think of application. Is guess what? How has your Christian walk been? Has it been like Joshua? Has it been like Daniel? Or has it been more like Elijah? Sometimes you're on the mountain doing great things for the Lord, amen. Right? You have. You have. You have. And sometimes you've been down in the dumps, right? Running away from God in the middle of the wilderness. Is that not true? Is that not more like our Christian walk has been? And yet the conclusion is not Elijah's a terrible guy. If you make that conclusion, you kind of miss the point. And in fact, here's one other thing we'll say about this How does the New Testament talk about Elijah? When the New Testament references Elijah, for the most part, how does it speak about him? Or how does the New Testament speak about Noah? Or how does the New Testament speak about Lot? How does it speak about them? Cause I'm righteous? Faithful man. Positively. Isn't that amazing? How does the New Testament speak about David? The man after Gaza or a man who served God in his own generation. Just look how the New Testament speaks about the Old Testament people, and it's usually glowing It's usually these glowing statements of positivity, even though they have these sin in their lives. When it comes to Elijah particularly we're going to see this in James chapter. It says that the prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Then it points back to Elijah and said, Elijah was a man like us, and yet he prayed for three and a half years, and he stopped the rain. And so too, essentially you. It points to him as the example of the righteous man whose prayers avail very much despite this scene. What do you draw from that? I'll tell you what I draw from that, but I'm curious, what what do you draw from the New Testament's glowing speech about the saints of old, even though we have no moral failings in the Bible? Forgiveness. Forgiveness. This is how God thinks of you. Does that make sense? When you get to heaven it won't be that rascal who failed and and and and did that horrible thing that one time D does that make sense? Like you're not your legacy is not going to be remembered by your lowest point, even though it will be there. It will not be utterly forgotten. These things are known, and yet their legacy in the way that the Bible speaks of them is David the s the giant killer. David the great king of Israel. In fact, in the even the Old Testament Every king is judged based on David. Do you see that? The murderer, the adulterer, the forgiven one. Every king is remembered based on David's faith And I hope that's just an encouragement to you all, is that you are not known, you don't have to be identified by your worst moment. But God looks at you through the blood of Christ and He zooms out of your life and sees collectively your faithfulness to him And so if God doesn't view you in your worst moment , how should you view your neighbor? Does that make sense? If God doesn't treat you that way, and we're supposed to extend the love of Christ that He's given to us to other people, how should you look at your neighbor in their worst moment? And to be honest, how do we sometimes look at our neighbor and their worst moment? Sometimes we only remember that we forget all the kindness, all the gentleness, all the hospitality, and remember that one time they said something rude to us on the way out of church. And that's why we don't like them. Isn't that true? We have we can't we have to be better than that. And we have to be people that say, you know what, I've been forgiven, I'm gonna extend that forgiveness. They had bad moments like Elijah, and so did I. Never I always I like to tell people this: never judge a man by his worst moment. You see that? And truthfully, never judge a man by his best moment. You know what you should judge a man? By his character over time. By the standard character. Not in his worst moment, not in his best moment. But in its standard character. That's how God judges you. Obviously we're forgiven to Christ, but I'm just saying that that's how we want to be judged, and that's how we should judge others. One one other thing about that You're 100% right, Ben. We are the 7,000. That's actually profoundly true. That's what the New Testament says in Romans. Let's go there, real quick. Let's go to Romans. Chapter eleven. The New Testament actually makes comment on this verse. Romans chapter eleven. Right, can somebody read that first paragraph for me? I say then, has God passed away his people? Sure not, for I uh for I also am an Israelite Abraham under Or do you not know what the scripture says of the life? How he speaks of God against you Lord, they have fiddled your prophets and torn down your altars, and I alone as well, and they seek my life. But what does the divine response say to me? I have endured for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to bail. Even even so then, at this present time there is a Uh written according to the election appraise. Oh, that's that's good, that's good. Um see that? This is this is our passage, isn't it? It's in the New Testament, quoted. It's even Elijah's name isn't even mentioned here, you can't miss it. Elijah goes and complains. And God's response is, no, it's not just you, Elijah. I have reserved for myself 7,000 who have not bowed the knee to Baal. Who did the reservation? God did. You see that? Our hope is then God. Not Elijah. Not Obadiah. None of us. It it's no one else. It's our hope is not in men, not in chariots, not in swords, not in human tactics. Our hope is in God. You see that? God is the one back in Elijah's day that preserved the worst of times Total apostasy. And yet the church had not failed. The church was still alive, being preserved by the mighty hand of God. of God. Even when the king and queen are out killing all of the people of God, I really don't again, I think Elijah was somewhat being hyperbolic. I don't think he actually thought he was literally the only one. I think he knew he remembered Obadiah he had just met a couple of days ago, right? But I do think what he was saying is, it's basically only me. It's basically only me and the ten people that meet at Andover Baptist Church and evening service. Right? And again, when we put it that way, we see like, oh yeah, I've been that guy before. I've been Elijah. We haven't usually been the person that thought I was literally the only one, but how often have we been the person who thought it's just my me and my few faithful friends? That is our experience. But you know what God is saying? God is saying there are another 7,000 people saying the same thing at their own version of Andover Baptist Church, wondering if they're the only ones. Because God is omniscient and God sees all of we're not. We're just localized, small, little feeble creatures. And so I hope that's an encouragement to you, beloved. I almost guarantee you there is another faithful church Only a few miles away. Does that make sense? Every place I've ever been, guess what I found? A faithful remnant You ever been to a location where you couldn't find a single Christian or a single good church? I have never seen it. And I've been all around America. But all around, it actually takes me not even that long. I just go to ninemarks. com and go to the one or two churches. I'm like, oh look, there they are. Why? Because God is painful. Because God has reserved for Himself His 7,000. It's God's work. He will accomplish it. This is according to somebody read verse five again. So too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. Still relevant, right? Even now, back then in Elijah's day, it was a remnant chosen according to grace. That's God's grace, that's God's choosing. Back in Paul's day, there's a remnant chosen according to grace. And in our day, guess what? There is a remnant chosen according to grace. We are the seven thousands, where I'm saying who the believers are the remnant chosen according to grace. Amen? So that means we are the 7,000. Now I didn't bring this out in the sermon. But I do want you to think about this. As encouraging as it is For Elijah to find out, no, Elijah, you're not the only one. There's a guy named Elisha you're about to anoint. There's Obadiah. There's a hundred prophets. And there's 7,000 other people you do not know about. All over Israel that still worship me that have not compromised whatsoever You're not the only one. As encouraging as that is to realize that we're not the only faithful church. Amen. This is not the only faithful church that exists. I promise you that. It is not true. As encouraging as that is, What else does that number seven thousand suggest to you? Um It's better than one. Better than none. That's my point that I'm I've been making so far. It's better than nothing. But what else does that number seven thousand suggest to you? In in like in the grand scheme of things. Seven thousand compared to billions. Comparatively it's tiny. Amen. You're on it. Comparatively, it's very encouraging when you think you're the only guy. At the same time, it's not surprising that Elijah didn't know these seven thousand. There is a ton of people. There's not 10,000. There's not 70,000. There were millions of Israelites at this time, and there were only 7,000. Again, that's probably not an exact number, but he picked it for a reason, and it's probably not too far off. There probably aren't seven million or seven hundred thousand or seventy thousand. Does that make sense? If there were, Elijah probably wouldn't have felt that way. The fact of the matter is how many people live a commuting distance to Andover or Jessup Baptist Church? A lot. Millions. At least thousands. A lot of people. There's like, I looked this up, something like So and they're not all going to church. So relatively speaking, it is still a tiny fraction of the population. Now I want you to consider what this means. This means if you're part of the 7,000, you will be massively outnumbered by unbelievers out there. And that should not surprise you. And you should not conclude from that. I must have joined the wrong team. But don't we do that sometimes? We think in fact I knew a man. Who was actually the first person to point out to me that uh the evening service at Andover was sparsely attended, even for our own church. He realized it. Like he had been there for a while and had realized, like, oh wow, it's sparsely attended. And you know what he concluded? In his own heart essentially, it must not be worth coming to. And and he stopped coming. That that conclusion to have made him basically wash his hands and say, I'm I'm done. If no one else will come, neither will I. Well beloved, I'll just say this. If that's gonna be your attitude, and you're part of the seven thousand It's not going to look well for you because you could always wash up your hands and say, Well, the masses aren't following Jesus. The masses aren't living righteous for him. The masses don't care about the Lord's Day and just go on and on with anything and you're going to say the masses are never going to be following. Are they? You cannot conclude truth based on mass consensus when it comes to spiritual matters, because the masses are on their way where. Broad is the way of destruction, and many will find it, and narrow is the way of life. So if you're following Christ and you're part of the seven thousand You should be feeling kind of like Elijah a little bit. You should be thinking, hmm, why am I the only one? A little bit. Does that make sense? Not totally alone, but if you find yourself, you know, in the most packed place in town Hey, maybe Spurge is around, or maybe you're in the local unfaithful church. And maybe Baal's being worshipped. Because in Elijah's day, the packed places were the places that were worshiping Baal. And today nothing has changed, has it? Jessup is that in the two thousand twenty centuries Jessup had a population. Ten thousand three hundred third. Ten thousand people and Jessup's tiny, relatively speaking. I mean this this is like we have a few people from Jessup. A few faithful from Jesse, that's ten thousand, right? But I think of our church the people who actually live in Jessup are a small percentage. versus Hanover, versus Ellicate City, versus Severn, versus, you know, Odington, like huge places, but even 10,000. I mean, this place can only fit two hundred, right? Of those ten thousand. Do that somebody do those percentages uh and see uh what the percentage of seven thousand, let's say it was like four million Israelites, what the percentages, and I bet you'll find it's somet but something similar to what we have here. uh in the in the correspondence of Jesse population versus people here um that that are from that town. But don't be surprised. Do not be surprised when you're following God and you find yourself the odd man alps. Has this not been your experience, Christian? You're following God, you take a stand for God, and even other Christians don't seem to be doing the same. Has that not been your experience? But it's okay because that is going to be your experience when you're following Christ and the seven thousand. Any thoughts on that? It doesn't I know just this is the only church within Jessica's limit. I'm sorry, what? I said this is the only church That's faithful? No, no. Oh that's that period? With the only surf in Jessive at all? What's the one that I was gonna say there were a few years whether they're paying them or not. Here is that Methodist church, right? Yeah. We might be the only faithful church in town. I don't know if that's true. I don't even know how many churches are in this town. to be honest. But still though. It's still the fact that 10,000 people. I don't think all 10,000 people are going to anywhere near the amount of churches in this area. Right? But again, we should not be surprised when the people of God are small. The way of truth is always small It always has been. And guess what, beloved? There is no glory days. You get that? Well we think, oh yeah, the glory days were back in the time of Christ, or or back in the time of Moses, or back in the time of Elijah, or back in the Puritanical times of the Puritans. You know the Puritans were insulted. The Puritans were w they were people called holier than thou people. That was an insult to be called a Puritan. You're that crazy fanatic guy who just has to be radical about purity, and we exalt them today, but they were totally hated back then. When is the glory days? Never. Every generation has always been a sheep surrounded by wolves. And you too will be. And again, I'm just belaboring this point because because it's so important. And it's also so contrary to our natural experiences. And here's what I mean. Recently, I've decided to get a dog And I've decided to humble myself and recognize that I haven't been on this earth very long. And I'm not sure what dog I should get. So I did my research, I've been studying all this, but I realized, you know what, maybe I should just humble myself And just find out what is America's favorite dog. Does that make sense? Like maybe the collective wisdom of all of Americans know something about what is a good family dog. Do you know in the most popular American family dog. Just some popular breeds. Golden retriever. Golden Retriever. Any other popular breeds? French cheese are real funny. Anyone else on any popular dogs? Lab. Lab. Lab. America's favorite darn. So you know what I'm gonna get? A lab. I'm gonna trust the collective wisdom of humanity. uh at least of the United States. And that's and that I think that's perfectly okay to do. And I think that's actually wise to do. If I get the idiosyncratic dog that no one else gets and I get results that no one else got, namely bad, I shouldn't be surprised. Right? Isn't this just wise? Like when we go how many of you when you buy something you check out the reviews and find the popular product? Or even on Amazon they know that. You're like trying to pick out what batteries you want and you see everyone bought this battery? Usually I buy those batteries, right? Because I think, hey, these people might know something. Usually it's actually wise to take the collective wisdom of others. What I'm trying to say though is when it comes to spiritual matters, it's the polar opposite of what it is naturally. We normally should do that, but when it comes to spiritual matters, resist that temptation because it will lead you astray. All right, any other thoughts about our passage? First Kings chapter nineteen. I got a tough question. So I think you made the comparison with Moses and Elijah and the mountain. So when there when the when there was the earth earthquake and the fire and the wind. What was the purpose of that if if God if the Lord wasn't? Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. Okay, excellent. Um let's go through the passage. So um Verse 11. Then God said to Elijah, Go out and stand on the mountain before the Lord, and behold, the Lord passed by. Let me stop here. Who passed by The Lord. So so is the Lord doing something? He's the one who told him to stand there. And then the Lord passes by. Okay. And a great and strong wind tore into the mountains and broke the rock in pieces before the Lord. So just stop here for a second. So is this a supernatural wind that has to do with the Lord? Yes. It it very thank you. Commentators actually point that out. This is some strong wind. I mean this thing is smashing rocks to pieces. This is supernatural wind. It goes before the Lord. It says that twice. So Our conclusion cannot be that God is fundamentally, categorically not in this wind. That doesn't make any sense in the text and just experience. If the Lord goes by and wind is destroying rocks and everything, you'd be like, the Lord just went by. Right? And you can't say the Lord wasn't there. We clearly was. However, we then have to explain what it says immediately after. But the Lord was not in the wind He was, but he wasn't. Do you see that? And then it says the same thing about the earthquake. And after the wind, an earthquake, but the Lord was not in the earthquake. And after the earthquake, a fire, but the Lord was not in the the fire, and after the fire a still small voice, and then it doesn't say anything about the Lord not being in it. And then if you wonder, I wonder if he was in there. Verse thirteen, so when Elijah heard it he wrapped his face and a mantle and went out and stood at the entrance, and then they have a conversation with God. Now part of the I haven't seen anyone disagree. It's clearly a contrast between the Lord was not in and then no statement about the still small voice. So that's the first clue that the Lord was actually in the still small voice. The second thing is Elijah wraps his face in a mantle. Now, there's a few confusing things about that. Number one, what is a mantle? I always think of a mantle like some kind of like stick or something. Right? But it's not. A mantle is a coat. It's that furry thing. So he wraps his face basically in a garment. Why is he doing that? Is he cold? Is this a headscarf? Like why is he wrapping his face with his coat. Any ideas? What what if you're supposed to die if you saw it? Boom! You're on it. Are you so visible too? Yes, that that if you saw God as a sinful person, you would die. On this very mountain, remember there was a conversation. I want to see your glory. You cannot see me. So I'm gonna I'm gonna hide you in my hand and then I'll pass by and you can see my backsides. You remember this? What so this is him now meeting God and he knows he's meeting God. He's going out to talk to God and he hides himself, he covers himself, he veils himself. himself so that he will not see the full glory of God. In other words, he's meeting God. You see that? So the two indications That Elijah's actually meeting God in the still small voice is the wrapping his face and the fact that it doesn't say that the Lord was not in it. Now again, he was, but he wasn't. The fact of the matter is the Lord was behind all of these theophanies, and the Bible constantly associates God with fire, God with earthquake, and God with wind. When God comes back, he's coming back in flaming fire. So these are manifestations of God, but they're manifestations of God in his full unveiled glory. You see that? This is the fullness of God. If we were to see God in his consuming fire presence, we would all be consumed and die. We cannot see him. So he has to veil himself like he did in the case of Moses, and like Elijah knows by him wrapping himself up. And so I think the point is this. It's not that God is not entirely in these things. He is, but God does not remain in these things. He just goes by. He goes by in the wind. He goes by in the earthquake. He goes by in the fire. But he doesn't remain in that. Do you see that? He doesn't meet with Elijah in the fire, because Elijah will die in the fire. He doesn't meet Elijah in the earthquake because it's just really hard to meet someone in an earthquake. Does that make sense? Like you try to talk to God and the the earth it's not gonna work very well. And he doesn't meet him also in this wind that's smashing rocks because it's gonna smash Elijah. He can't meet him in those states. But it does, he does go by. But he meets him in the still small voice. And the application for us is this. That while God does do the miraculous, God does do these Fire, wind, these spectacular events. He doesn't primarily meet us in those things. Those things go by our lives and those go by through history. But where do we meet God in? The still small voice of the ordinary. That's where we encounter God primarily. Put it differently, where's the still small voice of God found today? And it's not up here. Okay? Where's the still small voice of God primarily found today? Right here in His Word. In other words, God primarily is operating in the ordinary He's primarily not operating in the spectacular. That's the point of our passage. Elijah thinks that God is not working because he's not doing the spectacular like he has on Mount Carmel. with Jezebel. And he thinks because of that that God's not working at all. And God's trying to show him I don't just operate and I don't even primarily operate in the spectacular Elijah. I primarily operate in the ordinary. And in our passage, who is the ordinary? Who's the ordinary? The 7,000. The 7,000. That corresponds with the still small voice. Does that make sense at all? A little bit? And truthfully, think about this. In your own life, you've been a Christian for a while. I'll just take the collective wisdom of this church. In our own lives, over the lives of the collective church, has God primarily operated in the spectacular and in the supernatural and the undeniable or the still small voice of ordinary means of grace? The still small voice of ordinary means of grace. That's where God primarily meets us. And that's what this passage is telling us. And so for those who are chasing the s the the The spectacular, two things happen. For those who are chasing the spectacular, two things happen. One, they get very disappointed. They get disappointed and sometimes they they look like Elijah. They get very disappointed and say, Where are you God? Because I'm not seeing it. They get very disappointed. What's the second thing people do who chase the spectacular? Was that? Amen. They start changing the spectacular. The spectacular goes from fire coming down from heaven, obliterating everything, to your leg grew like this much and you didn't even know your leg was even out of joint. It goes from people rising from the dead and people who can never walk to walk to did anyone have a headache in the church? Come on here. All right. You're now healed of your headache. I'm serious, I'm not trying to disparage this, but this is what happens. When you're out there saying that God must be in the spectacular business and you need spectacular things and you don't find them, you start changing the definition of the spectacular to the much more ordinary. Is that not true? How many headaches did Jesus heal? Zero. That's recorded in the scripture. How many extra little inches of legs did he heal? Zero. How many dead people did he raise? How many blind did he heal? How many deaf? Does that make sense? Jesus was in the business of the truth supernatural and this truth spectacular. Elijah wasn't wanting the fake supernatural. He wanted the fire, the wind, he wanted the theophany, he wanted the big stuff. And when he didn't get it, he got very disappointed. Right? But he had to learn the same lesson. That even even and this is amazing with Elijah. Even when God does do the ma the amazing and the spectacular, even when he does do the most incredible things, do not expect that that's going to be your day-to-day experience. You see that? Even when he does do it, immediately after, he's back to the still small place. Because that's where God's primary work is being done. And the seven thousand, not in the Elijah, and the still small voice, not in the fire, not in the tempest, and not in the earthquake. So I hope that makes sense. us even though it's kind of idiomatic and it's confusing when we really get it and what I'm saying actually is not like controversial. If you read the commentators pretty much all say They pretty much all say what I've just said what I just said. This is the standard interpretation of this passage because that's what it's saying. And I hope it's helpful to you that God is actually with you in the ordinary, which is your experience. Don't be surprised. And even if you think about it, why is Elijah surprised? What makes what makes Elijah so amazing is he was part of the spectacular. He knew there wasn't twenty other Elijah out there. Right? Even in the history of Israel. Who before Elijah did these things? Who was before Elijah did the spectacular? Why was he on the zone? Who was he trying to Moses. In between Moses and Elijah, who did the spectacular? A few people. But not really. Does that make sense? No one liked these guys. These guys are the big guys. And that was the reason why Elijah was such a big guy, is because God is not in the business of normally making people the strongest Samson or as fast as Elijah. He's normally working in the ordinary. Any other thoughts? I want to show you something else, but any other thoughts about that? Amen. We quoted that today. That's our job. To be still and know that he is God. That Elijah, as great as he is, is going off the scenes, isn't he? God is He's not even gonna wait for him to die. God says I'm taking you early. I'm not even gonna wait for you to die. We don't need you. Again, I don't want to take this too far. God doesn't need us, but He is pleased to use us. And God, and that's the thing about Elijah. God was using Elijah so amazingly, but it wasn't good enough for him. And I just pray that that will be our attitude. Be thankful for everything that God does use you. And also recognize that God is using you much more than you know. I talked about funerals and I sometimes I brought out, you know, the bad stuff about how everyone's a saint. But you know something else that's really nice about funerals that comes out? is that people realize the value of other people in funerals like they don't realize usually in their lives. Isn't that true? We take people for granted. We don't realize the actual role that they play until they're gone. And then we realize, oh man, this person was truly such a blessing to us. us. So even though we are not the Messiah, God is pleased to use you. I look out here and I'm thankful for every one of you I mean that. I really am. I'm thankful for every one of you, every single one of you, I can just look and see the spiritual gifts. Is that not true about this? Am I just making this up? Is that you look around this room and you see the spiritual gifts and the edification how everyone makes this body bad. Because God is pleased to use the 7,000, not just the John MacArthur's, the Billy Graham's, and those who are not in this congregation. If that makes sense. He uses the ordinary people. Any final thoughts? I'm gonna show you one thing and we're gonna move fast here. I didn't mention this in the sermon. I think th these are the the the main things of the text. There are two other things that are interesting here though, and I'll say it briefly The fire, the tempest, and the wind, this goes back to your question, Mr. Tommy, is most associated with Moses and the law. The meaning of the law. So this is the law. But then what is the still small voice? What is opposed to the law? The law is harsh. It's hostile. It kills. Right? You'll die by these things. But the still strong voice is gentle and soft. And it's in contrast with Moses. So just go back to your Bible knowledge. What could that be if it's in contrast? law. But it's not hostile. It's soft. It's gentle. Sort of like old covenant, new covenant. Grace. Grace. Grace. The law versus grace. That and in that might be there. I don't know if that's there, but it's interesting at least. That you have these hostile things, and in some ways Elijah is out here accusing the people of God. He wants to fire. You see that? But God is in the still small voice. And so some commentators point out, and I it's interesting. It might be there, I think below the surface, is that this might also be talking about the superiority of grace over judgment. The law versus grace. Is that there? I don't know. But I think it's something worthy for you to consider. One other thing that's really interesting, and I do think this might be here There are three of these rough theophanies, the fire, the tempest, and the earthquake. Okay? And then there's this still small voice which God has found dead. Then they have this happens twice, and Elijah has the same conversation, but he doesn't see three more Theophanies. Instead, he's to anoint three fiery men. Do you see that? Hazel, Jehu, and Elisha. And if you question how fiery they are, the text immediately goes on to say what they're going to do. And it says this in verse 17, it shall be whoever escapes the sword of Hazel, Jehu will kill, and whoever escapes the sword of Jehu, Elisha will kill. These three elements are these hostile forces that bring judgment, just like the fire, the wind, and the tempest. Did everybody see that? And and then you have that still small voice, and then that's parallel with these seven thousand. And so I do wonder if these things are parallel to one another. And so that ultimately the prophet of God was on the mountain of God, and he was interceding, but he was interceding for the people for judgment. And God answered his prophet and sent three acts of judgment against them: Hazel, Jehu, and Elisha. They were means of judgment against God's people. But again, where is God really found? He's found in the still small voice. He's found in the grace. And so I do wonder if that's there as well. And I do think it is interesting that the other man on this mountain, his name is Moses. And when he was on that mountain, the people of God were faithless as well. And what did he call down? Grace. He interceded for the people. And I think in this case, we ought to , this was the high point of Moses ' life, he was interceding for grace. The low point of Elisha's Elijah's life, he's calling down judgment. You see that You see the difference? When grace fills your heart, oftentimes you're calling down grace. And when Jesus was at the high point of his life, if you can even say that, on the cross, being exalted, what did he call down? Grace. Forgive them, for they know not what they did. When Stephen was being stoned, what did he call down? Grace. When Moses is at the high point of his life, what's he calling down? Grace. When Elijah is at the low point of his life, what's he calling down? Judgment. But just be careful with that. Just be careful. That the heart that's usually on set on fire for God and his love is calling down grace, not calling down judgment. Does that make sense? sense. So that's your final application. Alright, let's go to the Lord in prayer