Well, good evening, Saints. As you can probably tell by now, I am not Pascadine. I'm not sure if it's the height or the lack of hair that gave it away. But either way, I'm moving the film in for him tonight. This past Friday, the tenth, sorry, the tenth, four crew members From the Art of Us II, splashed down in the Pacific Ocean near San Diego from a mission in space that lasted ten days. Just recently I did a little bit of research and um did some research on the Webb James Webb Space Telescope. And um that w that telescope launched back in December of two thousand twenty one. The primary goal of this telescope was to study every phase in the history of our universe. Ranging from the first luminous glows after the Big Bang to the formation Of solar systems capable of supporting life on planets like Earth to the evolution of our own solar system. We got that from NASA's website. For a long time now Man has been interested in space and have wondered how it all came to be Why the universe is so vast and is there more in it There have been many movies and TV shows that have focused a lot on space. The unknown. So majority of them would lean on That we came from this Big Bang, something out of nothing Well, tonight, I'd like to ask a question. Has God been silent? About who he is and what he has created. I don't believe so. And I 'd like to show you why Can we turn to Psalms nineteen, please? So I believe that God discloses Himself in our world. We call that general revelation. Second, God discloses Himself in the Word. Scriptures. We call that special revelation. Can I get somebody to read um Psalms 1, the whole chapter? Verse 1 14. Now we might not get through the whole chapter, but I just want to read it and just hear God's word Anybody? The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth the work of his hands. Day unto day uttereth the same, and night unto night teacheth knowledge. There is no speech nor language where the where their voice is not heard. Their line is gone forth through all the earth, and their words into the ends of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun. which cometh forth as a bridegroom out of his chamber, and rejoiceth like a mighty man to run his race. His going out is from the end of the heaven, and his Compass is unto the end of the same, and none is hid from the heart thereof. The law of the Lord is perfect and covered it In converting the soul, the testimony of the Lord is sure and giveth wisdom unto the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right and rejoiced uh rejoice Or write and rejoice the heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure, and giveth light unto the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean and endureth forever. The judgments of the Lord are truth. They are righteous altogether, and more to be desired than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the honeycomb, moreover, by them is the servant made circumstect circumspect and in keeping them there is great reward. Who can understand his faults? Cleanse me from secret faults. Keep thy servant also from presumptuous sins, let them not reign over me. So shall I be upright and made clean from much wickedness. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of mine heart be acceptable in thy sight. O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. Amen. Thank you, Ben. So in verse 1, it says, The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork. We see here that God is using his creation to demonstrate something, his glory. What is glory? What is this holiness displayed? Ezekiel in Ezekiel one he depicts the glory of God. He has this vision. I think we should go there if we can. Ezekiel one. So we here have we here we have here um the priest Ezekiel and He's sharing this vision that he received from the Lord. Um and I know it's a lot here uh he explains uh let's see So verse 4 through 21, he's explaining these creatures that he's seen. And In verse twenty six. Can somebody read that? Twenty six through twenty-eight. And above the firmament that was over their heads was the fashion of a throne like unto sapphire stone, and upon similitude of the throne was by appearance as the similitude of a man above upon it. And I saw the as appearance of amber and as similitude of fire, around and within it to look. to even from his loins upward and to look to even from his loins downward. I saw as a lightness of fire and brightness round about it As the likeness of the bow that is in the cloud and in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the light round about. You want through twenty eight? Yep. So the the last verse? Yeah, please. Sorry. This was the appearance of the similitude of the glory of the Lord, and when I saw it, I fell upon my face and heard a voice of one that spake. So I just wanted to get that illustration to see and get that in your mind to think about the glory of God And how it says right here that the heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork There are several occasions when I get a chance to either knock on a door, and on a um gospel track, or I might see somebody in the store or walking down the street. And when I talk to them, one of the things I ask them to to see if they believe in a creator. So I ask them if they believe in the creator and All these things around. Do you believe that someone created this? Sometimes they say yes, sometimes a lot of times they say no. So I then I ask, I say, have you seen I don't know, uh the Mona Lisa or something that Michelangelo had created or painted. And they say yes. And I'll ask, were you there or did you see this person paint this? Either painting or mural. And they say no. But they believe that someone had to have painted this or constructed this, as well as a corridor building. And they agree. So I use that to get their mind to thinking and say, well, what we have here The planets, you, me, the sky, the birds. Someone had to have created this. His handiwork. It's everything around us, and we see it It says in verse 2, it says, day to day pours out speech, and night to night reveals knowledge. There is no speech. Nor are there words whose vo voice is not heard. So what is that saying? This is saying that God's creation is constantly speaking, such saying that There is a creator. There is a creator. But not with audible words like you and me. But we can clearly see That a creator did all of this. Verse 4 says, the voice goes out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them he has set a tent for the sun, which comes out like a bridegroom leaving his chamber, and like a strong man runs its course with joy. The Apostle Paul references this verse in Romans ten eighteen. It's also about the gospel and how let me go there. Yeah, I'll read this up um Gang But he asked , have they not heard? Indeed they have, for the voice has gone out all to all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. Creation speaks a creator. As we there are people that have not heard the gospel, but they are still accountable. To God. If you go into Romans, Romans 1, 18 through 20 , we want to elaborate on this a little bit. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is plain to them, because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly Perceived ever since the creation of the world. And the things that have been made, so they are without excuse. Man is exoti is without excuse. They suppress the truth. When they clearly see God's handiwork , Inverse So as a wrap up or a conclusion, I just I just wanted to show that there are a lot of movies, there are a lot of people today that claim that this Big Bang Something out of nothing is is real. They believe that God doesn't exist. God says in his word, the fool says in his heart, that there is no God We clearly see in creation in his word that he exists. And We need to continue to encourage others and share with others that God is real. Jesus loves them. The last seven verses in chapter nineteen go more into his word. Um but I'm gonna stop there and I think we can um have a prayer request and uh appraisal reports. What do you want to say? I was gonna say I'll take those next verses if you don't want to do them. Let's do it. Thank you. Thank you, Maurice. That was excellent. I appreciate that. Um it's a little A little background. Um yesterday I didn't even know I was gonna be able to come here, so I asked Brother Maurice to step in and I really appreciate you doing it and God gave me the strength to be able to speak. Um this morning and I think I can finish these last couple of verses if that's okay with you, brother. Um but but yes, the heavens the heavens declare the glory of God. And then I'm not going to cover his verses, I'm going to go past it, but I just want to say one thing that is burning my bosom as you've been preaching and encouraging us is notice it says the heavens declare It doesn't say that it tries or if we have faith or if we can really see into it. The heavens are always declaring the glory of God. It's constantly shouting out, day to day, night to night. It's screaming to us that there is a God. What are the very first words of the Bible? In the beginning. In in the beginning what? In the beginning God. In the beginning God, but the Greek and the Hebrew says God in the beginning. The very first words of the Bible is God. No defense, no explanation, just God right in your face. God exists. And when we read those words, we all know what they mean. In fact, it's like the atheist. You talk to the atheist, I hate God. What, the God you don't believe in? How do you hate a being that doesn't exist? Because there is no true atheist. They know that God exists. So God has his as Brother Maurice wonderfully describes, that's the first seven the first six verses is about God's general revelation or natural revelation, and then the next verses are about God's special revelation. And where do we find God's special revelation? Right here. The word of God. So let's look at it. Verse 7. The law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Now, this isn't a ritual, it's a real question. What is perfection? What is perfection? God. Amen. God is perfection. Anything else? What with the idea of perfection or perfect? If you c how about this. If you get a perfect score Out of ten, what do you get? Was that? Ten. Okay. We're getting somewhere. If you get a perfect score out of a hundred, what do you get? A hundred is not sure a question. Perfection is without errors, without faults. So, if the law of the Lord is perfect, how many errors are found in God's word? Not one. Zero. It's a hundred percent of the time correct. What about when you disagree with it? What about when it says something that rubs you the wrong way? Who's right? The law of the Lord is perfect. Are you perfect? Am I perfect? Is the collection of all of our minds here perfection? No, only God's word is perfect. So the first lesson is to recognize, well the first lesson of all is to recognize that there is a God. The second lesson, you're not Him. The third lesson, you need him. He's right and you're wrong. Does that make sense? The law of the Lord is perfect, but you're not perfect, but guess what? I'm gonna tell something to you kids, don't do this. But here's what we used to do in school. When you didn't know the answer and you realized you didn't know the answer and you knew the other kid knew the answer, you know what sometimes we would do? PJ? We don't want to confess it. Because we knew we didn't know, but we knew he didn't know. But he didn't know. I'll give an example. Spanish class. There's always a kid, at least in my Spanish class, that spoke Spanish natively. I don't know why he was there getting easy grade. We didn't know Spanish. Right? The teacher barely knew Spanish, but he knew Spanish because he was from El Salvador or whatever. And so many times again I'm not saying we should do this, but many times we just looked over his paper and said, What do you A, B, C, A, okay. And we all passed because the one Spanish kid knew the s the Now again, children don't do that. Okay? Don't cheat on papers. That's not the point. But the point is that we if we recognize that we don't know the answer, we need to go to him who has the answer. But you need to recognize that you don't have the answer. Does that make sense? You need to recognize you're in a Spanish test that you don't know the answer. Don't cheat, but just ask, hey teacher, I don't know the answer. Help me out. Does that make sense? And so we need to do the same thing. It's we need to go to God's Word and say, I don't know the answer. How am I supposed to lead this church as a pastor? The Word of God? How are you supposed to interact with your pastor, the Word of God? How are you supposed to manage your marriage? The Word of God. How are you supposed to raise your children? The Word of God. How are you supposed to work? And interact with your boss, the word of God. Mr. Dennis would like this one. How are you supposed to react with the government? The word of God. Amen. The word of God. How are you supposed to react? Now this is really something you'll like according to the speed limit. Isn't that true? Everything in our life should be dictated by the word of God because it's perfect and we're not And we have to be humble enough to recognize that and submit ourselves to that word of God. Now look what else it does. The word of God is perfect. What's the next thing say? What else does it do? Refreshes the soul. Give me some other translation. Reviving the soul? Okay, anybody else? We said converting. Converting the soul. Okay, all those are good. Refresh. The word of God does refresh us. Revive, I think that's closer to what the KJV is. I haven't looked at the Greek or Hebrew, so I can't debate which one's right. But I like the converting the soul part. And I'm going to preach off that part. And the KJB is older than the year translation, so I'm going with this one. Converting the soul. The word of God converts the soul. Is that not true? This happened to Augustine. There was this famous reality of Augustine, where he was out there, his mother was praying constantly for him, and he was out in the garden after a life of debauchery and everything else, and he heard these little children singing or saying this mantra that he had never heard before or since. And it was, one kid was crying out to another, take up and read. Take up and read. He found that to be a sign from God, and he picked up the Bible, and I have to go back and look at the reference, but it was basically a reference about people living in debauchery and sin and the wrath of God coming upon them. And he was convicted and he was converted. And people have said this is probably the only text in the Bible that had a conversion out of a man Well, in other words, no one else got converted from this text other than Agassiz. Because it wasn't about the gospel at all. He knew the gospel, but he read, he was convicted, and converted. I converted also reading the Gospel of Matthew. My friend Ruby, you said to see sometimes here on Wednesday, you guys know Ruby? He was converted by reading the same gospel, the Gospel of Matthew. Matthew, does anyone else's conversion have anything anyone else's own personal testimony did the Word of God play a part, at least that you know of? Yes, it does. And I would say if you know of it. If you don't, it probably did. That gospel that was probably ringing in your ears was John three sixteen and all these other verses. So what I'm trying to show you is this. What is our mission? Convert the world. Basically, right? Go therefore make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. We are to go make disciples. We are to go Make converts, we are trying to to convert people. But your words have no power. Is that not true No one can come to the Father except through Christ. Unless he draw them, and I will raise them up in the last day. John 6. 44, you can check it out. You cannot come to Jesus outside of the drawing ministry of God the Father through the Holy Spirit. And what does God use most, if not all the time, to draw sinners to himself? The word can convert the soul. So if you go out there with Maurice, he alluded to it as he's knocking on doors. Please go out with him. He'll invite you. Use the word of God. As you try to encourage people, maybe you write them a little Christian card, right? And maybe you want to give them some something to encourage them, to bring them to the Lord. Use the word of God. The word of God can convert the soul. Get the word of God in there. You may, I don't know if you've noticed this, but many times, it's not about me, but I just want to show you this, many times in my preaching, I'll Use the word of God to back up what I'm saying. I'll say something and I'll say, hey, this is where it comes in the Bible. And I'll say something and I'll say, hey, look, this is an illustration in the Bible. I'll give you an example. Today I talked about Jacob burying his idols. Genesis chapter 35, verse 2 and 4. Why did I do that? Because I believe the word of God has the power. Does that make sense? The word of God is that rock. The word of God is the power that will smash our sin. We should be able to defend what we say by the Word of God. We should try to infuse our minds with the Word of God. When you hear an atheist and they say there is no God, what should be the scripture that comes to your mind? Yeah, it's a memory verse in a bulletin. Psalm fifty-three verse one. The fool says in his heart that there is no God. Does that make sense? We need to have the word. The word of God is the power of people. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the symbol. Okay, well who's the simple in our text? What do you think Ben? The people. The people. Let's make it more specific. Who's the fool in our text not the fool, excuse me. Who's the simple? In our text. Stephanie? We are. Right? The word of God is making wise the simple. Who's the simple? Us Again, God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. We've got to recognize that we're actually the simple in our text. He's the word of God makes us wise. We've got to get on his program. We need to know what he says. And we need to learn from him. And guess what? After you become infused with the Bible, when you become a walking, talking Bible, guess what? You'll become wise. James talks about asking God for wisdom. Well, if God gives us wisdom, he's going to fill us with his word. And so that we have God's perspective about all things. And actually I think, thank you for quoting Romans chapter 10. If you read Romans chapter 10, Paul, as you pointed out, quotes Psalm 19, verse 2. But it's interesting and you read it, and again I don't want to debate about this, but you read it and you're like, but is he really talking about natural revelation there? Contextually it seems like Paul is talking about the fact that the gospel went out to the Jews by the the ministry of the apostles and the prophets in the early church. It doesn't seem like he's talking about natural reality. He's talking about the Jews. And specifically the Jews have the word of God. And the whole context is how will they hear unless Someone is sent and the preacher. And then he quotes this verse. I hope everybody see the confusion a little bit. He's talking about the need for the gospel to go out. And then he says the gospel has gone out, and then he quotes Psalm 19 about natural revelation. They're like, what's going on here? Does everybody see the problem? It's like, what's going on? Here's what I think. I think Paul knew the Bible so well that when he would speak, he would just quote the Bible, just come out of them. He's just come out of him, right? And Age has come by, the fool says in the heart, there's no God. He's just infusing out of him. I'll give you an illustration of this Some of you, or at least you you, or you know somebody who knows a lot of pop references. Right? You've been spending a lot of time watching a lot of movies. And you know these pop references, and they just come out of you all the time. I'll give you one. You leave and you say, I'll be back. You know that reference? Anybody know that reference? Who's that? Yeah, and what was he saying when he said I'll be back? Who's he coming back with? Yeah, he was going back to kill everybody, right? But guess what? You might you that reference just might come out of you, but you're not saying it's not a threat, you're just making kind of a reference, I'll be back. But your coming back isn't a reference to kill. It's just coming out of you. Does that make sense? It's so much in you that when you want to say I'll be back, you out automatically change your accents to become honest worsenegger and reference to terminate it. I think that's what's going on here in Psalm nineteen. Is that he's not so much saying that this is a fulfillment of exactly Psalm 19, but the principal words of Psalm 19, namely that their words have gone out to the ends of the world and they have heard, is true of them, just as it is true of all creation. But my point simply is this. What if we were walking talking Bibles? Wouldn't that be great? I'll give you an example of this. My great-grandmother My great-grandmother, she's a very old Christian, godly woman, and my father asked her, you're so wise, you've lived so long, what is your advice to me? Does that make sense? You've lived so long and you've had such a good life. She was 100 years old at the time. What is your advice to me? What have you learned over the years if you could summarize it and distill it? Quickly, what would you say? Let me stop here. What would you say if I asked you to distill What you've learned over the course of your life. Anybody? What would you how would you answer that question? I mean that's a great question, right? It's a golden moment that actually happened, a real story that happened. Unbelieving father. Believing grandmother. What would you say? Without God I can't do anything. Amen. Amen. Anybody else? Without God I can't do anything. What would you say, Mr. Kevin? What would I say to what? What would grandma would say? No, n you're the grandma. You're the grandpa. Right? Somebody says to you, what have you lived a long life. You've lived a long life. Right. How can you distill your wisdom? Trust God. Trust God. Amen. Anybody else? Well I'm always going all your way somebody comes for me. Uh I was actually asked this in Camelotian and I told her that uh The five way mobile change. These are all good answers. I like all of them. I d I'm glad I didn't hear make sure to invest in the S B five hundred and make sure to invest often and early and at least fifteen percent of your income. That would be horrible. I almost feared that Dave Ramsey would give that advice. Okay, I'm teasing. That's a joke. Uh here's what my gr uh I did want to say what my grandmother did so. What did she say? But in her early one hundreds, when asked a similar question, she said , Trust and honor God. I like it. These are all these are all good answers. Let me tell you what my grandma said to my father. Ecclesiastes 12 verse 13. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every word, every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. That's the conclusion of the life of Solomon. That's Solomon's final conclusion of all his studies. The wisest man in the world gave the conclusion. I'll read it again. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God. And keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man. For God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. What a great isn't that a great answer That's a great answer. My grandma did not know that question was coming to her by my father, unbelieving. But she had memorized his verse long ago. She probably came back to this to feed her own soul over and over for those hundred years, and then all of a sudden her grandchild one day gives her a call. Ask her, teach me something, and she points back to the word of God. What I'm trying to say is, what if we're people like that? If someone says to you, hey, is a multitude of children a blessing? And you think, Psalm 127, bless is the man who has his cover full of them. Do you see what I'm saying? That people ask you things, and this the Bible comes out. How can I get wisdom? Whoever lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. who gives to all abundantly. This trial. Is this a blessing or a curse? The blesses of man. Count it all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. Let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. And this is not to brag. This is so that you have it for yourself. When you're going through the trial, don't you think God will not bring to your memory usually what you have not memorized and what you do not know. So we should be walking, talking Bibles, storing it up, so that it can bless us, that it can convert, that it can restore, that it can make wise The simple. Verse 8. Rejoicing the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure, enlightening the eyes. Enlightening the eyes is very similar to what we saw before. It teaches us truth. We become enlightened. Oh Wow. Again, that Psalm 127 enlightened my eyes sixteen years ago. Why do I have six children? Psalm 127. That's the reason. Psalm 127. Not because I came up with this plan. Not because I even like children. Psalm 127. God said it was a blessing. I believed it and light my eyes. And guess what? 16 years later, parents, are children blessing? In their abundance? They're able to. God never lies. It enlightens your eyes. But look at verse 8. It doesn't just enlighten your eyes. What does it do to your heart? What does the word of God do to your heart? Rejoice. Rejoice. Rejoice in the Lord. Again I say, rejoice. Christian, if you're downtrodden, angry, bitter, something wrong. I understand we go through ups and downs. I get that. But the word of God should bring joy to your step. Should it not? The promises in this book are wonderful. The truth in this book are delightful It should bring you joy. That's what it says. The statues of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. Verse nine. The fear of the Lord is what? Clean. Enduring how long? Forever. Forever. In some sense, we'll always fear the Lord. That's what it says. In some sense, we will always fear the Lord. Our last memory passage, I'm gonna move fast past this, but our last memory passage was Deuteronomy ten twelve. Kid? Any children? Anybody got it? Deuteronomy ten twelve? Three stickers, whoever gets it. I'll give you an ice cream cone. Anybody? Deuteronomy ten twelve. What does the Lord God require of you but to fear him, love him, serve him, and to cle and to keep his commandments, which I am commanding you today for your good. Thank you. Amen. What does the Lord require of you? Fear Him. Love Him. Serve Him. Keep His commandments, which I'm commanding you today for what? For your good. These are this is what the Lord requires of us. It doesn't change. Fear him, love him, serve him, and keep his commandments. All of it. Fear and love are right there. Keep all of his commandments. That is the requirement. It's clean, enduring forever. No. Real quick, we'll leave this. We're moving on. I think we all got it. This does not mean that you think God's going to hurt you. That's not what the fear of the Lord means here, does it? It doesn't mean that you're shuddering in the corner here. God doesn't want that. You're his child. You run to him as Abba Father. Amen. But it does mean that you're always going to respect him and always treat him with reverence that he deserves. And we saw that a little bit today in our text: that we are supposed to fear the Lord and not fear the idols. And the fearing of the Lord is directly tied to the obedience of the Lord. And they did not fear the Lord, which came out by the fact that they feared the idols. Do you see? To fear the Lord is to obey what he says. Think about it. If you had a father and you respected him slash fear him, would you disrespect him in his face? Would you just go around disrespecting him? No, why? Because you respect that 's fear of him. That's the kind of respect and fear that we have of the Lord. It's clean and endures forever. Moving on. Verse ten More to be desired are they than gold, yes, much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, and the hunt and the honeycomb. So what's more valuable? This Bible or the money in your pocket? Or your bank account? See, we we we have the Word of God and we don't even realize what a treasure it is sometimes because we have so many of them. How many Bibles do you have in your home? Mr. Kevin? You have any Bibles in your home? Five. Five? How many do we well I'm not even gonna say that. Ben how many Bibles do you have in your home? Oh at least over twenty. Yeah, wow. Wow. Ethan? You got a couple Bibles at your house? Three Bibles. We have a lot of 'em. How many Bibles do we have in the church? Oh, Jedediah, how many Bibles do you have in your home? A couple, a lot, right? There's a lot of them, right? We have a we have so much of them that we can start to devalue the scriptures because when you have an abundance you start to think it's not worth anything. But imagine if all the Bibles were confiscated. You don't actually have to imagine that. That happened in the early church. And do you know Christians died over this book? What would you do for the Bible if there was no Bible? You would give a lot for the Bible. In fact, did you know how much these Bibles used to be before the printing press? You know how valuable this Bible was? I'll just tell you how valuable it was. It would take a year or two, someone working full-time who was an expert. Who received all this education to be able to write and transcribe a year or two of work to produce a Bible? So let's say it took a year and a half. What's the uh the average salary? And again you gotta remember in our current society, all salaries are worth about half of what they're really worth because the average person can only provide half of enough money for his own household. That's just true. So just do that math in your mind. Let's say the average person who 's educated makes 70,000. But really, that's half value. So it's like 140,000 times two. Just rough math, that's about three hundred thousand dollars. That's how much your Bible would cost you. Can you imagine? Three hundred thousand dollars is a Bible, and people would pay it. Because what this verse says is true, that more to be desired are they than gold, yes, much fine gold, sweeter also than honey and the honey of the honeycomb. It's the word of God. This is the only book that's the word of God. Oprah Winfrey always pick on her? No word of God there. What about, has anybody ever read the Quran? It's awful. I don't recommend it. It's blasphemous. The whole book. The whole book is you know, I'll summarize the Quran in in in about one sentence. Anybody ever read any of it? You read a little bit of the Quran? Have you read any of the Quran? Don't do it. It's a horrible book. It's a blaster. It's a demonic book. It really is. Here's the entire Quran in a nutshell. The Jews are evil. And Jesus is not the Son of God. That's Muhammad's message. That's the devil's message. The Jews are evil, and Jesus is not the son of God. And it says that over and over and over, and it's a really horrible book. There's no truth in that. No. There's only one book that's the word of God is this book that we stand on. Verse 11. Moreover, by them. Is your servant warned? In keeping them, there is a great reward. I will try to finish this passage. Okay. What are we warned of in our Bible? What are we warned of? Coming judgment, Mr. Dennis. What the world has in store for us. Amen. And what do they have in store for us? Nothing that the scriptures have in store for us. Yeah, the opposite, right? Sorrow, blasphemy, slander, gossip. Accusation, Ferraris, temptation. Yes, they do. It warns us. And guess what, believer, beloved? Is it good to be warned? It's a good thing, right? Like sticking your head in the sand and saying, oh it's not there, la la la, it's not actually good. You want to be warned. You know what they call preaching that warns people? Fire and brimstone preachers. And everybody doesn't want to be a fire and brimstone preacher. And no souls are getting saved. You see a problem? Everybody's terrified of being those terrible fire and brimstone preachers, and no souls are getting saved. And nobody ever wonders maybe it's because they're not doing what the word of God says, which is to warn people. Jesus said, how will you escape the fires of hell? Jesus spoke about hell more than anybody else. Apparently Jesus didn't get the message, did he? Jesus warned about hell. John the Baptist warned about hell. The Bible is full of warnings about hell. When the Bible describes the beauty of the Word of God, we're a few verses in, and it says that the Word of God. Does what? Moreover, by them is your servant warned. It warns you. And the principal warning is that the world is going down. If you read the end of 2 Peter, that's what it says, right? This whole earth is being gonna be burned up and destroyed, and all the wicked are going to go to hell And that's good to be warned. Even John 3. 16, the most wonderful verse about God's love and eternal life, says, can somebody quote me John 3. 16? Shall not what? Shall not shall not what Perish. You said perish. I was just making sure. Shall not perish. The verse all about love, it's actually also about perishing. That's called a warning. Does that make sense? It's a warning. And that's a good thing. We want to be warned. In keeping them, there is great reward. Great eternal reward for receiving the gospel and great reward just in life. Are God's ways better? Believer, always remember that. God's ways are better. We're moving on. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse me. from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins, let them not have dominion over me. Then I shall be upright, and I shall be innocent of great transgressions. Let the words of my mouth And the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. You know, I think I was wrong. I think it's actually unfair to say that Psalm 19 can be divided simply in two sections. General revelation and special revelation. Because as I look at this passage right here, it seems that it goes from general revelation to special revelation to my sin. He seems to move from the Word of God to how the Word of God is impacting him and revealing his sin. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse me from secret faults. And I'll just simply say this, that if you listen to sermons, if you read the Word of God, and it never penetrates you down to your sin and your crying out for God, it's not doing its work. When you behold God and His beauty and His excellence and the Word of God, you should not be listening to sermons or to be reading God's Word and simply thinking, I know who needs this. My neighbor. I wish they were here. I hope they're listening. Yeah, you get 'em. Right? Is that who you should be listening primarily for or reading primarily for? Sometimes we read the Word of God just to fret with others. Is that not true? We think, oh yeah, this will get those Jehovah's Witnesses. Oh yeah, this will get those Pentecostals, those Methodists, whoever. No, no, no. What we should primarily be reading the Word of God is cleanse me of my sin, of my problem. Let the Word of God penetrate your heart. And reveal to you how sinful you are. And there's two types of sin here. What are they? It's right there in well you can you can see a little bit of it in verse twelve and it's also in verse thirteen. Secret faults. Secret. Presumptuous. High-handed. Things that you know are wrong that you just go ahead and do anyways. We've been there, right? You hear that voice? Don't say that to your wife. And you go ahead and say it. You hear that voice? Don't say that to that person. That's gossip. And there you are doing it. We've been there, haven't we? Presumptuous sins. We knew it was sin. We heard God's voice tell us not to, and we did not listen. That's one type of sin. But that's not the only sin. There's also those secret sins. Does that ever happen to you? You were doing something? Breaking the speed limit. And you didn't even realize it was that until Mr. Dennis came. Revealing it to you. I said, yo. But you get what I'm saying? Have you been there? You didn't even know there was sin. You didn't realize. I didn't realize that was sin. But guess what? It's still sin because sin is not dependent on your knowledge. That would be subjective. Sin is objective based on God's law. It doesn't matter if you know it or not. God's law says this. And if you find yourself in violation of God's law, you are sinning. Does that make sense? God cleanse me from both of them. High-handed sin when I know your law, and even secret sins that I do not know. And we finally made it to verse 14 that we can get out of here and press out. Verse 14. I knew that this was a lady, she was a um a missionary named Gail King, and this was her life verse. A life verse. Godly woman, let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeeming. What a life verse. Could you imagine this was your life verse? But the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart. Please really talk about this. Your heart doesn't think your mind does. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. That is going really deep, isn't it? Not just your actions, right? But your mouth. And not just your mouth, but your thoughts. Imagine if we had on this projector the thoughts of your mind over the last month. And we could search it like AI. Find me all the embarrassing thoughts. Enter. Boop, boop. Would anybody want that? How terrifying would that be? How convicting and embarrassing would that be to have our thoughts projected before us all. I heard one person say that if his thoughts were put on the projector, nobody would ever ask him to babysit again. I don't know what his thoughts were. But the point is, the issue is we'd all be embarrassed. Does that make sense? Because our thoughts oftentimes are contrary to to the word of God. And I want what I'm trying to show you is this. We excuse ourselves sometimes for our thoughts. I can't control it. It's not really me. They're just thoughts. But the psalmist, as he reflects on God's word and what it's supposed to do, says, God, I'm not making any more excuses before you. I want you to purify all of me. My actions, my words, and even my thoughts. That's a task that we need a lifetime and many more lifetimes to accomplish. And we'll never fully accomplish that. But that is the task: to have a pure mouth, to have pure actions. And pure thoughts. Does that make sense? You don't get a pass because they're your thoughts. Now, if they stay your thoughts and don't become your words or actions, good, right? We don't want those evil thoughts coming out of your lips. And coming out of your actions. But you need to fight them all the way back to the evil thoughts. Out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaks. Does that make sense? Any thoughts or questions on that? Well that's Psalm nineteen. Is a good song, right? Amazing psalm. We start off with the beauty of creation and we end of the sinfulness of man's heart and need of cleansing from God's word. It's a great song. And so I ask you, I invite you to continue to meditate on this song. And for some of you, maybe it will be well probably Miss Burna's not here, but we might end up uh Trying to remember, I Psalm 19, verse 14. Because it's so beautiful. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be accessible in your sight, O Lord, my rock and my redeemer. Any final thoughts before we go to prayer?