Good morning. Today we're going to continue our study on the attributes of God. Let us take a moment to remind ourselves of why we are doing this. Why are we studying the attributes of God. Well, first off, it's because this is the Lord's day and this is what we do. We always have a Sunday school where we try to lift up the Lord and to think about Him. And I think that the Lord is pleased with that. But particularly why if we're not just filling time here, right? Well kind of. But for the most part, we're not just filling time here. Um we're we're trying to learn and better understand the God who saved us, the God of our creation. And so the reason uh that we're studying the attributes of God is the more that we know about God, the more we know God. You remember that analogy that I gave in the beginning of the class where somebody says Um, I want to marry your daughter and then gets the wrong name and then describes her with all the wrong attributes and and you kind of think, I don't think this guy knows my daughter, let alone am I going to let him marry my daughter. It's the same thing here. We're trying to know our spouse. Right? And some of you might be a little uncomfortable with that, but that's what the Bible says. It says that we are the bride of Christ. So if we're the bride, that what does that make Christ? He comes the husband, right? And so we want to know our spouse. We want to know more about him to to know God is to love God because he is truly wonderful and awesome. Secondly, what we want to do is not just to know the Lord, but we also just want to take time to get our eyes off of the earthly realities and get our eyes to the heavenly. realities. Oftentimes we live down here, we're thinking about things down here. Everything every our eyes are down here, right? But when we think about the attributes of God and we Peering in it's called theology proper, the study of God, it just gives us a greater sense of reality. Because the truth is That we think what is earthly, what is physical, that's what's real. But the reality is, I mean, that's certainly real, but there's a deeper level of reality and a more fundamental level of reality. Because this was all created. This all came to be at a certain time in the past, but spiritual reality has always existed. And really you think many of our brothers and sisters on the other side. Right? And we're going to the other side. In fact, if you go into the book of Revelation, the other side's coming down. Right? This side is not going up. The other side's coming down. The heavenly city is coming down and there's going to be a resurrection. of all of creation, including our own bodies. And we have this really strange statement in uh 1 Corinthians chapter 15 where it talks about we're gonna have real bodies, right? But here's the here's a strange thing. It says that our bodies will be spiritual bodies It's a very strange statement. It would have real bodies, but yet there's going to be a spiritual component to our bodies. So what I'm trying to get at, trying to tell you is that the fundamental reality that what really is behind all truth is a spiritual reality. And so when we think about the attributes of God and God said, I am spirit. Right? God said he is spirit and his word is spirit and life. So when we think about God, we start to get our eyes off earthly reality and think about spiritual reality and especially him who is spiritual. And the last reason we want to uh look at the attributes of God, the last reason I'll give here, is because we are made in the image of God. See, uh John Calvin has a uh John Calvin's Institute. It's an interesting read, difficult read at some point. But if if anyone uh begins to read the institutes, what do they begin? Hopefully page one, right? You start at the beginning and see, is this a good book? In the very beginning of the book, he says probably one of the You don't even need to read all the answer to just read the first chapter of least because there's something wonderful there. And he says uh that when we when we start to think about God, start to know God, it's not immediately apparent whether or not we first come to realize God or we first come to realize ourselves. There's this mutual back and forth reality, right? To know God is To know self. To know self is to know God. Because we're made in the image of God. See? Because as we as the perceiver, as we come to think about God, we've already pre supposed ourselves, but we come to think of ourselves. Who are we? We are creatures made in the image of God. There's this back and forth. Calvinist, uh very interesting there. And that's kind of the point that I'm trying to uh bring out here. The more that we come to know God, strangely, the more we come to know ourselves, who we are, what we are like. That's That is the truth. Now, this needs to be carefully caveated, though. Just because we're in the image of God does not mean that we are the mini-versions of God. Okay, God is fundamentally different. And that's one of the things that we come to realize as we study God is okay, he's like me in some ways, but in some ways he's radically different than me. So in some ways we gain a greater appreciation say, I can relate more to God after this study of the attributes of God. And in another way we're like, I can relate less to God. I am smaller than God. So it's a strange paradox of I grow in intimacy, but I also grow in awe and respect of God and realize I'm dealing with someone who's truly magnificent and wonderful. And so what should result in our own experiences, we should be uh drawn closer to God. Drawing closer, ooh, I can have a real relationship with this God who's Awesome and wonderful and amazing, right? We want to draw closer into our covenant Lord, our husband. But we also, when we see how amazing and wonderful and and magnificent, we don't treat him flippantly. We don't wear t-shirts like Jesus is my my homeboy, right? If we do, we we we uh have patience with those and we grow out of that kind of stuff because we realize that Jesus is way more than our Oh boy, right? Jesus is amazing. You remember when Peter came to realize who Jesus was? Or is he not even really it's probably not he didn't realize fully who Jesus was at that time Talking about when uh they were on the boat and he and he stills the storm and the sea, and he says, What kind of man is this that even the winds and the wave obey him? He's starting to get a glimmer of his Of his deity. Another time that happened was when he was uh fishing. Peter was fishing, and then he tells him to put his net out and he catches all of the fish and he says, Depart from me, right? For I am a sinful man. Well, here's what I'm saying. When Peter's getting a glimpse of Jesus' deity, it scares him. And he grows in awe and respect and realizes I can't treat this person flippantly. Well the best example of this will be Isaiah, when he stands before God and sees him in his majesty, he says, Woe is me, a man of unclean lips, I am undone. So that's what that's what the attributes of God are supposed to do for us. We're supposed to draw near to the throne of grace. in fellowship and friendship, and we'll also to stand back and say, whoa, I'm dealing with someone who is serious and who is magnificent and wonderful and I need to treat him with all respect. So that was by way of introduction. Today we're going to consider some of God's omni attributes. The prefix omni is a Latin prefix and it means all. So you hear omni think all. And here are the main three omniattributes: God's omnipotence, omnipresence, and omniscience It's interesting that word omnipotence. Sometimes you hear people say omnipotent. And I swear I want to say that every time I look at that, but it's actually omnipotence. And omnipotence is God's um he's being all-powerful, right? Omni-all, and uh I guess potence has some uh relevance to uh power So God's omnipotence is his power. God's omnipresence is God being everywhere at all times. We cannot escape from God's presence. And God's omniscience is God knowing all things. And so these are the main three omni-attributes. Sometimes there's another omni-attributes that is added to this list. Can anyone think of another omni-attribute? Sometimes they've maybe heard God's omnipotence. He's omniscient, right? And he's omnipresence. Has anyone ever heard a fourth omni-attribute? Well sometimes we hear another attribute. These are the most common, by the way. Sometimes you hear omnibenevolence. You ever heard that? It means that God is all good or God is all love. You ever heard that that's fine? That's an Strange literature sometimes. But uh you see that sometimes, right? But the main three is God's omnipotence, God's omnipresence, and God's omniscience. God's omni-benevolence, we've already kind of hit that, right? And what we called it was God's immutability or God's changelessness. Now technically they're a little bit different, right? But it's it's underneath the umbrella of God's changelessness, because when we went to those scriptures, if I was trying to prove God's omnibenevolence, how would I do it? I'd go to those same scriptures I used for God's imbecile. Immutability because in those contexts it talks about God is light, He doesn't change, all every good gift comes from Him, and and so forth and so on. And so that's what the challenge I had a challenge uh preparing this Sunday school because When I was trying to think about all of God's attributes, I realized that we've hit a whole lot of his incommunical attributes, his attributes he doesn't share with us. And and but we've only actually gone over in detail God's assayity, his self-existence, right, and God's um What's the other one? Oh, it's immutability. Right? We've we did God's Asaity and God's immutability. But strangely, underneath of God's Asaity, we have God's transcendence. We got God's um The fact that God is infinite. We've done so many of these things already, just doing that. Even God's sovereignty, all of these things, in his independence, his holiness. There's so many things that wrap up underneath God's assayed. So I had some uh some level of difficulty, but what we're gonna do here is we're gonna look at God's omni-attributes, and specifically we're gonna zone in on God's omnipotence. So Where in the Bible do we find God's omnipotence? And what I want to do is I primarily want to zone in on God's omnipotence defined in the Bible. Because oftentimes we just take the term omnipotence and just start running with it, right? God's all powerful. So does that mean that God can create a rock that he cannot himself build or he cannot himself lift? We get all speculative and crazy about that, but let's stick to the biblical data and see how the Bible itself describes God's being all-powerful, or him being omnipotent. By the way, I don't want to leave that one out there. something like that is uh no that is uh radically impossible and absurd because God by definition is omnipotent and omnipotent wouldn't be able to make some kind of contradiction It's like God being a necessary being. Could God the necessary being die? No, it's an inherent contradiction, and so we shouldn't be worried about this folly. All right. Let's look at God's omnipotence. Does the Bible tell us that God is all powerful? Well Revelation 19. 6 says, Then I heard what seemed to be the voice of a great multitude, like the roar of many waters. And like the sound of mighty peals of thunder, crying out, Hallelujah, for the Lord our God, the Almighty, reigns. You see that? So he's thinking about God. And he hears this voice crying out, hallelujah, which means praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Praise the Lord. For the Lord our God, that's Yahweh. The Almighty reigns. What's going on there is that's an oppositional use, which is who is the Lord our God? He is the Almighty, and the Almighty reigns. But there we have the word Almighty. And so I check many, many different uh translations, and most translations translate the Greek word Almighty, just like your ESV does But King James translates to that word omnipotent. Why? Because Almighty and Omnipotent are synonyms. All powerful, all powerful, omnipotent And the Met Bible translates this as all-powerful. So clearly we have here said in multiple different ways, almighty, omnipotent, all-powerful. They're all synonyms for saying that God has all power. God is described here as being all powerful. He is the ruler who reigns over all of creation. No one can stay his hand and say, why do you do this? God is the greatest. Right? That's that's what why he's being described as Almighty, is because we're supposed to see if he's Almighty, then he's more powerful than anybody else, and that means he can accomplish everything he wants to accomplish. He can do what he wants to do. Nobody can stop him and stay his hand. And that's not something that we can just tease out of the phrase Almighty. The Bible explicitly makes this application. In Daniel 435, we read All of the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say to him What have you done? So notice in that passage in Daniel uh three, uh Daniel 35, it says that all of the inhabitants of the earth Alright, so everyone, all the inhabitants of the earth, that's everything on over here, is accounted as nothing. So you have a scale, and you say all of humanity And all of creation, put it on that scale, and then put God on the other side, and you have zero versus infinity. Right? I mean that is immense power. Right? Think about that. Think about all of the armies coming after you. All of the power. We we had a uh event uh yesterday where we were playing tug of war. Right? And it was a bunch of little kids and they were playing Kugger War and I ran on one side and pulled them easily. I was able to pull them all over, right? And ran on the other side and pull them all over. I was much more powerful than them. So then I had this idea. What if I put all the kids on that side and put me on this side? Right, there was like tons of them. I thought I'm stronger than them. I wasn't stronger than them. They pulled me around like a ragdoll because the the collective strength, right? They had this collective strength that was able to pull me around Well, in this text, it says that you put all of humanity on one side of the tug of war and put God on the other way, and they are accounted as nothing. That's how powerful our Lord is. That is how strong He is. Now, some might be thinking, okay, well that's because humanity is so weak and feeble, even all of our collective strength is considered nothing. But what about the angels? Right, they're pretty powerful. I mean we have one angel that kills a hundred and eighty-five thousand Assyrians in one night. No man can do that. I mean this is a really powerful being. In fact, when people uh when people are in the presence of angels, they fall down as if they're dead. So m how about God's strength in comparison to angels? Well, this text fortunately doesn't leave out angels. It says all of the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will. among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say, What have you done? So angels are not forgotten in this passage. They're included. And just as he can get everything he wants to be done here on earth, So he can get everything he wants to be done in the heavenly realms as well. So now we have that tug of war, and now we have all of humanity plus all of the angelic realm, and they're still accounted as nothing. God can do whatever he wants. There is no coup in heaven that's going to stop the omnipotent power of God. And this is quite incredible. Um that God is is that powerful. Not only is he uh more powerful than all of the hosts of heaven, as far as positive uh angels, but even there's heavenly Enemies of God, right? We have the devil and we have one-third of the angels. That's a lot of angels, because the angels are described as an innumerable host. So when we talk about, we wrestle against not flesh and blood, but powers and principalities and all that, we shouldn't think that's like some kind of like tiny kingdom. Right? Some tiny little island kingdom that we've never heard of. No, this is a massive amount of angelic evil forces against us But God's power is so much greater than that power, and that's why we don't need to worry about the devil or all of his uh evil hosts trying to destroy us. And we see God's power compared to Satan's power in some examples in the Bible. One example what I can think of is when Satan tempts Jesus. Do you remember that scene? Satan tempts Jesus. And here's what Satan says to Jesus. He says, All the kingdoms of the world and their glory I will give you. And if you will fall down and worship me Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and only him you shall serve. Then the devil left him So you remember the scene, right? Here is Jesus functioning as the new Adam, and he's instead of being in the garden, he's in the desert. Instead of being uh in God's pro well, at least not uh with with Eve, he is all alone. And so the devil comes and Tempts him, he is not well fed, he is fasting, he is hungry, and here's the temptation of the devil. And one of the uh last temptations or one of the greatest temptations Satan has is he offers Jesus, all of the kingdoms of the world. Right? The Bible says that the Satan is the prince of the power of air. Right? He rules the world. So he says, I'll give it all to you. And what's probably going on here is Satan is is recognizing He has some idea that Jesus' kingdom, probably from the the prophecies in Daniel, he has some idea not prophecies, well prophecies in Daniel and the prophecies to David that Jesus' kingdom will reign on the earth. Right, he will have this kingdom that will spread. So he's offering him the kingdom without the cross. And what Jesus says is, no, I'm not going to worship you. I am going to worship God alone. And then he says, be gone, Satan. And that's an imperative. It's like, get out of here. And then we have something very interesting. It says right then, then the devil left him. When Jesus says, be gone, the devil flees away. And we have other examples like this in the Bible. We can think about the book of Jude, when we have Michael, the archangel, and he is battling with the devil. Right? And then Michael says, The Lord rebuke you, and then devil the devil's heading out of there. Can anyone think of another example where uh some kind of angelic force or something like that is casting the devil away in the name and the power of of Jesus or in the power of God. There's another example in Zechariah. You remember Joshua, the high priest? And he has his garments on, and the devil is is accusing him, right? And the angel of the Lord comes and says, The devil rebuke you, for this one is a fire brand pluffed out. And the devil flees again. And it's speaking of that kind of same vein, we have that in the book of Revelation, right? It says that Satan and his armies were cast out of heaven. They could no longer accuse The brethren. And there's that war in heaven with Michael the Archangel fighting the devil, and the devil is defeated. So we see that the devil is uh under the the hand of God. And and so much, the devil is so much in the hand of God The devil can't do anything to you unless he gets permission from God. So Martin Luther, I believe it was Martin Luther said that the devil is God's devil. Right? He is a monkey on a chain. The devil can only do as much as the Lord allows him, because he's under the omnipotent hand of God. And the best example of this is in the book of Job. Consider this scene from the book of Job. The Lord says to Satan, Where have you come? Satan answered him. Satan answered the Lord and the Lord said, from going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down from it. And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? And there is none like him on the earth, a blameless and upright man, who fears God and turns away from evil Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him in his house and all that he has on every side? Job is such a fascinating book, right? So here we have that we have Job, he's this godly man, and then we get this heavenly scene where the sons of God are called up to the throne room of God, and it says Satan was among them. So here's this heavenly council, right? And the devil shows up, and God addresses the devil and says, Have you considered Job? Well, first off, he says, Where have you been? And he says, I've been roaming around the earth. Oh, you've been roaming around around the earth. Okay, did you have you have you roamed around this guy named Job? Have you not seen him who's godly and following after me and loves me? And then Satan responds to him, Yeah, but does he love you for no reason? Have you not put this hedge of protection around him and his family in all that he has? Now, let's think about that. If God was not omnipotent, then what would God's hedge of protection, why would that be any good at all See, here's God's hedge of protection, but here's Satan and his angels destroying the hedge of protection and coming and destroying Job. No, clearly God is omnipotent, and God's hedge of protection means that Satan can do nothing to Job. And not only to Job, but to Job's family and to Job's stuff. He can do absolutely nothing unless God permits it. And that's the book of Job is they're talking back and forth. And eventually the Lord says, okay, I'll take down that hedge of protection and I'll let you penetrate it, the devil, and that's what happens, and then the devil makes havoc He takes his family away, he brings in raiders, he he puts them in all kinds of sickness and all kinds of disease. But and so that might be a little bit disturbing to us, but what should be very comforting to us is the devil can do absolutely nothing without God's permission. And you think about it, he couldn't even kill. He was even limited to the things that he could do. Oh, he can injure Job, but he was not allowed to kill Job. You see what I'm saying here? God is omnipotent. The devil can do nothing to you without the Lord permitting it. But let me say something else about this. What's fascinating about Job is when the devil is how is it that God strikes Job. That's that's what happens, right? Even even the uh even in this account we have that Satan is telling God to reach out his hand and strike Job. But how does he do it? He does it by just simply letting down the hedge of protection. And Satan freely comes in there and destroys. And so while Satan can do us great damage, he can do no damage as long as as long as the Lord doesn't permit him. And even the damage he can do is regulated by the Lord. But here's the wonderful thing is while we're seeing the damage of Satan in our lives, we can trust that God is the one who's limiting Satan, is only allowing him to do the damage for our benefit and our good. And so this is very comforting. So we see damage and pain and misery. We don't have to see the direct agency of God there. It's not, right? But at the same time, we don't have to just think, well, it's hopeless, it's meaningless, I have no hope in this. God couldn't help me Anyways, we we have that wonderful balance. Another example that we have, God's power compared to Satan's power. And the reason I'm belaboring this point is we have to recognize who's more powerful than Satan God. Who else is more powerful than Satan? Nobody. Right? So if we see that God is so much more powerful than Satan, which is our only enemy, then we have great comfort in God's power. And we know that no one can take us from his hand. Another account where we have God's power contrasted with Satan's power will be in Mark III, beginning in verse twenty-two Mark 3, verses 22 says, And the scribes who came down from Jerusalem were saying, He is possessed by Beelzebub. That's the Lord of the flies, right? They're saying about Jesus, he is possessed by the devil. And by the prince of demons he cast out demons. And he called them and said to them in parables, how can Satan cast out Satan? And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. And if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand. But it is coming to an end. But no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, then indeed he may plunder his house. So here you have Jesus and he's casting out demons. And what's fascinating is to hear his opponent's opposition to this. They cannot deny that he's casting out demons. They cannot deny that he's doing miracles, right? And the the one example of him doing an amazing miracle is remember the man born blind and he gets healed. And they're like Is this guy really been born blind? He must be faking, right? And then they go talk to his parents and like, is this guy, is this your son? He's like, yeah, this is my son. And they keep pressuring him. What did he do to you? How did he do this? He said, I have already told you. He healed me miraculously. He's from God. And they're like, give glory to God. This man is not from God. He's a Sabbath breaker. We know he's not true. Right? And the guy's like, this is this is an amazing thing. How in the world, since the beginning of all humanity, we've never heard about someone being able to heal the blind from birth, and you're saying that he's doing this by the power of the devil? You see the conclusion? The devil's always been around, right? And the devil's always had false prophets. And if the devil could give people the ability to heal people born blind, he would have been doing that a long time ago. But yet this man, right, is obviously from God because God is enabling him to do things no one else has ever done before. Alright, so they cannot deny Jesus' miracles. They can't deny his healing power, and they can't deny the fact that he is casting out demons. Exorcism was going on in And and Judaism, so they knew about demons, they knew about exorcism, and they can't deny that Jesus is the greatest exorcist that the word has ever seen. He's casting out demons left and right. So what they say is, okay. Uh yeah, we can't deny you're casting out demons, but you know what? We think you're doing this by the power of the devil. You're doing this because the devil is behind you. And so the devil can cast out his own demons. So you must be an agent of the devil. And Jesus says, okay, come over here. Let me explain some things to you. I'm going to give you an illustration. How can Satan cast out Satan? And if a kingdom is divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand. He's saying, listen, look at me. I am destroying the work of the devil. Right? I am going around and defeating him and plundering him, and you think I'm an agent of the devil? Why would I be an agent of the devil as I destroy the works of the devil? Then he says, if a house is divided against itself, that house will not be able to stand. And if Satan has risen up against himself and is divided, he cannot stand, but is coming to an end. See, my ministry is destroying the work of the devil. I there's a civil war here. You're trying to say there's a civil war here, right? I am actually conquering the devil, but you're saying I'm his agent. It just doesn't make any sense at all. Then he gives this wonderful parable He says, but no one can enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first binds the strong man, then indeed he may plunder his house. Who's the strong man? It's not God. Right? He's not the strong man. In this parable, God's not the strong man. The strong man is Satan. So he's saying, listen, here's a house, and there's this big bodyguard there, right? Sitting out there ready to go You're not gonna get in. That's why we hired the bi bodyguard, right? You're not gonna get in without getting through the bodyguard. But he's saying, look, that bodyguard he's tied up and he's gagged and hanging out in the you know the basement over there and all the stuff is being taken out and being plundered in the view hall And and what's going on there is he's saying this. God, Jesus Christ is the one who bound Satan, the strongman, tied him up, and then now he's grabbing all his stuff. And his stuff is Christians, is believers. And he's releasing people from the power of Satan into the kingdom of God. And so the only way he could do this is if he is so much more powerful than Satan in the first place. That's what's going on here. So Jesus Christ has bound the strong man because Jesus Christ is stronger than the strong man. And so this ministry of the plundering of Satan by Jesus doesn't just stop with Jesus. Right? I mean it's wonderful that Jesus could do this, but Jesus left. So so what about now? Is Satan gonna take over again? Is Satan unstoppable force all of a sudden? Because Satan's more stronger than us Fortunately, that is not the case. The plundering of Satan has continued in his church. Jesus started it, and it continues to the end of the age. Here's what we hear in Acts 26. Here's what Jesus says to Paul. Acts 26. He says, I have appeared to you for this purpose, to appoint you as a servant and a witness to the things in which you have seen me and to those in which I will appear to you. Delivering you from the people and from the Gentiles to whom I am sending you to open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light. and from the power of Satan to God that they may receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me. So this is uh Paul giving his uh testimony and as we go through he gives his testimony several times and just like if you've heard my testimony uh you you constantly hear more elaborations. I'm not adding to the story, I'm just having more time and giving more details about it. And so that's what we have here. And now he has this conversation hitherto unrecorded between him and Jesus, namely that Jesus says to him, I have appeared to you for this purpose. Right, here's the purpose clause. I have showed up to you, revealed something to you, because I'm going to do something in you. And what is it? I'm going to appoint you as a servant and a witness to the things which you have seen and to that which I will appear to you I'm going to make you my witness. You're going to testify that you saw me rise from the dead, right? And I am alive and I am king. And I'm also going to use you as my witness to testify to some things I haven't yet told you. And that would be not some secret revelation the Catholic Church has, but the but the revelation we have in the Bible, right? The mysteries that Paul's always talking about. I saw these mysteries and I'm here to reveal the mysteries. hidden from God in Christ Jesus from the foundation of the world. That's all that stuff that he says he's going to reveal to Paul. Then he says he's going to send him He's going to be to send him. Well, first he says, I'm going to deliver you from the people that's the that's the Jews and from the Gentiles to whom I'm sending you to. I'm going to send you out to these people and I'll deliver you from them. And what's the mission? Why is he sending them out to the peoples and the Gentiles? To open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light, from the power of Satan to God. This is the plundering ministry. Right, of Jesus. Jesus is saying, my plundering ministry is not over. I'm using you, Paul, to go and open people's eyes to take them from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of light from the kingdom of the devil. Right? He's bound, the kingdom of the devil, into the kingdom of God. One of the most wonderful analogies of this, or illustrations of this, is actually in Tilgrim's Progress. Does everyone remember Pilgrim's Progress where he's journeying, right, and the devil shows up to him and they have this conversation and the devil's like, hey, you're my servant. Right? You belong to me. Come on back. Come back to my kingdom and I'll forgive you all this and we'll act like this never happened. You're a runaway slave. You need to come back here. And and and pilgrims like, no, you're a terrible taskmaster. You're terrible, you're horrible. I'm going to the celestial city. I belong to a new Lord. That that's what that's just an illustration of this That we have gone from the power Satan to God, we've gone from darkness to light. Every single one of us were once children of the devil Right, go read John and go read Genesis and you realize there's only two groups of humanity. You're either a child of the devil, belonging to his kingdom, the kingdom of darkness, or you are a child of God, belonging to the light, and belonging to Him. And so Jesus is using Paul to be the instrument of him to grab people from Satan and bring them to God. Now, so we have Jesus, does it? We have Paul does it, but here's the problem. Paul and Jesus are not here anymore. So has Jesus' plundering ministry ended? No. 2 Peter 2. 9 says, But you, talking about Christians here, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own possession. Why? Why That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. So God didn't just appoint Paul to be his agent, but God appointed us to be this holy nation of troops and soldiers going around proclaiming his excellencies of him who called us out of darkness into his marvelous light so that other people would believe and hear and be saved. Now we have this phrase that we are this holy nation, you can think about an army. Right? A kingdom of people. And we're sent out and don't we have some kind of commission to do something? It's called the Great Commission, right? We're sent out as this holy army, with God promising Jesus Christ promising to be with us till the end of the age to go and to proclaim Jesus Christ and to make disciples and to baptize them. We only baptize believers. So he's going out to tell us to baptize people all the way to the end of the age because Jesus is going to conquer Satan and plunder his goods all the way up to the end of the age. The church is guaranteed the mission. of the plundering ministry of Jesus and the apostles, and that's why Jesus says the gates of hell will never prevail against his church. The reason why the gates of hell will never prevail is because the plundering ministry of Jesus will never end. until Jesus Christ comes back. And if you think about this, uh think about why uh religious groups usually die out. There have been a few religious groups, uh even Christian groups, that practice Um castration basically. And so they wouldn't uh they wouldn't reproduce by having children. And all of those groups died out. Because your group's not going to continue on unless you can replenish Those who die off. We're all gonna die, right? And so you need to keep bringing people in, usually through some form of reproduction. Well, the way that Christians reproduce is not by physical offspring. Certainly some of our physical offspring get saved and we reproduce that way, but we produce reproduce by the Spirit. Right? The true sons of God are only born by the Spirit. And so The reason that we will never die out, and the reason why the gates of hell will never prevail, is because Jesus Christ will continuously take people out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light. And guess what? Even our children belong and are born as children of wrath in the kingdom of darkness, and that's why God has told you to raise them up in the fear and the admonition of the Lord, so you can take them out from the devil as Well. So the plundering ministry of Jesus continues on in the church and continues on even in our families. Jesus puts it this way in Luke chapter 10, verse 19. Behold, I have given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. So this is Jesus sending out his as a commentary of Jesus sending out his disciples, and he says, I've given you authority to tread on these serpents and scorpions, and just in case you were thinking that was actually real serpents and real scorpions, then he says and over all the power of the enemy. The scorpions and serpents are representation of the demonic forces that he's giving you power to tread over. Now I must say This probably must be the most humiliating thing for Satan. Right? Here is Satan in all his splendor and all his power being crushed by weak and feeble Rebels. Rebel runaway slaves. That's what we are. We're runaway slaves who ran away from the kingdom of God. And then we come back and start beating him up. Right? Not by our own strength, though, but by the power of God. Now that really quite shows you the power of God. That not only is he so much more powerful, but he can take us. Weak slaves who still have the flesh, who are tempted, who sin daily as his instruments to put him in his own place That is truly incredible. We see illustrations of God using uh his weak instruments to defeat the devil. In examples like we have a little tiny little shepherd boy, right? And he defeats this giant and powerful man, Goliath. How did he do it? He didn't do it by his own strength. He did it by the power of the Spirit. God used a feeble little boy to defeat a giant. Another example that we can think of where God does this and he empowers someone to defeat the devil is, well, here's an interesting example. You remember Samson when he faces the lion? And Samson is described as tearing the lion limb to limb with his bare hands, and he's able to do that by the power of the Spirit. I think that's a wonderful illustration for us because the Bible says that Satan is a line against us as well, right? Satan and we are a men just like Samson. And so just as Samson, empowered by the Spirit, could defeat the lion, so we, empowered by the Spirit, can defeat the lion of Satan. Here's where Satan is described as a lion. First Peter five eight. Be sober minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. Right? The devil is this lion, and we need to be sober and watchful and recognize he's out there to destroy us But we can be invigorated by the power of the Spirit, like Samson, and defeat the lion. Another passage that tells us about Satan being bound and no longer being able to deceive the nations is Revelation 20. Remember? Satan is bound. He's locked up, and he's thrown into a pit and it's sealed over him. And it says so that he can no longer deceive the nations any longer. Now, it doesn't matter what your eschatology is. This passage is true sometime, right? This passage must be true at some time, which means that Jesus Christ has the power to bind Satan and allow uh the people of God, never to be deceived by him ever again, because God is that much more powerful than the devil. So let me stop there and ask if there's any questions or comments or concerns about anything we've talked about thus far. Okay. It's one of those things about Satan being defeated. It's one of those things that we take for granted. We really do take this for granted because some we're so secular in some ways. Some ways we barely even believe in the devil. But there there have been people um the mass m of humanity has believed in the devil, believes in Jinn. You go around the world and they're terrified of the evil spirit. They're terrified of these evil forces ruining and destroying their lives. And so God, being the conqueror of the devil, is of great comfort. to them and it should be of great comfort to us because there really are demons out there and they are quite terrifying to think about. There's this whole army of angelic forces out to get us Right? And and we're warned against them, but then we immediately realize he who is in us is greater than he who is in the world. And I and I think that's almost why Christians don't really worry about the devil because yeah, yeah, he's a defeated foe. He's tied up and gagged. Well why are we worried about him? Because of the fact that God is omnipotent. So the doctrine of God's omnipotent is of great comfort because we can rest in the arms of God. We can rest in the arms of Christ And this doctrine is so often taken for granted. And you recognize if we don't understand this doctrine, a lot of scripture just doesn't make any sense I'll give you an example. John 6. 54 says, Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks on my blood has eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Right? So he says, I have true uh I have true food in my body. Right? And we have uh true fruit in his blood, which is not a picture of the Eucharist. Kind of. It is kind of the picture of the Eucharist, but not the way that people think it is. What Jesus is saying is, if you nourish and find your nourishment in me through faith Right, then you will have eternal life. And then he says, so basically, you can summarize this, if you believe in me and receive the promise that I have given you by my sacrifice, by my sacrifice on the cross. You will have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Now, if God is not omnipotent, this statement doesn't make a whole lot of sense and is really of not much value. Because what this statement is really saying is he will try to raise you up on the last day. But who knows if he will be able to succeed. I'll give you an example of this. Imagine someone says to their child that they are going to make it to their ballgame, or they're going to make it to their their choir practice or whatever it is, right? I'll be there And then they get out there and they drive and all of a sudden they get a flat tire. Right? The tire's flat. They couldn't make it there. They gotta call, they gotta go out there and crank it up and they can't make it there and they they have to go to their child and say, I'm really sorry, I tried my best. But I just couldn't do it. Right? Because they're not all-powerful, they can't control all the circumstances. Life got in their way, and even though they tried their best, they couldn't do it. Are we ever going to have to worry that God's going to say, hey, I tried to lift you up? But there was a raid in heaven. Too many. I couldn't stop them. No, we never have to worry about that happening because God is all powerful. And really even thinking about that is silly for us, because of course that's that's the last thing that could ever happen. Because we take this for granted that God is all powerful. We immediately know this before we even think that. Of course. If God says he's going to lift you up, he's going to lift you up. No one can stop him. If he says that he's going to win the nation, he's going to win the nations Right? No one's going to stop him. He will accomplish all that he has desired. God is never going to have good intentions that are never that aren't going to hit fruition. And so this is where the doctrine of God's unchangeableness or his immutability work hand in hand with his omnipotence. God is unchangeable in his goodness, and he is all powerful to accomplish all that he has desire. And this is this is quite wonderful. Because you take away God's omnipotence and have him unchangeably good, and who knows if he's going to be able to accomplish his means. If you have God is all powerful, but he is changeable, and he changes from good to bad I mean imagine an all-powerful evil being. That would be the worst thing imaginable, right? I mean a lot of horror movies are based on that basic theme. You have this all-powerful being and no one can help you. I mean this is the worst thing imaginable. So guys, unchangeable in his goodness and he's all powerful, this is a wonderful connection to give us security. So remember when I said that uh we take things for granted in that scripture uh in John uh six fifty four it presupposes that we understand God's omnipotence Well what's wonderful is sometimes the Bible has things implicit and sometimes then the Bible spells it out, right? We see it there and it's pregnant in meaning and it's pregnant in form, but then we go to other scriptures that really spell it out. And we see that happening in John chapter ten. So you remember John, I'll read it one more time. John 6. 54 says, Whoever feeds on my flesh and drinks of my blood has eternal life, and I'll raise him up on the last day. So here's John 10. 27. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give them eternal life, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand My father who has given them to me is greater than all, no one is able to snatch them out of my father's hand So what was implied there is now spelled out here, right? The reason that no one is able to snatch people out of God's hand is because he's greater than all, and no one can do it, because he is truly omnipotent. Failure to uh recognize this doctrine of God's omnipotence has caused so much problems in in the past and in the Bible and in our own lives, and that's what we're transitioning now is thinking about why this doctrine of God's omnipotence is so important for our lives and for us to by the Spirit put to death the deeds of the flesh. So the first way, historically, that this doctrine of God's omnipotence is so important is think about what was the major sin of Israel. If we think about, if we go back, right, from the time Israel uh is called out from Abraham, actually even before, here's a little hint, even before Abraham were Abraham's Parents. Um all the way down to the time of the exile, what was the major sin of Israel? Anyone know? Right. Idolatry. Right? Even Abraham's even Abraham himself was idolatry and his father they served foreign gods according to Joshua chapter fourteen. And so that's what they were doing all the way down. They served foreign gods, uh, even in Egypt. Then when they got out of Egypt, they couldn't kick it, right? And so here Abra uh Moses leaves for a tiny bit of time, and then they start serving God again right down there, breaking the covenant, then they get into the promised land and they're serving foreign gods, and then they get exiled out of it. Their problem is that they serve foreign gods. Now, here's the thing. We often are so confused of why they're serving foreign gods. I think we often think it's because they were so superstitious. They were just so superstitious that they just had to go serve foreign gods. But that really isn't what's going on. What was happening is you have to understand that the belief was that there was many, many gods out there. There were tons and tons of gods, and that Yahweh was one of many gods. And this belief came about because the Jews had Yahweh and the neighbors had Baal. And that neighbor over there had another God, and so forth, and so on. And so what they thought was That basically that God was a local deity with his local property. He was like a king, basically, right? He was an invisible king in many ways, and he was the king and he protected them. Right, and the other god had the other people had this other god who protected them. And so when the two kingdoms would battle it out, it was the battle between the gods. If this god was more powerful than this god, right, we're going with that god, because he is the most powerful. It's it's really the battle of the gods. And so what often would happen is, you know, they're they're serving God or whatever, or actually usually they start falling into sin and God punishes them. He starts giving them famine, he starts taking things away, he starts letting other armies destroy them. And you know what their conclusion is It must be that Baal is more stronger than Yahweh. I'm ditching this team. This God is not working for me. That God is working for them. I'm going to that God to get what I need from them. And so it was this competition between the gods. Right? It was it was two heroes basically. You ever seen uh any uh Marvel movie? It's basically the same thing going on here. You have this super powerful being over here and a super powerful being over here and they battle it out The most powerful being wins, and I'm going on the winning side of the team. And we actually have uh this very thing explicitly spelled out in the Bible. We see this in Second Chronicles chapter twenty-eight. And we're introduced to this apostate king. And this apostate king, uh here's what he says. This is the description of his life. Therefore Yeah, I I actually can't find a little description here. I'll give a quick summary here. This guy is very wicked. He ends up uh apostasizing for the Lord, abandoning him. And he ends up even sacrificing his sons in the valley of Ben Hinnem. So he's living this wicked and terrible life, and God gives him over into judgment. And so then God uses Syria and uses the Syria the king of Syria and they they basically beat up on Israel. And so here's his conclusion. He says this in verse 22 of 2 Chronicles 28. In the time of his distress, he became yet more faithless to the Lord, this same king Ahaz. For he sacrificed to the gods of Damascus that had defeated him, and said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria helped them, I will sacrifice to them that they may help me But they were the ruin of him and all of Israel. So he's living a faithless and terrible life. So then God punishes him by bringing up foreign nations. We see this all throughout the Bible. And empowers them to come and do great damage to Israel. So this king doesn't realize, oh, I wonder if God's giving me over to my sin and punish me for my sin. No, he thinks that's not what it is. It's the fact that the gods of Damascus are more powerful than the God of Israel. He doesn't deny the existence of Yahweh. He believes in the existence of Yahweh, but he also believes in the existence of these foreign gods and says Our defeat is proof that their gods are more powerful than ours. And so what we're going to do is we're going to trade gods. We're going to go and believe in the gods of Damascus. So this is uh what happens oftentimes in the apostasy of Israel is that they're going to foreign gods, right? They're they're uh we see this with Saul too. Saul is not getting the answer he wants from God, so what does he do? He seeks out this this lady who can deal with other spiritual forces to get him the information. And that was the temptation is to say, God's not working for me, so I'm going to go to a foreign God. I'm going to go to this other spiritual being and try to get favors from them. Well, if they would have just believed in God's omnipotence, this temptation wouldn't have made any sense. Ahaz would have realized, wait a second, I know That Yahweh is all powerful. And so if Damascus is coming and beating up on us and we have the promises of God, that must be because I'm being sinful. And so he would have been led to repentance. But instead, because he doesn't have the belief of God's omnipotence, he concludes that God is actually impotent. Right? And this other God is more powerful and then trades the true God for the false God. Now for us, we might not be tempted to trade the true God for false gods. Explicitly, but I think we are. I think we are tempted to do this. I'll give an example. Science. Science is an amazing and wonderful discipline of the study of the physical world It creates all kinds of wonderful technologies. Who doesn't use the internet? Who doesn't use AC? Look at this building. How fast we built this building? And so forth. Science is amazing in what it can do. But I think oftentimes, because science is amazing at what it it can do, we start thinking that it's amazing for all truths of knowledge. And we'll start treating the scientist as the true arbiter of all knowledge. And we start raising the science basic knowledge and what scientists tell us, whether we've studied the science or not and understand their pre-supposition, none of that matters. We just know that they're the scientists and we start allowing them to become our guide for truth and we put the Bible Down here. We start questioning the Bible. What is going on here? This is denying God's omnipotence. This is denying the fact that God is more powerful than the scientist. His wisdom is greater than the scientists. this right we need to trust in God and not trust in people who deny God. Another example of this is pretty much every time we sin Especially when we sin with rationalization like this is for a good cause. I'm doing this. The kingdom of God needs me to do this. Many pastors have fallen into this error. The kingdom of God needs me to do this. I need to go and cut some corners here or there or do this or that. And well said, I'm sure everyone in this room, at some point in time, there was sin, and they knew it was sin, but thought the good outweighs the bad. Right? I I need to do this. I need to do this because this will help God somehow. This will help the kingdom of God. This is the denial of God's omnipotence. What kind of God do we think we have that He needs you to send to accomplish what He needs to accomplish? That's an impotent God. He tells you, Don't do this, but we really know better because he can't do it any other way. He needs you to break his law to do it See, if we would just trust in God's omnipotence, we wouldn't fall into this error, right? We could see, yes, if I take a little bit here, I could tithe it I'll tell you, this is a good I'm not going to say that story. Anyways, this is a real temptation for people, right? Don't do it. It is never the case that we need to send in order to follow and trust in the Lord. So I have a little bit more, but I'll stop here and ask if there's any questions, comments, or concerns about anything that we've I don't want to open a huge can of words, but um is God I know God uh can send people to hell. Yeah. And but the fact that people are in hell for eternity. Is that a denial of God's power to save people? I know so There's different views on hell, but I mean a lot of people argue that if God is really all powerful, there'll be some like a land where everybody will be safe Yeah, so that my g my ways are not your ways, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Um I I yeah, I I think that the only the only system that could actually exploit that would be universalism. Every other system you have some kind of hell. And it's some kind of eternal punishment, right? And really the Bible teaches that itself. So w where whatever you think hell is, Matthew says that th there will be some who have eternal life and some that will have eternal punishment Right. Well, it must be that the eternal life is salvation. The eternal punishment is the negation of that. So whatever that is, it can't be the eternal life. If it's the eternal punishment, it can't be ever receiving the eternal life. So is is people going to hell Proof that God is not all powerful. I think it's plainly obvious that when we see what God is doing to people, for example, Paul, he's the greatest example of this. God showing up in the sky to this man, blinding him, knocking him off, then giving a vision to another guy named Ananias, telling him to go meet Paul. right at that place and to preach the gospel to him is plainly not like what he does to other people who've never ever heard the gospel once. Right? And have been maybe abused and and so you can think of all the circumstances of the worst guy over here and and then Paul. They're plainly not equal. And so we have to recognize that uh uh Romans chapter nine says God has mercy on whom he has mercy, he hardens whom he has whom he hardens So I I don't think that any faithful system could ever say that people going to hell is God trying his absolute best with all his mechanics to his disposal and he just simply can never win this person over. And I'll tell you, if that is the case, then we have a whole lot of boasting to do. I mean think about this. Think about what God needed to do in my life. He needed me to be he needed me to uh be raised in a uh nominal Christian family, he needed people to give me some tracks here and there, a few times bring me to church, and then it get eventually get me to read the book of Matthew For him to save me. I mean that was the external circumstances that God needed to do to draw me to himself. Right? That's not I mean, that's a that's good, but that's not really all that incredible. And you're telling me that that's all he needed to do to convince me, but he could do everything for this other, every single unbeliever, and couldn't convince them? You see what I'm saying? To me that means that I have a whole lot of boasting to do because I was a whole lot more righteous than them. That's all God needs to do to convince me, but the omnipotent God with all his power can't convince this other person. You see? I'll give you I'll give you a simpler way to try to argue this. God's omnipotence, which we didn't discuss here, we hit it a little bit. God's omnipotence means that God can do all things possible. That's what God's omnipotence, right? Anything that He wants to do, God can do all things possible. Is it possible that God could fundamentally open your heart, change your heart, and make you so that now you will respond positively to God's gospel? Could God do an effectual work of regeneration essentially before you hear the gospel? So now when you hear the gospel, you see it as beautiful and wonderful and now convert. This is what Reformed Theology believes. Hopefully, Reformed theology believes something that's at least logically possible. Right? So if God can do everything logically possible, then it's logically possible that God has a mechanism called effectual grace. Okay. And so, since not everyone is saved, that means that God doesn't do what is something logically possible for him to do. So uh that's a long way of or shorter way of trying to say is no, people 's uh ending up in hell is not God's defeat. It's not a defeat of God It's God simply saying, I've appealed to you, I called to you, I beckoned you to come into the kingdom. You said no, I said, Fine, have it your way. Right? And he says, You don't want me? Fine. Have it your way. Go into the darkness. You want to stay in the dark? You can stay in the dark Right. But there's no defeat of God giving you over to your sin and saying, Hey, you didn't want me. You're not gonna have to have me. So I was absolutely saying no, um that is not uh the defeat of God. Um any other is is that how Okay. Uh any other questions or comments about God's omnipotence or how that works? Okay, let me uh in the s little tiny tiny bit of time we have I want to give you uh the the greatest example of God's omnipotence We said God could do all things possible, and I gave that one example of effectual grace. Here's another example of God doing all things possible, and it's really quite mind-blowing. And it shows up in the very beginning of the book in Genesis 1. It's God creating everything out of nothing. God speaking things in existence. Creation ex nihilo. Romans 4 puts it this way. Abraham believes in God. What kind of God? In God, in whom gives light to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist. God has the power to say, Let there be light, and there was no light, and all of a sudden there's light. He has the power to say, Let there be a man, and a man being formed out of the dust, and he can breathe in his uh nostrils the breath of life And this is one of the greatest mysteries today. How in the world is this matter alive and moving and consciousness? Right? Mind the the mind-body uh dilemma. It's amazing. God can do all things, he could speak. Something out of nothing. And this is a mystery. We do not know. I mean, how did God create nothing, uh everything out of nothing? How did God create anything out of nothing? We don't know. It's not possible for us. But it's possible for him because God can do all things possible. If God can call um call from nothing into something Then we absolutely believe that God could do everything else. Hebrews 11. 13 says, By faith we understand that the universe was created by the Word of God, so that what is seen was made, was not made of things that are visible. Everything that was created was made by things that are invisible. And we conclude with Romans 8. 31. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us Who can be against us? If the God who created light out of darkness, who created everything by his own word, how can he not solve your problems in your life? Right? How can he not be trusted to conquer everything that you have in your way? We can trust this God, we can believe in this God, we could sit and say This God is way beyond me. This God is way beyond the scientists. This God's way beyond the devil. Devil can't do any of that. Right? The scientists can't do any of that. You can't do any of it That. What kind of God do we have? We have a great and wonderful and awe-inspiring God that we can trust. Let's go into the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you that you are so big and so great, so powerful. We are merely scratching at the surface as we think about your power and your strength and your might. We don't understand how you do things, but I think that's Part of the thing that makes you God and part of the things that make us not God. God help us to treat you with honor and respect and love and treat you with reverence and not try to put you in a little box And tell you what you can do and what you can't do, but trust who you are as you revealed in your word through your Son Jesus Christ. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.