Good morning. Today we continue our study on the attributes of God. Last class we began looking at the omniattributes of God, and as you recall, the prefix omni means all. So there are three main omni-attributes. Hopefully this is by way of reminder. The first is God's omnipotence. Then we have God's omniscience, and last but not least, we have God's omnipresence. Now does anybody remember the last omni-attribute that I said is sometimes found in the literature, but not as popular as those three? Omni. Omnipotence. Omnipresence. Omniscience. Does anyone remember that last one? It's okay. It says omni-menevolence. That is God being all good, all loving, all-kind. So those are the main three, and there's that fourth one. Last time we focused on God's omnipotence, which means that God is all powerful. You can even hear that word uh potents in there. Something is potent, we say that is powerful, right? So God being omnipotent, not omnipotent, but God being omnipotent means that God is all powerful. And the biblical title for this, which Jim did a wonderful job last Sunday school uh describing, is God being called all powerful or all mighty. That's what we find the scriptures. call God. It says that God is the Almighty. Here's a sampling of the Bible describing God in this way. Genesis 17, 1 When Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord, see all caps, the Lord Yahweh, this his personal covenant name, appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty, walk before me blameless. So God shows up to Abraham and introduces himself as God Almighty. That's who he is. I am God Almighty. Genesis 35, 11, God appears to Jacob. And he names him Israel. So he gives Jacob this new uh he gives he he calls Jacob, he appears to him in uh this dream. With this experience, should I say? And he says to Jacob, I am God Almighty. Be fruitful and multiply. And a nation and a company of nations shall come from you, and kings shall come from your own body. Once again he's introducing himself now to Jacob as I am God Almighty Job 8. 3 says, does God pervert justice or does the Almighty pervert the right? So you see, synonymous with God is the Almighty. This term, this name is the famous name El Shaddai. And that name is probably most famous because we sing that that song, El Shaddai, El Shaddai. And we we praise the Lord because of that. Well, El there, when the El Shaddai is God, and Shaddai, that's the word we're looking at, which is that Almighty. God is Almighty. This attribute gives us supreme comfort, the attribute of God being almighty or all-powerful, because we know that no one can thwart his plan. or snatch us out of the hand of God. If God's Almighty, then who's gonna beat God and take you out of his hand? No one. And that's why we looked last time at that passage in John that says that that God is the Almighty, God is the greatest, and no one can snatch you out of his hand because he is supreme. The devil cannot come and rage you. Unbelievers can't come and get you. Secular governments can't destroy you. And that's why in John and Romans chapter eight, there's that long list of all of these things that cannot separate you from the love of God because God is The Almighty. He is supreme and his rule is uncontested. All the inhabitants are counted as nothing in comparison to God. We saw that last time. If you put everyone on this side, all the inhabitants Um all of the good beings, all of the bad beings, all of them and compare them to God, there are nothing on the scales. Even the enemies of God are no match for him. The devil has been defeated, he has been tied up, and he's completely unable to do anything. other than what God permits. The devil is on a chain and he must get permission to do anything by the supreme power of God. And so the the greatest example of God's omnipotence, the greatest display of the power of God, besides Well, besides him defeating Satan. And really this is even greater than that. The greatest display of that would be God speaking everything from nothing. Right? God creating ex nihilo. That is the supreme example of the power of God. If God can create the world by merely speaking it into existence, what else What can God not do? He can do all things if he can do that. Romans 4 says, God gives life to the dead and calls into existence things that do not Hebrews 11, 3 says, By faith we understand that the universe was created by the word of God, so that what is seen was not made out of things that are visible. So if God can create everything out of nothing, and if God is greater than all of his enemies combined, then how can we ever be tempted not to trust? God. See the the concept of God creating everything out of nothing, that the doctrine of uh God uh creating everything out of nothing, ex nihilo, is we understand that he did do it, but we have no idea how he did do that. I mean, how can you create everything? from just speaking it into existence. We don't understand. It's so magnificent. It's it's beyond scale of comprehension. So if God can do that, and he's stronger than any of any of our enemies or any of his enemies, then what problem in our life is so big that God can't fix it? What problem in our life is so bad and so complicated that God can't unravel it and then at the end of it you say, uh -huh. That is what you were doing. I can trust you, you were being faithful to me after all. That is what the doctrine of God's omnipotence does to us. It makes it so that nothing in our lives, no problem, no difficulty, cannot be redeemed for good because he has infinite resources to make that happen. Right? The God who said, let there be light, can also say to your problem, let this be for good. And not just for someone else's good, but even for your own good. The scripture says something quite amazing. It says that our suffering produces in us an eternal weight of glory. So I really don't believe that at the end of time when you stand before God, you will say, I wish I suffered less. You'll point your finger at God and said, not a good plan. I had a better plan. I had a better plan for my life. This was not the right way. You won't say that at all. You realize that all of your suffering has been redeemed by God for his glory, and I love this part, for your own good. People try to put a wedge in between that. It's either God's glory or your good, but the reality is God's glory is your good because he is the supreme good. And so when he is glorified, you are benefited as well. So that is the doctrine of God's omnipotence that we focused in last time. So today we are going to investigate in detail God's omnipresence. This is God's presence being everywhere and at all times. We cannot escape from the presence of God. This may be a good thing. If we are surrounded by our enemies, if we are in trials and tribulations, if we're in pain and sorrow, how great is it that God is there with us? Right? Can you think of Psalm 23? As I walk through the valley of the shadow of death? What does the psalmist find comfort in? That you are with me. So it's wonderful to know that we will never be forsaken by God and that no matter what happens, God is there with us. But there's a, I don't want to say a dark side, but there's a scary side about this as well. Because God is there when your enemy surrounds you, but God is also there when you are an enemy. Or when you act like an enemy and you sin , God is there. He sees all So let's consider where this doctrine of God's omnipresence is found. Please open your Bibles to Psalm 139. And so one of the things that I've I've I try to do in in these classes and these studies is to primarily focus on the biblical text. We can philosophize over here and over there, right, about God's attributes. But I really want to show you that um this is actually how God defines himself in his word. One of the things that sometimes I have theological discussions with people and they they bring up Ansom and they say God is the being. Is the greatest being conceivable. I don't have a problem with that terminology. God is the greatest being conceivable. There is no being that you could think of that be, oh, that would be greater than God, right? God is the greatest. But one of the things that I always get weary or get concerned when people do this answer God is the greatest being conceivable thing is there's a temptation to think that you get to define God into existence. So whatever you think is the greatest attribute, all of a sudden God conforms to your imagination. Well God can no more conform to your imagination than I can conform to your imagination. Imagine you say, I think that Jamie is a pink elephant That's fine. But the reality is I'm not a pink elephant and your thoughts about me have no effect on my person. Does that make sense? God is no uh is no less than us. God is an objective being and we're not trying to just merely speculate and conceive of God into existence. But we're trying to understand the God who exists and he reveals his truth in his word. Alright, so Psalm 139, let's see how God tells us about Himself and how the God describes His omniattributes. So verse 1, O Lord, you have searched me and known me. You know when I sit down and when I rise up. You discern my thoughts from afar, you search out my path in my lying down, you are acquainted with all of my ways. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all together. So in these first four verses in this part of the psalm, David is focusing on God's omniscience. He's thinking about how the fact that God knows everything and not just some abstract reality over there. He knows what a billion times, that's just some kind of mathematical equation or something like that. that. He's primarily focusing on God knows everything, and that means that God knows all about me. He knows me intimately. He knows me completely. I think about 1 Corinthians that says that just as we are known So we too will know. How are we known? We are fully known and at the eschaton when all is revealed, we will fully know just as we have been fully. known. So we see here that the psalmist is focusing on God's omniscience. Look how he uh describes this. It's quite amazing. He says that in verse four, even before a word is on my tongue, behold, You know it all together. You never surprise God. And this is something that's quite interesting actually. You're never going to disappoint God. He already knows you perfectly and completely. He knows all of your thoughts. You are bare before him. God's never going to discover something about you and say, you're not the person I thought I elected. I thought I chose and redeemed someone else, but you clearly are not good enough. Or you're clearly too bad to deserve me. We never deserve God, right? Unmerited grace and favor. God knows us perfectly. We never surprise God. Even before a word is on my tongue, behold, O Lord, you know it all together. Now look at how the psalmist reflects on this truth in verse 5. You hem me in. Behind and before, you lay your hand upon me. He looks at the knowledge of God, his omniscience, and says, I'm hemmed in. I can't get around you. I can't get over you. I'm stuck. You completely know me holistically. And then in verse 6, he reacts further. He says, Such knowledge is too wonderful. For me, it is high. I cannot attain it. What's happening here is the psalmist is is is trying to concede. He understands the truth, right? He understands that God knows him completely, that even before he says something, God knows him. He can't get it out of God's knowledge. And he says that this kind of knowledge is too big for contemplation. He conceives of the reality. But can't fully understand it. How can this be? How can I have a personal relationship with a God who knows everything I'm going to say before I say it and knows me completely from the beginning to the end? I don't know. I don't think anyone knows because he's an infinite God. He's a timeless God. We are time-bound reality. But we do know he does have a relationship with us. We do know he does interact with in time. But how all of this works, he does not know. It is too great for him. And this is really what we've been trying to do this entire class is to kind of come to this moment when we look at the attributes of God and say, such knowledge is too high for me. It's too great. It blows me away. This has shown me that I'm finding out he is infinite. I'm grasping at straws here. I just know he is holy, holy, holy. He is separate, separate, separate. How great and marvelous is this God that I worship. That is what the attributes of God are supposed to do for you. And here we have the psalmist reacting that way on God's omniscience. God is infinite, we are finite, he is beyond conception, we cannot fully know him, but we can know part of him, but he fully knows us. So then in verse 7, David transitions from God's omniscience, God's perfect knowledge, to his omnipresence. Look at verse 7. Where shall I go from your spirit? Or where shall I flee from your presence? If I ascend it to heaven, you are there. If my make my bed and chill , you are there. If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. So now David is reflecting on God's inescapable presence. Where shall he go from the spirit? He says in verse 7. Where shall I go from your spirit, or where shall I flee from your spirit? presence. Now we shouldn't get confused here. The psalmist doesn't want to leave God's presence. He's not trying to escape and saying, I can't get out, I can't get away from you. This is Terrible. No, that's not what he's saying. It's a rhetorical question. The idea is, can I get anywhere? Can I go anywhere? Can I arrive at a place or a time where you are not there? And as we all know, rhetorical questions Usually have implied that we know the answer already. That's why they're rhetorical. And in this case, the answer is nowhere. You cannot arrive at any location or at any time where God is not there. He illustrates this in verse 8. He says, if I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in chill, you are there. Are there. So this contrast between heaven and shield is called a marism. It's when two things are described, right, that usually have contrasting uh opposites or on the on the poles of two realities. And really what's meant is all things in between that reality. I'll give an example. God says in in Genesis 1 that God created the heavens. And the earth. We've seen this before. You go to John chapter 1, and that place where heavens and earth is replaced where he created all things. Because everything that exists exists in either the spiritual realm of the unseen, the heavens, or the known realm of the seen, the earth, and all of the creation that goes with that. So heaven and earth really means all things. or God is sometimes described as the Alpha and the Omega, the A and the Z. Is he not the B, C, D, E, F, and G? Of course he has. He's everything. He's the beginning and the end, the Alpha and the Omega. Or sometimes we hear the contrast light and darkness, heaven and hell, you get the idea, right? It this is all of reality So, since he says that if he ascends into heaven, you are there. If he ascends into Sheel, you are there. We're supposed to realize that at the polar, uh the top and the polar bottom, if God's there, then God's everywhere in between. Now some might be surprised of when it says that in Sheol you are there. Some might be thinking, well, I thought hell is a place of the absence of God, but this text says, if I ascend to Sheol, you are there. There. What's going on here? Well, first off, we have to make sure we're clear that the word here is Sheol. Now some of your translations might have hell. Does anyone's translation say hell in that verse? Okay, maybe you have modern translations. Some of the old translations have uh the word hell there. And that's because the word hell uh was used in older translations to translate the word Sheol or Hades. But but w they're actually different words in the original language. Um hell is the valley of Ben Hinnum or Gehenna, have you ever heard that term? Gehenna is actually the Greek word for hell, and then Hades is the Greek word that is translated in the uh and that's in the new testament and the old testament it's she 'll so uh she 'll refers to two realities it refers to the grave in general Right? So there's people on the earth that are alive. There is heavenly reality where God and angels and all those dwell. And then there is Sheol, which is the realm of the dead. Now, we know that the realm of the dead can include people in in heaven and can include people in the negative part of Sheols or Hades, but they would just generally think of Sheol. So don't get confused as you're reading in the Old Testament. Where it talks about that so-and-so is gonna bring down my gray hairs and to Sheol and is a godly man thinking he's going to hell? No, he's just saying that he's going to the realm of the general dead But the term Sheol or Hades, the the Greek equivalent, also can refer to the place specifically of the wicked dead. And the reason this is, as I alluded to before, the Bible describes that to be absent with absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. So when you die, you don't actually go to a place separated from God, you go straight to heaven to be with God. So sometimes we see in the Bible That Hades, or oftentimes you see in the Bible, should I say, that Hades is referring to that place that's separated from God where the realm of the dead are. You have uh demonic angels here as well. But the idea of Sheol, that wicked location or Hades, and the idea of Hell or Gehenna or the Lake of Fire have very close continuity between those two realities. Give an example. The most explicit description we get of Hades or Sheol is Lazarus and the rich man. It's so very much like Gehenna or the Lake of Fire that many people think that passage is about the lake of fire, but it's not. And we know that it's because the rich man, when he's in the flames being tormented and so forth, right, he cries out And ask God to send back Lazarus to his brothers so that they don't come to this place. So you can see the time frame is In the intermediate state. This is not after the grand judgment, because otherwise his brothers would be there with him in the lake of fire, not on the earth still. So you can tell that this passage is actually about Hades. But think about that pass that passes about the rich man in Lazarus. He is described as being in fire, being in tormented, being separated from God and his people, and it's being fixed and unchangeably so, right? There's that chasm that he can never cross. If you think about the passages about Gehenna or the lake of fire, how are they described? A place of fire, of separation, and it being fixed and unchangeably so. So the description between Hades and are pretty much the exact same. And even in Hades we have this idea of separation, right? That you have the rich man, he's separated from Abraham who's with God. So still we have the very problem here is, well, I thought that hell was a place of separation. Doesn't uh Second Thessalonians chapter one say that the wicked will be sh destroyed from the presence of the Lord? And we have so many passages like this where the people, Jesus says, depart from me, you workers of iniquity, for I never knew you. Depart means to separate. But here we have that God is in Sheol or Hades or even in hell. What do we do with this? Well, first off, we need to recognize that you can never be separated from the presence of the Lord completely and absolutely Why? Because God upholds all of reality. Here's what Acts 17 says. God made from one man, that's Adam. Every nation of mankind to live on all the face of the earth, having determined allotted periods and boundaries of their dwelling place that they should seek God and perhaps feel their way toward him and find him, yet he's actually not far from each one of us. How close is he? He's not far, right? He put people in these locations so they could feel after God and perhaps find him. He's not far from any one of us. Well, how close is he? For in him we live and move and have our being. How close is that? How close is in him we live and move and have our being? That's real close. Right? That's extremely close. That's dangerously close. So if you have being in him, you live and move and have your you are he's right there. Here's another way it's described in Hebrews chapter 1. Christ has been appointed the heir of all things, through whom God also created the world. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. And he that's talking about Christ. Upholds the universe by the word of his power. So God upholds the universe. Does God uphold you? Yes. If you have being, then you upheld by God. You cannot escape him by very definition. You can also not thwart his plan. Let's talk about God's omnipotence for a second. Because the very power that you have comes from God Does that make sense? He can zap you out of existence because your very power is borrowed from his strength. So can you ever escape God? Well, unless you equivocate on you, you can't Unless you don't exist, which means that you want you, you cannot accept God, because God is pure being. So the people in hell, can they get away from God and still exist? No. Their very existence is God upholding them. The very realm that they are is a created realm by God. You cannot escape from God's being. There is no such place as being completely away from the presence of God. But there's another thing. The idea of being separated from God in hell is an idea of being separated from his manifest goodness and his revealed presence. This is not saying you're escaping God's omnipresence, as we just described. And it's not even saying that you're escaping God's wrath and his fury. And we'll talk about that in a second. But let me let me stop here for a second. When we ha talk about God's omnipresence, what we're saying is God is everywhere, but that does not mean God's everywhere in the same way. There are places that God has made himself manifest in more profound ways, right? Heaven is one of those places. Heaven is where God is His goodness and his radiance, and he's manifest in a more revealed way than here on earth. In church, God is manifest in a more profound way. You can think of enduring church discipline. there in a more profound way. Do you remember the church discipline passage? Where two or three are gathered? There I am among you? It's not an empty promise. It's not just saying I'm always there because I'm omnipotent. What's the point of saying where two or three are gathered then? So it's not denying that God has special manifestations and special presence. And that's what the wicked will be separated from. They will not See the face of God. Do we see the face of God? No. The wicked won't see the face of God. This is one of the great glories of the believer, as they will get to behold God. Right? There's a beatitude that says that the we are blessed because we will see God. That's our blessing. So to see God and his revealed manifestation is a wonderful and true and great blessing. And that is what the wicked will not receive. They'll be separated from God's revealed presence, and they'll also be separated from God's goodness. Right? Psalm 1611 says, At your right hands there are pleasures forevermore. The closer you are to God, the closer you are to joy. The farther away from God, the farther away from joy. So they are not separated from God completely. But they are separated from God's revealed presence and his goodness, and they are actually in the hands of an angry God. They are very much so in the hands of God, which is a very fearful thing. Hebrews ten thirty-one says, It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Where can you fall into the hands of the living God more than in hell? There is no place. So you are very much in the hands of an angry God, and you very much wish you were not in his hands. And this is exactly why hell is described this way in Revelation 14. Revelation 14, one of the main passages on hell says, if anyone worships the beast, and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand. Don't receive that mark. Don't worship the beast. Worship God. Right? If you receive this mark He will also drink the wine of God's wrath. How are you going to drink God's wine if he's nowhere to be found? Can't. Right? So already here we have an implicit that you're going to be very close to God, but it keeps going. He will drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger, and he will be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. Here it is. People get all confused about this because they don't understand that you are very much in the hands of an angry God when you go to hell. And that's why our pastor says that if I go to heaven, you are there, hallelujah, even if I go to seal. You were there. I cannot escape you. You cannot escape from the presence of God. The question is when you enter into his presence, do you enter as an enemy or as a friend? Does God's presence become your all-surpassing supreme joy, or do you wish that you were annihilated out of existence and didn't have anything to do with God? Because we cannot escape God, so we might as well make friends with him and recognize that he is truly good and he is truly wonderful. We cannot get away from God. If God is in heaven, he is also here on the earth. If God is in hell, then he is everywhere else. There is no place that God is not. And there is no time that God is not. Before I go into that temporal reality, I'll ask and stop here and say, is there any questions on anything that we've discussed thus far? Questions, comments, concerns? What is the origin of this? Uh the the origins of that is the fact that nearly every passage besides these two Revelation 14, Hebrews, that that cross passage that I quote on Hebrews. And even that passage in Hebrews isn't explicitly about hell, it's just about uh getting into God's angry hands. And in this psalm, uh the psalm that we've been looking at, almost every other passage describes hell explicitly as being separated from God. So you even think about Matthew 25. Matthew 25, he says to the goats, Depart from me and go into the kingdom prepared for the devil and his angels. Right? And then it repeats it. It says, depart from me. Well, I'll just I'll just paraphrase it. He says, Depart from me basically and receive the eternal punishment. So literally almost every passage of of the Bible that talks about hell, you have this idea of depart from me. Even that the one of the the main conceptions of Of hell, one of the main pictures that we have in the Bible is the outer darkness. You ever heard that? Actually, this term outer darkness is the only term that really the Mormons recognize as hell. It's kind of interesting. Nevertheless, uh outer darkness is a description of hell. Well, what is outer darkness? Outer darkness is being separated from the inner light. Well what's the inner light? That's the banquet of the Lamb. That's us being in the banquet, in the party, in the light of God, walking with God. So being in the outer darkness is being separated from that. So as you as you discover uh hell and think about hell, one of the strongest and continuous images of hell is being separated, being left out of the party of God. I'll give you one other uh illustration of this You remember the parable of the ten virgins, right? Five are smart, five are foolish. The five foolish are false believers. When the the bridegroom comes, Jesus Christ. Right? They go into the party, they go into the banquet. The others say give me your oil. We don't we can't give you the Holy Spirit. Go get your own Holy Spirit. Right? Go get your own oil. They go back and get the royal. By the time they come back, it they're left out. And they're banging on the door because they are separated from God. So consistently and throughout the Bible, that's how heaven is described, as we get to dwell with God, even Revelation, we get to dwell with God in the new heavens and the new earth. But the wicked will not be there They will be cast into the lake of fire separated. So um I I'm not attacking in the least the idea that the wicked will be separated from God because that is the the stomping ground of the Bible. That is the the supreme glory as the people being united. Married, right? Connected with our husband, and the supreme terror is being separated. We think about fire. There's a lot more pictures about separation than fire. That's the main picture as being separated from God. But I'm just trying to give you a nuanced balance and say, okay, that's talking primarily about the same way we'll be connected with God, which is this intimacy. In this connection and his goodness, in this revealed presence. It's not denying God's general reality that he's always here, and it's certainly not denying that they'll be in the presence of God's wrath. Right? So that does that answer your question, Chris? Sort of. Do you want to follow up? It answers the question that I asked. But it but it is still another question and then and I'm I'm trying to reconcile then how do we Say that you're you'll be you know departed from the presence of God at the same time God is is there. Yeah, so so a contradiction A contradiction is saying that something is A and not A at the same time and in the same way. Right. Um and so what does it mean to come into the presence of God? In fact, if we don't we had to grapple through this in the very beginning of the Bible in Genesis, we have Adam and Eve cast away from the presence of God But how can that be? Because they're still in the presence of God in some sense, aren't they? Or even Cain after that fact it says that he was cast from the presence of God by being kicked further from the the covenant community. Well what's going on? He's still in the presence of God. So the Bible is consistently um describing The presence of God and his special presence where he is in a revealed way and his blessings are there. So in that sense, they are cast from his presence. In that sense. In the sense of them generally being a being who's in the presence of God, you'll never cast from that sense. And specifically being in God's wrath, they are in the presence of that sense. So we just need to denuance it and say, even if you want to add in your Bible, uh depart from me the you can put depart from his goodness. Depart from his revealed presence. That's what it's saying. And the same thing is going into the presence of God is to get into a more a state where we're closer to God. And closer into his revealed glory. And again, if we don't understand these concepts and we have to wrestle through these concepts, even Paul says to be absent from the body is to be present with the Lord. So even he sees that even now when we have the Holy Spirit that even now we are absent from God in some sense. But when we leave this body and go into be in the presence of God, we gain some more of his presence. And again that's talking about blessing, intimacy. all of that. Any other follow-up questions on that or I just want to touch on uh kind of what Chris was was raising. I wonder if Second Thessalonians one nine might throw a little bit of light on that where uh it calls that things with faith And so depending on how you want to connect those two things, the presence of the Lord and the glory of his power, it seems like glory of his power is kind of something away from his goodness, his presence is nothing. Absolutely. No, that that that and that's what and that by the way is the main passage where this it's the most explicit passage, or one of the main passages of this idea of separation. Is is right there. And like I said, they're they're everywhere. Anyways, of of how he could be separated from his being, how could you be separated from his wrath in hell? Hell is the place where the wrath of God is unleashed. Do you have any? Fourteen? Uh uh w regarding what? Regarding the presence of uh was it the wrath of the land where you 're gonna be able to do that? Yes, Revelation fourteen verse ten. Explicitly says that they will uh be in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb, Christ Almighty. He's still he's still working with the house, huh? Exactly. And in fact, it permeates our thoughts if we think about it when we think about God dwelling in heaven. The very concept of God dwelling in heaven already implies that God has some special presence in heaven that's lesser than his presence here on earth, but in no way denies that he's here on earth. In fact, the earth is called his footstool. So if his feet are here, then how is he not here, right? He's he's right here. But it's not his full manifestation of him being here. Any any any other Yeah, but uh one school could have an apple uh there's sort of uh presents Yeah, that's a great example. Even within the tabernacle Even within the temple, there is places where the Gentiles can go in. You cross this line, you're dead. Right? And there's places where the the priests can go in. You cross that line though and go into the Holy of Holies. If you're not the high priest, you'd be gone too. And in fact, if you're the the high priest and you go in there without God permitting you to be in there, you're gone too. You see what I'm saying? So there's this continuous level of more and more presence of God. because God is uh more present, but uh he always is present, it's the idea, but he is more present in certain places. Alright, let's continue So God is everywhere, and he is at all times. We never have to worry about getting to a place that we are ahead of God in space or in time And David points this out in verse 9 of our Psalm. He says, If I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. Now I love this passage because it's such a marvelous image. It's a little difficult at first to figure it out. What is he talking about if I take the wings of the morning and dwell in the uttermost part of the sea? What's going on there? Well, every morning there's something amazing happens that we almost all miss out on because we're sleeping. Here's the amazing thing. It's dark. And all of a sudden the sun comes out and there's these rays of light that shoot all throughout the earth and brings light there. And I think that that is what he's talking about. He's saying that the the idea is if he could jump up and grab one of those rays of light and take it all the way to the other side of the earth and land on the uttermost part of the sea, the furthest remotest part, and land there He still wouldn't be outside of God's presence. It wouldn't be like he would arrive there and discover God is not in this place. And then five minutes later God shows up. Oh there you are. Where you been? See, even if he went through the speed of light, he cannot escape the presence of God. There is no location, there is no place where you will arrive and God won't be there. And this is a great comfort to missionaries, especially. Right, as they go out into foreign lands. They're not wondering, oh, I wonder if God's ever showing up here. No, the people have already been prepared. God's already made preparations for you to show up there. Because we can never go to a place that God is not there. God is not merely the God of America. Thank God for that. He's the God of the world. He's not the God of Israel, not the God of America, not the God of the Western world. He is the God of all of the earth. My favorite passage on this is in Malachi. People who are treating God as as a as a you know, as a a local even worse than a local monarch They're giving these these lame animals to God and like, you wouldn't even treat your king this way. You treat me this way? And he says, I am a great king. I will get glory from the rising of the sun. The earth is mine, you will treat me with respect, because God is the king of the universe. So even if he takes the wings of the morning And he goes to the uttermost part of the sea, the furthest remote island, God would still be there. And even more, he says, even your hand shall lead me, and your right hand shall hold me. Not just that God's there, but God is still directing him. God is still there, his providence, his protection. He's still leading him. He is still holding him there God is not letting go. He will not let you go as we pass through space. He will not let us go as we pass through time. The same God who saved you as a child, if he did it, can hold you fast as you go through those teenager years He can hold you fast as you enter into the workforce, as you enter into marriage, as you start having kids and start wondering, is this a good idea? He can hold you fast. He can hold you fast as your kids start leaving home. He can hold you fast as you go through your midlife crisis. He can hold you fast as you lose your spouse, as you near retirement, as you grow old, and as life becomes a burden. He can hold you fast even as you pass your earthly existence. God can hold you fast. Because you're never going to get it to a place or a time where he is not there. Jesus Christ is described this way in Hebrews 13. 8. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forevermore. He's been God. He'll continue to be God no matter where you go. And he still is God even now. He's also the same God with us all throughout the day and all throughout the week. He's God on the Lord today. Special day, right? Special day where we get to gather with God's people and God's place. But he's not just there with us on the Lord's Day. He's there Monday through Saturday as well. He's not just there with us as we're in the church building. He's there as you drive to the church building and drive from it. He's there when you go to work. He's there when no one else is looking. He's always there at all times. You're never going to go to a place and realize that God is not there. God is so much there That we need to come into full recognition of God's presence. And a great example of this is found in Genesis twenty-eight Jacob wakes up from a dream where he sees this ladder from heaven and earth. He sees angels ascending and descending. It's a beautiful text. And actually, if you go into John, you know who that ladder is? It's Jesus Christ. He says, I am the ladder. He's the one connection between heaven and earth. So he sees this ladder, and God speaks to him. He looks up at heaven, he sees God in heaven, and God says, I'm giving you the promises of Abraham. In you the families of the earth will be blessed I'm going to bless you, and I'm going to bless your people, and I'm going to make you prosper. Jacob wakes up from this experience, and you know what he says? He says this in Genesis. 28 verse 16. Then Jacob awoke from his sleep and said, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. And he was afraid and said, How awesome is this place! This is none other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven. And so early in the morning Jacob took a stone that he had put under his head, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil on top of it, and he called the name of that pit that place Bethel, house of God. But the name of the city was Luz at first. So he wakes up and he says, Surely the Lord is in this place, and I did not know it. How awesome is this place! This place is the very gateway to heaven. The reality is, where is that place? It's not someplace in the Middle East. Everywhere. Everywhere is that place where you come to realize this is the very gate of God. God is right here on the earth. This is not the earth. This is Bethel. This is the house of God. He is here. Not in the surf building, but the whole earth, the fullness of, is God. And we did not know it oftentimes because we can't see him. But sometimes he reveals himself to us. Sometimes he reveals himself in his word. Sometimes you just get a sense of God's presence more and more. But the reality is this place is not Court America. It's not Lithicom. This is the very house of God because he is here. And oftentimes we don't know it. But he is very much so here. Recall what Jesus says to the woman at the well. She was a Samaritan woman and she asked a question. Should we worship on this mountain or the Jerusalem mountain? Which one? Where should we worship God? Jesus said, Woman, believe me, the hour is coming when neither on this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father. You worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. But the hour is coming, and now is here, when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and in truth. For the Father is seeking such people to worship him. God is spirit, and those who worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Do we need to go to someplace in the Middle East to worship God? No. We don't have to worship, we can worship God anywhere and everywhere because God is always there. He is spirit. He's incorporal. Right? He's not made up of parts. He's not a little bit here, a little bit there. He's not physically in this location or physically in that location. He's a spirit. He is everywhere. And he wants us to worship him in spirit. And we also have spirits, so we can worship him in our inmost being at any time that we want. Because God is a spirit and he is always there. And he actually seeks not for us to make pilgrimage to the Holy Land. But to pray and to worship him in spirit because he is spirit. He seeks that. And he wants us to do that. Another thing that we can learn about God's omnipresence is in verse 11. But let me stop there. Is there any questions about that that we can worship God everywhere? That he is spirit and we have access to him. How glorious is that. You don't have to uh go to a certain location to worship God. Right? You can literally worship God at any time, at any place Okay. Look at verse 11. We're going to look at something else about God's omnipresence. Verse 11 says, If I say Surely the darkness shall cover me, and the light about me be night. Even the darkness is not dark for you, the night is bright as day, for darkness is as light to you. So here he's saying that one of the manifestations or one of the results of always being in the presence of God is that we cannot escape God, not even at night. Just because it's dark out there doesn't mean God can't see you. Just because no one's around doesn't mean that God cannot see you. Have you ever noticed that people act differently at night? You know, there's there's even sayings I won't repeat here about things that happen at night. People act differently at night. Weird people actually start showing up at night. I remember when we went to Baltimore at night. And some weird stuff happened. So there's some weird things that happen at night. Normal people go to bed, they go to sleep, and some weird stuff starts happening. It's it's quite strange. Even the Bible uh has this it this is not something that's a modern phenomenon. Even the Bible recognizes that people do more wickedness at night. They do wickedness all the time, but at night they're even more wicked. First Thessalonians 5. 5 says For you are children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness. So then let us not sleep, as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober For those who sleep, do their sleeping at night. That's pretty sensible, right? You do your sleeping at night, usually, unless your work forces you not to. But for the most part, you do your sleeping at night. But look. And those who get drunk get drunk at night. You 've got to ask yourself, why? Why are do people do more wicked things? at night. And even when they're off, even on vacation, they still do more wickedness at night than they do on the day. Why why is that? Well I think the the first reason is is because less people are watching. There's less people that can see what you're doing out there because it's dark and they can't see you. There's also just less people out there, less witnesses to the stuff that you do. And the people that are that are out there, for the most part, most likely are doing bad things like you are doing. Not always, as exceptions. But the people that are not going to sleep and are usually out there trying to up to no good like you. So people get brazen. There there's a lack of witnesses and they're in presence of others. There are shameless people around them and this causes people to do things they otherwise. would not do. But these people need to realize that it being dark outside has no ability for God to not see you. Man can't see you, man might be asleep, men might not be there, but God is there. He can see you in the darkness, just as much as he can see you in the light You cannot get away from God. Darkness is no cover from the presence of God. He is always around. And we need to remember this. We get away with absolutely nothing, whether it's during the day or whether it is during the night. Now, this thought that God is always around, including at night, and can see every sin that we ever do, is quite frightful. In fact, it is so frightful that Mark 1236 says, I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. Did you know that? Every careless word that you've ever spoken, you're going to give an account for. Now, if God knows your careless words, then he must know all your words. The good words, the bad words, the careless words. Every single word that God is recorded and he knows and you will give an account for those words. Now how are we doing on our words? We got we got a lot of careless words or just a few? Well, James 3. 2 says, For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, also able to bridle his own body. So, if we are perfect in speech, we'll be perfect in life. Since none of us are perfect in life, what does that tell us about our speech? We're imperfect. Because we can't control the things that we say perfectly. We have indwelling sin. So if God's going to judge us by every careless word, how are we going to do in the judgment? Now this is not just talking about cuss words. It's not just talking about using the Lord's name in vain, but it's all of the bad speech that we speak. All the unedifying things, all the slander, all the gossips, all the time your voice goes down and starts speaking things that you shouldn't say about other Christians Or other people in general, all of those things we will give an account. Gossip, slander, whispers, hurtful speech, crude joking, tearing down instead of building up, all of these things are being recorded and we will be held accountable when we stand in the judgment. Now this is quite terrifying, but Romans 8 says, there is now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus, for the law of the Spirit has set you free in Christ Jesus. from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do. By sending his own Son, in the in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. There is no condemnation for those now in Jesus Christ. All of those careless words, all those unhelpful words, guess what? They are covered by the blood of the Lamb, if you are in Christ. They're expunged. Some of you might work in law enforcement, some of you might have seen records. I don't know if any of you have ever seen an expunged FBI record. But guess what? It's not there. It's gone. Which you can see is the fact that it's been expunged, but you have no idea what they did. Because it's gone. And that's like us, right? We go before God. We have an expunged record. God knows. And everyone else knows that's a redeemed sinner. Redeemed sinner, forgiven sinner. That guy was a sinner. But what he did is expunged. It's gone. Covered away. You won't be judged for any of that. All of that will be forgiven. But if your record isn't expunged, everything that you ever said and everything that you ever do will be judged. In fact, the Bible gives this illustration in Revelation 20 about the books being opened. The book, there's two books. There's the books being opened and there's the book of life. And then it says, and the dead would judge by what was written in the books according to what they had done. So you have two books here. You have the book of life and you have the books of your deeds. If your name is found in the book of life, you're not going to be judged by your deeds. If your name is not found in the book of life, you don't automatically go to hell. You get judged by your deeds. Right? You don't get judged by the book of life, you get judged by the book of of your life. One life or the other. Now, how are we going to do at that judgment by our deeds? Well Daniel five twenty-five has this fascinating line. It says, Many, many tickle. Parson. You know what that means? You've been weighed in the balance and found wanting. That's what's going to happen. If you're judged by your life, you're going to be weighed in the balance and found wanting. Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God Romans 6. 23, for the wages of sin is death. Romans 3. 20, for by the works of the law no human being will be justified in the sight, since through the law comes the knowledge of sin The law is only supposed to reveal you or the fact that you're a sinner. It's never supposed to save you, because we've all sinned, and we'll all be found in the balance wanting. You have no chance to be justified by the works that are written in those books. In fact, not only will we be condemned by those works, but you know those works will be proclaimed to all people? Now I hate to tell you, in the little time I have, I hope we can get there, but I don't believe that's talking about believers at all. Believers' works are not going to be proclaimed before all people. All their sinful deeds, that's not going to be, your dirty laundry is not coming out before everyone else. You have nothing to worry about at the judgment seat of Christ. But for the wicked, you have very much things to worry about. Jesus says in Luke chapter 12, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. What's hypocrisy? I don't care about what God thinks, I just care about what you guys think. I just care that you think I'm holy. I don't care about what God thinks. Because he knows. But who cares about him? I just want to have a good appearance among you. I want you guys to think good about me. That's hypocrisy He says, Beware of the leaven of hypocrisy. Nothing is covered up that will not be revealed, or hidden that will not be known Therefore, whatever you have said in the dark shall be heard in the light, and what you have whispered in private rooms shall be proclaimed on the house tops. Why is hypocrisy so stupid? Well one, whose God is greater than anyone else, so why do you care about what other people think about you but don't care about God? That's the first reason. The second reason is you may be able to fool other people, but not for long. Because one day, every single thing that you have done will be proclaimed to all of your unbelieving friends. Everyone will know who you really truly are. But as I said, I do not believe that this is referring to believers at all. Why? Because Psalm 103 says Talking about God. He will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. He does not deal with us according to our sins. He does not deal with us according to our sins, right? But how does he deal with us? He will not repay us according to our iniquities, for as high as the heavens are above the earth, so great is the steadfast love toward those who fear him. For as far as the east is from the west, So far does he remove our transgressions from us. So that's true. How can I be shamed at the second coming of Christ? Can't happen. Right? Because as far as the East is from the west, he has removed my sins from me. They're expunged. They're in the sea of forgetfulness. This is one of the benefits of being in Christ. But one of the terrors of being an unbeliever is your sins are not. Your sins are very much not forgotten. You're very much held accountable, and your sins will be reclaimed on the house tops Alright, in a little time we have, I'll try to go and prove this real quickly about the judgment seat of Christ, because hopefully I've stirred up some of your thoughts about okay, what about the judgment seat of Christ? Aren't we going to be judged? The Bible says that, right? Here's what it says. In 2 Corinthians 5 10. For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, so that each one may receive what is due for what he has done in the body, whether good We're evil. We must all sit before the judgment seat of Christ. This is Christ on the bar. He is the judge. Did you know that? That we'll stand before Christ God has appointed Christ to be the judge of the earth, and we'll stand before Christ, and it says that we all must stand before him, whether good or evil. Well Will the wicked receive any good at the judgment seat of Christ before the bar of God? No. No wicked person will receive any good at the judgment of Christ. And No good person, no righteous person will receive any wicked or evil at the judgment seat of Christ. So when it says that we receive good or evil, it's talking about whether you're a believer or an unbeliever. If you're an unbeliever, you will receive evil You receive calamity, right? Judgment. If you're a believer, you will only receive good. The judgment seat of Christ for believers is about rewards, not about condemnation. Hm. Let me um quickly go to the the most explicit text on this. I was going to ask you to open your Bibles we don't have time. So I'll read it real quick. First Corinthians 3. 4. Paul says For when one says, I follow Paul, and another I follow Apollos, are not all being merely human. What then is Apollos? Or what is Paul? Servants to whom you believed, as the Lord assigned to each, I planted, Apollo's watered, but God gave the growth. So neither he who plants, nor he who waters, is anything, but only God who gives the growth. He who plants is one, and who waters is one. Each will receive his wages according to his labor, for we are God's fellow workers, and you are God's field, God's building. What's he saying? He's saying n some of you say, I like John Piper, I like John MacArthur, I like John Wesley, I like John Calvin and and the apostle saying, This is foolishness Don't you realize that all of these people are agents of God to help you? But like God, because God is the one who's bringing the increase. These are all merely servants of God. Don't try to make John Piper and John Calvin and go to the death Right, you are a Christian, your fundamental identity is found in Christ. So don't go give your allegiance to men, give it to God. That's what he's saying. And he's saying that these people, yeah, these people are God's workers, and yeah, they'll be rewarded for their labors, but ultimately they are ultimately God's workers. Then he says in verse 10 Now if anyone builds on the foundation with gold, silver, and precious stones, wood, hay, and stubble Each one's work will be manifested, for the day will disclose it, because it will be revealed by fire, and the fire will test what sort of work each one has done. If the work that any one has built on the foundation survives, he will review He will receive a reward. If anyone's work is burned up, he will suffer loss, though he himself will be saved, but only as through fire. What he's talking about here is he's saying that the church is this great building, is this great field. Right? In Christian labors and Christian what we do, we build on that foundation. We edify. We do things that benefit people. But some of the things we do is not beneficial. Some of the things that these servants have said are not true. are unhelpful. Right? Some of the things that Christians do don't help other believers. And all those works, the wood, hay, and stubble, they're gonna be burned up. They're gonna burn up. But you're gonna be saved. But you receive loss. Meaning, did you wish that your works weren't burned out? Who wants their works being burned up? Right? Wouldn't you rather have works that last That this that this um he describes it as this gold and and these precious stones. That's the good work that you've done. That will so that will survive the fire of God and you will receive a reward. So here 's what I'm saying. At the judgment seat of Christ, all of your indifferent works are burned up. All of your bad works, they're burned up. All of your good works, they will survive, and you will be rewarded. That is what we have waiting for us. And that's why we can long for the second coming of Christ instead of being ashamed for all the bad stuff we ever did. Because we will be rewarded at Christ. So let me conclude with this. God's omnipresence should give us great comfort. Why? Because it tells us that we never separated from God. God is always there with us. He's always there to hold us fast and to lead us in life. We're never going to arrive at a time and a place where God isn't there. God's omnipresence also, though, tells us that everything we ever did is being recorded. Every single thing And this is a great terror for the unbeliever, because everything will be made known, but for the believer, this isn't a terror, because all the bad things are going to be wiped away, and all the good things we will be rewarded for. And so we we thank God That he is always there. We should also recognize though is that when we do sin, we're not getting away with it. God will chastise you in this life for your sins Right? You will will and potentially possibly very likely you will lose rewards in the next life. Because instead of us sin you could have been doing positive things to be gaining rewards. So you will you will suffer loss in this life and in the next, but you yourself will be saved. So we should recognize God's omnipresence and marvel in it and know that God will faithfully reward us. So I'll conclude with the statement of Jesus. And whoever gives one of these little ones even a cup of cold water because he is a disciple, truly I say to you, he will by no means lose his reward. God knows everything you did, he will reward every single thing that you've ever done. Because he loves you and he cares for you, and he is always there. I can conclude in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, I thank you that you are there. We thank you that you're there. We thank you that nothing that we've ever done has been forgotten by you. You hold us fast. You love us. You reward us. You're coming back. Not only with your recompense, but your reward for your saints. Come Lord Jesus come in Jesus' name I pray. Amen