All right, let's let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we just sung that glorious song, Are You Washed in the Blood? And Lord, I pray that everybody in this room Would actually stop and think. Have I been washed in the blood? Have I come to you in repentance? Have I tasted and seen that the Lord is good? Have I seen my need and my sin? And I pray, Lord, that we could all say, I have seen. I've seen my sin. I've seen how ugly it is that I put you on the cross. That you died in my place. And then in light of that reflection, we would all have, at some point, even if it's in this very prayer Would have come to the blood of the Lamb through faith and been cleansed. Lord, let us all be washed by that precious blood of Christ. Lord, now I pray that you strengthen me, your inadequate spokesman. This feeble man up here to speak your word to your people so that they would not hear me, but they would hear you, and they'd hear your message, and that you would give them ears to hear and a heart to believe And that they would walk away changed. And they'd have an encounter with you. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So if you've been with us these last couple weeks since I really started my ministry here, we've been going through the book of Malachi. And I don't know about you, but I have found this little obscure book of the Old Testament, Malachi, stirring. And I remember all of it. You might say, well, you remember it because you preached it. But I preached a lot of books. And some books I preached in the Bible, I don't even remember I preached. Second John would be one of those. But it it's just interesting that each one of these sections have kind of put a little mark in my mind. I remember the first sermon which was about the word of the Lord and the authority of God's scriptures. I remember the second sermon Which was about half-hearted worship and the fact that God deserves our best and he deserves everything. And then the more difficult sermon to preach, corrupt priests and the consequences of a corrupt ministry. And then the last sermon that I preached here, which was do not marry the daughter of A foreign God about the need to marry in the Lord. Now I've found all of these passages stimulating and interesting and exciting and and fun to preach. Some of them weren't fun to preach, but but certainly helpful to think about. But I didn't actually choose the book of Malachi for any of those passages. And I didn't even remember most of those passages were in the book. If I were to ask you what's in the book of Malachi, or why would a preacher go to the book of Malachi, what would you say? What's in this little book? Besides the stuff I just told you, because you just had to recap Anybody can think of like what thing in the book of Malachi? When I think, I think there's a prophecy about the coming of Elijah. Everybody know that prophecy? And I think there's a passage on tithing. Right? I guess I nod, I see some nods, right? Isn't that true? Well believe me, I have not come here for tithes and offerings and and it wasn't about uh the coming of Elijah that I came to this book. But rather I come to this book, because one, I needed to preach from the Old Testament, two, I needed to preach through a book of the Bible, so there was only sixty-six choices, and this was one of them And then you cut out the New Testament. So I only have 39 choices, and I didn't want to be in the Old Testament too long, so that means I had to pick a small book. You see the the the thing is dwindling here But in light of those choices, a reduction of my choice, the reason I chose the book of Malachi was actually because of the message that you'll hear today. It was actually this passage that reminded me of this book, and it changed my life. The message today from the passage today. changed my life forever, and I think for the good so many years ago. And I pray and I hope that after the end of this message it will have an impact on you as well And you can say, wow, what a great book. And I didn't realize there was such a treasure in the book of Malachi. And I've shared this with you before, but my oldest son is named Malachi, based on the sermon I'm going to preach to you today. So who knows what will happen. Maybe this church will have a whole bunch of young children coming out of this church named Malachi. We already have two. I'm teething about that But the real point I'm trying to get across is that there is something truly glorious and wonderful in this passage if you will hear and listen and see. So I want you, in light of that, to turn to Malachi chapter 2. Malachi chapter 2, and I will begin reading in verse 11. Malachi chapter 2. Beginning in verse 11. Judah has dealt treacherously. An abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the Lord's holy institution, which he loves. He has married the daughter of a foreign god. May the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob the man who does this, being awake and aware, yet who brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. And this is the second thing you do. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping and crying. So he does not regard the offering any more, nor receive it with good will from your hands. Yet you say, For what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you And the wife of your youth, with whom you have dealt treacherously with. But did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? And why one? Because he seeks godly offspring. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously with the wife of his youth. For the Lord God of Israel says that he hates divorce. For it covers one's garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. Lord of hosts. Therefore take heed to your spirit that you do not deal treacherously. So that's our passage. So let me ask you this question. If I were to ask any of you, what is the central point of marriage, what would you say? Now as you think about that, we have to always be careful when someone asks that kind of question of what's the central point of something, because there's a great danger of being reductionistic. To reduce things. To say, well, I like this point of marriage, and so I'm going to make this the central reality of marriage and ignore all the other points of marriage. Do you see that? We can be reductionistic in that way, and we don't want to do that. There's actually many points of marriages. There's many realities or benefits or purposes of why God designed marriage. One of those is happiness, love, pleasure, fulfillment, the welfare of society. Now here's a big one, the development of boys into men. This is a great problem, and I'm tempted to preach a whole different sermon on this, and I'm gonna reel it in. But there's a great difficulty every society has of taking a young man and turning him into a productive means of society. How do you take that young man, that young boy, and hone in that person and develop him into a man? And one of the reasons that we have such a problem in our society today of these delinquent men, even worse, useless men, these non-productive men, is because of the decline of marriage. Because when men often don't get honed into that, they can often use that power, use that strength, use that energy to be a havoc on society. I'm not saying All young men are like that, but that is a reality. So one of the benefits of marriage is the development of boys into men. Or what about girls into women? It's also true for women. It's not as true, but it's still true that marriage has a sanctifying effect to help produce women out of young girls. And of course we can think about 1 Corinthians chapter 7, that marriage has the benefit of helping with sexual immorality. So the point I'm trying to say is that there is a whole host of benefits and reasons for marriage. Amen? So the question is, what is the central point, the central intent of marriage? And as we think about that, we have to ask ourselves, well, how would we determine what that central point is? For some of us we might like one or gravitate to another or or this or that. But but who gets to decide which one is the central point? Does that make sense? Because we don't want to be reductionistic. The answer, of course, is that we should test everything by the Bible, and we should be like the Bereans and search the scriptures and to see what they say. We're going to believe the scriptures despite the pastor's opinion, despite your own personal opinion, and definitely despite the world's opinion. We want to know what God says. Isaiah chapter 80, verse 20 says, to the law and to the testimony, if they will not speak according to this word, it's because there is no light in them. So as we seek to try to understand what is the central point or reality behind marriage, we need to do it by searching the scriptures And what I'm going to argue today is that our passage today actually explicitly answers that question. And so our job is to dig it out and to see what it says. So let's look again to our passage and see. And I'm tempted just to jump straight at the answer, but instead of doing that, I want you to see the flow of the passage. If you go back to verse 11, Judah, that's the people of God, have done something treacherous. They've committed some kind of abomination. They have done some kind of profanity. They have profaned something. And it's this build-up, and you're like, What what is it? And then he says, The Lord's holy institution which he loves, you have done this abomination. You have married the daughter of a foreign god I'm not going to repreach that sermon, but here's the point. That they have defiled marriage, the intent of marriage, by marrying an unbeliever. That's the first thing that they did. And then if you look at verse 13, you'll see the second thing. It says it explicitly. Verse 13. And this is the second thing you do. The second way that you have profaned the covenant of marriage. The second way you have profane God's holy institution. The first was marrying the daughter of a foreign God. And the second is what we're going to look at today. And so there's this like almost like a mystery. It begins with in in verse 13, you cover the altar of the Lord with tears. And so there's these, it doesn't even say women, there's these people. We're not even sure who they are, but they are women. And there's these women that are crying and weeping on the altar. And it says, Well, because of this, of these crying and weeping of tears, at the end of verse thirteen, God does not regard your offering any more, nor does he receive it from good uh receive it with good will from your hands. So there's this a bunch of people, again, they're women, but we don't know that yet, that are crying. And God sees those tears. And God, the avenger and protector of the brokenhearted, of his people, says, because of this abuse and because of this crying and weeping, I'm no longer going to regard your offering any longer. And we have a parallel of this in the New Testament. In 1 Peter 3, verse 7, this is God's instruction to husbands. It says, husbands, dwell with your wives with understanding, giving honor to the wife as to the weaker vessel, and as being an heir together of the grace of life So husbands, love your wives and dwell with them in an understanding way. Recognize that in some capacities and in some ways they are the weaker vessel But there's still heirs with you in the kingdom of God. So be understanding. Be supportive. Be helpful. But what if we don't? What if we don't dwell with them in an understanding way? Well the passage goes on to say, if you don't, your prayers will be hindered. Do you see? The mistreatment of your spouse, specifically the mistreatment of a husband mistreating their wives, will cause God to not answer our prayers. That's what the Bible says. Not Pastor Jamie. The Bible says that. So we need to be careful how we treat one another. And specifically we need to be careful how we treat our spouse because we can't hate our neighbor. And so often the neighbor is the person out there, but really God is is telling us the neighbor is everybody. Isn't that true? The neighbor is everybody, and more poignantly and more explicitly, the neighbor is your actual neighbor The person who's neighboring you. Does that make sense? I always find it hilarious and sad actually and very disturbing that people love the concept of humanity but yet actually hate the individuals in humanity It's real easy to love people. I love people and ignore every single one of them and mistreat all your co-workers and mistreat your children. And mistreat church members and mistreat everybody, but you're just a lover of humanity. No, God doesn't have anything to do with that. God says that if we mistreat our spouse, that our prayers will be hindered Which is very similar to what we see in this passage, that there's these crying and there's these weeping and there's these tears at the altar, and God says, because of this, then your offering, then your gifts, then your singing Then you're showing up to church, then you're giving up tithes. He's not going to receive that with goodwill anymore. He says it's contaminated, that it's filthy, that those things are no longer pleasing in his sight Jesus put it this way in Matthew 15, verse 8, These people draw near to me with their mouth and honor me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. God is saying what basically to these Israelites for mistreating their wives, what a friend of mine said to me so long ago And I remember this friend of mine, and I was uh I was backsliding and I started to fall into sin, and I don't even know how he knew. He was just my friend. You ever have a friend like that? That they just know what it is for you to walk with the Lord. They know how you talk, they know how you act, and then you kind of withdraw from the Lord and they know that something's off. Anybody like that? Anybody got a friend like that? But that was my friend. He knew something was offered me. And so then I tried to talk to him about theology because I'm a theology nerd and want to debate about some kind of doctrine. And you know what he said to me? He said, I'm not interested in talking to you about theology. You need to repent. And you need to get right with the Lord. And that was like a bucket of cold water on my face, and actually that that helped me though. It was a blessing. Because I said, you know what, you're right. And I repented and I was restored. And then we went back to talking theology again. Well that's kind of what God is saying here. God is saying I don't want to I'm not interested in the the offerings. I'm not interested in the tithes. I'm not interested in the hallelujahs and the amens and the good sermon pastor. I'm not interested in any of that. What I'm interested in is you going and restoring the broken relationships that you have done. I'm interested in these weeping and crying of tears at my altar and you fixing that. Can anyone think of another New Testament passage like that? Where Jesus says that you have offended your brother. You remember this? You have offended your brother and you're going over with your gifts. Anybody remember this passage? He says, turn back. Leave your gift at the altar. Oh, I'm leaving it here because I need to go and reconcile with my brother. That's what the scripture teaches us, that the primary thing of our religion ought not just to be the outward expressions of the worship of God, but rather should be loving people. And loving one another. God is very concerned about this. Now look with me to verse 14. They say, yet you say for what reason? Why has God Yeah there's these crying women and tears, but but why aren't you regarding our worship? Why don't you care about our tithes? Why don't you care about our church attendance? Did you not hear me say amen three times in the sermon How could you not regard such Christian behavior? And the Lord responds to this, because the Lord has been a witness between you and And the wife of your youth, which you have done treacherously with. And so now the mystery of these crying women are exposed. Who are these people crying at the altar? They are the wife of your youth Which the Lord has been witness that you have done treacherously against. Do you see? That's who they are. And the Lord says, I saw you. I saw you at church saying amen. I saw you singing hallelujah. I saw you write the tithe check. I saw all that. But I also saw you deal treacherously with the wife of your youth. And because of that, I'm not pleased with any of the rest of that. Leave all of that at the altar. This is a difficult sermon to preach. Because if you don't give anything I get fired the de facto, not really fired, but I need your money. Anyway, you get the point. But it's really God's word though. You see what he's saying Leave all that and restore the relationship that you've broken. You have dealt treacherously with the wife of your youth because the Lord is the covenant-seeing God. Go back, some of you who are married, go back to your wedding day. There were people there and they witnessed what you did, did they not? They saw you get up there and stand before each other and say, through sickness. and health, richer and poorer, till death do us part. They were there, but many times we lost touch. We don't see them We no longer are around them anymore. Maybe they have passed away. But guess who never passes away? And guess who remains the witness of your covenant vows? God. That's what it says. God says, I'm a witness of what you have done between the wife of your youth. You have done treacherously. And then if you go on, he tells us how they have done treacherously. And he tells us that the Lord hates divorce. And so what's going on here? The way that they have done treacherously is that they've cast their wives aside. And they have divorced them And then in verse 16, it goes on to say that the man who does this is wrapping himself up with a garment of violence. That's an interesting metaphor, but he's saying that he's wrapping himself with a reality of pain and cursing. That it will not go well with them. Again, let me just stop here. How many times do people justify unlawful, unbiblical divorce by saying God wants me to be happy? Have you heard that? God doesn't want me in this unhappy relationship. God wants me to be happy. So even though the Bible says that you should not divorce. outside of sexual immorality or abandonment. God wants me to be happy, so none of that matters, and I'm going to go ahead and pursue my happiness. There's one problem. It doesn't have anything to do with how wonderful that other person is because they might be wonderful. The big problem is God is in control. We all say God is sovereign. And that means it really is sovereign. And that means if you disobey God, guess who holds all the cards? God does. And He's in control. And He says if you do this, I'm going to wrap you up like a garment full of pain and suffering and cursing. What did he say to the priest last time? I'm going to curse your blessings. I remember one time, I hesitate to share this with you, but I remember one time right after I got out of the army, I had saved up a lot of money. I was extremely frugal. I spent almost nothing. It was too much, by the way. I remember making my wife feel guilty for getting chocolate milk. Because w we don't need that. We we can get the regular milk. We need to save the money. I was extremely frugal, way overboard, but I had saved up a lot of money during that time I remember looking at my emergency fund and I said, wow, I had to start. I said, this emergency fund is going to protect me against anything that will happen. Even the devil couldn't get me. And when I said that, the conviction of God came upon me and I thought, I better repent now, because this is pride. And God can bring me down at any moment. You cannot trust in the arm of man and strength and your bank account and your youth and all of your talents or any of these things. Do you not remember Job? God can bring you down in a moment. You have to trust in the Lord. And so the reason that we can't go divorce our wives or mistreat our wives and think it's going to be okay is because God is in control. And he can at any moment use his power to wrap us, like in this passage, with a blanket of pain and of cursing. So in light of all that, he tells us at the end of verse 15, therefore take heed to your spirit and do not deal treacherously. Be careful what you do. Honor your wife. Restore the broken. Or better, don't do this in the first place. Well, this is the central point of this passage. It really is about covenant fidelity, specifically about spouses, and not to commit this great heinous act of divorcing your spouse inappropriately. But you may have noticed that I skipped a line. And that line that I skipped is verse 15. And that's what I want to hone into for the rest of this message. is this gym in the middle of a passage about divorce. Because uh it wasn't the the passage about divorce that changed my life. And I did not name my son Malachi about acting treacherously against your wife. What kind of sense would that make? That isn't it. It's actually verse 15. So let's look at verse 15. But did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? And why one? Because he seeks a godly offspring Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously with the wife of his youth. So to show you what this is talking about, it's embedded in a passage all about the true intent of marriage. And so they've broken the true intent of marriage and just done what they wanted to do. And so it's in this passage and in this context that God says, in light of your distortion of marriage, I'm going to tell you what marriage is really all about. Do you see that? You have broken the covenant. You seem to completely not understand what marriage is about. So I'm going to tell you what marriage is about. And that's exactly what he does. So look again with me at verse 15. He starts off by saying, but did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? Now that language of making Two into one, does that remind you of any other passage in the Bible? You recognize this language of two becoming one flesh. Well you should. It's in Genesis. And why don't you turn back to Genesis chapter 2? Genesis chapter 2 Beginning in verse 24, this is when God first created woman. He brings all the animals before Adam Adam then names all the animals one by one. He recognizes that none of the animals are a adequate helper for him. They all have partners, but Adam does not. So then God puts Adam to sleep. He takes out of his his rib and makes the the lady. And then he wakes up and he sees her and he says, Whoa! And he names a woman. Bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh, right? And then we have this description of what the intent of marriage is and what marriage is going to accomplish found in verse 24. And it says, it says there, therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and be joined to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. That's what this is alluding to back in Malachi. It's alluding to this. And if you really stop and think about it, there's something profound and mysterious about this passage. We we so easily gloss over it. But think about it. You have somebody who's unrelated to someone else that they fall in love and they become a couple and they abandon, they leave, they separate their organic family. The people that raise them and care for them, that are biologically related to them, they leave them, mother and father, and they join to someone they're not even related to. And it says that that joining produces one flesh. So you have two that becomes one. There's a a oneness, but but they don't cease their own personalities and their own personhood. So there's a oneness And yet there's a two-persenness. Now I don't want to push this too far, but does this sound familiar of having a oneness of unity but remaining distinct persons? Is there a sacred doctrine that we hold that says there's a oneness and yet there's a multi-personness? Again, don't take that too far, okay? But there's a there's a picture of the Trinity in the picture of the union of a man and a woman. And that's profound, that's mind-boggling to think about that. And actually that's what this passage back in Malachi 215 is saying It's saying that did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? Now again, that's confusing, but you've got to go back to Genesis to understand what's happening. Do you remember when God first formed the man? He formed them out of the dust, and it was a corpse or a pre-corpse. He wasn't yet dead. But he had all of the constitution of a man But he lacked life because God's Spirit had not come down and breathed upon that body and gave it life. Does everybody remember this? Well, that's what's being alluded to. That God takes the two and makes them one flesh, and then he sends his spirit to animate that and cause that which was not there into something that is alive. spiritually alive. Again, that is actually mind-boggling to think about that. Do you realize that your marriage has a spiritual living component? And does this make sense now why God says, what God has joined together, let no man separate? Do you see the seriousness of marriage that you are spiritually unified to your spouse? That's what's going on here. So he says this reference of did he make them one having a remnant of the Spirit goes directly back to our Genesis passage. Now, on a side note here, some of you who are biblically literate, recognize that Paul also addresses this passage about making the one into two. And he says this in Ephesians chapter 5. And I'll read it. Ephesians 5, verse 31. For this reason, same passage, a man shall leave his father and his mother and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Amen, right? That's what we talked about. The mind-boggling spiritual reality, the mystery of that, how you could become one flesh with your spouse. But then Paul says this: this is a great mystery. Amen. But I speak concerning Christ and the church. That's mind-boggling. It's one thing to be unified and have a spiritual connection with your spouse It's another thing for Christ to say that that unity is with him. It's just truly profound. But going back to our point, the point I'm trying to show you in Malachi chapter 2 verse 15 is that when he says, why did he make them one having a remnant of the Spirit, you can just say, Why did God create marriage? It's just a theologically dense way of saying why did God create marriage? Why did God create this one union reality? Again, this might surprise many of you. That's why I need the Bible to back me up. What is according to God's word, which Malachi is, Malachi 2. 15, what was the intent or design behind marriage? Why did he make them one? Godly offspring. You see that? That's explicit. That's not a interpretation of the passage. I just read it. Why did he make them one? What was the central thing that God was seeking to produce in the institution of marriage? Godly offspring. Now again, that might be shocking. And I think it's particularly shocking for us because our society has divorced marriage from procreation. And it's made marriage and procreation two different choices and two different realities. They're not connected anymore. You can have procreation before marriage. after marriage or during marriage with somebody else. So they're not connected in in our minds. But but this is wrong. This is a wrong thinking Just because modern technology can separate what God connected doesn't mean that that was God's design or intent And I'll give you an example, and I hope I don't trigger anybody. But during COVID, many people unfortunately passed away with COVID on those ventilators. Do you remember this? That because of COVID was racking their bodies, their lungs could no longer breathe properly, so they had to be hooked on these ventilators, and these ventilators were designed to breathe for them. Does this sound familiar? So through technology, we made, in a sense, human lungs obsolete. But who would deduce from that, because of technological advances that we could do that, that God did not design the lungs. To breathe. Do you see? The fact that we can technologically separate what God has connected does not mean that that's God's design or his purpose I'll give you another example. If someone gets really sick, they often can't eat anymore. And because they can't eat anymore, they have to have uh something put into their mouth going down a a feeding tube, right? And so the feeding tube is designed to bypass the mouth, the saliva, the teeth, the esophagus, and go straight into the belly so that they can eat. This technology separates all of those components from digestion. But who would conclude from that that therefore the mouth and the s and the throat and the saliva and the teeth were not designed? to consume food to aid in digestion. Nobody. But that's often what we do when it comes to marriage. Because of these technological advances, we have divorced what God has naturally designed to be joined together. Very clear. Malachi chapter two, verse fifteen. Why did God make the two into one? Church to produce godly offspring. Now, whenever I say something somewhat controversial though, what I like to do is to not just have one Bible text to say that. But to have multiple Bible texts to say that, right? Because anybody can twist one Bible text, but you can't twist them all. And so what I want to do now is turn back to God's original design in marriage and to show you from Scripture that this is in fact exactly what God says. So turn back to Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1, verse 26. This is where God initially creates marriage in the first place. Really, it's where God creates man in the first place, but since in that text he creates male and female, it also references marriage. This is Genesis chapter 1, verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image according to our own likeness. So that God created man in his own image, in the image of God he created him, male and female he created them. Let me just stop here. Such an important text, the Imago Dei, that human beings are made in the image of God. They represent God. They reflect God. That ultimately when someone looks at a man, they should see the designer that created him. And so just as you would see a beautiful statue or a beautiful building or a beautiful technology, you would say What brain, what mind, what skill, what talent would create such a thing? God is saying that you ought to look at man and say, What skill, what talent, what being would create such a thing? With such intellect, with such personality, with freedom of will. Who made such a thing? And the ultimate answer is God. Man is supposed to reflect the glory of God. That's what it says here. Then verse 28. After he creates man as an image bearer to bring him glory, verse 28, then God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. And subdue it. Now this is incredible. It says here, God bless man. A blessing. A good thing. Who doesn't want to be blessed? Who says, God, you can keep your blessings? I'm not interested in your no. We all want to be blessed by God. So the text says here that God blessed them But culture says that God cursed them. Culture says what follows is not a blessing, but actually a curse. But it's not. God said, God blessed them. Well, what 's the blessing, Lord? God blessed them and said, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. Again, ask yourself: is that a blessing? Because the Bible actually says it is. God blessed them and said, Be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it And so the point that I'm trying to show you is from the very beginning of the creation of marriage, God blesses the institution of marriage, and he blesses them with a fruitful capacity. That was God's initial design. Do things go wrong? Yes, of course they go wrong. But the initial design behind marriage was this fruitful reality. And he calls it a blessing to be fruitful and multiply and to fill the earth. Now, you need to understand though the full significance of this. This is before sin. This is before corruption. This has nothing to do with farmhands. This is nothing to do with we need more workers out there to work the farm to tend the sheep. Did everybody see that This is before all of sin and all of corruption and all that thing. And God's original design and game plan for humanity was he blessed them and said, be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And, did you catch it? Subdue it. Now, church, let me ask you this. Do you need to subdue a subdued foe? If the foe is already conquered, is there anything to subdue in the first place? No. You have to subdue the earth. And so many of us, including myself, have usually thought that the Garden of Eden was the whole earth. But that's not true. You remember God kicked man out of the Garden of Eden and he walked out of there So the whole earth was not the Garden of Eden. There was a portion of the earth, a small portion of the earth, that was the Garden of Eden. But they were to subdue the earth, put it together. They were to expand the reach of the Garden of Eden throughout the whole earth. And to do that, it would take more than just two people. Everybody see that? You're not moving the Garden of Eden throughout the whole earth with just two people So what God says is to be fruitful, they weren't going to die, to multiply, and then fill the earth and subdue it, extending the reach of the Garden of Eden. And so what God's plan was is actually revealed to us and told to us, and it's still going to happen, and it's in Habakkuk, Habakkuk 2. 14. And here's God's vision for the earth. For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of God as the waters cover the sea. So what is God's vision for the earth? Just as water completely encompasses the sea, so God says, I want the earth to be completely encompassed by my glory. Do you see that? That's God's game plan for the whole earth to scream the glory of God. Now again, going back to the original plan. The original plan was to bless man, be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. In other words, the Garden of Eden was going to expand throughout the whole earth, and it'd be stuffed with image bearers reflecting God's glory. Do you see? But what happened? Man fell, the image of God was defaced, they were kicked out of the Garden of Eden, and instead of spreading the glory of God, we spread sin. Death and misery. So the question is: did God give up on his original plan? Did God say, okay, since my original plan failed, I'm going with another plan? The answer is no, actually. Because if you go to the end of the book, what we see is that the new heavens and the new earth is the new Garden of Eden. And it fills the entire earth. All of creation will be full of the glory of God. And what will the new earth be full of, beloved? What will the new earth have in it? According to the Bible. In Revelation chapter 21, it says this: and the nations of those who are saved shall walk in God and the Lamb's light. And the kings of the earth will bring their glory and honor into it. So when you go into the new heavens and the new earth, you know what you're going to find? A fruitful, subdued, filled earth full of image-bearers for the glory of God. Do you see where Malachi's getting his theology from? He's getting it right there in the very beginning. What was the one God seeking in the creation of marriage? Godly offspring to fill the earth for the glory of God. And God has never backed off on that plan. And God is still accomplishing that plan. And the way that we populate the new heavens and the new earth is through new converts. And there's two ways to get new converts, right? There's not ten ways. There's only two ways. And here are the two ways. It's to go outside of the church. and invite people to the church or give them the message of the church, which is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so that they come and they see and they believe and they say God is among you and then they join the church. We call this first generation Christians Right? You go outside of the church and then convert them and bring them into the church by means of baptism. Amen. We all get that. But there's another thing that's sometimes forgotten. It's about the people in the church It's that natural organic growth of people who are born in the church and giving those people the gospel And so that they'll be raised up in the faith, and that they also will join the kingdom of God. There's people out there and there's people in here. And we're supposed to be grabbing both of them. Think about that first generation Christian for a second, that person who doesn't know Christ, that's outside of the realm of Christianity. When they get saved by the evangelists, who's supposed to evangelize their children? Let's say Billy Graham goes out there and wins a first generation Christian. Does Billy Graham need to come back 18 years later to win all their kids? And then when they have kids, does Billy Graham need to come back another eighteen years later? So now Billy Graham was thirty and now he's You get what I'm saying here? That's not God's plan. God bless Billy. But Billy doesn't need to win you and your kids and your kids' kids and Billy 2. 0 needs to win next kids. Does that make sense? I'm not saying that that no kids get saved through Billy Graham. That's not my point. But God's design isn't for new evangelists to have to constantly win a whole new generation. So if it's not God's plan for Billy Graham to win our kids, then who are supposed to win our kids? We are. And primarily, the task primarily falls upon well, let's see, Deuteronomy seven verse nine Therefore, know that the Lord your God, He is God, the faithful God who keeps covenant and mercy for a thousand generations to those who love him and keep his commandments. The the f the the command is primarily not somebody else. The can man is primarily us We are the ones who need to keep covenant with our God. We are the ones who God says if we love Him and keep His commandments, God will be faithful and merciful to a thousand generations. Here's the point I'm trying to try to convey. God is no, it's not, he is still seeking from our marriage godly offspring. And he promises that he's a covenant-keeping God and he'll be faithful to a thousand generations. And let me just ask you this, Christian. Do you believe him? Do you believe that promise? Is that just hyperbole? Because sometimes, if we just look out there, this promise may not feel like it's going to happen. But we can trust God's word. God has never failed us. God cannot lie. This promise is true. And God will accomplish this. But I want you to notice it does not say that God will show covenant mercy to a thousand generations to those who make a profession of faith. It doesn't even say to those who are truly born again. But it rather says two things, to those who love him, which is a prerequisite to be born again, that's true. and who keep his commandments. It's not automatic. God expects something from us. But I'm going to leave that aside for now. And I just want to show you a few other passages to show you, parents or people, that you can have a confidence that God, in fact, is trying to use marriage to produce a godly offspring. I love this passage. Jeremiah 32, verse 38. This is the promise of the new covenant. It says, They shall be my people, and I will be their God. And I will give them one heart and one way that they may fear me forever. That sounds like regeneration. I'm going to regenerate them. I'm going to change them so they may fear me forever. That's the doctrine of eternal security, right? That once you're saved, you're never going to be lost because you're never going to abandon him, because he's going to give you a heart that will fear him forever. Hope you southern Baptist like that We also like that because that's the Bible. But then he says this, and I'm going to do this for their good. Amen. Being saved and glorified and dwelling with Jesus is good, right? But he goes on to say this. I'm going to do this for their good and their children after them. Isn't that amazing? God says, I'm going to regenerate your heart. I'm going to change your heart. Not just for your sake. but for the good of your children. Hallelujah. Will you believe God's word or will you believe experience? Will you believe your doubts? Or will you believe your fears? God says, I'm gonna save you, I'm gonna regenerate you for your good and the good of your children. Bank on the promises of God. And stand on them because God is faithful and true. There's so many passages. Deuteronomy 30, verse 6. The Lord your God will circumcise your hearts. And the heart of your descendants to love God with all your heart with all your soul that you may live These aren't just earthly benefits. If God circumcises your heart and the heart of your children, your children are going to be saved. Amen? That's what God says. That's the promise of the new covenant. I'm going to circumcise your heart and the heart of your children. Why? Because God is seeking a godly offspring, and he says he's going to do it. Genesis chapter 17, verse 7. I will establish my covenant with you and your descendants after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant to be a God to you. and to your descendants. That's an amazing promise. I'm going to be a God to you and to your descendants. And then Proverbs 22, 6. There's so many more, but I gotta move on. Train up a child in the way that he should go, but when he is old, he shall not depart from it. I understand, beloved, that's a proverbial statement. But guess what? Proverbial statements are proverbial. Isn't that true? Proverbial statements are proverbial, meaning they usually work. Otherwise, we don't need them. If it's just a toying cost, you might as well throw out the book of Proverbs altogether because they're useless. But they're not useless because proverbial statements are proverbial and they often are true. There are the exceptions But they often are true. Train up a child in the way he should go, and when he is old he shall not depart from it. So how much time do I got, James? Okay, we gotta set this down. Okay, here we go. God here's the point of all this. God says in Psalm 127 Children are a blessing. Why don't you turn there? Psalm 127. He says that children are a gift. Verse 3. Children are a gift from the Lord. The fruit of the womb is a reward, like arrows in the hands of a warrior, so are the children of one's youth. Blessed is the man who has his quiver full of them, for they shall not be ashamed. God says here in Psalm 127 that children are blessings. And I hope you see now as we've we've done this tortoise throughout the Bible that this is not simply saying that children are blessings so they can help out with the chickens on the farm. Now, some of you may or may not know this, but I have chickens and I have a real farm. And children are blessing that chicken. I don't want to be out there all the time. They are blessing with farm labor, okay? But this has nothing to do with what this passage is actually saying. This isn't something we can dismiss and say, well, yeah, children were a blessing back then when they needed farm hands, but they're not a blessing today. No, the the theology behind this passage is this. Children are a blessing because they're part of God's plan to extend the kingdom of God throughout the whole earth. And he gives them to you and then commands you to raise them in the fear and admonition of the Lord so that you can be a part of this. Do you see that makes so much more sense of the Bible? Children are a blessing because it allows you to be part of God's plan of a global takeover. To reclaim this earth from Satan and fill it to the glory of God with image bearers. That's what we want to do. And God is saying That marriage and children are a part of that. Now, again, hear me. I don't want this to be distorted. That is not the only way we expand the kingdom of God, is it? There are two ways, and I don't want anyone to come off and say there's only one way. There are two ways. There are people out there that we've got to evangelize and bring in. And there's people in here that we have to work And pray and discipline and instruct to be saved, saints, and please don't twist that and make me say it's only one versus the other. It's both. We've got to get those out there, and we've got to keep those in here, and they're not a competition between one another. They're both God's plan of a global takeover to save. Now let me wrap this up. I alluded to this and I have to go back to this. None of these passages say that this is automatic. They all teach that we have to do two things. We have to love God. And we have to keep his commandments. And I'm I I don't have time. James is over there looking at me like you gotta stop, brother. I I promise I will. I just give you the outline There are two things that Christian parents have to do to see these, to have any hope, should I say, to see these promises of happening. And they're found in Ephesians. Fathers are told not to provoke their children, but rather to train up their children in the discipline and instruction in the Lord. These promises are conditioned on obeying all that God says. You see, you can't have it both ways. You can't say, I'm going to take these promises and not these promises. I'm going to take this part of scripture and not this part of scripture The same book that tells you God wants to be faithful to a thousand generations tell us that we need to train our children up in the right way, which is the discipline and instruction in the Lord. And that's what we need to do. Real briefly, discipline means discipline. The Bible says over and over, I got all the passages, I'm just not going to read them, that the rod of correction will drive out the folly from your children. That's what the Bible teaches. It says that over and over again, do not give up hope, for the rod will deliver from Sheol. That's not abuse. That's not punching and screaming, throwing kids outside the window. I know someone by reading that killed their child because they cast them out in the cold with no clothes on. The right of correction is not that. It's never been that. The rod is a rod to the back of a fool. That's what it is. That's discipline. That's instruction. And the Bible actually says That if you try to do just mere words, it won't work. Did you know that? Mere words will not work. Not abuse Not choking, not punching, none of those things, but true discipline and instruction. That's the first thing. You have to discipline your children The second thing is you have to instruct them. You have to give them the full counsel of the Word of God. You have to pray over them. You have to evangelize them. You have to tell them about Jesus, about their sin, about the triune God. And, by the way, you need to tell them about hell. You need to tell them all about God. They need to be marinated in the Word of God so that they one day will have this testimony. And some of you have this testimony. I never knew a day that I did not know the Lord. Some people, I I don't have the testimony. I got the the the the the bells and the whistle testimony, right? The crazy one, one the other guy beat the death, all that. Something that's cool. But you know the testimony I really wish I had That I never knew a day without the Lord. That is God's ordinary means of saving his people, and never be ashamed of that. Because that is the fulfillment of God's promises. So beloved, what is the chief purpose of marriage according to God's word? What is the one God seeking? Godly offspring. And I truly will close with this statement. If the one God is seeking godly offspring, and you are seeking godly offspring, You see that connection? God is going around looking. I'm trying to produce godly offspring in this marriage. And if you say, God, I'm trying to produce godly offspring in this marriage, what should you expect? Amen. Again, we know the exceptions. We know the exceptions. We know the exceptions. Nevertheless, this has to mean something. This has to mean something. Otherwise, how can we ever trust our Bible? It has to mean something. Look to the eyes of faith. I can tell you, when I this theology hit my mind, it changed my word forever. This is the reason that I have children. It's not because I'm against something, it's because I'm for something. Do you see that? I'm not my theology is not against something. This is evil. This is bad. It's for something. This is a blessing. God, I want to be part of your global takeover. And I want to produce Godly offspring. And I ask you to help me to do that. Pray for my children. Disciple my children. Instruct my children. And oh by the way, I don't want you disciplined in my children, but if they're bad, come and tell me I promise you I won't get mad. Why? Because you're helping me produce the promises of God to produce a daily offspring. I gotta shut it down. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we thank you for this word. We thank you, Lord, that you have a divine purpose in our marriage. Yes, Lord, we know that there's so many. I pray that this sermon would not be reductionistic in anyone's mind, that we would reduce merits to merely producing godly offspring. We would see all the other benefits embedded in marriage. But at the same time, Lord, I pray that we would not distort your truth and we would not ignore your truth and say it's not true. But that we would look at our children and say, this is a golden opportunity for another soul to be saved, and that we would fight for them. We would pray for them. We would disciple them. We'd be a church surrounding each other and trying to help the promises of God come true in our lives that we would produce a godly offspring. Praise in Jesus' name. Emma