I ask that you use me as your vessel of grace, as your means of grace to your people. I ask that you were to come down here and set my words on fire, not for my own glory. Not for my own name, but for your name's sake, Lord. We love you. We worship you. We need you. We have come here not to hear from me, but to hear from you. Use me, Lord, now, in Jesus' name. Amen. So Malachi chapter two, and we'll read a couple of verses. I want you to look at verse one. We read, and now, O priests, this commandment is for you. If you will not hear If you will not take it to heart to give glory to my name, says the Lord of hosts. I will curse, I will send a curse upon you, I will curse Your blessings, yes, I have cursed them already, because you do not take it to heart. Then I want you to skip down to verse four. Then you shall know that I have sent this commandment to you, that my covenant with Levi may continue, says the Lord of hosts. My covenant was with him, one of life and of peace. I gave them to him that he might fear me, so he feared me, and was reverent before my name. The law of truth was in his mouth, and injustice was not found in his lips, and he walked with me in peace, inequity, and turned many away from iniquity. And we will stop there. So, what I initially wanted to do, if you look at these verses from verse 1 all the way through verse 9, you're going to see that this whole passage is about the priesthood. And it's about the Levitical Priest. And what happens here is you see that in verse 1 The gaze of the prophet, the spokesman of God, shifts from the people primarily, that was the last sermon, about their half-hearted worship And now it transitions to the leadership who did not restrain them, and the gaze of the prophet comes and speaks against them. And so what I normally like to do is work through passages one verse at a time and expos it, expose the truth of God and apply it to the congregation. But as I was I was preparing for this sermon, what I came to realize is that this passage implies that you understand what the priesthood is in the first place. This passage already had a deep theology of the priesthood, and then it seeks to evaluate the priesthood of that day based on God's standard. The issue for us is that we're not overly familiar with Israel's priesthood. And so instead of doing a 35-minute introduction , about what the priesthood of Israel was, I've decided instead for this message to be building that theology of what a true priest is. And that will lay us a foundation so that next time when we come back to this passage, we can then see that was what a priest ought to have been, but this is what the priesthood had become. I hope that makes sense. One of my desires for you and one of my burdens is for you all to know the scriptures. and to know why you believe. I am not up here simply to just entertain you or because I like the way that my voice sounds. And one of the things that saddens me sometimes is we spend How many weeks do we spend here? A year. Math's not good. I think it's 52. We spend 52 weeks here, and sometimes after that, we don't remember anything And our minds have not grown at all, and sometimes our heart has not even been stirred. It ought not to be that way, beloved. We've come here to hear not from me, but to hear from the Word of God. And we want to know in Mr. Dennis Sunday school today, we talked about that there are two spirits. There's a spirit of the Holy Spirit out there teaching truth, but there is another spirit. Is that not true, beloved? And that other spirit is the spirit of Antichrist who teaches lies. And so how do we know if we're hearing from the Holy Spirit or the Spirit of the Anti- Holy Spirit, the Spirit of Antichrist. The answer is this book. We need to know what we believe. We need to have strong convictions and say, I believe this because this book says it and this passage says it. Not because my tradition says it, not because I feel like I heard that somewhere in Sunday school and I think it's somewhere in there And not because you put it in chat GBT either. You need to have it in your heart. If I were to say to you, why do you believe that Jesus is the Son of God and that He is fully divine? If I were to say that, I hope you could point to John 1. 1 and say, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. Our name is Jessup Baptist Church. Why are we Baptists? Because we believe that only believers should be baptized. If I were to ask you, why do you believe that? Hopefully you don't need to pull out your smartphone and look it up. Hopefully you could say, well, in the Great Commission, it said to go make disciples and baptize them. If I were to say, why do you believe that we're saved by grace through faith alone? And not because of works Hopefully you could have point to Ephesians 2. 8 and said, which says, by grace you have been saved, through faith, not of your works, it is the gift of God. I hope you see the point. My job is to teach you the Word of God, not to make you a theological nerd. I am one, but because I want you to have these strong, enduring convictions based on God's word. Not based on a personality, not based on charisma, not based on tradition. My job is to show you in the Bible, this is what it says, and so that you say amen, it says it right there, and that you can be a Berean. So today we're going to be asking ourselves, what is this priesthood of Israel? But before I do that, I want to make it immediately relevant so you don't just tune it out entirely and say, that's really interesting. about history of the priesthood of Israel, but what does this have to do with me? You see? I don't want you to do that. So I'm going to immediately tell you what this has to do with us. When we think of the priesthood of the old covenant We need to recognize that there is an enduring priesthood today. And just on a side note, when you're reading the Old Covenant, you always want to recognize that there's types and patterns and shadows back there that applies to us today. There was a temple back then and there's a temple today. There's a priesthood back then and there's a priesthood today. Does that make sense? There was giving back then and there's giving today. Paul said that these things were written for us so that we might learn from them. We don't just neglect the Old Testament. We have to work at it. We have to pull out its truths, but it applies to us today. So again, the question is, how does Israel's priesthood apply to us today? And the answer is it applies in three ways. The first is, which you should not be surprised if Good Baptists, is that we are all the priests of God. Amen? All of us are the priests of God. So as we talk about the priesthood, I don't want you primarily thinking about somebody else, but I want you to be looking in the mirror and saying, this has to do with me too. I am a priest of God. And the scripture that backs that up, that I don't need to defend this, but I will, is 1 Peter chapter 2. And it says there, you, the KJV says ye, country people say y'all, Yankees say you all. The point is it's not just me You all are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, his own special people. You see the collective nature of this It goes on to say that you may proclaim the praises of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. You were once not a people, but now you are the people of God. You once had not obtained mercy, but now you have obtained mercy. Is this not talking about all of us? All of us have been individually, not just collectively, but individually called out of darkness. into his marvelous light, unless you have it. I pray that everyone in this room has. They can say, Amen. That's regeneration. God took the heart of stone and replaced it with a heart of flesh. Hallelujah. Amen The point here though is, who is the holy nation? Who is God's special people? Who has obtained mercy? We. Collectively. The church. Y'all. Me too. Us. Does everybody see that? So as we think about the priesthood, I want you to look in the mirror and say, I'm a royal priest of God, and this applies to me This applies to us. The second way, when we think about the priesthood, that it applies, is actually specially and particularly to the minister. i. e. me, but not just me. This is only one church. There's ministers all over the place. It's talking specifically about the minister of Christ. And the parallel should not be confused. There was a collection of the people of God back in the Old Testament as Israel, but there was one tribe out of the twelve that was specifically designated to be God 's spokesman. Who was that? Levi. And they were the priest, the priesthood. And they did not, we'll talk more about this, but they didn't have an inheritance. But instead, their inheritance was to be in the Lord. And they were to be all around the various tribes and be God's spokesmen, bringing the word of God to the people. Does this sound familiar? We're all a priest, but is there one person who's supposed to be God's particular spokesman who's particularly devoted to him for your all sake to bring you the word of God? That's called the minister. And if you question that, 1 Corinthians chapter 9 makes it explicit because Paul makes the connection between the new covenant minister and the old covenant priest. And here's what it says. 1 Corinthians chapter 9. Do you not know that those who minister to the holy things eat the things of the temple? That's the priest. So they're ministering in the temple, and they get to partake in the food of the temple. Okay, fair enough. And those who serve at the altar, who's that? The priest partake of what's given on the altar. You bring food to the altar to God, and guess who eats Partially, the priest eats from your gift to God. Does this stop mayor? You give to God and who gets to not be homeless Hey, right? This is a connection, and this is the connection that Paul makes. He says, even so the Lord has commanded those who preach the gospel should live from the gospel. Now right now I have two jobs, but my ultimate goal, not for my own sake, but for you all's sake, is to see this church grow so that one day I can lay those aside so I can be even more fully devoted to you. Does this sound familiar? This is the priesthood. And so, again, the two applications so far has been the priest is y'all, us. And the priest is particularly the minister. Now, there's one more application of who is the priest of God. Now, I see a lot of children here, and hallelujah. I love saying children. It blesses my hearts. And there is always an answer in Sunday school that will always be right. And if anyone dare say this wrong, they will be afraid to say it. Because this name is above every name, and in him all the promises of God are yes and amen. Who am I talking about? Jesus. Jesus is the third application of how the priesthood applies. Who is our ultimate prophet? Jesus. Sonisco answer, right? Who is our ultimate priest? Jesus. And who is our ultimate king? Jesus Christ. And I shouldn't have to prove that, but I feel like I want to, because I said I needed to prove everything from the Bible. So here's what Hebrews chapter 3 says. It says, therefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the apostle and the high priest of our confession, Jesus Christ. Jesus doesn't get his priesthood from the Levitical priesthood, but rather he gets his priesthood from the order of Melchizedek, the forever priest. Amen? So Jesus is our priest. So now what I want to do is so I gave you a application of when we hear this sermon, you think about this. You could be thinking about yourself, you could be thinking about the minister and you can think about Christ. I want to go back and dig into what is this priesthood. We've already mentioned that the priesthood is particularly associated with the Levites. So I want to remind you of who this man, Levi, was. So a long, long time ago, there was a patriarch named Jacob, and he was a polygamist. I'm not going to talk about that now, but not good. And he had multiple wives, and one of his wives, kind of his first wife, but depending on how you count it, maybe his second wife. It's kind of weird. But her name was Leah. And she's the one who was not really that loved. You remember the story? And even though she wasn't that loved, God blessed her with multiple children and she starts popping out children. And the first child's name, Reuben, we'll pick up this rascal later. He did some bad things. First child is Reuben. The second child is Simeon, good guy or bad guy. We'll talk about that. And the third child was Levi. And these were the children of Leon. And we don't know a lot about them. We don't know a lot about a lot of people in the Bible. But they go from obscurity to the focus when we get over to Genesis chapter 34. You can turn there if you like. But all of a sudden, those boys who we don't know a lot about, Simeon and Levi, become very prominent in Genesis chapter 34. And here is the story. Remember they're polygamists. So even though they have siblings, they have this rivalry and have all these problems, but those children of Leah were full siblings. And so they really were had a special connection. And so one of the children of Leah was named Dinah. And you see that in Genesis chapter 4, that she goes out To see the Canaanites. She's attracted to the world. She's attracted to what the other girls are doing. She's subscribing to the most popular YouTube channels. Does that make sense? She's interested in what the public let me get not get in trouble here. She is interested in what the other girls are doing. And so she starts to walk over there and to be attracted to them And something horrible happens, and I won't mention it here. Something terrible happens that is completely unjustified by her going out there. And I'm not trying to say that it was justified But out there in the world, away from the protection of her home, protection of her church, protection of her people, a worldly man takes advantage of her and defiles her. And then he feels bad about it. And then he decides that he wants to marry her. So he goes and talks to the family. And says to his father, get this girl for me. I love her. I want her to be my wife. So they go talk to the father. And the two brothers are there. And they are boiling with anger and indignation. And by the way, I hope you would too. An outrageous thing has happened among Israel. Not bad so far. It gets worse. So these two brothers, Simeon and Levi, stay to Shechem and the tribe that he represents. We can give Dinah to you. They're lying, of course. We'll give her to you, but thou lackest one thing. There's one little problem, you know, one little obstacle Here's the issue. We're the covenant people of God. And God told us that we are only to marry in the Lord. We're only to marry other Israelites. And to become an Israelite, you have to profess God and you have to believe in him and you have to be circumcised to enter into the covenant. But don't worry about that religion stuff. Here's the big deal. You gotta be circumcised. That's the problem. It doesn't matter if you really believed it. Who cares? What really matters is you haven't been circumcised. So we'll fix this issue. Well, give her your art daughter to you. If you'll merely be circumcised, you and your collective community, we got money, you got money, it'll be great. And so Shechem goes back to his people and says, they got money, we got money. There's just one little problem. We don't care about religion. The real problem is we gotta be circumcised. We gotta check the block. Is that familiar? This is very bad, but brothers and sisters. Sometimes we're like this. We completely don't care about the meaning. It's just that we check the block. That's another term So they say, yeah, this is a good deal. We can get money. This is great. So they are all circumcised. Then Simeon and Levi, they don't talk to Dad. They don't talk to their brothers. Why? Because they know they weren't going to be okay with this. They then seek out in the middle of the night, strap swords to their side, and go and slaughter Shechem, which there's a little bit of you that says, Amen. Be careful Be careful. But the little bit of you decides, yeah, you deserve that. But then he kills his father. This is getting really messy. And then he kills his neighbor and his friend's friend and his cousin and everybody else in the town. And what did they do? They didn't do anything. They just happened to live next to the guy. And they killed them. And it gets even worse. They also say, well, there's a lot of stuff here. And so they steal all their stuff. And then it gets worse. And they say, look, there's women over here. We're going to take the women. And then they say there's kids over here. We're going to take the kids. They took everything. The person who was out there saying, How dare you violate my sister now violates the whole town. Right here, what these brothers needed to hear was Ephesians that says, be angry and want it. Do not sin. Well, my other favorite passage is James. It says we should be quick to listen. slow to speak, and slow to be angry, for the wrath of God does not produce the righteousness of God. Is that not what we see here? They're angry, and so they slaughter and kill and sin. And so Jacob rebukes them and says, We're going to get killed. Are you a fool? All the Canaanites will hear about this they'll gang up. We're only like twelve brothers. I think you know you think you're strong, but you trick them. You're not going to get away with this. We're going to die. He rebukes them. But God, in his kindness and in his patience, decides to put the fear of God in the other Canaanites, and nobody comes in chasing, and nobody comes to kill. And so the brothers, Simeon and Levi, think I've gotten away with it. Right? No consequence happened because of my sin. I sinned, but nothing happened. It's all good. Now here, I'll tell you this. Your sin will find you out. Be careful. The wrath of God is coming. Just because he doesn't strike you immediately does not mean that his justice will be forever removed. Judgment day was coming. And judgment day came for these two brothers as Jacob came to the end of his life. And you can see this, you can turn over. To Genesis chapter 49. Genesis chapter 49. And we'll see that the judgment day had come. Jacob was ending his life And now he was going to give his patriarchal blessings to his children. And there were going to be some surprises in that day, just as there will be some surprises to us. In the final day, when we think we got away with it, and God says, no, you did not You lied, you schemed, you were full of trickery, I withheld my judgment, but I did not overlook. And I will judge. And that's exactly what happens here. Reuben, the firstborn, says, I'm the firstborn. I'm going to get the double blessing. And Jacob says, No, no, no, no, no. You are a defiled man. You crept into my couch and defiled it. You're removed. You will not receive the blessing. Anybody remember this? And so Simeon and Levi are thinking, oh yes. Reuben's out. We're in. No. Your sin will find you out. Look at verse 5. Genesis chapter 49, verse 5. Simeon and Levi are brothers. They have instruments of cruelty in their dwelling place. Let not my soul enter their council. Let not my honor be united to their assembly. For in their anger they slew a man. In their self-will they hamstrung an ox. Cursed be their anger, for it is fierce, and their wrath, for it is cruel. I will divide them in Jacob, I will scatter them in Israel. You think that I forgot about your murderous evil heart? You used these instruments of evil. You took God's ordinance, you took God's commands and made them a weapon of death. Nothing could be more defiling and evil than that. To put this in our modern context, imagine someone, imagine the same situation where two people Two families want to integrate, but again, there's that problem about religion and marrying in the Lord and all that other issue and baptism. We don't care about religion. We just want to get the pastoral blessing. We need to Get baptism going. And so they decide to tell them, you can come into our family, but you lack its one thing, you haven't been baptized. And can you imagine people then drowning the baptismal candidates and the bac baptismal secretly. Then coming and enslaving their wives and taking all of their stuff That is what happened essentially back then. And God said, I want nothing to do with this. You are cruel. You are evil. You use my ordinance as an instrument of death. Let not my soul enter into your counsel. I want nothing to do with this. I'm not part of your secret plans. I'm not part of your evil scheming Your anger is what caused you to slew a man. This wasn't about me. This wasn't even about Dinah. This was about your own self-will, you hamstrung and ox. Curse it be their anger for it is fierce. Cursed be their wrath, for it is cruel. You see? God said, I am disgusted. with your behavior. It outrages me. Your wrath does not produce my glory. You are out for vengeance, not for me. And the consequences is that word curse. And what does that curse look like? Well, look at the end of verse 7. I will divide them in Jacob and scatter them. in Israel. So to understand what this curse looks like, we should look at or consider the Simeonites who received this cursing. It was Simeon and Levi and the Simeonites received this cursing in its full effect, and we'll see in a moment that this cursing was turned into a blessing for the Levites But to see the full effect of the curse, let's look at it in the life of the Simeonites. The Simeonites were Curse and the curse here is that he will be divided in Jacob and scattered among the Israelites. And so what God did As he told the other tribes, you get this portion of land, you get this portion of land, you get this portion of land. But to the Simeonites and the Levites, he said, You don't get any of that Instead, you get a few cities here and there among the portions of land and other people's property. And so the Simeonites only got around fifteen towns that were scattered around the property, the inheritance of the other tribes. And so what ends up happening is in the book of Numbers, these Simeonites end up being massively involved in the scandal of the Bala Peor With a Moabite women come in. We'll talk about that later. But they end up becoming massively involved in a scandal and sin, and their numbers are dwindled in half. Later on in the history of the Simeonites, they have these little 15 little cities, but eventually they get absorbed within the broader community of Israel. And so they disappear from the sands of time. We hear nothing more about this tribe. They are vanquished. They have no lasting legacy among the Israelites. That was the curse. This also applied to Levi. But something happened with the Levites. They did not disappear from the sands of time. In fact, they became one of the most prominent tribes of all. How did that happen? Well, I'm here to tell you how that happened. So I want you to flip over in your Bibles to Exodus chapter 32. And this, we're going to look at the redemption of the tribe of Levi. But as you turn there, I will let you know that God 's curse upon Levi was never fully revoked, meaning that Levi never received tribal property. Instead, what God did was turn the curse into a blessing. You see that? The curse of Levi was never revoked, but what God did was he turned a curse into a blessing. And that's our great hope here, isn't it? That's the hope of our life. That's the hope of history. That's the hope of redemption. God did not go back in time and stop Adam from sinning, but rather he sent the second Adam to turn Adam's curse into God's glory. in our blessing. Because because of Adam's sin, it resulted in Christ coming to undo and be the greater Adam and cause this grand story of God becoming a man, dying on a cross, rising from the dead, and conquering Satan in hell. You see that? God takes curses and turns it into blessings. And that's what we're going to see in the life of Levi So let me give you a little background of what's happening in Exodus chapter 32. And this is a rather large church. This isn't your first time in Sunday school or in a sermon. So as you recall, Moses is out there in the wilderness, and he's up on the mountain to get the Ten Commandments. And he's up there getting the Ten Commandments, and the leadership is gone, and the people go crazy. They go, Buck wild. They say, we don't know what happened to this fellow Moses, but here's Aaron, and he's A wimp. He's someone who can easily be manipulated and controlled by church politics and bullying. And so they come up to him and say, we have a demand, we have a request, we want sin, we want partying, we want innovation, we want excitement We want to worship God like the other people do. And so they give Aaron the gold and say, build us an idol. And that's what Aaron does. Aaron does not stand up and fight for the glory of God, but rather he yields to the desires of men. And he builds that golden calf. You remember the scene? And they party, and they drink, and they dance. And they sing, and they commit defilement and adultery and all the rest. The most gross sin happens among the Israelites. And Moses is up on that mountain, and God says, Do you see what the people are doing? I'm going to wipe them off the face of the earth, and I'm going to restart with you. And Moses, a figure of Christ, says God know, God forbid. He intercedes and the wrath of God is turned away. Is that not fair? That's the story of the gospel. That's what Jesus does So Moses, God says, Moses, get down there and fix this problem. So Moses has the Ten Commandments, one here, one here. He goes down, Joshua's with him, and Joshua says, There's a sound of war in the camp. Remember this? And Moses says, this isn't war. This is partying. And he gets there and he sees the idol. He sees the dancing. He sees the drugs and alcohol. He sees all the filth. and his pure wrath, he grabs the Ten Commandments, throws them on the ground, smashes them. He then grabs the idol, the the golden calf, he grinds it up, smashes it into powder, puts it in water, and makes the people drink it. Then he gives Mos he gives Aaron an earful and says, What is wrong with you? Why would you do such a thing? I was gone for five minutes, and you do this. And do you remember what Aaron said? He said, the people, it was the people. Not me, the people. They gave me some gold and I threw it in the fire and then poof! Out came the idol. Which one of you believed that happened? Hopefully none of you believed such a lame and pathetic excuse But as you shake your head, recognize that that's what you sound like when you make your excuses for your sin. They are equally lame and they are equally ridiculous. And the only person you're convincing is yourself and the person who's so biased that they pretend like they believe you. That's exactly what happened in the Garden of Eden, do you remember? God says to Adam, What did you do? The the woman She made me do it. Woman, what did she do? The serpent made me do it. None of it helped them. And none of it will help you either. This is not the right attitude. The blame shit. Well, that's the scene So look at verse 25. We'll pick up there. Here is Moses. He's steaming mad. Here is God. He's steaming mad. All sin has broken loose in the camp. Verse 25. Now when Moses saw that the people were unrestrained, for Aaron had not restrained them to their shame among their enemies. Let me stop there. You see what God's concerned about? He says, your defilement has embarrassed me among all the nations. Because of you the name of God is blasphemed. I am scandalized because of you. God's concern about his glory. It's not just our sin, it's about his glory. Verse 26. Then Moses stood in the entrance of the camp and said, This is beautiful, I want you to highlight this, underline this, circle this. This is so important. Moses, verse 26 again. Then Moses stood in the entrance of the camp and said, Whoever is on the Lord's side, come to me. You see that? Whoever is on the Lord's side, come down here and come and stand with me. And who answers the call? Look at the verse. And the sons of Levi gathered themselves together. I want you to notice this. Moses, by the inspiration of God, says, Who is on the Lord's side, come stand here with me. He doesn't yet tell them what they need to do. Do you see that? He says, I am calling for your allegiance without stipulation, without qualification. Don't come to God saying, I'll stand with you if He didn't say that. You stand with me because it's the right thing to do, because you owe your allegiance to me. You owe your allegiance to God. He doesn't tell him what he has to do yet. And beloved, God does the same thing to us. He says, don't come to me when I'll follow you if No, we will follow God no matter what. When we say Jesus is Lord, that means your servant, that means you obey no matter what he calls you to do. You don't look at the contract. You say, God, I am your servant. Well it's speak, for your servant hears. It's easy to say, beloved. It's hard to do. When God says who is on my side, it's easy to say But wait to hear the task. They answer the call. The sons of Levi. They gather themselves together to him. Here's the task. Verse 27. And he, Moses, said to them, Thus says the Lord God of Israel, let every man put his sword on his side and go in and out from the entrance. to entrance throughout the camp, let every man kill his brother, every man his companion, and every man his neighbor. And just in case you think that that is merely figurative, look at the next verse, verse 28. So the sons of Levi did according to the word of Moses, and about three thousand men of the people fell that day. That was not playing around. That was very serious. What did he ask them to do? Strap swords on your side? go in and out of the camp and kill everyone involved in this sin who is a leader who refuses to repent. I don't care if it's your brother. I don't care if it's your sister. I don't care if it's your mother. I don't care if he's prominent. I don't care if he's Strong, I don't care if he's handsome, I don't care If he is not on the Lord's side, you take him out and destroy him despite friendship, despite loyalty, despite past relationships, despite office. Do you see? And they obey. And three thousand of their neighbors, their friends, their companions die that very day. Now some of you might be thinking, that sounds quite harsh. That sounds quite unloving. Unloving to who? Unloving to God? No. It's very loving. Because God's glory depended upon it. God's glory required it. Who is on the Lord's side? You must stop this evil. And you look at verse 29. Ultimately what matters is what God says about this event. How did God feel about the slaying of the 3,000 wicked men among the church? Verse 29. Then Moses said, Consecrate, set apart yourselves today to the Lord, that he may bestow on you a blessing this day, for every man has opposed his son and his brother. God said, Because you did this thing, because you loved me more than your neighbor, because you were on my side and defended my glory from those who would defile it. You are now the priest. Consecrate yourself. Set yourself apart. I will now crown you as the priest of Israel. And to understand why this happens, you have to understand that leaders are more discovered than appointed. You don't take somebody who is not qualified and then say, well, here's a badge and here's a gun and now you're qualified because of the position. That is not how leaders should be Brought up. Leaders are not paid for, they're not bribed, and they're not just appointed willy -nilly, but rather leaders are discovered. That's what my old church said. We appoint elders among those who are elder-like. We appoint leaders among those who are already leaders. Everybody, I'm sure all of you have had that person who was the boss who ruled merely because he had a sticker, because he had a title. And then you've had true leaders who lead by example because they're true leaders And that's what's going on here. God says you're the priest because you acted like a priest, because you were a priest. And so now I'm going to consecrate you as the priest. But the question then is, how is the killing of 3,000 wicked men among the Israelites acting like a priest? How is it? And the answer is because the priest of God defends the glory of God against all wolves, all enemies, foreign domestic. That's what the priest is to do. The priest is to be God's man that says, I will not tolerate the glory of God being defamed. My allegiance is ultimately to him, and I will stop evil. However, it must be stopped. That's not just my job. That is your job. And ultimately, that is Christ's job. And Christ will protect his sheep. He will defend his church. Back in the old days, not that long ago, but in the lifetime of many in this room, there used to be these bracelets He said WWJ D. Anybody see those bracelets? Anybody wore those bracelets? Anybody still wearing those bracelets? It's okay if you are. Nothing wrong with that. What would Jesus do is a great question. Right? There's a danger of that though. Sometimes we get into blind speculation. What would Jesus do? Would he drive a Ford or would he drive a Tesla? It's a Ford. I'm joking. We don't know, right? How do we know? We don't. The best way to answer what would Jesus do is by saying, What has Jesus done? Amen? So the question is, Jesus, the true priest, what would he do if he found the church full of sinners in the church, contaminating the church and the worship of God? What would he do? Better. What did Jesus do when he did find the church full of contaminated, defiled leaders harming the sheep of God? What did he do? He did two things. The first is he spoke out against it. He denounced them. We often forget this. Who were the Pharisees? The religious leaders of that day. The Pharisees were the religious leaders of evangelical churches and Baptist churches back in Palestine in the early days that Christ walked the earth. And what did Jesus say to them? Hypocrites, woe unto you, you are like whitewashed tomb full of dead men's bones. You have defiled the worship of God. And you can see that in Matthew chapter 23, and he goes on and on and on and on and calls them hypocrites, hypocrites, hypocrites. The point is Christ denounced the wickedness that he found among the leadership of his church. But those are words. He rebuked them But is that all Christ did? Did he merely speak out against them, or did he take action? Christ took action because Christ is the true priest. And the true priest doesn't just denounce, but they say, which is what I tell my children, I have hands I can help. And Jesus said, I have hands I can help. And I won't just speak out against them, but I will do something for the glory of God and to protect my church. And do you know what he did? We read about it in the beginning of the service. He grabbed a whip and he went into the temple. And that whip was not a prop. He grabbed that whip and he started whipping both animal and beast. If you look at the text very closely, it says that actually. He says it grabs a wick a whip and he drove them out And then it goes on to say, Annie drove out the oxen and the sheep. Who's the them? It was Those who were defiling the worship of God, he said, You won't do it any longer, not when a true priest is here. And he cast them out. You can see that in John chapter 2, verse 14 That is what a true priest does. The true priest of God says, who is on the Lord's side? And they say, here I am. Send me. I will follow you, Christ. I will obey you. I will do your commandments. I will defend your glory. That's what he called me to do as your minister, but most importantly, that's what he called you all to do the priest of God, to stand up for the glory of God and say no one will defile God 's name, including the minister and anybody else. We will descend the glory of God because our allegiance is ultimately to God. As we conclude this sermon or if the sermon is coming to a conclusion, I want to bring your attention to one more priest that is an example of all the other priests outside of Christ If I were to ask you, what is the ultimate example of a priest in the Old Testament, what would you say? Who would you select? You can't say Jesus. Because that's always true. Back to it in the Old Testament, other than Jesus. The answer is a man named Phineas, who was the grandson of Aaron. Now if you don't know that name, it's okay. He's hidden in the book of Numbers. This is what you didn't make it to in your yearly devotion You died in a wilderness and didn't get to it. But this was the secret little gem in there that if you kept reading, you would have said, hallelujah, I've made it. I found a blessing in the wilderness. And so here is a man named Phineas, and here's what's going on. Remember the Simeonites and I said the Baal of Peor and they started sleeping with the Moabite women? The background of that is Baol tried to curse the people of God, but he couldn't curse them because God had blessed them. And he tries and tries and tries and God won't do it. But he's filthy and he wants his money. And he says, I can't get God to curse them, but I can get man to curse them. Namely, I can help you make God curse them. Here's what we're going to do. We're going to tell all the beautiful Moabite women to go out there and seduce all the Israelite men, and it works like a charm And they seduce them. And they lead them into all kinds of worship of Baal. And God of course is angry because his worship is being defiled. Sexual immorality is rampant in the church. He's furiated. And he sends out a plague and starts killing the Israelites. And then, very similar to the days of the Levites, God says to Moses, Get some leaders who are true men of God, who are true priests of God, and slay the evil leaders who've led the people into idolatry. And they are talking in right in the middle of their prayer meeting and their discussion about church discipline in the church They see a prominent leader of the church take a Moabite woman right in front of them, go into the tent, and start being disgusting. And there was a man there named Phineas, a true priest of God, and he said, I have hands. I can help. And what he did was he grabbed the spear, he went into that town, that tent, and he pierced them through. And it's very Gory and graphic, he pierces the man in his stomach and into the woman, and they die instantly. And you can see this in Numbers chapter 25. And here's what the word of God says. After Phineas had done this, the plague was stopped among the children of Israel. Then the Lord spoke to Moses, saying, Phineas the priest has turned back my wrath from the children of Israel, because he was zealous with zeal among them. Therefore, behold, I give him my covenant of peace and it shall be given to him and his descendants after him for an everlasting covenant. God said, This man fought for me, and I will bless him, and I will make him and his descendants a priest forever And ultimately, that priesthood is fulfilled in Christ, the forever priest who never dies. But that priesthood that lasts forever also continues on in us. People who will defend God's glory. We will be like the Levites who take up swords to defend the church. We will be like Jesus who takes up a whip and drives out those who defile God's true worship in God's place. And we will be like Sineas who takes a spear and pierces the evil man among the people who blatantly sins against him. Beloved, I am not in any way suggesting that we should go around killing people. Okay? Nobody, if the pastor ever tells you to bring a gun or bring a sword, call the police. Don't do it. This is not the proper application of the sermon. But rather, what they used to do by way of excommun execution is now done in the church by way of excommunication. The way that we rid sinners from our midst is not through swords or whips or spears, but by going to them individually and telling them, brother, you're in sin, you need to repent. This is Matthew 18. And if they refuse to listen to one, going with two and saying, brother, you're in sin, you need to repent. And if they refuse to listen to all of them, this is Matthew 18, verse 17. If after he's been confronted by one and then two, if he refuses to hear them, tell it to the church. But if he refuses even to hear the church, let them be to you like a heathen and a tax collector. This is how we are the priests of God and how we defend the glory of God. I once asked a Baptist lady, good godly woman, not some heathen out there. I once inquired about her church And I asked, I said, does your church practice church discipline? She said, we're not those old-fashioned Baptists who do that. That is so unloving. I pray that that's none of your attitude. Old-fashioned Baptists, this is what God has always called his people to do to defend his glory. A whole nother sermon I'll preach some other day. It's actually the most loving thing you could do to your wayward brother and sister is to call them to repentance by church discipline. But that's a different sermon. The main point here is for the glory of God. You're concerned about offending men. You're concerned, that lady was concerned about being unloving to men. But my question is, what about God? Will we be loving to Him? Will we defend His name? Will we stand up for God? Remember what Moses said the day that the Levites were consecrated. What did he say? Who is on the Lord's side? And my question to you, church, is the same. Who is on the Lord's side? We will obey him. We will defend his glory. God's glory should be the chief thing that motivates everything that happens in this place. Amen. We will be on the Lord's side. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for the examples of the priest. We thank you that you took Levi, a man of violence who di who used your ordinances to harm and to kill was redeemed. And now he instead of using the ordinance of God to harm his enemies, he then obeyed the ordinance of God and defended your glory and your name. And you consecrated him. But I pray that we would learn from these examples. We would see all that Jesus has done. The hard stuff and the soft stuff. He is meek and mild, but he's also strong and he descends your people. Lord, help us to be biblical people, loving people. That we would love our neighbor enough to call them. Back from sin. And most importantly, Lord, that we would love you enough to fight for you and fight for your glory. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.