Okay, so this morning we're going to be looking at how the doctrine of hell relates to evangelism. Thus far in this class about evangelism and mission, we have looked at the theology of mission. We have gone from Genesis all the way through Revelation and shown how the Great Commission is really at the heart of it all. that the grand story is mission. And that our evangelism to our neighbor isn't some isolated activity, but it's intimately connected to that. Then we kind of in the middle of that and in between that we looked at how to engage. down a little bit. Uh we looked at how to engage cult members. I don't can 't see this down a little bit, just a little bit. Sorry, it's a little distracting for me. Anyway, um we we looked at how to engage uh cult members with the gospel. And that was because we had a brother in the church sharing with with cult members and ultimately we want to see them saved as well, right? And we don't want to just hide from them We want to be able to see them rescued and we know that uh that God ultimately has uh a tribe of cult members in the kingdom of God who've been redeemed and we want to be a part of that uh mission. Okay. So this morning, as I said, we're going to be going into the doctrine of hell. And the reason that we're going to be going to the doctrine of hell in one of our classes on evangelism is because hell is centrally important to the gospel. Okay? We th this is not some isolated doctrine over here that has nothing to do with the gospel. It's actually part of the gospel itself. Why do I say that? John 3. 16, one of the most popular verses of the Bible, because it essentially encapsulates the entire gospel in such a short form. Here's what it says. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. So in this famous text, we have a reference of perishing That he should not perish, but have eternal life. Not only that, in the next verse, it says that Christ did not come into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved. through him. Well the obvious question is, what does it mean to perish? Or what is Christ saving us from? And of course, everyone on the side of the debate, whether you're an annihilationist or whether or not you believe in the traditional view of hell, recognize that this perishing is referring to the ultimate judgment. The lake of fire is referring to hell itself. We're saved from God's wrath, the consequences of our sin. In this very text, hell is referenced. Not only is it centrally important to the gospel, but the doctrine of hell is commonly neglected. To put it frankly, people just don't like talking about this. We live in a culture where pretty much you can say just about anything, and it's no longer taboo. The most disgusting topics can be brought up in public without a wink of the eye. However, death is still a taboo. It's called the last taboo. And even beyond death being taboo, how much more so is the concept of hell being taboo? It's certainly not a conversation that people like to bring up Another problem with the concept of hell or lack thereof is not only do we not like talking about it, but even when we do talk about it, its reality is assumed. We assume that if I just use the word hell, that all of a sudden the biblical understanding of hell will immediately come into the other person's mind. We'll just say, you know, if you don't believe in the gospel, you go to hell. But we rarely actually define it. We don't address it in detail. Now, positively though, at least those people are actually talking about hell and not simply neglecting it completely However, not the other people just simply neglect it utterly. They just won't talk about hell. Hell is not even mentioned. Instead of hell, kind of euphemisms, if you don't believe in God, bad things will happen. to a bad place. Hell is completely neglected. And this is tragic because before a doctrine is rejected, it's often neglected First we become ashamed of it, we become embarrassed of it, we start using euphemisms, right? Then we neglect it altogether, and it literally just drifts off of the church And then later on it becomes rejected because no one actually talks about it or believes it, and we're all ashamed of it. And as some sophisticated person comes and creates some sophisticated argument to justify That neglection and it results into rejection. It's not only rejected by the world and liberals and cult members, but unfortunately, it's even rejected by people who profess to be evangelicals. The reality is the assault on hell doesn't it's always come from the outside of the church, but now we're dealing with the assault on hell even from inside of our own ranks, and that is certainly a difference. I would argue that the doctrine of hell is being attacked more today than any time before. And I think this is prophesied in the Bible. 2 Timothy 4:3 says this. For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching. But having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. And will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into mists. As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of the evangelist, fulfill your mistress. ministry. So here in this passage, it prophesies that there will be a day where people will reject sound teaching, instead want their ears tickled And then accumulate for themselves teachers to do that very thing. And I think that very reality has happened The fact is, we don't do ourselves any favors whatsoever by dehelling hell. Proverbs 910 says this. The the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So dehalling hell isn't helping anybody. It's not helping yourself. It's not helping people that you want to see evangelized and want to see them coming out of hell into The glorious light of the gospel in heaven to come. Ezekiel three seventeen says this Son of man, I have made you a watchman for the house of Israel. Wherever you hear a word from my mouth, you shall give them warning from me. We hear the warning of God. We aren't to change it. We ought to modify it. We are to give the warning that we hear from him. It goes on to say in verse 18, If I say to the wicked you shall surely die. And you give him no warning, nor speak to warn the wicked from his wicked way, in order to save his life. That wicked person shall die for his iniquity. But his blood I will require at your hand. And if you warn the wicked, and he does not turn from his wickedness or from his wicked way, he shall die for his iniquity. But you will have delivered your soul. The fact is that there is a doom to come. There is consequences for our sin. And our job is not to modify the message because we think that this will somehow offend somebody. We need to tell them that there is hell to pay and that they need to come and be saved by the gospel. Now, hell today is being attacked in two primary ways within the church, within the evangelical circle. The first being that of annihilationism. What is annihilationism? Well, there's many different forms, right? But what we're going to talk about today is the best form. Because I I'm a firm believer, if we can defeat the best form, then all the rest will follow. So we don't want to attack the weaker forms that are easily defeated. What does the best forms of annihilationism teach from the evangelical camp? Well, they would say that the wicked will in fact die, of course. They will be resurrected. They will stand before the throne of God. They will be cast into the lake of fire. They will suffer for some period of time, unspecified. But eventually they'll be completely annihilated. They will cease to exist. That's why they're called annihilationists They believe that the ultimate destiny of the wicked is annihilation. The second attack on hell comes from what can be termed as Christian universalism. What does that teach? It teaches again that the lake of fire is real, that unbelievers will in fact go there. But they have God spending all of eternity, or at least eternity, to woo these people over. God is constantly trying to woo people out of hell. And ultimately, these people, they say, will ultimately all be wooed. The the stony hearts will all be melted, and hell will one day be emptied. So what's the commonality between these positions? The commonality is that they both deny the eternality of hell. They both say that in the end, hell will be empty. The worm that is said never to die will in fact die. The fire that is unceasable will cease. The punishment that is said to never end will end. Eternity will elapse, and hell will be emptied. But is that really what our Bible teaches? I'm convinced, as one Arthur has said, that these two positions are the triumph of hope over exegesis. They dehell hell thinking that their falsy exegesis will in fact change reality. But here's what Romans 3:4 says: let God be true in every man a liar. The reason I say that I think that they dehell hell is because, as the Puritans said, the hell of hell is its eternality. The fact is, someone else said That outside of hell stands a sign that says, abandon all hope here. The fact is, if people are getting out of hell Then that gives them hope. I remember when I was in a rough time in my life and I was separated from my wife because of military training, and I kept on saying, one day this will be just a memory. I comforted myself with those words. And I actually tell people to comfort themselves with those words. And I think the Bible actually tells us to comfort ourselves with these words, right? That we're not to see the current suffering is nothing in comparison to the joy that is to come. Is that what people in hell are going to be able to comfort themselves? One day I'm going to be annihilated. This will all be over. Or one day I'm getting out of here and I'll be in heaven. Is that what the Bible teaches about hell? Well, let me say, let me go on record saying I don't believe that annihilationism or universalism are true. I'm convinced that they're not part of the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints I do not believe that Christians have the right to adopt these positions. Just because they cannot stomach hell. Because they don't like the idea of eternal conscious torment. We do not have the right to reject Jesus Christ's teaching out of preference. Christ revealed the truth about hell, not to be twisted, not to be changed, or not to be subjected to the taste of men. Here's what Luke 9. 26 says. If anyone is ashamed of me in my words, in my words, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his glory, and in the glory of the Father in his name. Not only can we not be ashamed of Christ, but we are not to be ashamed of his teaching, of his words. John 12, 49 says this. It's talking about Jesus. For I have spoken, I have not spoken of my own authority. But the Father who sent me has himself given me a commandment, what to say and what to speak. Here's the Son of God. The Son of God says that I have not come to speak my own word, but his word. What he told me to say. So why would we think that we could be ashamed of God's word and change God's word and that God is somehow going to amen that? He will not amen that. We need to speak his word. So now let's transition and say, well, what does God's word say about hell? Let's look at a few texts. So can you turn your Bibles to Matthew 25? That's Matthew 25. While you turn there, I do want to clarify something. I said a few harsh things about annihilation and universalism. What I'm not trying to imply is if someone believes this, they are in fact not Christian. Is that what I'm trying to say? What I am trying to say is that we don't have the right to simply say, I don't like hell, so I'm going to change God's word. And I'm going to take on error, and that's somehow okay. It's not okay. We need to believe what in fact God says. Matthew chapter 25. We'll start in verse 31 When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him, then he will sit on his glorious throne. Before him will be gathered all the nations. And he will separate people one from another, as the shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. He will place the sheep on his right, but the goats on his left. Then the king will say to those on his right, Come you who are blessed by my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. For I was hungry, and you gave me food. And then we're going to skip to forty-one because that whole section is he lists more and more examples of them proving in fact that they truly were believers. So going down to forty-one. Then he will say to those on his left, Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil And his angels, for I was hungry, and you gave me no food. And then this is the opposite example. He gets all the examples of how they proved in fact they were, in fact, unbelievers. Then verse 46. And these will go away into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. Now notice there are two groups There are the sheep placed on his right hand, and what will they inherit? They will inherit the kingdom of God the Father. Then he has another group, there are the goats on his left. And here's the juxtaposition. They will inherit the place prepared for the devil and his angels. In other words, the sons of God will inherit the kingdom of God. They will be with their father. Forever. While the sons of the devil will also be with their father, the devil, and they will go into eternal punishment with him forever. Looking at verse 41, look what it says. Depart from me, you cursed. into the eternal fire prepared to the devil and his angels. Now notice that it says depart. This is significant because this tells us that hell is separation from God. Here is God and he's casting people away from him. Depart from me. This isn't the only place that it describes hell as separation from God. Matthew 7:22 says this On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name And then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. Depart from me, depart from me. There's another text. Second Thessalonians 1 9 says this. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction. Away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. So clearly, hell is described as being apart from God, being eternally separated from God. This alone should uh uh annihilate, should I say, universalism. They are saying that they will not eternally be separated from God. In fact, they'll be in heaven with us. But here, this says, depart from me, and that will be a state that will never elapse. Now, these verses talking about depart from him are not denying the omnipresence of the Lord. The Lord is in fact everywhere, including in hell. Psalm 139, verse 8 says this If I ascend to heaven, you are there. If I make my bed in Cheol, you are there. God is everywhere. You cannot exist outside of God. God is being himself. It's not possible to exist away from the complete presence of God. So what does this mean? How do we put this together? Depart from me, even if you're in hell, even if I go to hell, you're still there. How do we put this together? Well, the the answer is obvious. The answer is that they are away from the mercy of God, the kindness of God, the common grace of God. Not that they're completely away from him entirely. In fact, they are in the hands of an angry God. They are with him in his anger, in his wrath. Hebrews 12. 29 says this: For our God is a consuming fire. People in hell are very much in the presence of God in this state of being a consuming. Fire. Hebrews 10, 31 says this. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. They are certainly in the hands of a living God. Moving back to Matthew 25, 41, we see that not only are they sent away from the presence of God, but they're also cursed. So, what is this cursing? Well, let's read the passage again. Depart from me, you cursed, into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels. We don't have to wonder what the cursing of these people are. It's the fact that they are cast into the eternal fire prepared for the devil and his angels, as we said before. Those who would follow the devil in this life will follow the devil in the next life. The fate of the devil is the fate of his children. And also the fate of his angels. And what's the fate of the devil? Being thrown into eternal fire. Interestingly enough, we get a fuller picture of the fate of the devil in Revelation 20, verse 10. But before we go there, let's finish our passage in Matthew 25. So let's read verse 24. These will go into eternal punishment, but the righteous into eternal life. So here we have the word eternal three times. We have eternal fire, eternal punishment, and eternal life. What I argue is that all of these mean in fact eternal. Just as the blessed will be with God eternally, they're not getting out. We are not going to lose eternal life. So will the fire eternally burn, and their punishment will be eternal. It's not complicated to see how this in fact is. What is the eternal punishment? The eternal punishment is to be in the eternal flames. What do the flames do? They torment. You see the connection? They have eternal punishment and eternal flames, which is contrasted with us believers being with God eternally If, in fact, the righteous will one day get out of heaven, so too we can believe that people will get out of hell. We'll put it the other way. If you believe that people are getting out of hell, you have no reason to believe that Christians are not getting out of heaven. If words have any meaning, eternal means eternal in all three. Now, the blessed state of the believer, as we note it, is described as eternal life. The reason that is described as eternal life is the same reason that we are described as having eternal life even now when we believe. But the fact that we on this life have eternal life the moment we believe in no way suggests that we, in fact, will not physically die. Everyone will physically die save those who are here when Christ returns and are. Meet him in the sky. Okay? Did everyone who previously died not have eternal life? No, of course not. They, of course, had eternal life, but that does not mean that they will not physically die. We're not left to wonder about this. The Bible explicitly tells us what it means by eternal life. And we need to take the Bible's definition, not some over-literalistic wooden definition. John 17, 2 says this, talking about Christ. You have given him authority over all flesh to give eternal life to all whom you have given him. And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus whom you have sent. So what is eternal life? Eternal life is to know God and to know his son. It's a relationship Death is separation. Physical death is the spirit separation from the body. Spiritual death is the spirit separation from Father God. Spiritual life is to be connected, to know, not just simply know some facts. Everyone knows facts about God. It's to have a relationship with him You remember what he said? Jesus said in Matthew 7, Depart from me, you wicker you workers of iniquity, for I have never known you. Right? To have life is to know God. That's eternal life. To know the only true God and Jesus whom you have sent. Therefore, the blessed will be in fellowship with God forever. The life that they will have is not simply existing in some realm somewhere, but is specifically having an intimate relationship In fact, we see this. The great promise is that God will be their God and they will be his children. That's the great promise of the covenant. So now let's look as we talked about the cursed fate of the wicked. Is that similar to or that which is of the devil and his angels? Well let's look at that faith more in detail. Can you please turn to Revelation 20? Verse 10 to see what in fact is going to happen to the devil. We're not left to speculate Revelation chapter 20, verse 10 states this. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire. And sofer, where the beast and the false prophet were, and they will be tormented day and night forever. Now, if words have any meaning, this is what it means. The devil will be thrown into the lake of fire. He will be tormented day and night forever and ever It could not be any clearer. The devil is not getting out of there. The agent of the torment of the devil is fire. And this will be day and night. Any interpretation that denies that the devil will be tormented day and night, forever and ever, in my mind, is wholly unfaithful to the scriptures. I do not know how you can read these passages and come away with the fact that the devil will not be tormented day and night forever and ever by flames. That's just what it says. Now some people have tried to argue that this text just speaks about the faith of the devil. Okay, yes, the faith of the devil will be in hell, fire, eternally, being tormented, day and night forever and ever. But it doesn't say anything about anyone else. But that is actually incorrect. Because the text actually says they will be tormented. And the lake of fire, forever and ever, day and night. They, it's plural. Who are the they? Well, it is the false prophet and the beast, which I take to be references to two actual people. Not only that though, let's look, let's remember back to Matthew 25, where it said that the lake of fire was prepared for the devil and his angels. So we can surmise from this that not only is the devil going to be tormented day and night forever and ever, but his angels are also going to be tormented day and night forever and ever, along with The beast and the false prophet, which are human beings. Now, how many angels are there? There's an innumerable amount of angels. Many theologians, which I agree, believe that the Bible teaches that about a third of them fell So you have an innumerable group of angels, and a third of them fall, and they're all going to be in the lake of fire with at least two other individuals. How many people is that? It's a huge amount of people. What's the point I'm trying to make? Anyone who has moral objections to people, a a huge amount of people being cast in the lake of fire and tormenting there, I don't see how they would have not have the same moral objection with hell being full of persons, innumerable groups being suffering there eternally. It just seems inconsistent to me. Not only that, though, remember we saw in Matthew 25 that the fate of people who reject Jesus Christ will be the same fate as their father, the devil, and his angels. This is actually made explicit in Revelation 20, verse 13. That's sucked there. And the seed gave up the dead who were in it Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them, according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. So we know explicitly, not only is the devil going to be in there, not only is the beast and the false prophet going to be in there, and his angels, the devil's angels, for that means. But anyone's name who is not written in the book of life, that's all unbelievers, will also find their home in the lake of fire. Now, this account in Revelation 2013 is the small version of a more expanded account Found in Revelation 14. And this is a common trait of the book of Revelation. It will say things like, fallen, fallen is Babylon the Great. That's in Revelation 14. Then you get whole chapters. Of this faith revealed at the latter part of the book. So this is what we have. We have a little synopsis and then it blows it up and gives you more details. But that's what we have here. This is a small version. Let's look at the big version of that It's in Revelation 14. If you turn your Bibles to Revelation chapter 14, we're going to start in verse 9. And another angel, a third, followed them, saying with a loud voice: If anyone worships the beast and its image and receives a mark on his forehead or on his hand, verse 10. He will also drink the wine of God's wrath, poured full strength into the cup of his anger. And he will be tormented with fire and sulphur in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever, and they will have no rest, day or night, these worshippers of the beast and its image, who received the mark of its name. Alright, verse 10. The wine of God's wrath poured full strength into the cup of his anger. This is a clear reference to hell. This is not a reference to an intermediate judgment. This is God's full strength of his wrath. This is the full consequences of sin, which of course is the final judgment, not an intermediate judgment. Now we're not left to wonder what this what this manifestation of God's full wrath in fact is. We just have to look at what immediately follows. What is that which immediately follows? The latter parts of verse ten says, and he will be tormented with fire and sober in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. of And the smoke of their torment goes up for ever and ever they will have no rest day or night. Again, if words have any meaning, they will be tormented with fire and sober in the presence of the holy angels and in the presence of the Lamb. The smoke of their torment goes up forever and ever. They have no rest, day or night. Now notice what I just said is I did not even interpret the passage. I simply read it. The meaning is absolutely clear. This is the traditional view of hell. What is it? They'll be tormented by fire, the duration will be forever and ever, and they will have no rest day or night. You can't have non existent people having no rest day or night or being tormented forever and ever Annihilationism cannot explain this passage. Even worse, universalism, these people are coming out of hell and getting saved. How can this make any sense of the scriptures? Now, some have tried to argue that the verse says smoke. It doesn't say they will exist. It says smoke. Unfortunately, that will not work because the text says the smoke of their torment. The picture is very clear. You have eternal fire, which is the agent of their torment. That's what the pastor said. They're tormented by fire. They have eternal fire, eternally being the agent of people's torment And that produces eternal smoke, which rises up forever and ever. And that's why it says they will have no rest. People who exist, but being tormented by the fire, producing eternal smoke, will have no rest day and night. Others have tried to argue that this passage cannot be referring to hell because it contradicts the idea of being separated from God, which we said in fact hell was. Remember, hell is to part from me, to be separated. But that of course is incorrect. Because we know that unbelievers are only separated in the sense of the fact that they're separated from the goodness and grace and kindness of God. They are not separated wholly from God, and that's why the text says that they are in the presence of Him, in the presence of His wrath, and in the presence of His anger. As we saw, God is omnipresent. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. If you want to know what that looks like, it looks like this passage. That is what it looks like to fall into the hands of a living God. Let's also look and move back a little bit and think about what this idea of smoke is. Why does it say smoke? Well smoke has a memorial aspect It portrays for all to see that there's destruction. If you see big smoke cloud over there, you know by deduction, hey, something's burning over there. Something has been destroyed. And so the idea of this the smoke of their torment going up and up tells us that it has a memorial aspect, and it tells us that God is not ashamed of what he's doing. This isn't some kind of cosmic secret. God's not like sucking up the smoke. He doesn't want you to know that this is actually happening to people. We might be ashamed of the doctrine of hell, but God is not ashamed of the doctrine of hell. He put it in his word to be believed. It's not hidden somewhere so that we can't see, it's plain for all to read. Not only that, look what Romans 9. 21 says. Has the potter no right over the clay to make out of the same lump one vessel of honorable use and another for dishonorable use? What if God desiring to show his wrath and make known his power has endured with much patience vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, in order to make the riches of his glory for vessels of mercy, which he has prepared beforehand for his glory. Clearly God has a purpose for help. Hell ultimately manifests God's wrath and make known his power. Not only that, but it makes known the greatness of his mercy. We see what our sin actually deserves. Hell. And we see, wow, this is the grace that God would have. Now, how many of us are actually concerned whatsoever about God's the manifestation of God's wrath and power being? Well, portray. I think that the common man, especially the natural man, could care less about that. But God clearly does care about that, and we need to take the biblical perspective, not simply what the flesh. likes. Let's turn now to Luke chapter sixteen. Honestly, I think that should be sufficient. That those scriptures leave no room and no doubt of what hell would look like. Like eternal conscious torment and flames forever and ever they will have no rest day or night. But let's look at a few other passages. To confirm this doctrine. Luke chapter 16, verse 19. There was a rich man who was clothed in purple and in fine linen and who feasted sumptuously every day. Verse twenty. And at his gate was laid a poor man named Lazarus, covered with sores, who desired to be fed with what fell on the rich man's table Moreover, even the dogs came and licked his sores. The poor man died and was carried by angels to Abraham's side. The rich man also died and was buried, and in Hades being in torment, he lifted up his eyes and saw Abraham far off, and Lazarus at his side. And he called out, Father Abraham Have mercy on me, and send Lazarus to dip the end of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am in anguish in these flames. But Abraham said, Child, remember that you in your lifetime received your good things, and Lazarus in like manner bad things. But now he is comforted here, and you are in anguish. And besides this, between us and you are a great chasm has been fixed in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. And he said Then I beg you, Father, to send him to my father's house, for I have five brothers, so that he may warn them lest they should come into this place of torment. Verse 23 clearly describes Hades as being a place of torment. Verse 25 has the man who is the figure for person being in hell, that's the person in hell. Desperately cries out for a a drip of water on his tongue, which again further gives us confirmation that this person is in fact in anguish. They are in fact in torment This is exactly and it also describes them being in anguish in the flames. This is exactly like the other passage we saw in Revelation. Why do I say that? Because clearly here the fire Is interpreted for us. We don't have to wonder what the fire is doing. The fire is the agent of torment. It is not the agent of purification. There's other texts that have fire as purification. This is not one of them. It's also not the fire is not an agent of annihilation. There are other texts that have fire as an agent of annihilation, but this is not one of them. The fires of hell do not purify people To make them ready for heaven, the fires of hell do not annihilate people so that they cease to exist. The fires of hell torment people Verse 26 describes Hades as marking a completely unchangeable fate. Fate Let's look at verse twenty six. Between us and you are a great chasm that has been fixed, in order that those who would pass from here to you may not be able, and none may cross from there to us. Clearly what this is saying is that the destinies of these people are fixed. How could this be true if in fact people were going to get out and one day get into heaven? Not only that, but if you combine this two, what it's saying is your state of being in tormenting flames is fixed. That's terrible news. The good news is Lazarus' state of being blessed with Abraham is in fact fixed. Lazarus is not getting out of heaven and falling into hell. No one in hell is getting out of hell and falling into hell. Lazarus is not going to be annihilated out of existence, and neither is the rich man. The meaning, of course, is clear. Torment. The wicked will not die. They will be in hell forever. Now, some have tried to argue that this is just a parable. It's a parable. Therefore, none of this is real. The problem is it's questionable whether or not this is even a parable. Some have argued that the fact that Lazarus is named means it's not a parable. But here's what I'll argue, that ultimately if this is a parable or not, is utterly irrelevant. Because parables teach a message. Consider the parable of the prodigal son. We all recognize that's a parable. But we all look at that parable and see hope. We see that if we're prodigals, well we have prodigals out there, and we point to that and say, go back to the Father. He will run to you. He will save you. We would not accept someone saying that is a parable. The Father didn't exist. The Son doesn't exist. Therefore, this text has nothing to say to our comfort about going back to the Father who will save us. We would not accept that because parables teach truth. Symbolism teach truth. There is a literal meaning behind all parables and all figurative language. This parable clearly teaches that hell is real, it's eternal, and it's a place of anguish and flames Others have tried to argue that this parable or this story or event teaches about the intermediate state of being in Hades, not about the lake of fire. Now, so far that would be true. But it doesn't change the fact that this parable gives us and defines what is What's the meaning of the fire? And again, it's a fire of torment. It also completely ignores the fact that the parable teaches that the fixed the state of these people are fixed. They are permanent destiny. That's what it's telling us. If in fact the people would not ultimately remain in a place of fire Which they do, we solve revelation that they do. The intermediate state is in continuity with the eternal state. They start off when they die and go into a lake a place of fire Hades is emptied. They are then going before God, their judge, and they continue in a place of fire, the lake of fire. We see that the intermediate state and the eternal state are in continuity. And this makes sense with why it says that their state is fixed. Notice that Abraham does not say, Don't worry, Dives. That's not his real name, but that's what people call him. Anyway, sorry. Don't worry, rich man. One day you'll get out of here. You'll get in heaven. He doesn't say that. He doesn't say, don't worry, rich man. One day you'll be annihilated. He gives him no hope whatsoever. Because there is no hope whatsoever And again, as we look at Revelation, we see that the intermediate state is a place of tormenting flames, and we see that the lake of fire is a place of tormenting flames. Let's look at a few other passages. Daniel chapter 12 Verse 2. Daniel chapter 12, verse 2. And many of those many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. some to everlasting life and some to everlasting shame. Here, the blessed hope of the believers is to be resurrected and have eternal life, which is, as we saw before, being united with Christ Christ being united with God, having fellowship. While the state of the wicked is described as a resurrection of everlasting shame and contempt. There is no mention in this passage of them being annihilated. There is no mention of them subsequently dying. Their bodies are resurrected and they 're resurrected to a state of shame. And that shame and contempt is everlasting. just as the believer is resurrected to a state of life, being with God, and that in fact will be forever. Now again, I don't see how this text would make any sense if the people didn't exist. People who don't exist don't feel shame. They don't feel anything. They're not around. Let's look at another scripture. Mark 9, 49, starting at verse 42. That's Mark 9, starting at verse 42. Here's what it says. Whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would be better for him if a great milestone were hung around his neck. And he was thrown into the sea. And if your hand causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life crippled than with two hands to go to hell, to the unquenchable fire. And if your foot causes you to sin, cut it off. It is better for you to enter life lame than with two feet to be thrown into hell And if your eye causes you to sin, tear it out. It is better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye than with two eyes to be thrown into hell, where their worm does not die, and the fire is not quenched Now, the imagery in this passage is absolutely horrific. I mean it couldn't be any stronger. The imagery is that hell is so bad that it's better to mutilate yourself than to get That is how horrific hell is. It's also the state of people in hell is equally horrific, which is the process of eternal decay and destruction. The imagery is of rotting bodies being uh with their worm not dying and their fire not quenching them. This is an eternal state of horrific shame and contempt that they will in fact never get out of. Now, some annihilationists try to argue that when it says that the worm will not die, this means that it will not die until The bodies are consumed. Others have tried to argue that the fire that will not be quenched is saying the fire will not be quenched until The bodies are consumed. But my argument is, where does the passage say until? You will search in vain looking for the word until anywhere in that passage. It does not say that. Rather, it says, the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. This is not the same as saying that the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched until The bodies are destroyed. That is simply not in God's word. And we do not have the right to add entire phrases into God's word because we would rather it be that way. It is the way that it is J. I. Packer sums up the annihilation and the universalist argument wonderfully. Here's what he says. Annihilationism is a prime example of scripture avalanche dodging. The fact is the Bible consistently tells us the fate of the wicked, and we just don't have the right to change it. Here's what Jude 1. 13 says. He describes wicked people this way. They are wandering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. They are wondering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been preserved forever. Again, if they're not actually going to be in these places of gloom and utter darkness forever and ever, how can in fact this be True. Do we have to simply rip this passage out of our Bible? If in fact they were going to heaven or in fact they were annihilated. Because annihilated people cannot have places reserved for them in glooms of darkness forever and ever. This only makes sense with eternal conscious torment. Let's look at one other passage and then let's look at some application from all of this. Revelation 22, 14 describes I love the book of Revelation, it tells us the very end. I think that we neglect this book to our peril. We really do. The book begins with saying it's a blessing to read the book. Let's believe that. It really is a blessing to read the book. I love the way that Revelation ends. There's a part that I'm not so happy about, but it's in God's word, so I must believe it Revelation twenty two fourteen says this. This is the very end of the book, the very end of the Escaton. This is how the Bible ends. Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they may have the right of the tree of life, and that they may enter The city by the gates. This of course is the state of the righteous. We're blessed. We're going to be back to that tree of life. We saw that last time. We began at the tree of life. We're going to end at the tree of life with God forever. What a great hope. But look at verse 14 15. Outside are the darks and the sorcerers and the sexually immoral and the murderers and idolaters and everyone who loves to practice falsehood. The very end of the Bible, the very end of the very last state, does not have people out of hell. It doesn't have people annihilated It doesn't have people, hell is emptied, and now everyone's in the blessed kingdom. In fact, you have two final destinies. Some to everlasting life, some to everlasting shame, contempt, punishment, and flames. That's what we have here. I would have to argue for argue against annihilationist and universalist that John simply got it wrong John should have deleted verse 15 and end it with everyone in heaven. But again, we don't have the right to talk about people being wrong and deleting things out of God's word because we don't like it. Or it's not how we wish the story ended. In the end, I would argue that the scriptures are clear. Hell is real, it's a terrible place, it's a place of fiery torment, it's eternal, and there simply is no hope. Dante was right. Outside of hell does have a sign that says, abandon all hope here. When we commit a sin, we commit a cosmic offense. A great man wants that sin is cosmic treason against the king, against God. The fact of the matter is There is no amount of suffering that can ever atone for your sin. The Bible never says that human suffering will atone for sin. Rather, the only one who can atone for our sins is Jesus Christ. That is the only one through whom forgiveness of sins. The annihilation wrongly argue that the wicked will atone for their sins in hell by their own suffering and simply be annihilated. Christ is the only hope. The fact I missed the very part of that sentence. The Bible says that only Jesus Christ. And I can give you this, I can give you this sentence. But yes, the Bible says only Jesus Christ can atone for our sins. There is no amount of suffering for people in hell that will ultimately atone for their sins. The reality is if we could atone for our sins by our human suffering then Christ died for no reason. In fact, we should have all gone to hell, atoned for our sins, and then been taken to heaven But when Christ said there is no other way, there was no other way. Not only that, though, the annihilation scheme besides being utterly unbiblical is in fact, and uh and minimizing the atoning work of Jesus Christ's blood is in fact completely unjust. Why? Because they say that someone whose sins are atoned for are then subsequently annihilated Now to show you how unjust this would be, imagine a man being sentenced to prison and doing his time after 20 years of hard service, of hard work. Then he's let out, and the warden greets him and shoots him with a shotgun That of course would be utterly wicked because you killed an innocent man. He had atoned for his sins. He was innocent. You don't have the right to kill him. Right? And that's what they're saying. They're saying that people who are innocent, who have atoned for their sins, are then killed. the Bible of eternal punishment ought to abstain from arguing against God. So, in light of all this, how should we then live? Well, how can we claim to love people and not tell them about this terrible Place. Even more so, not only can we how can we claim to love them and not tell them about the terrible place, but how can we then not tell them how to escape through the person and work of Jesus Christ? Christ. How can we not tell them the good news that this horrific place with no hope can be escaped from? But not once you get there. Can we escape for now? Jesus Christ came and took our place so that he could atone for our sins, not us. I love what Spurgeon said. He says it best O my brothers and sisters in Christ, if sinners will be damned, at least let them leap to hell over our bodies. And if they perish, Let them perish with our arms about their knees, imploring them to stay, and not madly destroy themselves. If hell must be filled, at least it will be filled in the teeth of our exertions, and let not one go there unwarned And here it is, and unprayed for. How should we not plead with people, pray with people, and take this seriously? Jude describes evangelism this way: saving others by snatching them out of the fire. Do you see the stakes? These are serious stakes. Not only will people miss out of the glories of heaven. That should be enough to cause us to have massive fuel for evangelism. I love you so much, I want you to be with him who is joy himself, with Jesus Christ. I want you to know him who has set me free. That should be enough. But not only that, I love you so much that I don't want you to go to the horrors of hell. And I want to snatch you out of the fire. I want you to be happy. It is an incredible thing to consider that Earth is as close to hell as a believer will ever be. Not only that, it is an incredibly sobering thought to consider that Earth is as close to heaven as As an unbeliever, whoever we. Based on all of this, how tender should our love for Christ be, who has rescued us from an eternal hell for what our sins deserve. How great the worth of Christ must have been, whose temporal suffering on a cross could pay what eternity in hell could have. Dear Heavenly Father, God I thank you for your son and his salvation. God help us. In She's name, Amen