So this topic was uh holiness that was uh given. It's interesting, R. C. Sproul, the late great R. C. Sprohl, uh he was, as we all know, he went all throughout the country preaching and teaching. And before he really became extremely famous. He had a talk show uh called basically like ask R. C. Scroll questions, right? And he said that in all his years of people asking him questions, they asked him everything But they almost never asked them how to be more holy. In fact, he said only two times they've ever asked them that question. So I've been given the topic that no one asked for But nevertheless, I think it is important and I think that we do need it. And I think that as we go through the scriptures, we'll see that the Bible is full of commands to be holy and indicatives, realities about us being holy. Holiness is a topic of utmost importance because it is the Lord's will for us to be sanctified. But how can we seek to be holy if we don't know what holiness is? So the first lesson will be examining what is holiness. The second lesson, after we examine it and and get it basically definition and get our parameters and our foundation, then we're going to um try to determine, do we need holiness? Is it required to be holiness? Is holiness an option? And the final lesson will be about practical steps to achieve holiness. Okay, so now that we know what holiness is, now that we know that we need it, how do we get it? Well, how can we better get it? What can we do to better achieve holiness? So what is holiness? Holiness speaks of moral purity or being set apart or consecrated to God. And if you go through the scriptures, right and look up that word holiness, you'll see all kinds of things mentioned as holy. , You'll have a day in the very beginning, right? There was one day set apart to be holy. You have people who are holy. You have their garments that are holy. You have spatulas that are holy. You have bread that is holy. This holiness concept is throughout the Bible, not just in the Old Testament too. We see that all throughout even in the New Testament. So what is that holiness? It speaks of moral purity and being set apart Or consecrate it to God. God is morally pure in his essence, and we are called to be holy to reflect his glory. 1 Peter 1 14 through 17 puts it this way. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourself with fear throughout the time of your exile. So notice that in our passage, God is referred to as holy. It also says that we also are to be holy in all of our conduct. So then the question should naturally arise: why does God's holiness necessitate our holiness? Right? Because God has many things that we aren't. God is the necessary being we are contingent. Right? God is omnipotent, but we are not. We are weak. So why does God's holiness require our holiness? The answer to that question Be is in the beginning of verse 14 and the middle of verse 17. Again, that's uh first Peter one fourteen through seventeen. Just go ahead and rest there. I'm gonna go through a couple other scriptures. It's gonna take too long and try to flip there. But they answer that question of why God's holiness is uh requires our holiness. Again, it's found in uh the beginning of verse 14. Here's what it says. It calls us obedient children. And in the middle of verse 17, notice that God is called our Father. And so the relationship being described there is that of a father and a son. And that's common, right? As we go through the New Testament, we're constantly hearing about God being our Father and we being our Son. As children of God, we are called to properly image our Father. And if you think about it, we have sayings about this, right? That the apple doesn't fall. too far from the tree. We recognize that it's most natural for a child to reflect the sun. In fact, one of the worst things is when a child doesn't. Well, I guess it could be good. If it's if if the parents are really bad. But in a good way it shouldn't be that way. So we are called to properly image our father And this we find actually this calling to image God we find from the very beginning. Genesis 1 records man's creation in this way. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. As image bearers of God, we'll call it to properly image God. That is to reflect his characteristics. So when people look at you, they shouldn't see a totally different picture than what they should see about God. People understand and grow about God by looking at us. Now the question is, has man completed his task of imaging God? Has he done it? No. He has failed. Romans describes it this way The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. We fail to properly represent God And we show a distorted image of God. Now imagine this. Imagine if all we knew about God was what other people saw in us, or what other people saw in other people. You you see what I'm getting at? If all we know about God is the characteristics seen in other people, what would we think about God? Would we not think that He is selfish, slanderous, backbiting, arrogant, inconsiderate, cruel, lust? Lustful? Every manner of evil is terrible. It's a terrible reality that God has called us to image him, but yet we do such a poor job of doing it Jesus told us, for out of the heart come evil thoughts, murder, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness and slander. Paul describes all men. I'm just trying to not just point a finger at you, but this is the way Paul describes all men. Both Jews and Greeks, that's everybody, understand, as it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good, not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongues to deceive, the venom of ass is under their lips, their mouth is full of curses and bitterness Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their past are ruin and misery, the way of peace they have not known. I think this is the worst part, actually. There is no fear of God before their eyes We have utterly failed to image God. Man is wicked, he is fallen, he is dead in sin. The image of God in man has been distorted and maimed. What was once beautiful is now ugly. What was once very good is now very bad. But thanks be to God for Jesus Christ, the ultimate Son of God. He is both truly God and truly man. And he has done what we could not do. Right? We failed. We got the task to image God and we failed. And what did Christ do? Come down as a man. And he perfectly imaged God. John 1 says, no one has ever seen God The only begotten God, that's a reference to Jesus Christ, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. In 1 John, I mean in John 14, here's what Philip says. Philip said to Jesus, Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Don't we all feel like that sometimes? Show us the Father. That'll be enough. What does Jesus say? Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. And we know that Jesus isn't the Father, right? We believe in the Trinity, not modalism But when you look at Jesus Christ, you see who the Father really is. Because he perfectly image God. Colossians 1 describes Jesus as the image of the invisible God. Second Corinthians says, in their case the God of this world, that's the devil, little G. The God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. Why has he done that? To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. The Bible is very clear. Jesus perfectly images God. When we see Jesus, we see the Father. We see God. Hebrews 1 says, Jesus is the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of His Nature. Jesus perfectly images God. All these passages demonstrate that to behold Jesus is to perfectly behold the Father. So when we look at Jesus, we discover what the Father looks like. This is incredible to consider. We can know the character and the person of God because that revelation has become incarnate and he's become a person. And he is Jesus. John 1 reveals, in the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. He's divine Verse 14 though. And the word became flesh it's one of the most incredible statements in the whole Bible. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory. Who? Christ's glory. What is it? Glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and of truth. So we see Jesus and we understand who the Father is. He has completed the message, I'm excuse me, the mission that we can do. He has completed the task of imaging God. But we must remember that Jesus is the only begotten Son of God. He's not the only son of God. We too are sons of God. And not for all sons. We are true sons of God. That's not just a metaphor. That is reality. He is the only begotten Son of God, meaning he is the only one who's part of the member of the Trinity. He is divine. He has existed forever as the Son. We have it. But we still are very much true sons of God. And as true sons of God. We also are to image our Father. We know that we're true sons of God because we read scriptures like this. All who did receive Him, that's Christ, all who received Christ, who believe in His name, He gave the right. Or power to become children of God who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. This scripture reveals That he who has all power, right? The Great Commission, all power has been given to him in heaven and on earth, he who has all power has given us the power to become children of God. You've got to understand. This isn't like he gives you the power, you've got to work it. No, no He calls into being that which was not into being. Right? Genesis 1. What do we have? God said, let there be light. And the light say, maybe? I might come out? No. And there was light. Well think of Lazarus. Lazarus wasn't dead, it was dead in the grave four days, right? He's in the grave. And what does God say? Jesus says, come out Lazarus didn't say, no, I don't want to be here. He probably didn't want to be there. He came out, right? When God gives you the power to become a son of God, you are that which he says you are. And so the process of uh going from a child of darkness, a child of the devil, to a child of God is referred to as being born again or spiritual regeneration. Jesus describes this in detail when he says, Truly, truly I say to you Unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he's old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. Therefore, if we have been born again, we are legitimate sons of God. And as sons, we're called to properly image God. But we we we must recognize, as sinners saved by grace, we can't replace Jesus. Right? Nobody looking at you will perfectly ever see the Father because that's not your calling. Jesus has done that But nevertheless, when they look at you, they should still see something of their father. That's the connection. God is holy, and we as three children are called to reflect him And we don't want to be like the Jews of old, not all of them, but as a nation, the name of God was blaspheme among nations because of them. Right? We don't want that to be true of us. We cannot perfectly image God, but we certainly can image God. Do we realize that we are the only Bible that many people will ever read? Like or should we put it differently? Hopefully we're the first Bible that some people will ever read. They will first see it in us. Gandhi is described to as once saying I like your Christ, but I don't like the Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ. Would Gandhi say this about us? More importantly, would our unbelieving family, friends, coworkers, and neighbors say this about us? Do they even know that we're Christians? Are we even shining our light enough for them to recognize that something is different about us? Jesus said. You the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand. And it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light so shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. I love this picture, right? That you are the light of the world. Who said that? Jesus. Who's the light of the world? Jesus is the light of the world. Right? And he left And he sent you as his hands and feet to take that mantle. Just as Jesus was truly the light of the world, so you are the light of the world. Then he says he describes us as a city set on a hill Shining that light so that people may see that good work and glorify God. He gives this really interesting analogy. He says, do you make this light, right? A lamp, and put it under basket. It's insane. That's not what you do with a lamp. A lamp's supposed to give light to the whole room so everyone can see, right? And you're supposed to give light to this dark and evil world. And I thought about this. It's kind of a preposterous even analogy at some point What would happen if you put a basket on a lamp? This isn't like these lamps, right? This is a fire. There's two things that happen. Either the light would go out. Or the house will catch on fire. Devastating, right? We are the light of the world. Peter puts it this way To live for the rest of the time in the flesh no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. Respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them In the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. What's going on here? Here's what Peter is saying. He's saying that again, he's saying the same thing. You are the light of the world. And so as the light of the world, people think you're strange They can't understand why you're not going to those drinking parties. They can't understand why you're not slandering your boss or why you're not complaining like everyone else. But wait, are we? Because if they are, they won't be thinking that, right? They won't be thinking that you're strange. You'll be just like them. They won't be maligning you. Here's a good test. Has anyone ever thought you were strange? Have you ever been not the the the the odd man out? And if you have been considered strange, is it because you're just strange and not because of your holiness Right? We are called to be holy. People are expected to malign us because of our conduct. Jesus warns us. You are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything, except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. feet. We don't want to be useless thoughts. We want to have value. We want to make this world better. That's why God has left us here, right? God has left us here to make us better. When I first got saved, I was ready to get rastered out of here. I couldn't understand why I was still here. I got saved, I'm done, I I conquered the world. That's what the Bible says, right? That if you have transferred to Christ, you have conquered the world. I'm done. What am I still here for? Why are you still here? What are we doing here? You are the salt of the earth. God has called you here to make it better. If we're not, we said we're useless, and all we're good is to be thrown out and just kicking, trampled, ridicule. Right? And again, this again Jesus is such a good teacher. What is what is all that lost its taste? Does that ever happen to you? This is not salty. If it is, you need to go check that, right? Because it's not salt. Salt by its definition is salty. So if you are a saltless Christian, you have real reason to be concerned. Because and this kind of goes into our next class, right? You might not be a Christian at all. Salty Christians are those who are salt. And those who are salt are Christians. You know what I'm saying? You have no salt? You have real concern. That bottle might not be salt at all. That bottle might be something else. Let this not be true about any of us. Let us not be useless salt, despised and trampled by men. So as we see, our calling of being children of God is a calling of great responsibility. But that's not all the Bible says. It's not only a calling of great responsibility, it's not only a sober calling to be a true son of God, to image God, but it is also a glorious calling. The Apostle John says this, see what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God, and so we are. We must always balance this rally. We must praise God for His grace of including us as being part of the people of God. But we should also recognize that that calling has great responsibility. It's a sober calling. It's a glorious calling. It is a sober calling. We are not only called to be children, but to be obedient children. Let us be obedient children, not being conformed to the passions of our former ignorance But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct. Therefore, our call to be holy is intimately connected with us being children of God and being made in the image of God God created man holy, and he was to reflect God's holiness. But man again, he rebelled and disordered this image. So now man recreates Us. You see what's going on? He created us good in the first place and we messed it all up. So what does God do? He recreates. He regenerates. He starts over. Well first off he did it with Christ, making us all possible Right? But then he does it in you. And so we're to be transformed and we're to become more and more holy. Thus the call to be holy is to be uh is a call to do what we were made for Just as the eye was made for seeing and the ear was made for hearing, so humanity was made to be holy. Is there any wonder why when we sin we harm ourselves and harm others in the process? You get what I'm saying here? God created man originally to be holy, right? But then we messed it up And so that's once we recognize that we recognize, wait a second, I'm created to be holy, and so if I don't operate in that function, things are gonna go bad for me. Things are gonna go bad for others. Let me give you an illustration of this. Imagine you had a wire brush, right? You know when you use a wire brush to kind of scrape things off and grill that kind of thing, right? Imagine if you use this wire brush and say, you know what? I think this might be a good toothbrush. I'm going for it you you probably wouldn't make it too far. And if you kept going, you probably wouldn't have teeth too much longer. Because a wire brush isn't meant to be a toothbrush. A wire brush has its function and a toothbrush has its function So you have doctors in the room, we know this. If you do think you use your body the wrong way and consume things that you're not supposed to, it doesn't work very well. Things go bad for you. I'll give you another illustration My dad, uh, he would always buy uh furniture that needed to be assembled. This was a mistake. Because he would never read the instructions. What is this? It's useless He's just gonna figure it out, right? And it always outhelp them. It would take forever. I mean this thing would it would take forever trying to it was a very difficult process trying to assemble this thing Then when we assembled it, we always noticed that there were a lot of extra pieces. Very strange. They kept giving us all these extra pieces. Then we also recognized that the thing was totally unsturdy. It was like we couldn't get any good furniture. It's all trash furniture, but it makes any sense. You know, it took me a while to finally put all this together. I think that the instruction manual was there for a reason. The guy who built it knew what he was talking about, right? And I think those extra features were not extra pieces. I have a feeling the person who was selling this product was trying to make profit and they weren't making profit by giving you a whole bunch of extra pieces I also think that because they wanted to make profit, giving you something that's extremely hard to assemble and then becomes very unsturdy is not good customer. Satisfaction, right? We're not going to rebuy this stuff. The point being is that the end product was all messed up because they ignored the manual. They thought, or we thought, that we were smarter than the person who built the product And so then we're upset because it's all messed up. Don't you realize it's all messed up because you've ignored the manual? You've ignored the person who built the thing in the first place? This is a parable for our lives. God gives us instructions, right? Why For your good. That's what God said. He's giving you instructions for your good. God is the one who designed you. He designed you for holiness. And so when you're not operating up to holiness and you're doing things, you're destroying yourself. And then what do we do though? What's our response? God, you were right. I shouldn't have done that. This is ruining me. No, that's not what we do. We throw our hands at God and blame him This is your fault. This is your fault. You have ruined my life. Why have you done this to me? We ignored him. He told us not to do that. But we never draw the calls of relationship back, right? It's just Murphy's law. Everything has just gone wrong. We need to recognize that God is the one who has designed our lives. God is the one who designed this universe. Right? He created this universe and guess what? He was so loving he gave you the manual. But we don't want to read. Even if we do read, we don't want to follow it. Because we know better We know these are extra pieces, right? We're gonna put some duct tape on this and hammer it together and we we got it. No. No we don't. We don't have it God gives us his commandments for our good. Here's what the Bible says. Here's what God says to the people of Israel. And now Israel This is profound if you get this. And now, Israel, what does the Lord your God require of you? But to fear the Lord your God, to walk in his ways, to love him, to serve the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul. And keeping the commandments and the statues of the Lord, which I am commanding you today, to be capricious, to make your life terrible, somebody says. What does he say? I'm commanding these things today for your good. You get that? It's amazing. What's the first blessing in the Bible? Does anybody know? It's the first blessing. He blessed them and said, Be ye fruitful and multiply. That's a command. Did you realize that? He blessed them and commanded them something. Be ye fruitful and multiply. What's going on here? God's commands are Him blessings. You get that from change of life. If you realize that when God is commanding you to do something, He's commanding you as an instruction. The one who designed you and the one who designed the world. And it's telling you these things for your that God is not capricious. God is not just sitting there making you jump through hoops. God knows what you need, right? And he's commanding you these things for your good. Will you believe him? Proverbs 3 says, Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge him, and he will make you Straight your past. Be not wise in your own eyes, fear the Lord, and turn away from evil. Why? It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. How can we trust God with our souls but not our lives? How can we believe God when he tells us heavenly things and not believe him when he tells us earthly things? Do you remember that? John chapter 3? Right? Isn't that what happened with Nicodemus? He he didn't believe him concerning heavenly things. He said, Why'd you believe me concerning earthly things? Well actually it was opposite. He didn't believe in earthly things. He said, How could you believe in heavenly things? We do the opposite though, don't you realize We believe him. Oh, I believe you Jesus. I believe that you are going to save me from my sin. I trust you with my eternal destiny. But I don't trust you enough to obey you how to live my life. I got that. I'm wise enough. That's not really foolish. Romans 10 9 says, if we confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in our hearts that God has raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Hopefully you all have done this. Hopefully you all have confessed with your mouth that Jesus is Jesus Lord and believes in your heart that God raised him from the dead and you will be saved. Right? But what do we need to confess? He is right. He is Lord. What does it mean that you uh you know, I I I like that term Lord, I do, curiosity, I love it. But you know what one of the negative things? There's no guy out there called Lord. Hopefully you don't call anybody Lord. There's no guy out there called Lord. Do you realize that this word curiosity there was people called Lords? You actually call people Lords. This is a disconnect to what I'm saying. It'd become a religious word. It's just like you on Galeon take the gospel. The gospel means good news. It's become a religious word. It's not a religious word. It means good news. What's the good news? That's a different story I'm getting back. Right? Lord was people he actually called people Lord. I would like to translate this boss. CEO, owner, right? Master, even master. You realize when we say Jesus is Lord, we're saying you boss. You get to control my life. I give it to you. How can we call Jesus Lord and say, no, no. You're Lord for the spiritual things, but not the earthly thing. I'm gonna do what I want We can't do that. If we say Jesus is Lord, we must allow him to be Lord. If Jesus is Lord, you cannot be Lord. If Jesus is Lord, he gets to tell you what you're gonna do. You don't get to tell him what you're going to do. When we sin, we not only say to God, I don't trust you enough to do your will, but we also say, Lord, you're not my Lord. It's crazy if you think about it. It's blasphemous. It's insane. We cannot say both Lord and no. No Lord doesn't make any sense. If he's Lord, he says yes. What he says is yes, and we need to obey him. This is why sin is cosmic treason. We cannot say no to Jesus. So if we've done this, or we're doing this, let us turn back. And let us repent. Let us trust God. Not only with our lives, but with excuse me, not only with our souls, but also with our lives. We need to obey him. So I'm gonna stop here. I'm gonna stop here and ask if there's any questions or concerns about anything I talked about this far. I do have a question though. Um 'cause I heard this before. Um and um I recently worked with this person actually and I shared it with Brian. Um this individual considered themselves almost perfect because they avoid certain things of desire terry loss, you know, you know you know where I'm going with that, right? Okay. And I and I actually question about grace and they don't you don't think they grace is 're enough. So we it's almost like you're almost trying to be super perfect in your walk, but then you're almost like neglecting that it's not just you but God working for this was grace. And I think when there's that super holiness people try to approach you know what I'm talking about? Like it's like if I do all these things, I'm holy. But you when you fall short, where do you fall back to you know Yeah, that's an excellent question. So yeah, so you so you're getting at uh here's what I think of the saying. Yeah. We're called to be holy and we're called to let our lights so shine further than we see good works, right? But we're not Jesus. We fail. Right? We fail to to meet up the standard. People in fact do see us and say, yeah, I see some holiness, but I also see some not so holiness in you Right? So so what do we do? Here's what I think. I think that our call for holiness is not called for perfection. We're gonna get into that, right? We're gonna look at different types of holiness and and how perfectionism and all that we're gonna talk about that as soon as we're done with these questions, right? Um we're gonna talk about that. But I think the the the the another reality is part of letting your light so shine before others is showing them what it means to repent. Showing them what it looks like for a Christian to repent. And say, you know what I'm sorry. I messed up. Right? I treated you wrong. Or I did this. I was griping. Or I was complaining. And that was not the right thing. And I'm telling you, that's extremely powerful. Because the fact is, unbelievers don't do that Unbelievers sin, but they don't repent. Right? And so you it's actually an opportunity. I'm not telling you to intentionally sin, but if you do sin, it becomes an opportunity for witness. It really does. Because to repent as a Christian is a very powerful thing that people don't do. True, that's that's showing transparency of real walking Christians, honestly, because they they don't they see us as super righteous because they're not. So when they see us being that, they're gonna say, Well it's If we're real and we're loving and we're loving enough to say where we're wrong at, especially when you're having a a disagreement or at work you you're a coworker and you something amiss. You kind of have a little bit of fallout, but then at the same time what you do through that is what shows that person, hey you know what? He did show me a Christian because he did these things. And if that's that's big following. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We're not preaching ourselves. That's not it. The gospel is I'm so unholy that I have seen or God has shown me that I'm headed in the wrong direction. And so are you. Right? And you need to go to the same safety that I am So we preach gospel we preach Jesus not ourselves. But we don't want to sit there and blaspheme God and transform this is going to the second lesson now, transforming or transferring the gospel of grace into the gospel of sensuality. Because that's not gospel at all. Right. Any any other questions about this idea of living holy, being uh being true sons of God, reflecting his glory, and being Lord. The Gospel of Grace is not a license for sensuality. Right. And and I recommend Jude. J the whole book of Jude is about that. So gospel is good news. Um the the the the gospel the true gospel Is uh well Ephesians 28 for by grace you have been saved, too faith. So the true gospel is that we are sinners and that we cannot make it ourselves ourselves and that there's been this uh this bridge between us and God. We've violated his commandment, right? And and we have condemnation all of all over ourselves And so we need to be saved. And so when we go to God and repent of our sins, he promises to cleanse us from all that unrighteousness. Right? And this again talk about next time, but we'll hit it now a little bit. The God who justifies is the God who sanctifies. That same God who places you in Christ, right? Is also the same God who's going to lead you in Christ And it's the same God who is ultimately going to transform you into Christ. And some people say, no, no, no, I'm going to divide all that. The God who justifies is that's it. He declares it's a legal fiction, complete. He just declares me as righteous and I'm going to live however I want. Right? I'm gonna walk in the flesh because it's all covered. In the Bible, we talked about it next time. Is that useless salt? Okay. And that's not the gospel. That is a corruption of the gospel. And and the Bible has some some bad things to say about these people. Because it says you're not justified. That you have shown yourself to be false. And your profession is not real at all You can check that in June. So we're not say by works, but we're saying for works. Jesus tonight. We'll talk about that. That's the biggest difference that safe for works have. Alright, so let me press on. Let's talk about uh so we we talked about we we just looked at a broad sense of of uh holiness and we've seen that holiness is intimately connected with our calling to be image bearers of God. And as far as our calling to be sons of God. If we call him father, we must be obedient children. That's our calling. That's the relationship Let's talk about how else the Bible speaks about holiness or sanctification. So the term sanctification or holiness are truly synonymous terms. They come from the the same Greek words. A couple of Greek guys are here. Hagiasmas, right? It means holiness. It comes from that word hagiasmas is similar to the word hagias, which means holy. What's really great about that is it's exactly like your English, right? Holy And holiness. You see the same root word holy? It's the same word, right? So that word had the asmas, holy, holiness, holiness of sanctification in your Bible. When you see the word holiness and sanctification, it's the same word. That's what I'm trying to get at Okay, so I don't want you to think of those as separate categories are the same. So when we talk about sanctification or holiness, they're really the same thing and it talks about the process of you being holy. I wanted to coin a word called holyfication It's not good. My wife said that's ugly. Oh good. So I'm not gonna do it. I'm gonna use sanctification, that's the way that's our English But when I say that I want you to think holyfication. The process of being made holy. Holyfication. Don't worry about it. Statification. No, I can't smell it. Not a real word. Get rid of it. Alright, not good. So sanctification is the process of being made holy. So the Bible talks about three types of sanctification. What are those? Positional sanctification, progressive sanctification, and final sanctification. So what's that? Positional sanctification is being set apart by the Holy Spirit. And placed into Christ. So based on this new relationship of being in Christ, we are reckoned as holy based on the merits of Christ. We see this spoken of in the text like First Corinthians 1 2. Here's what it says. To the church of God that is in corn, to those sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints. See that? They are sanctified why? Not by their own conduct, because they're in Christ Jesus. Their relationship with being in Christ Jesus, positional sanctification, makes them holy. But we see this also in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Or do you not know, this is that that question about this this false gospel of uh of sensuality, or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither the sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality, nor thieves. Nor the greedy, nor the drunkards, nor the revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. It could not be more clear. They will not inherit the kingdom of God. Do not be deceived Look at this. And such were some of you. Watch this tense. But you were washed. Not that you are washed, not that you're continuing to be washed. No. You were washed. You were sanctified. You were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of God. You were. It's just already something that's happened in you. Thus, positional sanctification is the spirit at a moment of time coming upon a person and taking the heart of stone and replacing it with a heart of flesh. Ezekiel 36 puts it this way. And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit, and I will put it within you, and I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. See this? This is what we think of as usually as regeneration. Here are you a a rebel against God. You know what? I see. Let me quote Ephesians chapter two. Ephesians says it best. And you who were dead in the trespasses and sins which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of air, the spirit that is now at work and the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And he raised us up with him and seated us in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. This scripture is absolutely profound. It's shocking. Here's what it's saying: you were totally dead, completely. Dead dead. Right? In fact, you were no more dead than the other people. That aren't so unbelievers. You're totally dead. Okay? And while you were in that dead condition, what did God do? He raised you up in Christ. Right? You died with Christ. You were raised up with Christ. And here's the shocking part. And he says that now you are you ascended with Christ And now you're seated with him in the heavenly place. That's a real reality. It's profound. It's shocking. This idea of being un uh being connected with Christ is absolutely profound. Do you remember when uh Paul was persecuting uh believers? What did Christ say? Why do you persecute me? He was in heaven. How are they persecuting him? Because we are truly the body of Christ. This is not just a metaphor. This is a true reality. It's a spiritual reality. We are in Christ. And based on that new relationship of being in Christ, you are reckoned as holy. In fact, this is the whole meaning of baptism. This is why I'm a Baptist. Romans chapter 6. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? Baptized, immersed into Christ. That's sprinkle. Not poured. We were immersed into Christ, right? And what else? We who were buried into his depth. We who were buried therefore with them in baptism. into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of Christ. So now based on our relationship with Christ, when God looks at you, he sees the merit of his son. You are washed clean, you are declared as holy, you are sanctified. Your case has been dismissed. This is what we call positional sanctification. Our identity is now found in Christ We have died to the old man. We are alive to Jesus Christ. Peace with God has been accomplished, and we are justified before our Lord. In Christ, we now have every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. And what was a few of those blessings? Peter says this. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. All of that is found in Christ. Christ. Right? That's how God sees you in Christ. That is positional sanctification. Alright, the next type of sanctification is progressive. Sanctification. This is our call for personal holiness. This is what we usually think of when we use the term sanctification. Right? We talked about being sanctified or being holy. We're not usually talking about positional sanctification. That is in the Bible. But usually we're talking about this idea of becoming more and more holy, following God more and more in our lives, killing sin, living for God. This is the process of being transformed more and more into the image of God It's called progressive because we're constantly going from one state of glory to another. It's we're progressing, right? We're going beyond where we used to be. Paul puts it this way. And we all, with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being these tenths are important, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. Again, this is a wonderful scripture. As we behold Christ, not the whole life, beholding Jesus, that's a Christian life. Beholding Christ, and we're being transformed from one degree of glory to another. We never stop beholding Christ on this side of eternity. In fact, we never stop beholding Christ, period. We continue on this side of eternity to behold Christ. And that beholding, that's the secret of being holy, by the way. This is just a little Nugget right there. Secret of behold of being holy is beholding Christ and being transformed into one state of glory to another So positional sanctification is what we think of when we think about being more holy. First Thessalonians puts it this way. For this is the will of God. You're always asking now, what's the will of God for my life? Here it is. Ready? Be holy. Your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality. That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor. Not in the passion of lust like the Gentiles who don't know God. How many of us want to hear that? We don't want to hear that, do we? We want no no. No. The Bible says this is the will of God, your sanctification You abstain from sexual immorality. Very clearly here, sanctification is equated with abstaining from sexual immorality, controlling one's body and holiness and honor, and not living in the passion of lust like godless Gentiles. We can think of it this way. Progressive sanctification is a command. It's an imperative. God commands you to be holy. Positional sanctification is an indicative. God doesn't command you to do that. You are already holy based on your relationship with Christ. Positional sanctification is who I am, and based on who I am, I'm commanded to be holy. Positional sanctification. The last category of sanctification is final sanctification. This is when a believer will be completely conformed to the image of Christ. The image of God will be completely restored in humanity. I love Hebrews. Here's what it says. Hebrews puts it this way. But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. the heavenly Jerusalem, to innumerable angels and festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits, there it is, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. What's he saying here? He's talking about the heavenly Jerusalem, right? And you're approaching this, and what do you see You see the angels. You see God. You see something else. You see the spirits of men made perfect. This is all This is what this is our destiny. Don't you see that? When you die and go to be with the Lord, your sin is staying here. You ain't taking that with you. You're being transformed completely. The image of God will be fully restored in you These spirits of men made perfect is the destiny of all believers. So we have uh positional sanctification being declared holy based on our union with Christ, progressive sanctification, being transformed more and more into the image of Christ as we live on the earth And final sanctification, being completely conformed to the image of his son, Jesus Christ, right? We're predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. I didn't mention this by the way. There's actually two stage of uh final sanctification. When you die, your spirit is perfected. There's no sin in heaven. You cannot dwell with God. Your s your your soul is uh purged from all sin But not only that, the body, this body is getting resurrected. And so the full-on, final sanctification is a perfect soul and a perfect body, perfectly and perfectly reflecting the image of Christ. I'm sorry. You gonna say something about it? No, I was curious about the difference between final sanctification and glorification. No. It's kind of a different category. Um I'll address it now. Um it's good that you mentioned this. These categories are just theological terms. And what we're doing is we're trying to be biblical theologians. We're trying to use the Bible's language for these things, right? And trying to recognize how they're used. But they do have a lot of overlap. So uh when we talk about positional sanctification. What's the difference between positional sanctification and justification? Right? What's the difference? Well they they overlap very much. But justification technically, if you really want to think about it, is God dismissing your case And saying that you are legally justified. You're done. You're case. You're holy. Right? Positional sanctification is getting the robes of Christ and being wrapped up in heaven. Very, very similar kind of concept of you are holy. in Christ. So glorification is final sanctification. You will be finally sanctified when you are glorified. Two ways of looking at the same thing. Glorification, you're so glorious. Why? Because you're fully sanctified. Right? Final sanctification. Okay. So those are the categories. So what is all this? Is this just like theological, like, you know, show and tell? Is that what we're doing here? No, hopefully not. This isn't just trying to impress anybody. These categories are actually very important. Why are they important? Because if we mix them up, the very gospel is at stake. If we confuse positional sanctification with progressive sanctification, Paul has some words for us, and they're not very nice. Here's what he says. You who are trying to be justified by the law have been severed from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. You know what I'm trying to say here? If you think that your progressive sanctification, you being more and more holy, is earning you merit before God, you have lost the gospel. And that's a false gospel. You are sanctified based on your relationship with Christ and Him alone. But based on that relationship, now we're to obey him who we are in. Right? We are to wear the robes of Christ honorable. But we aren't earning the robes of Christ. Those are his robes. And we are justified by him. This is what Paul says. He calls this a damnable heresy and another gospel I'm astonished that you're so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one But there are some who would trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we are an angel of heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one he preached to you, let him be accursed. Let's never confuse positional sanctification for progressive sanctification. It is a damnable heresy. Now what go ahead, leave me a second. No. Okay. Uh what if we confuse progressive sanctification, that's being more and more holy, with final sanctification? Is that dangerous? Oh, it it's very dangerous. Let me tell you why. Number one You will be brought down to the the the deepest despair. If you think that you will be finally sanctified on this world, you got nothing coming for you. Just go talk if you're married go talk to your wife. You'll figure out you are not finally sanctified. Right? You are not finally sanctified. And that doesn't prove that you're not Christian. That proves that you are a Christian Because you are not uh finally sanctified on this side of eternity. Let me tell you another thing though. You people will be so dis so uh confused to think that they don't sin at all. So what what will happen? You will start redefining sin You know, sin is only that really bad stuff, right? Sin is that pornography addiction that I've gotten rid of, or whatever else. No, sin is way bigger than that. That is sin. But sin is way bigger than that. Don't limit sin to the really gross, disgusting sin. Okay? Sin is way, way bigger than that. And so that's what a lot of people will get confused. Sin is they say, well sin is only if I if I know what's wrong and I actively pursue it. No, no Psalm nineteen, declare me innocent from hidden faults. Don't limit sin to really gross stuff. Sin is all that stuff. So we don't want to confuse that. And again John doesn't have free words for this. He says, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. This is not good stuff. We need to confess our sins. What's first John 1 9? If we confess our sins, I love this scripture. He is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins. Don't stop there And cleanse us from all unrighteousness. We are to go to God consistently. That's again what you're talking about. When we try to live our lives perfectly and we fail, we go and confess. Both to man and to God. We need to recognize that on this side of eternity we would not be finally sanctified. So the rest of our conference, we're going to focus on progressive sanctification Why do I try to get these categories? Because I don't want anyone to walk away from this thinking that as I press holiness, that I'm teaching a different gospel, that I'm saying that you're justified by your efforts. You're not And also don't want anyone thinking that I'm teaching that you'll be sinlessly perfect on this world. It's a struggle. Right? What is the Lord's Prayer? Forgive us of our debts. We forgive our debtors. How often do we do this? Give us this this day our daily bread. Every day. Right? This conference and no conference will teach you how to be uh perfectly sanctified. That work is only going to be complete in Christ. But hopefully I can encourage you that we are called as three children to reflect our Father who is in heaven. So let me stop there and ask if there's any questions, comments, charges of heresy. Uh our question you said the question holies you said that uh the secret of being made holy is the holy Christ. Did you say that one say that again? You said the secret of being made holy is the holy cross Oh, beholding Christ the secret. Oh, amen. Yes. You don't just pull yourself up, right? You don't pull yourself up. You behold Jesus Christ. I'm going to talk about that a lot in the third session. But you need to exercise, you need to see him. How did you get saved? Hopefully you get saved by seeing Christ is beautiful and recognizing that he in him was all your needs going to be met. How do you avoid sin? By beholding Christ. By beholding him and saying to yourself, I don't want to do this, because Christ is more beautiful than this. My relationship with Christ is more important than this. This is destructive. I trust you, Lord, with everything. You are my king. Beholding Christ and being transformed more and more into the image of the Son. Yeah the idea of uh Moses bronze serpent looking and where Jesus said you know if I can test it up I'll draw a pen unto myself. So when we look to the cross, we look to him. We see him, that's that's our model, that's our example. They're drawn to him as we see him. Yeah. We never lose the vision. The cross isn't just where you lose your spent originally, it's where you lose all sin continuum. Right. We continue to behold the risen Lord and what he did for us. Any other documents? You mentioned uh us receiving all the spiritual blessings we've been in the place. Um so I've thought about that a lot and I I have some ideas about that. But you you mentioned a couple of things trying to script Can we talk about that a little bit and what the uh spiritual blessings are that we receive in Christ? Yeah, every spiritual blessing. Uh no, I I don't mean I don't mean that tongue-in-cheek. Um every benefit that we receive, right, is coming directly from our relationship. with Jesus right. And it really the whole book of Ephesians is spelling that out. It even says at one point that that Paul desperately wants you to see the inheritance God has in you. It's incredible. Think about that. God has an inheritance in you have an inheritance in him and he has an inheritance in you. And one of that one of that realities is God well one, the glorification that God is transforming you. Two that you'll be an eternal vessel of God's glorification Right, continuously to proclaim, here was a sinner now transformed into grace. So everything is found in Christ. Again, this other brother's question about beholding Christ. We can do nothing without him In him we live and move and have our being and all spiritual reality is only accomplished in Jesus Christ. I have no merit, I have no ability, I have no capacity to do anything. And this is even when Paul, Paul would say that I worked harder than all the other apostles, but it wasn't me It was Christ working in me. Right? So everything ultimately points to Christ. Even even I think it was Philippians that say that says work out your own salvation, but it's God who works in you both to will and to work. For his good pleasure. You have no boasting before Christ. No. Because anything that you accomplish is really Christ working that through you. So that that's what I would say. But you have any there's uh you could put a lot of things in that category, I think such as the the fruit of the spirit, love, joy, the spiritual blessings, love, joy, massivations, kindness, humanness. There's a passage in the second I think every effort is something you've faith with virtue, virtue of knowledge, knowledge with self-control. Self-control is the fastestness, the fastest of God of this These are all blessings of God that He gives us, He bestows upon us that are lumped into that category of the blessings of God So we can't get pretty specific about the things that God is doing in our lives. When we get non-specific, I think one of the main points today was We can use religious language to cloak uh a lot of specifics that we just take for granted and don't even think about. But God is doing a work of sanctification Yes, that produces the virtues that produces the virtues. Yeah, I mean, yeah. And and I hope is that you looking for or looking for something else? No, that that's actually exactly what I was kind of talking about. like I like to think of tangible things so you know the fruits of the spirit um thought about like when it says put on a form of God you know giving us the uh Basically, the weapons of your warfare are not normal, but mighty three gods pulling it up strongholds. You know, I think that's a spiritual blessing that we received from Christ. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Um I just I sometimes because I'm bombarded on a daily basis and I think everybody else is a materialist materialist. So every every it's hard for me to even read my Bible and not think in a materialistic mindset. So I have to like challenge myself to think, okay, wait a second, the ring through songs and talk about blessings in morality. What are those blessings? It's not money, it's not being famous, it's not whatever, so what is it? And I think that's why and I'm not trying to take this off probably but it's just when you mentioned it I was like sort of let me let me let me say this real quick and I'll ask if any other questions. Um God knows much more than you know God has a much better plan than you have. Right? When we pray. Um One day when we find out how God answered all of our prayers, we'll never accuse him and saying, I could have done it better. God answers our prayers the way that we would have asked if we would have known what he knew. That God has something way better for you if you can trust Him. And if you can follow Him. Because He creates you. And you're part of not your story, but His story. Right? And he has this part for you and he calls you to be faithful in that to trust in that. And say, you know what? Those other things are going to destroy you. Will you believe me enough to listen to me Because I want you to be this character and this plot and this story to be part of my grand narrative. Because your life is not the grand narrative. It's God's grand narrative. And He wants you to play this part. Will we trust Him in that? Or we not Another part of that ultimate um spiritual blessings is being in Christ. And as being in Christ, we get the opportunity to represent Him to others So we get to represent it to our wives. We get the blessing of relationships with our wives and our kids. We get to have the blessing of telling others about Christ. And so bringing him glory. So everything that we do that brings him glory. And I think that's what Hyper State is about, that you know God's most glorifying us. are most satisfying him. And that's where that idea comes from, is that glorifying God, beholding God. That's the greatest spiritual blessing. That's what we're going to be doing for all eternity in heaven. And beholding him and enjoying the greatness of an awesome God. And so we have that here in Christ and in His Word. And that's what Hebrews is all about. It says that, you know, God spoke to us finally in Son. uh the ultimate blessing is Christ and being in Christ. So that's that's really beautiful. I I'll say go ahead brother. Are you raising it? Are you just stretching? No after the thought is over. Oh. It's about I'll let it go. Keep going. Keep going. That was beauti I won't no, I won't, I won't. Um read first John, right? Old theologians used to call it the beatific vision. What is this? When we behold God. And even first John says, we don't know what we will be like, but we know we will see him as he is. Right? Seeing is beholding. That be a thing that exit. Beholding God and being transformed is the greatest blessing. There is no greater blessing. He is beauty incarnation Yeah, yes, I do just uh uh one thing that I was that uh I came to mind as you were uh presenting final sanctification. And I've I've I have run into people where they believe that they do not sin. And one of verses that we use in first John, the very you know the very uh book that you said at the beginning by saying that whoever has whoever says that they have no sin it's it's a liar right but then in chapter three it goes on and says You know that he he appeared in order to take away sin, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning. has either seen him or known him. But if we read it in context, it's a lifestyle of sin, but when you read it in when he's just like quickly choosing these verses Yeah, yeah. What what's going on there is it's just when we read the scriptures, right? We always need to have a charitable reading of the scriptures. We need to recognize that the guy who wrote this, namely the Holy Spirit, but even John is not an idiot He did not contradict himself within within you know 150 words. Okay? There's a profound point that he's trying to make here. And he's starting off with saying you it 's actually in the perfect tense But who says that have not sinned? Past reality with ongoing effects. This person are claiming sinless perfection. They don't know God. They don't know themselves. Right? To know God is to know yourself And to know yourself in light of that. That's what he's saying there. He's saying that we need to continue to confess our sins. He even says it in the very beginning. I say this so you do not sin. But if anyone sins, he has an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. He's not contradicting himself But but later on he's attacking a different group. And these are the people who transfer the gospel into a gospel of sensuality. And for them he has a different message. He says that no one who continues on sinning has ever seen the Father. Yeah. Continue. Continuous unrepentant sin justification. No. This person is not saved. And we'll talk about that next time, and that's the perfect segue into our next session. So let me let me stop it in prayer. Do heavenly father God We have spoken of many things. We have spoken of things that can be misunderstood and uh taken the wrong way. So God, I ask that you would help that not to happen That you help your people to see that we have every spiritual blessing in Christ, that we are made holy in Christ. But that's not all your word has to say about the matter. You also tell us to be holy and to to live holy lives and that one day we will finally be transformed into the image of your son. Let us let that be our great hope and our great desire in Jesus' name. Amen