Okay. So uh we we talked about first time, right, the divisions of holiness. We defined holiness. Uh last time we saw that holiness was not an option, we saw the necessity of holiness And hopefully that has stirred after the food is settled and all that, that stirred up your desire to be holy and and to see that, okay, I know what holiness is. Now I need holiness. So Do you have any advice? Can you help me to get that holiness, right? Are we just just gonna pull up our bootstraps and and and just work at it ourselves? Is that how we're gonna get it? No. Well if you try it's not gonna get very far. You'll forget about it, you know, by the time Sunday comes around. Okay? That's not what we want to do First Peter 2, 1 through 3 says this. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. So our passage here in part provides the answer of how we get holiness. How do we get it? So we all want. Well, notice that our passage gives us two central commands. The first is to put away all evil. The second, to long for the pure spiritual milk. Right? And some of your translations say might say the pure spiritual milk of the word. I think it's is probably accurate. That's probably what that's referring to is uh tasting uh Jesus in his word. We were having a conversation about where does God speak? He speaks in his words. Sanctify them by your word. Your word is by truth. John 17, 17. Beautiful. Sanctify them by truth. Your word is truth. So what's the connection? What's the connection between these two commands? Right? To put away all evil and to long, to desire to want the pure spiritual milk of the word. Well, we can't put away all evil unless we're filled with the Word of God. They're intimately connected. They're not they're really one and the same, right? By filling yourself up with the Word of God, you then have the ability To eradicate evil from your life. Psalm 1 illustrates this same reality when it says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked Nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. Notice that the psalm has both positive things that the godly man does and negative things that the godly man does not do. We need to be balanced people. We cannot just remove things from our lives, but we must replace them with godly realities. To illustrate this Imagine a man goes on a diet, right? And imagine as he's examining his food, he realizes, man, breakfast, lunch, dinner, and all the snacks in between, they're just no good. Right? Let's say I don't know if anyone's ever watched that that that show, that documentary Supersize Me. Let's say he's just going to McDonald's all the time and he's like, this is just not good. So you have to plan. You know what I'm gonna do? All my meals are messed up So I'm gonna stop eating at all. They're all messed up, so that's it, no more food for me. How long do you think this guy's diet's gonna last? Not very long. I mean Jesus, yes. But Jesus wasn't eating the bad stuff anyways. But it's not gonna last very long, right? Maybe a day, maybe two He's gonna eventually give up and he's going back to McDonald's, right? It's not gonna work. And and in the same way. In fact, even if he were so stubborn that he said, that's it, I said I wasn't gonna eat, I'm not gonna eat, he'd shrivel up and die So either way he's doomed, right? He's gonna swirl up and tie and he's not gonna get the health benefits from the diet or he's gonna most most likely give up equipment. So what's the point? The point is you can't just remove evil influences in your life. You can't just say bad food, I'm cutting it out You have to replace it with good influences. You have to replace it with good things. You cannot just refuse to walk in the counsel of the wicked or stand in the way of sinners. Or sit in the seat of scoffers, but you must also meditate on the law of the Lord day and night. You cannot just get rid of bad influences, but you must replace them with good influences. One practical reason for this is how can you identify the wicked if you're not meditating on God's Word? Right? You don't want to walk in the council. Who are the wicked? You need to first identify who the wicked are Not only that though, we also have to recognize that the wicked don't always just say wicked things. I don't know if you've all read Pilgrim's Progress. It's a great book. By the way, I didn't like that book at first. But but that's because I was reading it all wrong. This is a quick aside. I was reading it all wrong. I thought it was a theological treatise. I'm like, this is really lame. Like this is not good. But then I realized it's not that Right? It's an analogy, it's devotional material. It's encouraging you, building you up. And in that devotional material, that's a Christian classic for a reason it's beautiful. There's this character, and his name's Worldly Wise Man. I love that name. Because that's exactly what we see out there all the time. We see tons of Mr. Worldly wise men. They're wicked, but yet they have some wise counsel sometimes, right? I mean think about the people that we interact with. Most people, the the Christians are a remnant, right? We're not we're not many. And so most of the people we interact with are people out there who are wicked, who are unbelievers. But they give us all kind of counsel that we like all the time. One billion dollar company? They do all kinds of good stuff, right? Not always do they do the wrong thing. So we need to uh and why is that? Because that's common grace. God has uh through his grace given all kinds of gifts to believers and unbelievers so that we can benefit. Right? We're always plundering the Egyptians. Right? We're getting we're benefiting from those wicked people. So we can't just isolate them completely, okay? But we do need to be able to discern when in fact they're speaking good and when the fact is And the only way we're going to be doing that is if we know we have a standard. We have a standard for truth. And that standard of truth is found in God's word. Someone continues to tell us, not only do the the wicked refuse to walk in the counsel of the wicked, but rather he finds his delight in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. night. He delights in it. Right? Do we delight in God's word? Or is it just a chore? Is it just a spiritual discipline? Is it just something we're checking off? Do we recognize that God's word is our source of life? It's our source of hope, encouragement? Do we see that we're needed? Again, this is that humility part, right? We can't do it by ourselves. We need God's word. We need to fill up on it and then get that proper perspective so that we can see people properly as they are. The law of the Lord But notice he also says that not only does he just read the law of the Lord, it doesn't say bless is the man who reads the law of the Lord, but delights in it and meditates on it day and night. Through the law of the Lord, our souls can be revived, the simple can be made wise, our hearts can be full of joy, and our eyes can be enlightened. But when it when it says that we must delight uh meditate on the Word of God, this is not a casual reading. This isn't just going through your daily devotions and moving on. This is chewing. and spitting out and chewing and spitting out. It's meditating. It's regurgitating over and over. And I had a seminary professor and he said something that was very provocative. He said, you cannot meditate on what you have not memorized. I thought, that doesn't sound right at all. I can meditate on plenty of things I didn't memorize. I think I was saying that because I didn't memorize a lot of scripture. I was resisting the truth, right? But I I I Hmm. And I I rejected it at first, but then I started memorizing scripture and I came to see that there's actually a profound truth in this. Look what the psalmist says. The psalmist says, How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. He also says, Your word I've hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you. It sounds like my professor wasn't so foolish after all. Right? We can how can the young man keep his way pure? Not by pulling up his bootstraps, not by coming to men's conferences. That can be beneficial. But how can we do it? By guarding it according to your word. I would just talk about that too. Like how can the Holy Spirit uh make us mindful of scripture if we That's right. Amen. Precisely. Yeah, if we have it put it in our minds, haven't swam in it, right? Haven't memorized it. I really like what it says here though. We're talking about that young man. How can a young man keep his way pure? Why the young man? Why not just the man Blessed is the man, not blessed is the young man, right? Blessed is the man. So why young man? Here's what I think. If God can tame a young man, he can tame everybody else. He's the worst. So I'll say it's like bad and worse, right? If if the young man can be tamed, By God's word, so can everyone else. Again, he also says, Your word I have hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you The question is, have you hidden God's word in your heart that you might not sin against God? If you haven't, why have you not? Why would you think that the psalmist would have to memorize God's scripture in order to avoid sin, but you wouldn't? Doesn't make any sense, right? This is God's instruction for us. We're supposed to learn from this reality. Now some might argue that we are simply too busy. I can't do that I have kids. I'm married. I got video games to play. Facebook is calling me. I don't know. Probably some better excuses than that. But don't we know how that? I don't have the time to possibly memorize God's word. But the fact is we do we find time to do things that are most important to us. How many of us regularly miss dinner Not me. Okay? I find food in my stomach constantly. In fact, my life revolves around this. Okay, you know what I'm saying? I make sure that food gets in there. I make the time Okay. So if you find scripture uh uh being wholly important, you will find time. Put it differently. How many of us Well, I was gonna say floss, but many of us are floss. So how many of us regularly miss brushing our teeth? Again, hopefully we all find the time Right? Because we find it important. Because we know it it it's not fun to do it of course, right? But we find it beneficial. Okay. So if we add the same thing If we regularly skip brushing our souls, we also have diseased souls, harm souls, souls that are sick. As Christians, we struggle with the same sin over and over. The question is, what are we using to strike the enemy with? Are we using our words? Or we're using God's words. Are we trying to pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps? If so, is there any wonder that we fail so often? We don't have the power. God has the power, right? The devil is so much more strong than you. You don't have the power. God said let there be light and there was light. Right? God can rebuke the devil, he can be gone. You can rebuke the devil and he laughs You have no power. God has all power. Ephesians 6 says. Finally, be strong in the Lord. Not your own strength. Be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Power. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. The devil's real. Don't put him, don't put him with a pitchfork and some red tights Okay? That's the devil's lie to you. The devil is real and he is our enemy. Goes on to say, for we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but our ancient enemy, the dragon. And think about how powerful this this enemy is. This enemy was able to destroy two races. Angels and Amen. And not only that, he was able to destroy these two races when they were in the presence of God. They didn't have faith, they had sight. And yet the devil was still able to destroy them. Why do we think that we can defeat the devil within ourselves? That we have the power. No. No, we do not. Which one of us would try to fight a fully armed soldier with a paperclip? How utterly foolish would that be But it is it's even more foolish to try to fight the devil himself with our empty words. And this let us never forget Peter's warning. Be sober-minded. How? Don't be drunk. In what way? Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to destroy. Right? Which one of us will try to fight a lion with our bare hands? Some of you guys are really fit. I don't think you're gonna take it. Right? I think he's gonna rip it to pieces Okay? And that's like the devil. We have no power ourselves. No matter how holy and righteous we think we are, you go out there with the lion and you realize how weak you really are, right? You need something more powerful than that. Our biggest problem is we don't view sin properly. We view sin as something that we can dabble with. Are people not always asking how close to the line can we walk until we fall over? Are people not asking how far is too far when dating? How much nudity, violence, cursing, and blasphemy of God's name is too much before I have to turn off the show Isn't that what we're always asking? Are we are are we not always asking what traditional beliefs of Christianity can I reject and still be Christian? Mere Christianity? Isn't that what we're trying to get? Mere Christianity instead of the full revelation of God's word. These are all the wrong questions. Instead we shouldn't be asking about how much nudity should we watch until we can turn this thing off, but rather we should be saying, I have made a covenant with my eyes. How then could I gaze at a virgin? Instead of asking how far is too far before marriage, we should be asking, how can I best honor this man or woman of God that you have put in my life? Instead of asking how many Christian beliefs can be discarded before you become a heretic, we should be asking, Lord, speak for your servant ears. And I want to believe your truth. Right? We have the wrong perspective of sin. So many of us see sin as a kitty cat that we can tame. We got this. Right. We can put it right there. We can play with it a little bit and then it just does its own thing. But that's not the that's not the biblical picture. That kitty cat's not a kitty cat, it's a lion And it's absolutely ferocious. Look what God warns Cain with these words in the very beginning of the Bible. It's a treasure there right in the beginning. Here's what it says. God says this to Cain. Why are you so angry? Why has your countenance fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door and its desire is for you, but you should rule over it. What's the picture here? He's picturing sin as this ferocious beast tracking you down and waiting for you, right? To walk out there and to clobber you. Is that how we often view sin? No We get as close as we just play with it, right? We can get as closer to it. We got this under control. No wonder that sin comes and takes us over. Sin is not our friend It is our great enemy. Sin is a wild beast stalking you as a prey, waiting to devour you. We are truly in a cosmic struggle struggle for our own very lives. But many of us are hanging out like we're on vacation. Is there any wonder why we often find ourselves in the mouth of the lion being shaken to and fro? We have the wrong perspective of sin. So many of our struggles are self-imposed. We don't take God's word seriously when he says, do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. Here's just a harmonious principle. Whenever you see the words, do not be deceived, just put them in bold. You know what it's trying to say? Many people are deceived about this matter. Don't be like them. That's what it's saying. Again, I'll read it. Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. Many of us Christians think that we are so spiritual that we don't need to limit our exposure to evil. Maybe baby Christians need to do it, but not me. Or maybe I used to need to do it, but not anymore. You see what I'm getting at here? We don't limit our exposure to evil, and then we fall into that evil. We need to have a sober perspective on ourselves Paul says to this man who believes that he can expose himself to unnecessary evil without ruining his own morals, he says this. Therefore, let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed lest he falls. What am I encouraging? Sobriety. Recognize your own strength, your own ability. You need to limit evil in your life. So much of the reason that we're going through so much of the pain and struggle and the sin is because we have left the door open. Right? We have left the door open and we have put we have hung up cash and just asking for burglars to come into our house. We can't figure out why. They keep coming in. Lock the door Close it. It's painful. I understand. It's painful. It's painful because we enjoy uh hanging out with the wicked. We enjoy consuming the products Right? But so much of it is actually causing us so much damage in the end. Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals The root of this sin is the attitude of pride. We think more highly of ourselves than we ought to. We think we can handle it when we cannot. God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So, if you can avoid sin, avoid it. Get away from it. Paul tells us, flee youthful lust, but pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the Lord with a pure heart. See that? Flee useful lust. Get away from it. And instead of getting absorbed into the useful lust, you're fleeing away from it and you're fleeing to something. Remember that? Not just fleeing away, but fleeing too. What are you fleeing to? But pursue righteousness. Faith, love, peace, with those who call on the Lord with a pure heart. It's not only true that bad company corrupts good morals, but good company helps produce good morals. That's why I so glad that you guys are here That's why the church is so important. That's what we were talking about in that circle time, right? Getting together. That's why we need each other. So many people, uh Christians, want to be lone range of Christians. Again, wondering why they fall. We need each other We need you have spiritual gifts, not for yourself but for the edification of others. So let us not forsake the gathering of the saints. Friends, we need to cut off the enemy's access in our lives and replace it with the Holy Spirit's access to our hearts. We cannot simply take out evil things. We must replace them with good things. These are actually ones of this in Matthew chapter twelve, is what he says. When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, but finds none. Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. And they enter and dwell there, and the last state of that person is worse than the first. You understand what's going on here? Here's a person who had messed up life and the demons were cast out. And now that the demons are cast out, he sweeps it all right, it's all nice. But he doesn't lock the door The door's still open. And so later on, seven demons, more evil than that other demon, come in and sweep the house. We can't just evict evil. You can't just say, you know what, that's it. I'm no longer going to So watch these evil shows anymore. I'm no longer going to listen to this music. I'm cutting it all out. And if you don't replace it, they're coming back. And they're coming back with a vengeance. We must purge our life from evil and we must replace it with good. We can't just stop watching evil films, but we must use that time for something else. We must use that time for family devotion, memorizing scripture, serving. Are we getting division? Right? We need not only to take the fort away from the devil and destroy the enemy within, but we also must rebuild it and build a castle for our Lord to reign. Now some might be thinking this is legalism. TV shows, uh music is being talked against. Right? Now I'm not saying that everything secular is corrupting, but I'm saying many of much of it is And you all need to look in your own lives and ask, do I ha do I have what doors do I have open? How how am I unnecessarily being involved? What one of my favorite scriptures I don't have here, one of my favorite scriptures is talking, I think it's in Galatians that says we need to bear each other's burdens up. Right? But you know what it says in that scripture? Be careful lest you fall. This is an incredible scripture. Here's what it's saying. As we see other people struggling We should go and support them, right? But you need to be very careful because sin is so deceptive. And you can go and try to minister to that person. How you doing, brother? I'm not doing good. How you not doing good? I'm addicted to porn. Next thing you know, you're in porn You see what's going on there? That's what it's saying. It's saying that you need to be very, very careful as you try to lift people up. Because sin is out of dictionary. Right? So if that's how addictive sin is, why are we unnecessarily exposing ourselves to sin? Ooh, look, this happened here. I need to watch this. They don't. Why do you need to watch that? Right? And if you do watch that, and next thing you know, you can't draw the causal relationship. You expose yourself to unnecessary evil and now you're in evil that you never thought you would get into. Right? Guard the door. That's what I'm trying to trying to say. Guard the door. This is serious business. And it's very painful by the way. This is not this is not fun stuff. This is very painful. And what does Jesus say He says that if uh it's better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into a painful process, it's cutting limbs, right? It's up hurts. Nevertheless, it is what we must do Peter describes killing sin in this way. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which rage war against your soul. You see that? This analogy of fighting sin like a battle isn't just a preacher's plural to sound exciting and fun. It's actually the scriptures uh own demonstr uh illustration of the fat the battle We are truly fighting a cosmic battle for our very souls. And that's it it the sin is literally waging war against our souls. So as we see, the Bible tells us to abstain from sin, to flee from it, to cut it off, to don't be around evil company, to turn away from it, and to sin no more. All of these commands have the same idea, right? Distance yourself from sin We need to do it. And we need to it's gonna hurt us. Okay. But this is that we really, really need to do it. And I'm not telling you to please to go and tell your brother what he can and cannot do I'm telling you to look in your own life and to see what is it that's harming you. What is it that's causing you to stumble. Right? Some of you you know to some of you it might be getting rid of the smartphone. But it might be. That smartphone might be absorbing you and causing you to fall into all kinds of sin. But some of you it might not be that. So if that if that's the case, don't judge your brother for having a smartphone. You don't know if that smartphone's causing him to sin or not, right? But if it is causing you to sin, maybe maybe you gotta cut it out. I don't know. You gotta make the hard choices, right? Because holiness is that important. So up to this point, we've been talking about avoiding sin. Right? But some sin is not avoidable. Some sin we just gotta go through it. So how do we handle when we go through it? But before I go into that, before we transition to okay, let's get away from sin. Now we have to enter it. How do we fight it I'm gonna ask if there's any questions or comments about just the idea of avoiding unnecessary spend and all of this. Um you point out we were placing part was just very key I think um honestly that's uh most of you have really had a hard time learning you know because you're you're trying to avoid and you you don't know how to replace this with at the young age that I I was, you know, a young Christian. I didn't know what that meant until years later. It makes so much sense to be replaced with godly things of the obvious scriptures of the main key obviously in your walk. That's not to say that later on you're not gonna do certain things that are not sinful. They're just in the secular part, you know, but you also gotta be careful You're you're you can get so caught up right back into that's why it's the whole replacing the things that are healthier for you. Yeah so that you talk about the food concept. You know, you can't just eat a sneaker bar and you know It's gonna be bad for you, you know what I'm saying? Even though it can be good for you, but you see what they need to replace it with something else. Yeah, and and even that replacement thing I'm talking about. Sometimes that's only for a time in the season, right? Sometimes you currently cannot handle just a smartphone. I'm just gonna get that one again. Sometimes you currently can't handle a smartphone But as you grow in Christ, right, maybe you can introduce it back. So this is a wisdom issue of of how of of of of what we can handle at the as a current situation. Right? But we do we do need to uh it's painful. We do need to say I can't handle it. Not right now. Right? This and it's not just pornography, people. It's so much more than that. It's just wasting time. It's being full of violence, being full of blasphemy in God's name. Right? It's all kinds of different things that we can fill ourselves up with and we say, you know what? I have lost control over this. This gotta go. And I gotta replace this Right? And even in different ways. Even if it's just j even if it's not necessarily bad, even if you just are Chronicles of Narni and Chunky, you just love it, right? You spend all your time reading Carnicles of Narnia. I love that book too. But even if that, it but then you don't have any time to serve anybody. The kids are being neglected Right? Your church is being neglected. You can't help out because you're you're kind of blown already drunkie. Right, I I like uh what a man said that he said uh um the spirits being mature give up the good in pursuit of the better. Okay Yeah, sometimes even cutting out things or just cutting out things that are good for pursuing that which is better, using your time wisely. Brother, do you have a? Yeah, uh so it's like the learning heart stuff. Okay. God 's gates. God's gates sin is unbelievably addictive. I know I'm preaching to the choir. I hope you all know this. It's unbelievably addictive. Do not expose yourself to sin unnecessarily. Right? I just gotta find out about this plan. No, you don't. You don't want to. Just stay away from the affair that that person is having. It's none of your business. You don't want it. It's not good. A couple of verses on the first Timothy 222 is one that totally reinforces what you're saying. It says, uh, we also youthful lust, but pursue righteousness day love. and peace with those who call in the Lord out of a pure heart. And then um Ephesians five twelve talks about not even Speaking about what people do in secret. You know, what the the the evil that goes on in secret don't even says don't even talk about it. Yeah, that I think that that scripture right there about speaking about the evil, oh we fail at it all the time. We just got to expose it. So-and-so did this. We just have to, right? The news audit was we just have to read it. This and this happened. What is going on? We just have to read the gory details. And then I and then I can't understand why my heart's sick My love for God has shriveled up. Right? I got these evil thoughts that I'm battling all day now. Why didn't I do this to myself? What's going on? Okay. Avoid sin when you can But what happens when we get into a situation that we just cannot avoid? I'll give you an example of this. I uh I commit to work and I get onto the train and I get onto Union Station and then from Union Station I get onto my subways to my station, right? And so during this commute, I try to make the best use of my time. I try to hand out traction and get people uh saved or encouraging Christians and stuff like that. Well on the trip that I have to go, I have to walk by Victoria's. I just have to Just that. Victoria's secret. I just have to. There's no avoiding it. There's just no way of doing it. How do we handle that situation when we just can't avoid the sin? Well, I think I think one way is going back to that memorizing scripture. Right? What what are you gonna do as you're walking by yeah, this? Yeah, see how long that works What what are you going to do as you're walking by that place all the time? Are you just gonna say no no no? Keep walking by look down or something? You can try that. We'll see how long it lasts, right? I think there's a much better way of doing it. First off I think we should be prayed of Prayed up in the morning, right? We should pray in the morning. Lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. A lot of people are confused about that's in the Lord's Prayer. They're confused Right? Because what does God say? God says that uh in Psalm twenty-three that He leads me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. See the confusion? Why are we praying lead me down into temptation? when Psalm twenty three says that God will never lead you down into temptation, but he leads you in paths of righteousness. Why? Because we recognize that we're sinners. And we're asking God to do what He's already promised. It's a recognition for yourself. God, don't put me in any situations. I need you to help me. So let's talk about humility. I need you to help me. And I need you. I know I struggle with this, this, and this sense. Please help me throughout the day. So I'm saying, start off the day in prayer. Right? In the psalm it talks about that God will hear his voice in the morning. One man once said, if you don't pray in the morning, you're already on the climb to spiritual decay. It's an extreme statement, I'm not sure it's completely true, but there's some truth in that. Okay? Decay. Spiritual backslide. Devote your day before the Lord before you ever get into the lion's pit. Right? Every single day is the lion's pit. I'll give them one uh chapter or chapter nine four. So I've got something on my I drop trucks. I'll be I'll give you a truck like ten hours, twelve hours a day. I mean the opposite would imagine the opposite. And the very first thing you waken up is wickedness, right? That that would be the opposite. So filling your mind with scripture all the time is fantastic. Right? So that that's always that's just a a great thing. What I'm saying is when we wake up in the morning though, right, this is the new day that God has given us New battle, new life, right? Let us pray the Lord's Prayer every day. And part of that prayer is lead me not into temptation. It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to pray that in the middle of the night. As you're putting your head down to sleep, leave me not into temptation. The temptation's over. It's already passed, right? That prayer makes sense in the morning. So let us start off our day praying the Lord's Prayer and praying that God would not lead us into Temptation. So then once we do hit temptation, what does the Bible say? Never be too far from prayer. Always praying. Be one God should always be on speed dial, right? As you enter into the temptation, you should be talking to God. God help me. Right? Preach yourself. God, you are more beautiful than this. You are more valuable than this. Help me to find you more beautiful than this thing. This thing is trying to take my soul. God help me It doesn't have to be long prayer. That's um that's all using my prayer, just like that. God help me in the situation. Not only that though, again, we go through the same sin over and over. The devil's not usually tricking us up. One day it's this, one day. No, it's usually the same stuff over and over, right? So Can we prepare ourselves? Right? You see what I'm saying? I walk by Victoria's Secret every single day. The same temptation. It's there every single day. Right? So what do I have? I've already hidden God's heart, word in my heart, so that might not sin against you. I'm saying you do the same. Right? I'm not just gonna walk by God help me and then we can say no temptation has overtaking, that's not common to man. God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way. Whereas uh when you're trying to do it yourself, you'd be like, I'm not gonna do it. I'm not gonna do it, but you don't replace with God 's word that refreshes and reminds you and you just gonna go up to your own power and your own is gonna fall short because you're trying to try to muster up, kinda you know, you throw away the laptop and threw it away in the trash can And then that's you waste your money by the way. And then you just like realize that's not the main problem. Yeah. What is the armor? The helmet of salvation, the breastplate of righteousness, the belt of truth, right? Feet ready for the gospel. And what's our weapons? We have the shield of faith Right? And we have the sword of the Spirit. Where's your sword? I'm saying pack your sword in the morning. Okay? There's the enemy. There's the temptation. It's the same one. Hide God's word in your heart that you might not send it. Be ready for it, right? So as you're going by, it doesn't have to be victorious, he could be victorious, he could walk by you. You see what I'm saying? What are you ready for? For this is the will of God, your sanctification That you were so forth and so forth. You get what I'm saying here? Have God's word ready to go where you can quote it and you can you can fight. And by the way, I'm not just making this up. What did Jesus do in the temptation? Did Jesus say, no, no, no, by divine power, get away from me, say he could have. He did not do that. He did not do that. He was our example. He had scripture ready. Right? And by the way. He didn't say that. Yeah, it was ready to go. What does that mean? Jesus Christ spent the time to memorize Scripture He spent the time to memorize scripture to combat sin in his life. Again, if Jesus did this, how could we say, well, that that's nice for him, but I'm not gonna do that. I don't need that. He needed that, but I got this Absolutely not. Right? And by the way, what scripture did Jesus quote? Did he say when the devil told him to make the the stones and the bread, did he say God is the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob? In the beginning, you God created the heavens and the earth No. He said man does not live by bread alone, but every word that proceeds out of the mouth of God. He was ready for a specific scripture for that specific temptation. Do you get what I'm saying here? So be prepare uh prepare beforehand with God's word to be ready to combat the devil. And it's all kinds of things, right? We all struggle, at least I do, struggle with being lazy at work. Do we have any scripture for that situation? Right? Do we should have some scripture that's ready for this? And really, sometimes you don't want to memorize these scriptures because the Holy Spirit will use them on you. Give the Holy Spirit the ammunition to remind you of Scripture that you have put in your heart for God to use So we have those are those are really our two great weapons. Our two great weapons are prayer and uh in the scripture. Right? Here's what James says about prayer. You have not because you ask not. You ask and do not receive because you asked wrongly to spend it on your passion. How are we praying? Are we praying prayers of repentance? Are we praying God to make me holy? Are we praying God to deliver me? You know what? God has never failed to answer one of those prayers for me. I have never prayed, God help me not to sin, and there I was, falling at how's that happened? You have not because you asked not sin. We know that God said that He will answer our prayers and we ask according to His will. It is never not God's will to help you in your sanctification. It's never not God's will for you to not uh fall into that sin. Right? So we should always be ready with God's word, ready with with God's word and be having a praying heart. Here's that scripture I was talking about about praying in the morning. This is in the Psalms that says, In the morning, O Lord, you will hear my voice. In the morning I will order my prayer to you and eagerly watch. Right? We need to be recognizing that the enemy is always coming at us and always ready to destroy us. Jude tells us that but you beloved, build yourself up on your most holy faith by praying in the Holy Spirit We need prayer. We need God's word. We need to combat evil. Right. So so wrapping this all up, here's what I'm saying. Avoid evil when you can. Recognize that evil is and sin is extremely addictive. It's like heroin. So addictive. Get away from it. Right? I am I have never done heroin. I am convinced that it's probably extremely pleasurable. I can't possibly understand why people would destroy them lot their lives if it was very miserable. Okay? I am convinced that it's extremely pleasurable, but I can see the end result I actually had a friend of mine who died of a hair when overdose just this year. I don't envy that guy at all. This was a terrible life to live. It was terrible while I was alive, and it's even worse. He's only 27 years old, he's in the grave Right? Sad. Absolutely sad. And I see that and I say, I don't want anything to do with that. But again, do we view sin in that way? You know, actually we talked to a lot of these druggies, they always think that they're better than somebody else. They have an addiction problem, but I don't. I can handle it. No, you can't View sin as a dangerous drug as trying to drive you to the pit of hell and trying to destroy you. So avoid sin as much as you can Right? And again, replace it. Replace it. Use that time to fill yourself up. Spend time with God's Word. Spend time with God's people. Minister. Use that time For those times that we cannot avoid sin, let's let us start our mornings in prayer. Devoting ourselves. Praying the Lord's prayer. Lead me not into temptation. As we finally enter into that, you know, that temptation, let us pray. Always, God, help me. I don't want to fall into this. Please, God keep me uh keep me away from that. And then let us quote Scripture. But in order to do that, we need to memorize Scripture. That's some of the time that's some of the things that you can be doing as you're not doing those other simple things. The time that that free dot time, right? And be quoting God's But let me let me say one other thing. You will sin. Even if you do this, you will sin. So what do you do after you sin? Right? What you don't do is you pun you don't punish yourself Right? God 's gonna punish you. Don't worry. God as a father will chastise you plenty. You don't need to punish yourself. What you need to do is turn back to Christ Right? And to go back to God. There's this sense when we sin, there's a sense of terrible guilt. Okay? But what we do is we just get up and do and go over again. Right? Every day is a new day. We repent it and it's gone. And we start over again and follow God's will. We cannot replace tomorrow. We can only do the next right thing That's always the right answer. Do the next right thing. Follow God from this moment on. Repent, fall down, get back up. Follow God from this moment Right. Don't go trying to punish yourself. It's totally unproductive. And I can tell you, trying to punish yourself is the best way to get back into that sin. That's not what we need. We need forgiveness, we need confession. more of you know containment. It's pretty you think about what was going on there, you're like, oh but because he didn't understand the difference. That's what we need to go back to saying we are forgiven. Yes right. Yeah, yeah self punishment is is not a means of grace at all. Okay. So i it it's a a definite means of discouragement and depression. Okay, and self-pity. And disobedience to God's word. And and that's really the that would lead you in. Let me say let me say something else by the way. This is what we talked about a little bit last night That you just examine in your own life what your triggers are. Follow the causal relationship. So many times the sin that you really are ashamed of and don't want to get involved in, the battle does not lie there. It lies way, way, way, way back. See what I'm saying? See the cause of relation. Recognize that that unrepentant look, that video that you just had to watch, even though you felt guilty about it. is really what's going to lead you, if you don't repent from it and don't stop doing that, would lead you to that thing that you're really disgusted about. And to prove this, how many people who commit affairs on the wife tell you that it started off with porn addiction? Almost all of them. Why? Because you started getting gratification from other women through lust. And it was just a matter of time before you started actualizing that in real people. Right? But if you track if you even trace out, how did you ever get to the point of addiction in the first place? You just couldn't say no. Way back when. You couldn't resist when you that girl walked by. Victoria walked by, right? You couldn't turn that show off. Follow the cross of relationship, what I'm saying, and cut it off at the source. And this will be great spiritual blessings to your soul. All right. Any uh questions, comments or concerns about any of that? Okay. Right, let's go to the Lord and pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God We know that there are no there are no quick fixes and that we are in a lifelong struggle with sin. And that uh besetting sins are real, that sin grips us uh so so much in uh in its clutches. But God, I ask that you would help us to be discerning and help us to cut off unnecessary sin from our lives. Help us to see things that seem trivial or seem not so bad, but actually is leading us into things that we're utterly ashamed of and that we desperately don't want to fall into. Help us to spend the time to hide your word in our hearts so that when temptation comes, that not only can we quote these scriptures against the word, the flesh, and the devil, but that your Holy Spirit can bring them to our minds. and help to convict us or to prevent us from falling into sin in the first place. Help us to be people of prayer, always uh relying on prayer and And dedicating our days to you, repenting of our sins when we do sin. Help us have grace on others. Help this these men not to become uh Legalists to themselves or to others, but help them also not to be so afraid of legalism that they fall into licentiousness and refuse to cut off the things that are standing their souls. Jesus' name. Amen.