Holiness. But let's first start off by going to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father, God, I thank you for this morning. I thank you for your believers. I thank you that uh that they would they would come and and hear your word. I thank you that even though uh Pastor Neil is is off in in far distance lands that uh that that we would still gather that um even even without our senior pastor that uh your church continues to run and we just ask that you bless him wherever he's at and whatever he's doing. doing and that uh what we do this morning would be glorifying to your name that I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit so that I um can speak your words and not my own. I ask That you would be with everyone here in this room and give them and fill them up with the Holy Spirit so that they can hear um your words and that we can be changed and and be more motivated to Be conformed to the image of your Son to be lights and salts of the earth. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. So This is a new Sunday school class. The way just to give you a kind of a framework of what's going to happen is I'm going to teach three classes on holiness. Okay. And this is actually gonna be the same class that I'm gonna give when I do a men's conference in September. So I just want to give you heads up on that. If you have any feedback, just let me know, please, so that I can do this better the next time. Alright? So as I said that this is gonna be there's gonna be three lessons on holiness. Holiness is of utmost importance because we're commanded by God's word to seek first the kingdom of God and His righteousness. But if we do not know what God's righteousness is, how can we properly seek it? So the first lesson that we'll have, three lessons. First lesson will be examining what is holiness. What do we mean by that term holiness? The second lesson will be about the necessity of holiness. Holiness is not an option. God's word says, without holiness no one will see the Lord. So we're going to unpack that and see what does that mean. And then the final lesson, final session, will be about practical steps to achieve holiness. Okay, so we know what holiness is, first lesson. Second lesson, okay, we know that we need holiness, and then how do we do that? How do we how do we better be holy So let's examine this morning what is holiness. I think this is a decent definition. Holiness speaks of moral purity and being set apart or consecrated for God or to God. So if we look back in the Old Testament, there's all kinds of things that were set apart as holy. One of the first references, if not the first reference in the Old Testament, is to the Sabbath. Right, this day is holy, it's set apart for God. And as you continue to find that, you find holy men, those are the prophets. People set apart the Levites and so forth. You find all kinds of things. You see the temple is the holy place. It's a place set apart for God's worship. You see, even the things in the temple, the the bread and all of these things, these common elements but they're set apart to God. So holiness at its core means to be set apart or consecrated to God. God in his nature is pure or holy, and he requires his children to reflect that moral purity or that holiness in their behavior. 1 Peter 114 through 17 puts it this way. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. So if we look at this passage, we'll notice that God is referred to as the holy one who called you. It then goes on to say, you shall be holy in all of your conduct. So the question naturally arises is why does God's holiness necessitate our holiness? Because that's the connection in the text, right? God is holy who called you, so you be holy. But again, why does God's holiness require our holiness? There's many things that God has that we don't have, right? God is omnipotent, but we're not God is infinite, but we're finite. So why does God's holiness require our holiness? Well the answer to this question is found in The beginning of verse 14 and the end of verse 17. Again, the passage begins with saying, as obedient children do not be conformed. And in the passage in the middle of verse 17, God is called our Father. The relationship being described here is a familiar one. It's that of a father and a son. As children of God, we are called to properly image our Father, Father God. And if you think about it, this has really been our calling from the very beginning When you first open the book, the Bible, it starts in Genesis, and we hear these words, Genesis 1. So God created man in his own image And the image of God he created him. Male and female he created them. So as image-bearers of God, we are to properly image God. That is to reflect His character and His person. But have we done this? Did Adam do this? No, of course not. He fell into sin. Have we done this as children of Adam? Well, let's see what Roman says. Roman says The name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles because of you. So as image bearers of God, we have failed to represent God. Instead, we blaspheme the name of God. When we fail to properly represent God, we distort the image of Him. Imagine if all we knew about God was what we saw in others. What would we think about God? Will we not think of God as selfish, slanderous, backbiting, arrogant, inconsiderate, cruel, lustful, proud? Would we not think of God in every shade of wickedness? And why? Why would we think of God in that way? Because do we not find these characteristics not only in our neighbor, but do we not find these characteristics in our very self? Jesus said, For out of the heart comes evil thoughts, murders, adultery, sexual immorality, theft, false witness, and slander. That's what's in our hearts That's what's down there. And out of that heart, out of that sin in our hearts, comes forth sin in our actions. Jesus said That you have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder, and whoever murders will be liable to the judgment. But I say to you, whoever is angry with his brother has murdered him in his heart. And whoever insults his brother is liable to the judgment. And whoever says you fool will be liable to the fires of hell. So Jesus clearly goes to the heart. Not just the action. Out of the heart is the overflow of our actions. Paul describes man in his fallen nature in this way. Both Jews and Greeks are under sin, as it is written, none is righteous, no not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become worthless. No one does good. Not even one. Their throat is an open grave. They use their tongue to deceive. They use the venom of as under their lips Their mouth is full of curses and bitterness. Their feet are swift to shed blood. In their past are ruin and misery. And the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. So as these scriptures demonstrate, man is wicked, he is fallen, and he is totally dead in his sins. The image of God in man has been maimed and distorted. What was once beautiful has now become ugly. What was once very good, declared by God, has now become very bad. But thanks be to God for Jesus Christ, the ultimate Son of God, the one who was both fully God and fully man. He has done what we could not do. He has perfectly imaged God. John 1 says, No one has ever seen God, the only begotten, that's a reference to Jesus, the only begotten God, who is at the Father's side, has made him known. So, how do we know the character of the Father perfectly? How do we come to know it? By looking at Jesus Christ. He's the one who's made known the Father. In John 14, Philip says this to Jesus: Lord, show us the Father, and it is enough for us. Jesus said to him, Have I been with you so long, and you still do not know me, Philip? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. How could Jesus say this? Whoever has seen me has seen the Father. And he's not saying that he is the Father. Okay? We believe in eternity, one God, three persons. So the Son is not the Father, but he's saying if you see me, you have seen the Father, because Jesus perfectly represents the Father. We can see the characteristics of the Father in Jesus. We see love and kindness and holiness and righteousness. All of those things we see in Jesus Christ. Colossians 1, this is not, I'm trying to show you that this is not just one passage. The whole Bible is constantly giving us this idea that as we look at Jesus, we see The Father. Colossus I describes Jesus as the image of the invisible God. One of God's characteristics is his invisibility. No one has ever seen God, and if someone says they have, they're not telling you the truth. That no one has ever seen God. At best, they've seen a theophany. They've seen a representation of God, but no one can see God in his full essence. But yet, Jesus is the image of that which cannot be seen, of the invisible God. I like what 2 Corinthians says In their case, the God of this world, that is the devil, has blinded the minds of unbelievers. Why or how To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. What's so lovely about the scripture is it's so much packing here What you have here is the devil trying to keep something from unbelievers, from them seeing something. And what is that thing that he's trying to keep them from seeing? The light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. Keeping them from seeing the beauty of Christ and his glory. That is really what salvation is. Right? Sometimes we say, do you believe in Christ? Which is obviously appropriate. But sometimes we should say, have you seen the glory of Christ? Have you come to taste that the Lord is good? And so what is this glorious light of the gospel of Christ? At the end of that verse it says, who is the image of God? So to taste and see the beauty of Christ and his gospel is to see God Himself. Finally, Hebrews 1 describes Jesus as. The radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature. And what's being an with the analogy that's being described here is of the Son. Okay? The radiance it's the sun and how do we experience the sun? We experience the sun out there by its radiance, by its rays. That's how we see it And that's just like Jesus Christ. He is the radiance of the glory of God, the exact imprint of his nature. All of these passages demonstrate That to behold Jesus is to behold the Father, because Jesus perfectly images him. This is why when we look at Jesus, we know what the Father looks like. We can know the character and the person of God because the revelation of God has become a person in the incarnation, the very person of Jesus Christ. John 1 says, In the beginning was the Word And the word was with God. And the word was God. He was in the beginning with God. And they're jumping down a Verse 14 it says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth The word of God, the revelation of God, the wisdom of God has become a person And that's the person of Jesus Christ and dwelt among us. And we have beheld his glory. Glory as the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. But as we think of Jesus and his sonship, we should remember that Jesus is not the only Son of God. He is the only begotten Son of God. He is the only one who shares in the very nature of God, as the confession says, light of light, God of God. But we are also sons of God. We know this because the Bible declares, But all who did receive him, who believed in his name. He gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. So this text tells us That Jesus gives us the right or power to become children of God. True children of God. We're not false children of God. We're not like children of God. No, we are children of God. When we receive Him and believe in His name. The process of going from a child of the devil to becoming a child of God is referred to as being born again according to the will of God. This is what we usually categorize as his spiritual regeneration or being born again. Jesus describes this more fully when he says Truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Nicodemus said to him, How can a man be born when he is old? Can he enter a second time into his mother's womb and be born? Jesus answered, Truly, truly, I say to you, unless one is born of water and the Spirit, he cannot enter the kingdom of God. That which is born of flesh is flesh, and that which is born of spirit is spirit. So we see from this that nobody can enter the kingdom of God unless they have been born again. And this being born again is not merely an analogy. It is likened to being born of the flesh. Just as we come truly in the flesh as people, so we become children of God truly born of the Spirit. cryptic and and kind of difficult phrase unless one is born of water and the spirit. There's several ways to take this. Some take it as synonymous, that which is born of water. Being the spirit, the water and the spirit are describing the same work. Others might probably lean toward this interpretation, is that the water there refers to the amniotic fluid Even today with our scientific technology we still say the woman's water has broke. And that's the definite sign of birth. You ever been when a baby's born, it's wet. Because there's all that amniotic fluid. So being born of water will be a reference to being of natural birth. And being born of the spirit will be that regeneration, that God taking that heart of stone and putting in that heart of flesh. When God does this, we are truly children of God. But at the same time, we need to remember that we are simultaneously saints and sinners And as such, we can never fully image God the way that Jesus Christ does. Jesus Christ is the perfect image of God in man. But we cannot. But our failure to perfectly image God does not mean that we cannot image God at all. And also doesn't mean that we can image God in whatever way that we want. Rather, we are to image God as obedient children. Friends, do we realize that we are the only Bible that many people will ever read? Gandhi once said, I like your Christ, but I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike You're Christ. So the question is, would Gandhi say that about us? Or more importantly, would our unbelieving family, friends, co-workers, and neighbors say this about us? Do they even know that we're Christians? Are we so like our sinful neighbors that they don't see anything different about us Jesus said, You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket. But on a stand, and it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light so shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Are we letting our light shine? Or are we doing what this, what Jesus says is kind of silly, is lighting a lamp and putting it under basket? And what what by the way what would happen if you light a lamp and put it under a basket? The basket will catch fire, right? And the whole house will burn down. And that's really the truth, the same thing when we hide our light. The only person who really gets hurt is is you. You're the only person who doesn't get to take part in what God has planned for your life. The question is, do we have any good works Like Jesus said, that would be the light shine before others. Do we have any good works so that people may see our good works and give glory to our Father who is in heaven? If we do not, we need to repent. Peter tells us Who commands us to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions, drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to these, they are surprised that you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery, and they malign you. So the question naturally arises is, have we ever been maligned for our conduct? Does anyone think us strange? Do we refuse to do anything that our godless culture says is normal? Because isn't that what Peter tells us that that's our lives, right? Our lives should be the fact that people find it strange, that we're not doing these things. So that if we're not if no one's finding it strange, then there's something maybe wrong Recall that our culture, as godless as it is, always tries to make evil normal and holiness strange. Jesus warns us, you are the salt of the earth, but if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out. And trampled under people's feet. Let Jesus' warning here be serious to us. Let us not be useless salt, despised, and trampled by men. And if you really think about it, how can salt lose its taste? It really doesn't make any sense. Salt cannot lose its taste unless it's in fact not salt at all. So when we are, we're called to be salt of the earth because that's who we are. And if we are children of God, we will not fail to be salt. Sometimes we'll be less salty than others But we need to remember that our calling is to be salt. Otherwise, we're good for absolutely nothing except to be trampled under people's feet. So we see here that our calling as children of God is a great calling and a wonderful calling, but it is also a calling of great responsibility. We've mostly looked at the great responsibility. Let's look at a passage that speaks of our calling as a great and glorious calling. We find this in First John, it says, See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God, and so we are. We glory in this, right? That we are children of the King. We should glory in this reality. But at the same time as we praise God, we actually have a song. This verse has been made into a beautiful song At the same time as we glorify God and thank God that we have this great calling to be children of God, we need to again remember that with this great calling comes great responsibility. Peter tells us, what's the great responsibility? To be obedient children. Peter, again, from the passage that we quoted earlier, tells us, as obedient children, do not be conformed to the passion of your former ignorance But as he who called you was holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct. So as children, we are not just to be bad children, but obedient children Just as you tell your children to honor your mother and father, we need to honor our heavenly father by doing his will, by imaging him properly. Therefore, our call to be holy is intimate, as we could see now, that our call to be holy is intimately connected with us being children of God and being image-bearers of God. Those are not separate things, but they are really one. So let me stop here and ask if there's any questions, comments, concerns, or inputs on on this idea of or anything I'm talking about with this idea of that we are to be true sons of God, imaging God in our lives and in our conduct. Okay. I'll keep going. Just want to remind you all that I strongly believe that coverage is the enemy of all learning. We're not just trying to press through stuff, right? But we're trying to uh to to learn and to be edified and and you all have the Holy Spirit as well. So please feel free to make any comments or concerns Okay. So now let's continue on and look at how else the Bible speaks about our holiness or sanctification. We've thus far seen the connection of holiness with us being children of God and image-bearers of God. But now let's look at how else the Bible speaks of that. So the term sanctification and holiness are synonymous terms. They actually are translated from the same Greek word. The Greek word is hagiasmos And this uh this word hagiasmas is related to the word for holy, which is hagias. And so they're very similar to the word, the English word holy and holiness. You can see that same root word is the foundation. And so the what I'm trying to get here is that when you see in your Bible, you see the word sanctification or holiness, you need to recognize that that's not talking about two different things. That's only talking about one thing It's just the way that the our English language works is we don't really have a word for holyfication. It's not a word. I want to coin that word, but my wife told me that it's an ugly word, and so we're just gonna keep with the word sanctification But when I use the word sanctification, I want you to continue to keep in mind that what I'm speaking about and what the Bible speaks about is being made holy. Sanctification is the process of being sanctified or the process of being holy. So the Bible talks about three types of sanctification, and it's going to be very important that we keep these categories separate. The first type of sanctification is known as positional sanctification, the second, progressive sanctification, and the last sanctification. Final sanctification. So let's look at this and pack this one at a time. Positional sanctification is us being set apart by the Holy Spirit and placed into Christ. Based on this new relationship, we are reckoned as holy on the merits of Christ. We see positional sanctification spoken of in the Bible in passages like 1 Peter 1, verses 1 and 2. Peter, this is what it says. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who are elect exiles of the dispersion in Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithonia, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. In the sanctification of the Spirit, for obedience to Jesus Christ, and for sprinkling with his blood. We see in this passage that Peter speaks of us as Christians, as elect exiles. We are chosen according to heaven and we're exiled according to the earth. Now again, we have to ask ourselves, whenever we look at scripture, we're not just trying to grab data, but we're trying to let it pierce our hearts. If Paul, if Peter speaks of us as these living, these exiles on the earth, we must ask ourselves, are we living as exiles? Are we living as permanent residents or citizens of the world? Have we made peace with the earth? Are we trying to be cool in the world's eyes? Are we trying to be successful? Is our main game and our main plan for our children their success in the world's eyes? Or is it them coming to Jesus Christ? Is the world our source of joy and entertainment If it is, we do need to repent. It ought not to be this way. We are to consider ourselves aliens and exiles to the world. And they should likewise view us this way. So back to our text. Peter calls us both exiles and elect. Our election is by God and is according to two reasons, and it is purpose for two reasons. It is in accordance with the foreknowledge of God the Father. And the sanctification of the Spirit and its purpose for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood The foreknowledge of God here refers to God's omniscience. God knows the end from the beginning. He is the Alpha and the Omega. God knows us and He knows all things. God knows us better than we know ourselves. The heart of man is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. God can see through all of it. He can see through the miraj, the counterfeit, the hypocrisy, he can see us perfectly as we are in our sin. But despite the fact that God saw us More wicked than we see ourselves, God still decided to choose us as this object of grace. And what did He do this? From the foundation of the world. So when he chose us, he chose us before time, but this choosing before time had to come about in time And this was accomplished by the next statement, in the sanctification of the Spirit. This is the Spirit at a moment of time coming upon a person and taking the heart of stone and replacing it with a heart of flesh. This is that positional sanctification. Right? Someone who's wicked, someone who's in Adam, now being placed in Christ. Ezekiel 36 speaks of it this way And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. Paul tells us that there is only one body of Christ, 1 Corinthians 12. For just as the body is one and has many members, and all the members of the body, though many, are one body, so it is with Christ. For in one spirit we are all baptized into one body, Jews or Greeks, slaves or free, we're all made to drink of one spirit. What's Paul talking about? Paul's saying that in Christ there's only one body. This one body of Christ. And how do we get into that one body? By the Spirit baptizing us. This is one of the reasons I'm Baptist, because baptism means immersion. It doesn't make sense if you say sprinkling. But the spirit is baptizing us or immersing us or dipping us into that one body of Christ. Christ. And so that we are no longer owned, but part of that one body joined with all other believers. And of course, the head of that body is Jesus Christ And that's what we're talking about, positional sanctification. Your position of being in Christ makes you holy The fullest description of this positional sanctification can probably be found in Ephesians chapter 2. Here's what it says And you were dead in trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work and the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of Christian. Mankind. So this is our connection with Adam, right? That we all, that's why we need to be born again. Because we all had this sinful life and this connection with Adam and were going after evil things. So what what is God going to do? Verse 4. But God being rich in mercy, because of the love in which he loved us, Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved, and raised us up with raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So you see the transfer. We're dead in our sins, but God takes us and places us in Christ And so now in Christ, by some spiritual and mystical union, when he dies, we die. And when he rises, we rise. And even when he ascends, we ascend with him. The connection is all the way through. Now, this this is why we say that we are dead, but our life is hidden with Christ. We have that connection. Just as we had that connection with Adam, so we have that connection with Jesus Christ. And this is really the whole meaning of our baptism. Romans 6 says, Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized, immersed into Christ, were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness. of life. This is what baptism means. When someone's being baptized, they're saying, I am a believer in Jesus Christ. I am connected with Him. Just as He died, I died. Just as He rises, I rise. That's why only believers should be baptized. And this is also why all believers should be baptized. To not baptize a believer is sinful and wrong because we're not symbolizing the reality that's already made Baptism isn't accomplishing anything, it's symbolizing the spiritual reality and the connection. By the way, this text, after I meditated on this text and was pointed out by others, is also why Christians should not be baptized more than one time Because we only die with Christ once, and we only rise with Him one time. Our physical baptism is merely corresponding to the spiritual realities that are happening in the background. So now based on our new relationship with Christ, being in Christ, when God looks at us, he sees the merit of his son. We are washed clean, we are declared holy, and our case has been dismissed. The devil can no longer accuse you. If you're familiar with Zechariah, there's this figure of Joshua, the priest, and the devil's accusing him because he has these dirty garments, right? And the Lord rebukes him. And that's really the same thing. We are that same figure of Joshua with the dirty garments. And the Lord rebukes Satan. He has no longer any case against us. He removes our filth and puts on the robes of Jesus. Christ. So now when God sees us, he sees the righteousness of Christ. This is what we talk about when we talk about positional sanctification. You were declared sanctified based on your position in Christ. God has delivered us from the dominion of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Our identity is now found in Christ. Christ. We have died to the old man and we are alive in Christ. Peace with God has been accomplished, and we have been justified before God. As new creations in Christ, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works which he has appointed beforehand that we might walk in them. And so now in this new relationship with Christ, Paul tells us, in Christ, God has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. There is no better place in the world than to be in Christ. What are some of these spiritual blessings that God has blessed us in? Peter tells us we are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people of his own possession. God sees us as these wonderful and beautiful creatures that He has redeemed. And we are these vessels of grace that glorify God. And all of this is found based on our positional sanctification found in Jesus Christ. So that's positional sanctification. So what's the other two? The next is progressive sanctification. And we see this found in 1 Peter 1 2 again, but the latter part, we are elect according to the full knowledge of God the Father. We saw that in the sanctification of the Spirit. Positional sanctification, for obedience to Jesus Christ and for sprinkling with his blood. Our call to personal holiness is what we think of when we speak of position uh progressive sanctification. This is being more and more transformed into the image of God. We call it progressive sanctification, that word progressive because we're constantly going from one state of glory to another. It's progressive. One state. Paul puts it this way. We all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. We're on the way. Some people say, be patient with me. God is still at work here. That's progressive sanctification. We're not perfect, we're not perfected, but we're still being transformed one step at a time. 1 Thessalonians 4. 3 speaks of this sanctification when God says, for this is the will of God, our sanctification. That you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. That no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is the avenger of all of these things. As we told you beforehand, and solemnly warn you, for God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this, disregards not man but God who gives this Holy Spirit to you So clearly here, sanctification is equated with abstaining from sexual immorality, which is controlling one's body in honor and in holiness, not in the passion of lust, like godless Gentiles who are ignorant of God. This is not traditional sanctification, right? This is progressive sanctification. This is something not this is something that we're commanded to do. We're commanded to live this out God's will for our life is our sanctification, is for us to live holy and upright lives. Now, the it's it's I think it's going to be interesting or important To contrast positional sanctification with progressive sanctification. Positional sanctification, again, that's the connection of us in Christ, can be thought of as an indicative. You don't need to be commanded Unless you're not a believer, then you need to be commanded to get in Christ. But once you're in Christ, that's a reality that's already been accomplished in you. But positional sanctification is an imperative. You are commanded to be holy. For this is the will of God, your sanctification. One can be thought of as a command, and another can be thought of as a present reality. So the final category of sanctification is final sanctification. This is when a believer will be made perfect in Christ, and this is the completion of progressive sanctification. Christians and this life are always on the way. God is always at work with us. We always can become more and more holy. Right? We've never arrived. You should never say, aha, now I am as holy as I ought to be. No, we always have more sin to be killing. But this process will eventually come to an end and we'll be finally sanctified. We'll be finally made into the image of Christ. We hear about this in Romans 8. This is what it says. For those whom he foreknew, he also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. Now it's important to see what he's saying. He didn't say To those whom he foreknew, he predestined to be saved. Somebody said. He said to those whom he foreknew, he predestined to become uh to be conformed to the image of his son. Now what I'm here's what I'm saying I'm not saying to be conform to the image of his son already implied that the person is saved. No wicked reprobate who ultimately ends up in hell will ultimately be conformed to the image of his son But to simply swap out that phrase in our mind to say, predestine them to be saved, is missing the point. God not only predestined you to be saved, but he predestined you to be completely conformed to the image of his Son. That is to be completely glorified. All the sin wiped away. And so that you will reflect perfectly the image of Jesus Christ. And if you perfectly represent Jesus Christ, you perfectly represent the Father. Because we saw that. The Son perfectly represents the Father. Hebrews, I love what Hebrew says. Hebrews gives us this wonderful description of heaven. And we're going to look at this little last little part that doesn't always get too much of attention. Hebrews says, But you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who is enrolled in heaven And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. Who are these spirits Again, you have come to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. Sort of referring to believers Right? As Augustine said, the city of God. The city of God has, of course, the God, the triune God there. It has all of these angels, and it has the spirits of men made perfect. This is a little Bible trivia, this is a fun fact. Uh this is the only time in the New Testament where humans are called spirits Usually when you see the word spirit, well there's a debate about this in other text, but that's a different issue. Um this is the only clear-cut example of where spirits referred to humans because this is disembodied people They're their body they're they're no longer they're dead, right? They no longer have their body, they're waiting for resurrection. And so what this is telling us is when we die to live as Christ is and to die as again, the and and we when we die we go to be with the Lord It's saying at that moment we will be perfected. Now the challenge of this though, the complexity, is When we usually think of glorification, we think about the resurrection. When our body is resurrected and we get the new glorified body. And that probably is the final form of glorification. Because now we have perfect bodies, we have perfect souls. Okay? What I'm trying to what I'm trying to illustrate here is that our sinlessness, our sinless perfection of our inward man, actually happens at our death. And that's when we go to be with God, and we will be, as the text says, spirits of the righteous made perfect. So we have again the three forms of sanctification. Positional sanctification being declared holy based on our union with Christ. Progressive sanctification, and this is when we believe, right? When we believe, we're positionally sanctified. Progressive sanctification is becoming more and more like Christ. This describes the entire span of our life here on earth on mission for Jesus Christ. And then final sanctification has really two parts. When we go and die and be with the Lord as spirits, our spirits are made perfect, completely cleansed from sin. And then we wait for the resurrection of our body, and now our body is made perfect and we're completely united, just like Jesus Christ is. Because right now he has both spirit and body. So how important is it to not confuse these three categories? I mean, is this just, you know, just interesting theological terminology, or is this really important? I think it's of absolute importance. I think that the gospel itself is at stake if we confuse these categories. Or, at least, we have serious doctrinal error, and every lie hurts people. If we confuse positional sanctification with progressive sanctification, Paul has these words for us. You who are trying to be justified by the law have been severed from Christ. You have fallen away from grace. Here's what I'm saying. If you think that your progressive sanctification, that you working, you being more and more holy, abstaining from sexual immorality, you know, doing these good works Is what makes you positionally sanctified, what makes you uh declared righteous before God, you have lost the gospel. You have fallen into that heresy of the Galatians who think that they could add works to their salvation. Interestingly enough, the Galatians only wanted to add a few words. They only wanted to add circumcision and uh you know obeying a few of the the ceremonial laws. How much worse for us if we want to add all of our acts of obedience, our quiet time, or showing up to church, or reading the Bible, or mim or church scripture memorization. If we want to add all of that to what makes us right before God, we have truly lost the gospel. And we fall into damnable heresy. Galatians 1 tells us this. I'm astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Not that there is another one, but there are some who trouble you and want to distort the gospel of Christ. But even if we or an angel from heaven should preach to you a gospel contrary to the one we preach to you, let him be accursed. As we have said before, so now I say again, if anyone is preaching to you a gospel contrary to the one you received, let him be So clearly here Paul does not see this as a small, interesting theological discussion. This is deadly serious, right? The gospel of Jesus Christ is that for by grace you have been saved through faith. And not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Not of works, so that no one may boast. We are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ's work alone. Based on our association with Christ in belief, that's how we are declared righteous. So we absolutely cannot confuse these categories. Now, that that's a real dangerous one confusing positional sacrification with Progressive sanctification. But there's another issue that we can have. We can confuse progressive sanctification for final sanctification And that too is very deadly. Because if we do that, we'll be brought down to the depth of despair or disillusionment. If you go around and thinking that you can just let go and let God and that you will no longer struggle with sin, this is very problematic for you. Because you'll be confused by the fact that as you're walking through life and you're struggling with sin, you'll start to question if you're really saved. If the Christian life is completely bringing free of sin and you're dealing with sin, what does that say about you Well, it's reasonable for you to conclude that you're not Christian. Right? And again, you're no longer clinging on to Christ. You're clinging on to your ability to squash the temptation of sin And again, that is that is absolutely deadly. We don't want to confuse those two things. It is the common experience for Christians to struggle with sin. When we think about our Lord's Prayer. And I hate to say this, but it's even the common experience of Christians to fall into sin. Right? And that's why we have in the Lord's Prayer, forgive us of our debts, as we also forgive our debtors. When I pray that in the morning, I say to God, God, forgive me of any sins that I am going to commit. Not that I want to commit those sins, but I recognize that I'm going to commit those sins. And I'm asking God to forgive me. And I love the Lord's Prayer there, and forgive us as we forgive our debtors I always have to remember the reason I'm to be a forgiving person, blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy, right? The reason I'm to be a forgiving person is I constantly need forgiveness. So we never need to think that we're going to be this sinless perfection on this life. We don't want to think that that's not the common experience. Christians struggle with sin. We struggle and we wrestle against it and we repent. Unbelievers don't struggle with sin. The other problem, and we confuse progressive sanctification with final sanctification, is if you actually talk to some of these people, sometimes they're not disillusioned, and sometimes They have this new definition of sin. So sin basically becomes gross and willful disobedience to a known law of God So sin only now becomes the gross sin, murdering people, committing adultery, that kind of stuff, right? And so then the other sins that they really need to repent of aren't sins anymore, and so that they can believe that they are living finals finally sanctified and perfect lives. And this is terrible too, because Psalm 19 says, Who can disown his errors? Declare me innocent from hidden faults. Again, we need to constantly be repenting people. Martin Luther said that the Christian life is a life of repentance. Right? As we look at our lives, you know, we we need to constantly recognize that we're still people at work. We're still people who need a transformation. It's easy to be proud. Yes, my life is uh dedicated to Jesus Christ. But then we remember, no, I'm a sinner. And actually that very thought is sinful. Because it's not fully dedicated to Jesus Christ, and I need to give myself more and more to Jesus Christ. John warns of this heresy of thinking that we can currently be finally sanctified in this life John says, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. Very serious. We need to recognize that we still have sin. Now again, I need to clarify. What I'm not saying is if you are struggling in gross and unrepentant sin, that you should be comfortable in that sin, you should not You should recognize that in Christ you have the ability and the capability to conquer that sin in your life. So I'm not saying that you should just be comfortable in your sin. What I am saying is As you continue to struggle against sin, as you continue to peel back the onion and see more and more deeper and deeper layers of sin, you should not go into despair and say, I am not a believer. But you should recognize that all believers struggle with this. Let me say another note about this If you recognize that no believer will be fully sanctified in this life, you should give your neighbor some slack. Okay. You should recognize that the person that your neighbor, who's not perfectly sanctified, is also a fellow sinner as you. And so we shouldn't be going around being extra-judgmental among believers. When we see sin in believers, we shouldn't be shocked. We should pray for them, love on them, and recognize that they too need mercy, like we need mercy. So the next two lessons that we're going to have on holiness, we're going to primarily zone in on progressive sanctification. Again, this is what we normally think of when we talk about sanctification. Okay. And again, the the give you that late that um where we're going, we're going to talk about the necessity of progressive sanctification. Without holiness, no one will see the Lord. But as I do that, and I try to hit that hard, please no one think that I'm saying that we are saved by our obedience to the law. We're saved by Jesus Christ alone. Okay, but we need to keep that tension. Those who God justifies are those who God sanctifies. The same spirit that placed you in Christ is the same spirit that leads you in Christ. And will lead you in good works. Likewise, as I say that we need to kill sin and we need to live that holy life. Please no one think that I'm suggesting that any sin in your life means that you're an unbeliever or that you will not see the Lord. No. We need to keep pressing on and keep following Christ and letting him lead us as we kill sin in our lives. Right? We can conquer sin. Not perfectly. We can conquer sin. And we can continue to let the Holy Spirit root out the wickedness We can be holy. We can be a holy people. So let me stop here and ask if there's any questions, comments, concerns, inputs Anything anybody would like to add? Okay. So let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that um we thank you for the work of Christ. We thank you that the responsibility to perfectly image you Something that we could never do has been fulfilled by Jesus Christ. We thank you that when we look at the person of Jesus, we can know who you are and know how you love and know how you hate sin. God I ask that we would be people who would trust in what you've done and what you've done alone. That we would not seek to confuse these categories, that we would not think seek to think that are imperfect good works in any way lead to our salvation, we would rest alone in Jesus Christ. God I also ask that you would help us to remember that we can conquer sin, but we'll always be repenting people. And that struggling with sin is no disqualification of being a believer. I pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.