So this is a second of the three classes, and today we're going to talk about holiness required. So just a brief recap last time. We talked about the the broad picture of holiness, right? And and the points that I tried to bring out was that from Genesis 1-1, when we're created in the image of God throughout the entire Bible That the concept of being in the image of God, being a child of God, reflecting God, is intimately connected with holiness. So as image bearers of God We are being restored and transformed into Christ, who's the ultimate image-bearer of God, who ultimately represents him. And as such we are called to represent him. That was the first part. The second part, we're talking about the three different types of holiness. or sanctification. We have positional sanctification. That's you being in Christ, right? And reckoned as holy based on his merits We have progressive sanctification, us being, as we're in Christ, us being transformed more and more into Christ. Right? It's not a legal fiction. Right, what God does, he declares you is righteous, and he's going to be working in you to produce righteousness. But that working in you doesn't justify you. It's a result of your justification. That's progressive sanctification. And then we saw final sanctification. That is you being transformed into the image of his son. What God created you to be in Genesis 1-1, He will complete in Revelation chapter 23. Right? So that's that's the big picture. So today we're going let me back up a little bit. Again, we talked about the importance of getting these uh categories straight. I'm going to be pressing you just about why you need to be holy. That's what we're going today. But I don't want anyone to think that I'm suggesting that that need for holiness means that you're working for your salvation. No. Positional sanctification. You are holy based on Christ. We're going to talk about what that means for your life now. Also don't want anyone to be brought into despair to say, I struggle, therefore I'm not a Christian. No. You will struggle on this side of eternity. Right? And your final sanctification is not after this conference or after this lesson, but after you die and be with the Lord. Okay? So let's not get that confused. So again, today we're going to be looking at the necessity of holiness or sanctification. We're going to be trying to determine whether or not it we actually need to be holy. Is holiness an option? Now, unfortunately, this is a lively debate among Christians. It shouldn't be. The scriptures are very clear about this But nevertheless, there are people who profess Jesus Christ and will say that holiness is an option. But it's not Hebrews twelve fourteen says, strive for the peace with everyone, and for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. See that? Strive for the holiness without which no one will see the Lord. You know, I've actually heard people try to say that this is positional sanctification? That this is your sanctification in Christ? You say strive for this. No, no. This is remember what we said. That the positional sanctification is an indicative. You don't strive for that. You are holy. Okay? You're not striving for that. You have that in Christ. The imperative is to be holy, right? To be holy. It's that command. In fact, if you just read the whole book of Hebrews, what's the whole book of Hebrews about? Don't apostatize. Keep falling after Christ. Run after him. If you fall away, you're done, right? This is clearly talking about positional sanctification So our main text this morning is going to be Matthew chapter 7. So please open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 7. Verse uh 15 through 23. That's Matthew chapter 7, verse 15 through 23. I begin reading. Beware of false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes, or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And cast out demons in your name? And do many mighty works in your name? And then I would declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. I would have to say that to me, this is one of the scariest scriptures in all of the Bible. I don't stand alone in that. The late great R. C. Sproul said the same. And we're going to examine why. So our passage begins in verse 17 with a warning of these false prophets. But where are the false prophets? Are they out there? No. They're in the middle of the flock. The flock of God. That's scary stuff. One of the things that is so wonderful about Jesus is that he was a realist. I heard a lot of you guys say, let's keep it real. Jesus was the ultimate one who kept it real. Right? He told it how it was. And he never should have coated things. He told it just the way it was. What's interesting is this is one of the biggest Jeremiah 31, 31. Right? This is one of the biggest changes between the old covenant and new covenant. Now the people of God would be pure. No longer would they have to say to your neighbor, know the Lord. But yet we find this passage, right? We would think that what that meant was that now the people of God would all be elect and all the unbelievers would be out there. But then Jesus right here tells us what? That there will be false prophets in our midst. So even though the New Covenant community is a community full of the elect, God in his sovereignty was going to allow false prophets to get in. Now notice I keep saying false prophets, because that's what our text says. What's a prophet? It's a leader. This is scary stuff. This isn't like the scrub. This isn't like the guy that you know, yeah, I know that guy, I don't trust that guy at all. This is the leader. These are the people that you look up to Right? I actually had the privilege of I have a good friend of mine back in my church and he he gave me this document about all the church he's like he's like saying it's just angels oh God And he gave me his doctrine, all the churches that he had been to, right, and the reason he had left. And it was interesting reading the reason he had left. And several of them said something like, personal sin. Personal sin. But you know, I didn't that doesn't surprise me. What surprised me was how many said Pastor Sen. Pastor Sen over and over again. And as I talk to you guys and I ask you about your church, what happened? Often I will hear Pastor had an affair. Passive sent. Passive became a heritage. So forth and so on, right? This is a real reality in the body of Christ. There are false believers among us. There are false prophets. And that's some serious stuff. stuff. And they're not just, like I said, not just the guy who's obviously uh not true believer that you suspected the whole time. Sometimes it's the very leadership themselves. Think about Jude, uh, excuse me, uh Judas. Judas. I love it when they say, when Jesus says, one of you will betray me And I think somehow we get in our minds, everyone's pointing at Jesus, like, yeah, that guy. That guy, he couldn't cast out any demons, that guy was a dud the whole time. No. They probably were thinking about Matthew. Right? That guy, I know Matthew, like tax collector guy. I told you never to bring that guy in here. Right? They never thought about Jude. So what I'm saying is this is some very very scary stuff because it means that there are people in the flock of God, maybe even people among us Who think that they're a believer, but they're truly not a believer. Jude speaks of these people as ones who have crept in unnoticed. And by the way, this is the difference between the old covenant and new covenant, right? One of the differences. These people have crept in unnoticed. They came in the door claiming they were a believer, but truly their hearts were deceived. They don't have real membership among us. Hopefully they will get saved. Paul warns of these people And uh to the Ephesian elders with these words. This is in Acts chapter 20. Don't turn in. I'm just going to read it. Acts chapter 20. Pay careful attention to yourselves and all the flock. in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers to care for the Church of God, which he obtained with his own blood. That's good stuff. What does he say next? I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. From among your own selves will it rise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after them That's really some silly stuff, right? Not only does Jesus say it, but here Paul seems to be reflecting on that Jesus saying and saying, Among you, who 's he talking to? He's talking to the elders Among your very selves, I fear that there will be ferocious wolves that will come and not spare the flock. This idea that there will be wolves among the flock is a very real reality, and it is very scary. These are leaders who pretend to be believers or to be an example to the sheep, but their true nature is not that of a sheep, but a ferocious wolf. Jesus as the master teacher uses this wonderful picture of the of a wolf wrapped in sheep's clothing, wandering around the people of God. We actually have a little a story. I think it's probably based on this. The little red riding hood. You all know the story, right? There's the wolf and eats grandma. And then puts on grandma's clothes. And then little granddaughter comes up, right? And I I just I get into that story. Because when I see that I'm just like, get out of there. That is not grandma. Okay? That's a wolf. You're gonna get eaten up. That's the same thing that's going on here. These are not sheep. These are in fact wolves. A biblical example of this will be Jacob's deception of Isaac. We all remember the story. Right here's Isaac. He's getting old. Right? He can't see very well. He thinks he's gonna die. He favors Esau. He had the prophecy, but he still favors Esau. That's his man. Right? That's a man's man right there He's out there cunting the game. He fills his belly with good food, right? I guess I guess that's what you need to please a man, right? I guess give him good steak. So what does he do? He's gonna die. He wants to bless his favorite son, his old son Esau. So he tells him, you know, go out there. Rebecca Yep. Rebecca, yeah. She she overhears, right? And is like, no, no, no. You gotta give it to Jacob. So they come up with this plan. And and the plan is to deceive the father, they get on the clothes of Esau, put on the goat skin, go in there and she's gonna cook up the good game, she's gonna season it real nice, make it think, you know, it's good steak but it's not, that kind of stuff stuff going on here. And they trickle. Right? But then Isaac, when he's when he's he's he's blind, but he's not dumb and he can hear. And he and he and he something's wrong. He hears the voice of Jacob, but he smells and feels the feeling of Esau The fact of the matter is that Jacob should um Isaac should have recognized Jacob. And so we too should recognize that no we are no these these wolves are no more sheep than Jacob was Esau. Okay. And there is, in fact, a crack in their armor. Jesus tells us that the disguise is good, but not perfect. We won't be able to recognize them by what their lips profess. They profess to be Christians, but we will be able to recognize them by the fruit in their lives. This is the crack of their armor, or this is the voice of Jacob And we need to be able to listen to it. Jesus gives this analogy. Are grapes gathered from thornbushes or fig tree or figs from thistles? What's the point Jesus is making here? It's that we instinctively know an uh a plant by the fruit that it produces, don't we? I 'll give you an example here. Imagine you go out there, right, and see this tree, and you look down, it has a little label that says lemon tree Right? But you look up and you see that there's apples. Which one of us would be so foolish to believe, oh look at that. I guess apple trees produce limits. You see you see anything? No one wanna work. They would recognize immediately that the label had been put on wrong. And so we too should recognize that if people claim to be Christian with their mouths, they got the they got the t-shirt, they got they got it all. They show up to church, they show up to men's conference, whatever, right? They lead devotion. but their life is completely devoid of Christianity and of any fruit. It's not charity to say that person's a Christian. No, that's foolishness. That's credulity. Christianity never tells you to put your mind in the basket. It tells you to liberate your mind and come into the light and use it for the glory of God John tells us this. This is the message, first John, this is the message we have heard from him and proclaimed to you that God is light. And in him there is no darkness at all. I'm going to pause there and make it a quick aside. This scripture is incredible, and one of the reasons it's incredible is if you ever are reading through the scriptures or you're tempted to think that God is evil, that God has is is wrong, and that this doctrine is casting an evil light on God, you should go back to the scriptures and recognize that in him there is no darkness at all. Your perception of God is wrong. God is not evil. God is pure always. But what's the point here? Look what he says. God is light, and in him there is no darkness. But then he goes on to say, and if we say we have fellowship with him while we walk in darkness, we lie and do not practice the truth. What's going on here? God is light. So if you're walking in darkness and saying God is my friend, he's right here with me. No, no. God has not walked into the darkness. You are deceiving yourself. And you are in fact a liar. This is not good. Notice that John does not say they are babes in Christ and have some growing to do. Notice that he does not say they are carnal Christians or they simply lack discipleship. He clearly and unequivocally says they are liars and they do not practice the truth. Now this is really not good, because the Word of God warns the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, here it is, and all liars, their portion will be in the lake That burns with fire and silver, which is the second death. Where is the destiny of the liar? It's not a little bit less rewards, right? This is the millennial kingdom or what however your eschatology is, and they're kind of down here at the superboy. No, no. They won't be there at all. They are liars, and their destiny is to be in the lake of fire Jesus tells us plainly, every healthy tree that bears good fruit, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. What Jesus is telling us is that the inward nature of the tree determined its outward fruit. Back to the lemon tree. Remember that? The inward nature of the tree determined the fruit that would have come off the tree And so if it's a truly good tree, it will produce good fruit. If it's a truly bad tree, it will produce bad fruit. Well consider Jesus' words. Again, every healthy tree bears good fruit, but a diseased tree bears bad fruit. Is this saying that no Christian could ever possibly sin? Of course not. Christians in fact still do sin. It's a good tree but not a perfect tree. Right? You have a good tree. I don't know if any of you guys are farmers, if you planted anything, but you don't go and and look at a plant and say, Oh bad fruit, cut it cut the thing down You give it some time, right? And you see what the product is consistently. Not just one bad apple and the whole thing, but if it consistently comes out with this rotten, nasty, disgusting fruit, the thing is gone. It's useless But if it's consistently coming out with good fruit and you've got a occasionally uh you know a bug comes in and then you've got to throw it off, it's still a good tree. This is talking about a life pattern of of of goodness or badness If we look at a tree and it's in a terrible condition, the tree is worthless and near to being cursed. Its end is to be burned. But again, we need to be patient with our assessment and look very closely at the tree. Some trees that look diseased at first, as you get closer and examine it, you start to see that there is new life coming in that tree. You need to be very careful not to condemn that truth, right? Don't go around condemning your fellow brother or condemning yourself. Look very closely. The plant may look like it's dying, but if you look more closely, green is coming in. God is still at work in that tree. He's transforming. Oftentimes God will take the prostitute, the sinner, the drug addict, whatever, right? They're way down there And God is working in their lives and moving them along. So don't judge quickly. Right? Likewise, sometimes the self-righteous looks real good. I have this little I have this book called the the the little picture bible, this big book I think it's called the Big Story Bible. Right? And it has this wonderful picture of Adam and Eve and they're taking the tree of the knowledge of good and evil and it looks really like a good fruit. But if you look real closely there's like this nasty disease part of it I don't think that's a truly accurate story. It probably looked perfectly good. But but the point is this the point is being the same, right? It looked good, but its true nature was disease. And so sometimes you'll see someone that looks really good on the outside mind, but as you look more closely you'll see the disease. Alright, so we do need to be careful and have careful expect um examination of these trees before we declare them good or bad, but once we get it time and once we have assessed correctly, we need to go with that assessment. Jesus gives a parable of this. He describes it this way. A man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and came seeking fruit on it, and found none. And he said to the vine dresser, Look, for three years now I have come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and I find none Cut it down. Why should it use up the ground? And he answered, Sir, let it alone this year also, until I dig around it and put on manure. Then if it should bear fruit next year, well and good. But if not, you can cut it down. See what's going on here? Patience Here's a tree that's been planted and taken care of for three years. And as they look for fruit, no fruit. First year. No fruit. Second year. No fruit. Third year. Okay? Patience is up. Time to cut this thing down. No. Patience is not up. God is long-suffering. What does God say? I'm going to continue to work on this tree. I have not given up on it. What I'm going to do is I'm going to give it extra care. I'm going to put manure. I'm going to work on this thing, right? But God's patience runs dry. It does. Right? God has two hands. He has one hand that beckons people to come, and another hand that holds down the wrath. But eventually, as appointed man wants to die, and after this the judgment. Eventually, both of those hands go down Right, and the wrath of God comes sweeping in. And so this person has this tree has been given plenty of time, but eventually, what does he say? Cut it down and throw it into the fire. This tree has proved itself to be false. All this goes to show that we should be patient and long-suffering with one another. But nevertheless, patience and charity has its limits. If that fig tree doesn't produce fruit after the fork tree, it is and after it's received all that special treatment from the vine dresser, it is to be cut down and thrown into the fire. Jesus says this emphatically. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruit. John the Baptist says something very similar to the religious folks of his day. We see this in Matthew chapter 3. Here's what he says. When he, John the Baptist, saw many of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Who are these? These are religious leaders Right? These are people that look really, really good. They put us to shame. They look real good on the outside. What is he saying? When he done the Baptist saw many of the Pharisees and the Sadducees coming To his baptism he said, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance, and do not presume to say To yourselves, we have Abraham as our father, for I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid at the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the lake of fire The religious folks of that day were tempted to rest on their Jewish heritage, the fact that they were related to Abraham, right, as their means of salvation. Most of us are Gentiles here. In fact, we're those rocks. that he was talking about that he could build children of Abraham from. Right? That's us. But the question is, what are we tempted to rest upon our salvation? Instead of Christ. Are we resting on our baptism? The fact that we said the sinner's prayer? Our church attendance? The fact that you post Christian things on Facebook? Your love of Calvinism? Your love for new covenant theology? What are you resting your hope on? If it's anything other than Jesus Christ, you have the same words that John the Baptist says. Do not rest on those strings If you rest on those things, you are leaning on a broken reed, and if you try to lean on that staff, it will pierce you in the hand. Both Jesus and John the Baptist's teaching are very clear. Unless your tree is bearing good fruit, you will be cut down and thrown into the fire. This text in Matthew chapter 3 is so was so instrumental in my life. This text is one of the texts that got me saved. Because when I read this, I recognized that I was definitely a bad tree. And the axe was laid at the root. And I recognized that that meant that I was going to be cut down and thrown into the fire. The fear of God came upon me. Hopefully you have experienced the same thing. My destiny was to be cut down and thrown into the everlasting flames where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. Have you come to see the flames? Have you come to recognize that your path was headed to hell and only Jesus Christ can save you? Now as we talk about the fear of the Lord, many people have kind of a knee-jerk reaction. They don't like to be afraid. Fear is like a bad thing. It's not a manly thing, right? Because men we don't fear. You should You should fear that which can hurt you. Right? Fear of the Lord is not a bad thing. Some of us also who are more theological kind of theologically try to wiggle out of some of this stuff, right? We redefine what fear doesn't mean fear anymore. Fear is something else Respect. Fear is respect, reverence, and all, isn't it? Well, you know, I'm not trying to bash that. In fact, the majority use of the Bible, it does mean that. But that's not all fear means. Fear does in fact mean fear as well. I'll give you just one example. Look what Jesus says in Matthew 10, 28. And do not fear those who kill the body, but cannot fear kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both soul and body. and health. There's no question, this is not this is not all respect. This is fear. We should fear him who can destroy both soul and body and hell and hell. That's not talking about Satan. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Psalm nineteen says, The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The fear of the Lord is a good thing. We should have fear of the Lord. We should recognize we should recognize that we are sinners and that we deserve hell and hell is a very real place that sinners do go. I had this fear of my uncle. I wasn't afraid of him. It was a real fear. It was respect. It was like a respect kind of fear. But it was like it was curious. And I explained it. Yeah. You know, it was like something both I say, I wonder if that's how it's looking, you know, it's kinda like, you know Yeah, there's both. Often it's a half-truth. That there is a very real theme in the Bible that our fear of the Lord is this sense of being in the presence of the Almighty. Woe is me. Right? That you just realize the greatness of it all. There is that very real real reality. But there's also fear of God and recognizing it is a fearful thing to fall in the hands of a living God. Right? And that is necessary. That is the necessary prerogative to become saved. Because guess what? You don't fear what you don't believe So if you believe God and you believe what he says about you, that you are a sinner, you will fear. Right? And you will run to him as your only hope and your only salvation. When you're saying that I 'm thinking about the Brian sometimes about the the picture of the the tape and how it was like you know the the holy holy you know when they were in there You see the image and when they had pulled the priest out, because he messed up or something, you know, he had to be dragged out. That to me when you see that picture That's a that's not a good thing. Because it goes back to this promise that they were they were faulty going in there, thinking they were right before God. a priest with an animal that he had it dragged out. That's a that's another fear that God is not something you can just, you know, tank with and kind of you know hide. He's gonna know you. Yeah. Yeah, God God is nothing to be messed with. God is glorious, He is awesome, He is loving, right? And we recognize we fear Him. And so what we do is we recognize that we can't stand before God in our sins. I give this analogy. Imagine a lot of people say, I want to see God. I would like God to show himself to me. No, you want to You absolutely would not want that. If you got into the presence of God, you would fully presence of God in your sin. Right? Because it's it's like imagine this. It's imagine going before the president or someone that you very well respect Right? Suppose you idolize. And imagine going there with no clothes on. You wouldn't want to be there. You would try to get out of there as fast as possible. But guess what? When we stand before God, we have no clothes on But God can see it all. And that's why we need the the clothing of Christ. We need to be wrapped in his robe. And then when we look at this robe, now I can be accepted, not because of myself, because he gave me his robe. Right? And this robe proves to me that I'm I'm part of the family. And now this fear has been covered with love. But fear is the foundation Right, we must first fear God. Fear is the beginning of the knowledge of God. Woe to the man who thinks he is either too righteous to go to hell or that hell is a mere joke. Remember Lot's son-in-law. When Lot warned them of the fire to come, what did they say? They jest. And they said, this man is jesting. But what happened? Lot left the city, and the city was consumed. They were in the city of destruction, and they did not know it. Back to our passage in Matthew. Matthew. Matthew says, Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven On that day many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name? Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness I would say these are probably some of the most fearful words in all of Scripture. Why? Because they come from Jesus Himself, who is the judge. Jesus tells us, the Father judges no one, but has given all judgment to the Son. So what 's the sun doing here? He's peeling back. This is so gracious. He's peeling back the judgment. And it's showing you what will happen to many people. Notice it says, many will say to me, Lord, don't think this is going to be a few people. This is a large group of people, and he's unveiling a conversation that will happen in the future. These people profess, the reason this is so scary, is these people profess to have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Notice they call him not just Lord, but Lord, Lord. These are people who think that they have a real personal relationship with Jesus Christ. They're not people who scoff at that. One time I was I was voting And I was I seen this guy and I was trying to evangelize him. I found out he was Catholic, we were talking back and forth, and eventually I asked him, Are you born again? Hey, I was born again? Crazy people I'm not born again. And I told him, Jesus said, unless you're born again, no one will enter the kingdom of heaven. And his mouth just drops. Right? Because the word of God convicted him. My point being is that's not this guy. This guy scoffed at the idea of being born again. He scoffed at the idea of having a personal relationship with Jesus Christ That's not him. He has his own problems. This is talking about someone who thinks that they do have a relationship with Jesus Christ. Let's look at their resume. Here's what they say. We prophesy in your name, and cast out demons in your name, and do many mighty works in your name. Notice the repetition of the phrase in your name. They're doing these things in the name of Christ. They prophesied in the name, cast out demons in your name, and did many mighty works in your name. This is an incredible list. How many of us have these have this kind of resume? I don't have this kind of resume. I've never cast out any demons. Maybe I've done a mighty work, probably not. This is some really good stuff. And yet, how does Christ respond to them? Then I will declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. He utterly denies them. They say, Lord, Lord, he says, I don't even know you. You are a worker of lawlessness, depart from me. Notice that he said that he never knew them. He does not say that I once knew you, but you then fell away. I never knew you. We know that those who actually do know the Lord are secure in Christ. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion in the day of Christ Jesus. So why did Jesus deny ever knowing these people who claim to know him? He points to their works. He calls them workers of lawlessness. These are people who are characterized by unrepentant sin. Unrepentant sin. If your life is characterized by unrepentant sin, you should hear these words. You say, Lord, Lord, he says, Depart from me, you workers of iniquity, for I never knew you. You claim that you walked with him. But you walk in the darkness. And what does John say? He walks in the light. And there is no darkness in him whatsoever. These people are people who confess to be true believers with their lips, but their hearts are far from God. They are hypocrites, whitewashed tombs. On the outside they appear beautiful, but within are full of dead man's bones and all uncleanliness. They have crept into the church unnoticed and have perverted the gospel of grace and turned it into sensuality. They deny their Lord and their master. They are branches that are superficially attached to Christ and his people, but lack good fruit. These are ones who will be cut off and thrown into the fire. These are people who are in our small groups, our Sunday schools, our family retreat, delete family devotions. They appear to be righteous, but they don't have a true and saving relationship with Jesus Christ. J uh James speaks of these individuals when he says, What good what good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith But does not have works. Look look at this. Can that faith save him? It doesn't say can't faith save him. Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to them, Go in peace and be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body. What good is that? So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, you have faith, and I have works. Show me your faith apart from your works, and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder For as the body apart from the spirit is dead, so also faith apart from works is dead. It is not enough to simply have a profession of faith. We must truly have a saving relationship with Jesus Christ. Imagine a man who said he loves his wife, but then continues to beat her day in and day out. Don't we all know? And don't we all tell the lady, what are you doing? He does not love you. How do I know? Because of the way that he treats you. If he treated you, he would, if he loves you, he would treat you differently Right? Why do we think we can play God? Why do we think that we can mock God and that we can we can we can make a fool of him? When this won't work even in the human realm, how much more so will it not work in the divine realm. God he knows all, who's smarter than all. He sees through it all. Now this is not to say that true faith is not enough to save you. Recall the question of the Philippian jailer. He said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved. We are saved by grace through faith. It is not of yourselves, it is a gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. Ephesians 2. 8, right? We rest on that. That is our hope, that's our foundation. But you cannot be an Ephesians 2. 8 Christian and not be an Ephesians 2. 9 Christian. Do we know 2-9? Do we know the next part of that verse? For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good work. You see that? We're not saved by works. But we're saved for good works. If good works has become a four-letter word to you, you need to become biblical. Good works is not a four-letter word in the Bible. Being saved by good works is a four-letter word. Okay, so can a person personal he says he said I have a movie that would return Um uh me, I think that uh he was never a Christian from the beginning, but he thought he was carried out the same. Um so my question is that um if the Bible The Bible says that a person wants to be saved must trust Jesus. Can the person uh what can the person if What I'm trying to say is if that person uh who uses uh depart for me works not really categorized, then what is it Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Um we c we can confess where I'm out. Right? I I'm sure that you've met people. In fact we live in a society full of people who you ask, you know, are you cursing? As soon as they do that it's not good. There's no way out about this. You know you trust Jesus Christ or not. Yeah. Well I've heard that. That's a personal question. I won't answer that. You deny me before men, I deny you before my father. Right? And so these people they profess to be Christian. Okay? These people believe that they have a relationship with Jesus Christ, but they do not have a relationship. These are not people who are standing on the rock of Christ, who have committed their lives of Christ and are looking for Him for salvation. These are people who are using Jesus Christ for some other means. Okay? But the the scary part and and and the scary part uh that hopefully you feel from this text is they are self-deceived. Self-deception is the worst. And so how what 's the how do you know if you're not self-deceived? Isn't that isn't that why it's scary? If they're self-deceived, how do I know I'm not self-deceived? What does he point to? Their works. Don't you see? He points to their works. Depart from me, you workers of iniquity. Because you weren't smart enough to realize you weren't saved. He didn't say that. Because you are workers of lawlessness. So if we look at our works, right, and we see that Jesus Christ is completely absent. We should go back to the cross. and get on our knees and and and do the same thing that we did. We thought we did in the first place. What we haven't done, right, is repent and trust in Jesus Christ. And look to him as the only means of salvation. But this scripture is supposed to scare you. I'm not trying to scare you. This scripture scares you. Right? And so our response should be, Am I right with the Lord? And if I'm not, I need to get right with him right now. And I need to cry out and ask him to save me. That's how I got saved. Right? I saw my need, I saw that I was headed to hell and I I cried out. And I I literally just said, I trust in you, Jesus. I know that I'm a sinner. I know that my sins are on your cross, that you took care of that And that you said that if I if I believe in you, that it'll take it all away. And I I think I ended my prayer with something like this, and you can have my life if you take it. And he said took it. And he'll take yours as well. And they'll take anyone's life, right? If they hand it to him and give it to him. Because that's what Christ wants all men to be saved. That's what we say. That's the desire of God. Right? The question is, will you continue to rebel? And that's how we did the Holy Spirit to transform you. The transform you will. So that you will We will turn and trust in Jesus. Back to Ephesians 2. 9. But we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works. That's your purpose. You're new you're a new creation. You restored into the image of God. You're already in the image of God. But now you you can be finally not a blasphemous image But now a good image, right? You're created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared for you beforehand. Faith alone is sufficient for salvation, but never a faith that is alone. Such a faith is dead and demonic. As Christians, we have a glorious calling. We are a chosen race. We did this last night, right? A chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. We stop there. Let me continue. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. You can't accept one and not the other. You are this new great reality, so that you can proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness. You have a purpose. You have meaning. God, the reason he hasn't rasped you out of here is because you have good works. The very fact that you're here means he still has good works for you. And the question, will you walk in them? Right? Will you follow him Titus 2, 14 puts it even clearer. Who gave him , this is talking about Christ, who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who was zealous for good works. You see what's going on here? Christ redeemed you to gain a people who would not think that good works are for a letter word. Or an option. He redeems you for people who are zealous for good work. I often hear people say , Christ will get the full reward for his suffering. Amen. There's not a single person that Christ died for that will not be ultimately saved. Right? We rest on that fact. But how many of us think that Christ is going to get his full reward by gaining a people who are zealous for his good works? That's part of his full reward. Not to redeem a people who would completely rebel against them continuously and only profess his name, but a people who will be zealous for good works All this leads to the obvious conclusion that without holiness, no one will see the Lord. Holiness is not an option. The God who justifies is the God who sanctifies. Do you get what I'm saying here? The God who took you from Adam, placed you in Christ, but not done with you. He continues to put his Holy Spirit how did he do that? The Holy Spirit. Then he puts that Holy Spirit within you and moves you It continues to move you to work in his good works. And then that same God who justifies you, who's sanctifying you, will glorify you. You can't have one and not the other. I have a question. Bye bye. So what if like uh say when you go to the Christian English prayer they realize It was changes in your prayers all the time. That's good song. Like changes in the sense of like uh, okay, say we're just praying first and then realize that prayers was really all by yourself. Yeah. And he was he wasn't really he was praying for like going all about the situation. You know. And then over time it started to change. You didn't realize it though. But it started to change. Like more like you. You know, things like that and stuff like that. You know the things that you always start changing. That's a very good sign. R. J. Squirrel was once asked, um he was once asked, this guy, uh struggling with your salvation, right? Struggling, am I really saved? Am I really secure in Christ? And he asked him Um, do you love Christ perfectly? He said, No, I don't love Christ perfectly. And he said, Well, do you love Christ at all? And he said, Yes, I love Christ um somewhat um but not as much as I I want to He said, you know, in all my reading in the scriptures I find that there's no explanation for your love for Christ outside of his saving work in your life Right? If you have love for Christ at all, that is the result of salvation. The unbeliever does not have love for Christ. Okay Um but the but uh the and others have said and I agree that uh you can lose your assurance of salvation. It comes and goes. But what do you do when it goes? Do you cling on to past or do you cling on to Christ? Right? I I I can't get anyone assurance of salvation. That's the job of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's the one who will come into you and cry out Abba Father. And if you don't have that, that doesn't mean you're not saved, but it means you need to go run and go get it. Yeah, because if you're saying like these individuals, these are not individuals that lose In our case, and when we see it, and I've been here so many times, when I see it, it's it's a it's a good thing that we see our need for Christ and that we follow short and it's a good response that's what the Holy Spirit does. It points us right back to Christ because we all had some insecure of our walk with Christ. We fall short But when we see the verses like this, you're like, there's clearly something wrong with the picture of someone thinking they are and then running after it and they think they're they're going somewhere but at the end of the day it's like you you're not. See what I'm saying? They have no conviction. Okay, and so the gospel isn't something that you you get on and dispose of it in the Christian life. The gospel is something that continues to ride you into the Christian life. We continue to look to the cross. We continue to confess then and trust in Jesus Christ every single day, day in and out. Day out. You never get tired of it. You never I've been there, done that. This is good news for you today. This is good news for your son right now. Right? This is my only hope in life and in death. What's my only hope in life and in death Jesus Christ. And him crucified. I think there's something something important to note about the person in here who says, you know, Lord, did I not cry in? Did I not do these great things? that when we see a person in church and they're there there's two people and they're both doing the same things, we see what we consider to be fruit. Right? But ultimately one person sees it as the work of God and the other person he sees it as his own good actions Right. He's saying his point of salvation standing at the gates of heaven is, look, I did great actions. I did great things. You know they were in your name, but I did great things. And the other person says God I don't deserve this to say that you know, I'm not sure. Yeah. If God said, you know, why should I see you in my heaven? And uh because the answer to that question is your good news, your gospel, what you're what you're resting on, right? And my answer to that question is you shouldn't let me into heaven. I'm a sinner. But you promised Right? That all who trust in your son would be forgiven. So I rest on your grace. I rest on the work of Christ and your promise. You said that you did not lie. I rested I I I have uh professed Jesus Christ and I believe in him and and that's my only hope in life and in death, right? But that's not what they're doing. Is that what they're doing? No. You are my only whole Christ. No. They're saying, did you not see? I caught a menger treat. I prayed last night. I gave an old lady five dollars. No. In your name. In your name. And that's what King did. When you can uh when he gave the um tech present. That's what King did. I know. Yeah, yeah, it is supposed to shake you up. I'm glad you mentioned that. There's there's a fancy term for this called speech act theory And what it's saying is that when you have words on a page, they're meant to convey something to you. And if your theology nullifies what the words on the page are saying, your theology is wrong. You miss something. Right? If you read the book of Hebrews and don't feel any fear of apostasizing with Jesus Christ, you've missed the boat You just totally missed the boat. Likewise, if you go and read that he began a good work in you and bring it to completion, and that means nothing to you, you miss the boat. You need to have a theology that fits with this, right? That scripture is supposed to encourage you. This scripture is supposed to scare you. And make you run back to Jesus Christ. It makes you realize I can't just go out and do whatever I want. Because if so, I might end up like these people that are being warned about. That makes us rely more on God's grace and mercy and resting in Christ because if we're just we're just playing the end, you know, we're thinking the right of God. And we're not really truly resting. You know what I'm saying? Like it's more of a it's more of a self-gain. Not I'm doing this even though I fall short, but because of Christ. It it To be accomplished. And that's the biggest goal. Okay, let me let me let me see a few more things and then we'll open it up and we'll be finished. The beloved apostle John puts it best No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practice righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning For God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning, because he has been born of God. By this it is evident Who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Again I said that my only hope was resting on John 3. 16, the promise, right? I can't accept that promise and not accept this promise. This is crystal clear. If you continue to follow after the devil and live like the devil You're not a child of God. You are not. God's seed does not abide in you. Therefore, the Bible is clear on this matter. Claiming to be a believer, but denying him by your conduct will not result in less rewards. In heaven, but the lake of fire. Holiness is not an option. Without it, no one will see uh will see the Lord. I conclude with the words of Albert Martin, another great preacher who's off to glory. That's what he said. Friends, let me warn you. If you are not pursuing a life of holiness, do one of two things. Repent of your sins and get right with God, or give up all hope of heaven and recognize that you're headed to hell. We can't play God. God will not be mocked. Only true faith in Jesus Christ will save you. And that faith will transform you. Day in and day out from glory to glory. So we open up to any any follow-up questions? So is it because that when you trust changes, you change your nature and also back change in nature as one like produce um good works for God and that stuff like that and you know didn't uh really trust Yeah. You're still the same, you're still dancing, you can just do it through the match. That's precisely right, yes. There's there's an illustration of this. Imagine a man were to show up off the street and tell you, you will not believe what just happened to me. Right? I was out there and got hit by a giant truck. And it hit me. In fact it backed up and hit me again When you look at him, he's totally fine. Clothes is unscathed, he looked good, right? You can look at him and say, go get another sucker. Not this guy. Why? Because you know that encountering that big vehicle would not leave you unscathed. It's not possible. Right? Well, who's bigger? God or that vehicle You cannot encounter the true and living God and him coming to reside and you think there's going to be no change? You think that God's not going to purge you from sin and change you? No. You cannot go from death to life and have no change at all But as I told you, be patient. God is still at work. He's still at work in you, he's still at work in them. He's transforming you from one glory one moment to glory to another. say about Christians who have what we call recetting sins where you're battling the sin and you're You take your free and clear of it for a year and then you fall back into it for a period of time and then you um out of it again and then you call back in it. Um and then you're like, is this a pattern? Okay, but but this is one of the the the the mysteries of of God, or one of the greatness of God. That here's what God does. Even as you struggle through the Bret said, he said, He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion, right? And he won't let you go too far And it'll continue to bring you back. The reason I ask is does that fall in the category of someone that keeps on singing Yeah. Well it it so so when we talk about so there's a difference between besetting since a pattern of sin in your life. Even though there's breaks in it, there's still a pattern. There's a difference between besetting sin and apostasy. Okay. Okay. And so besetting Senate's going the Christian struggles. We continue to struggle and the Holy Spirit continues uh it goes through ways, don't we? We go in, we go out. Next time we don't go in as far. And we get out faster. Okay? You know, we see transformation in our lives and we don't get out. You know the unbeliever, the apostate, he goes out He may never come back. And I've seen that exact thing happen, right? I've seen myself fall into the exact same sin another brother fell into. God brought me back out. Right? I fell back in, he brought me back out. The other brother he's out there, he's gone. He's never coming back. What's the difference? The difference is God. The difference between that he was falling into apostasy and I was falling into a besetting sin Okay, but we should not presume upon that. Because actually that brother I know he presumed upon that. He thought he was following the Beside and he kept going. Okay, and that's the book of Hebrews. We never presume upon God's grace But we do trust that as we do fall into sin, that God will bring us back. the passage here Jamie Drobbing given this or next session. Verse 24 of this Matthew 7 passage it says, everyone that hears these words will die. does then will be like otherwise building us so this tension between am I am I not, you know Um we come back and we say, Lord, you know, what are you doing in my life? And you can you can look back and you can see the pattern in your life that God has been developing over the years. Paul could come to the end of his life with Williams. And so I I I would I would Finish the race. What's the uh phrase that right? Finish the race. No, no, no, I'm thinking of the uh phrase get it right there so I don't misquote. That I may know him out of this resurrection, that I may share in his sufferings and become like him in his death, that by any means possible I may may attain may attain the resurrection from the dead. And isn't that amazing? He's got all this great certainty in that he knows that he has to continue the works, as you were saying. He has to continue. in grace. And uh and this is the tension I think. You hit it. You did a beautiful job of describing this. We have to understand Both the tension and the fact that we are our salvation is certain, and yet that in order to demonstrate that we truly are believers, we have to finish what Yeah. Yeah, I I I think I think the the way I reconcile that reality is God promises that he will bring his elect through the end. Okay? And God is gonna keep working at me and keep working. But guess what? If I apostasize that would that that proves not God false with me. Okay? That proves I'm not part of his elect So I trust that God is gonna bring me through. But that doesn't make me say, I'm kicking back, I'm done. You see what I'm saying? You see that sense? The it it's the promises of God, both his his promises of salvation and his warnings of apostasy that get you to the end. It's faith alone I'm believing it's not in our house and around you. He holds us somewhere else. We don't hold ourselves. Amen. It shakes it back into the fate. Go ahead. About verse twenty three when it says uh I never needed park meeting. Workers of policies. What what is workers of policy? And scholars so many different places like that put that actually What what what are you what are you thinking? I mean uh what does it mean? I mean lawlessness to me would be someone who's It's really uh trying to think of a good way to describe it. Um yeah, you know I mean flawlessness indicates to me someone that's completely just not teachable, not for them to be instructive. That that kind of thought. I think it's both. Okay. I think I think that we can we can look to scriptures like the entire first John Okay, in Jude and Peter. I see there's a whole lot of scriptures like this that warn about people who live just totally uh Well, you know, Ephesians chapter uh not Ephesians, uh Corinthians chapter six, which I quoted earlier, talks about do not be deceived, the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God. And then he lists all of these really terrible gross sins. In fact, if you think about it, this is the whole point of church discipline, isn't it? If you're living in gross not not white lives or something like that, right? Not imperfection, otherwise we'd excommunicate everybody. No, this is if you're living in gross unrepentant sin, what do we do? We go to you as an individual, tell you to repent Then two. Then the whole church. What does the whole church end up declaring? You are an unbeliever. What do we hope? We hope that the and God move back up. And God says that he is with us in that Right? So the the God agrees with us and excommunicates you in hope, delivering you over to Satan, that you'll recognize, oh man, I'm in a terrible state. I need to repent. I need to get back Right, so the reason I uh reason I say this is one of the one of the uh categories I would say is if you're living in sin that if the church would have no that excommunicates you don't repent, it's not good. You're living in lawlessness Right. And really you're just you're just a excommunicated member who hasn't been found out yet. So I think that that that's first John and and that kind of lawlessness is is is not good. But I think also the fact is uh uh Romans chapter three. Well lawlessness. Right? And outside of the robes of Christ, you're done. Okay? So I think that's another fact. We need the robes of Christ no matter how righteous you are, and you can find that in like Matthew chapter five. But specifically this lawlessness is gross immorality. Right that you're justifying and thinking that you can just live in this way and God is okay with that. I heard from this individual that's saying that you're not doing those the what the laws, the Old Testament. And it's very confusing because you're like, so if in order for me to have all those things accomplished That's you're basically saying I'm um attribute right with God. So importantly inheriting the kingdom I had to abide these things And then when we fall short, where do you fall back on? That's the that was the question I have to as individuals. Where do you fall back on? Do you fall back on grace? You're thinking you're working your salvation here by own means of marriage. So and not with this thing, like you know what I'm saying? Like it's not talking about following the same commandments in order. It's not talking about what you can do Yes. So what Jesus is doing is laying out uh this change of of age uh as he comes in and ushers in uh this this new age of uh uh of the new covenant. And and so the lawlessness is everything that's in defiance of what he just preached from the last three chapters. And uh if our logic characteristic of that I think is what the where it's going through. Okay. I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna start it down here. Um if you if you want to see lawlessness, there's a whole book, Jude Read that book. Jude is it Jude is a response to the lawlessness. Same as James. Same there's like I said there's a lot of books like this. First John is the same way. That you will see lawlessness very clearly described there and it's utterly condemned. I'm gonna say this one more thing and we're gonna pray One of the this this is not the gospel. The gospel isn't Christ makes up the difference between we have our good works and Christ makes up the difference. When we fall short, that's not the gospel. Gospel is we've completely fallen short. We add nothing. You don't add one cent, you don't add two cents, nothing. He completely takes the whole bill for you. Right? We're saved by Christ alone. By grace alone, to faith alone, to Christ alone. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for that We thank you that we we have warnings in the Bible to shake us up from our stupor and to make us really ask the hard question, are we saved? Do we know you? And I ask God that nobody would leave this room without uh Without confirming that they do know you, that they have cried out, they have asked for your spirit, they have repented, and they are trusting in you for their only means of salvation. Help us, God. In Jesus' name. Amen.