This evening I want to look at Psalm 100 and make some comments and to meditate on this wonderful scripture. So Psalm 100, a psalm of giving thanks. Make a joyful noise to the Lord all the earth. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing. Know that the Lord, he is God. It is he who made us and we are his. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving, and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him, bless his name, for the Lord is good, his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations So we begin the psalm in verse 1 and we get the command, make a joyful noise to the Lord all of the earth. This command is not limited. to merely believers, but it's commanded of all people. God calls all people to repent and to believe in the gospel and to be converted And then to sing songs, make this joyful noise to the Lord. That's what the Lord wants to hear from humanity He wants to hear this joyful noise of praise. Verse 2, serve the Lord with gladness. Come into his presence with singing A lot of synonymous parallelism is building. Make a joyful noise. That is uh make a joyful noise, serve the Lord with gladness. See the Lord doesn't want our servitude and and begrudgingness and just uh and forced labor, but no, he wants us to serve him with joy and out of that joy, out of that happiness, the joy of our salvation, then that allows us to make that joyful noise, that singing and praising of God. We are to come into his presence with singing, coming to his presence with singing. What does it mean coming to his presence? Well this is particularly talking about entering into the the the place of meeting with God, the tabernacle or the temple. And we know that because look down in verse four. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. The gates and the and the courts is talking about is that courts of of the temple, the courts of the tabernacle, the place of meeting with God. Well we don't we're not we're no longer in the Old Testament. We have no earthly temple. And so where is our place of meeting that we can meet God in his presence? Well, ultimately we can meet God in his presence and in the person of his son. But even back in in the Old Testament day, you could ultimately meet God in the presence of Yahweh, just believing and trusting. in God where you could meet him in his uh his presence and this is omnipotence, right? God has always been everywhere. And so this coming into his presence is particularly talking about where the saints gather, where he has made his name known on the earth. And for us, this would be the church, a biblical church. would be the the the closest parallel to this in in our day. And so how are we to come and gather before the saints in the church? How are we to come and gather before God? on Sundays. How are we to do that? Come into his presence with singing. Know that the Lord He is God. It is He who made us and we are His. We belong to Him. He is our Creator who is God. God is the creator. He created us and we are his. We belong to him. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. We love Psalm twenty-three. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me beside The still waters is the Lord, your shepherd, if he is, then let us come to him, let us come to him, and to serve him with gladness. Let us come into his presence with singing. For the Lord is good, his steadfast love endures forever, his faithfulness to all generations. The goodness of the Lord. And the fact that he has steadfast love toward us and his faithfulness will endure through all generations should result in us coming into the presence of the Lord Singing with gladness, singing, making a joyful noise. And there's some things that we can think about here. Number one, we should not be afraid. to come into the the house of the Lord with singing and rejoicing. There is no virtue and in and acting like, you know, we're frozen and we're afraid to To have any joy and we're just stiff and robotic, that's not glorifying to the Lord. The Lord in his word commands us to come joyfully, not robotically. We need to be biblical and not just I'm not saying that we have to be crazy and wild and act uh nuts, but we can be joyful. We can do this joyfully. I was in the army and so I was uh privileged or I got the opportunity to do cadence And so when you when you do cadence out there and you're leading the troops, you can't just act crazy and psychotic and just act wild, you'll be thrown out and you'll get in some serious trouble. Because it's not a it's not a place for being wild or crazy. But you don't also want to just be mundane and dry. Again, you'll be thrown out. What what are you? This is supposed to lead and encourage the troops. And so you do it with passion. There's regulations. There's there's uh there's a ac actual cadence. You don't just make things up on the spot. You're g you're going with the cadence. You can ad lib a little bit, but you gotta stick within within the rules of that cadence, but you can do it with full passion and invigorate the troops. And that's like us, when we come to the house of the Lord, we don't have that act chaotic and crazy, but we can certainly make a joyful noise. And we're not only we not only can we, we must. That's what the Bible tells us to make a joyful noise. The second thing is to come into his presence with singing. Recognize when you come into the church on Sunday, the Lord's Day, you are coming into his presence, his special presence on Sunday the earth. The Lord is specially present in the church of God, just like he was specially present in the Old Testament temple. This does not deny his omnipresence. God is everywhere, but he does especially call the assembly of God to show up, and he shows up there in his presence. And so we should come into his presence. With singing, we should recognize that we're entering into the presence of God and we should we should treat him reverently. He is the great Lord, he is the wonderful Lord. And in light of that, we should come and give thanks to him and bless his name and enter into his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. We should praise him for the goodness that we have. Every good gift comes down. From the Father of lights. All good gifts come from God. So we should come into His presence with that thanksgiving. So let this be an encouragement to us. Is is when when the Lord's Day comes around, when Sunday comes around and we're going into uh the presence of the Lord in church. and we're about to sing, let us think about the psalm. Let us meditate on Psalm 100 and say, what am I doing here? Am I just am I just begrudging this? Am I just showing up? Am I going to serve the Lord? With gladness. Am I gonna make a joyful noise? I don't need to be crazy, I don't need to draw attention to myself, but I want to to sing with thanksgiving and sing with praise and make this joyful noise and and be full of gladness to the Lord who saved me because he is worth it. He is lovely. He is good for the Lord is good. Verse verse 5 For the Lord is good, his steadfast love endures forever, and his faithfulness to all generations. How will the next generation learn how to praise God properly and to lift and magnify his name if they don't see us do it? Let us do it. Let us obey the Lord. The Lord's commands are his blessing. He's commanding this in Psalm one hundred, not only for his good Not only for his glory, but for our good. How much more wonderful would it be to show up on on the Lord's Day and to his house with gladness? Won't that make you glad? I mean seriously Won't it make you happy? Won't it make you feel so much better if you go in there and let go of the troubles of the week and praise God with all of your being? Let this be an encouragement of us to praise God with all of our being.