In this video I want to answer a question that a brother raised to me. He he left a comment and he and he wanted me to address this and I appreciate it. Uh so I wanna I'm gonna go ahead and uh read this. question and I'll give an answer. And by the way, if you want a question answered, you have a a real theological question that you want uh me to answer, just leave a comment, uh send me an email, uh like me on Facebook, send me a message, and and I'll be uh more than glad to to answer it. So here's the question. I heard a question that intrigued me from a friend. He said, how can we be born into a sinful world and then be blamed and punished? for sinning. So how can we be born in a sinful world and yet then be blamed and punished for sinning Well, we have to understand that as Christians we always describe that our three great enemies is the world, the flesh, and the devil And of those three, only one of them are something that's even inside of us, which would be that sinful nature, that sinful inclination, that desire to do evil, which we call the flesh. The other two realities, the world and the devil, are external realities. And really if you think about it, the devil is part of the world. So so really there's just the world. Now the reason we we talk about the world and the devil is because we're really talking about is the fact that the devil and the spiritual forces of evil, the things that we cannot see, and the demons that tempt us behind the scenes, is what we mean by the devil and the world, we're talking about Um that that would be like sinful people. That'd be like walking but you know, walking by and and walking by Victoria's Secret or something promiscuous or something like that. That'd be like people uh trying to tempt you. The devil can tempt you and and so can people So how can we be held morally responsible if we live in a world full of temptations? Well, because we have the option to sin or not to sin. We have the option to um to To respond to that temptation or not to respond. First Corinthians 1013 says that uh for God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation, he will also provide a way of escape. So we're not him then. It's not as if that we are absolutely forced to sin. We have the option to sin or not to sin. And so even though we're in a situation that might tempt us, we still can choose not to do it. Now we need to understand something though, and I think this question it is is bringing this out, is are we as morally culpable as we otherwise would be if we didn't have external temptation? So I'll give you an example of this. I mean that that scripture itself presupposes that there there could be a circumstance, but God will never be God will never allow you to be in it. But there could be a circumstance where the temptation was so great that you could do no other than to sin, and it most likely you would be uh not uh morally culpable, or at least your culpability would go down massively. And so God says he does not do that. But the more external temptation that you have, the certainly the less culpable you are. And I'll give you an example of this. This is why actually a police officer can't do something called entrapment, which is they can't come up to you and say, Hey, would you want some drugs? You're like, no, I don't really want drugs like No no, you really want this drug. This drug's amazing. It's incredible. It's gonna make you so happy. It's like no I don't really want. It's like But but you know what? I give it to you for free. Free sample. And the guy says, Alright, fine, I'll take it. And he takes it and he says, Oh, you're under arrest, the police. You know. You can't do that because the moral culpability goes uh so much down in that case That you can't do what what is called a trapment. Now while the police can't do that, we certainly live in a world full of people who who do in fact do those kind of things Um and it doesn't make you not morally culpable because you could still respond or not respond. But certainly your culpability goes down significantly uh less if if you're solicited by a drug dealer and you have an argument with them And and then he finally convinces you to do the drug, are you as morally culpable as you go and search for the drug dealer and and beg him to give you the drugs? Of course not. So your moral culpability certainly goes down because we live in a in a world full of sin and we're being externally tempted by some kind of external realities. It's a mitigating circumstance and it decreases your moral culpability, but it doesn't decrease it as a such that you're innocent. So the more that we we live in a fallen world of external temptations and we give in to it, the more culpable we are for our sin. But we never get to a point because God is faithful that we could do we could not do otherwise, or that mitigating factor is so great that uh there is no culpability at all. And so hopefully that that helps understand uh the culpability and the mitigating factors. And if that wasn't helpful, just I'll give you one more analogy, just think about the courts. When we think about the courts and we find out, okay, this guy is a sexual predator, right? This guy uh molests children, and we say, okay, this guy, and he's guilty and we all know it. Certainly he's he's going to jail for that. But if you find out that he was molested from the time he was born and and also he was, you know, whatever, th those kind of things, not only was he molested, but he was taught that this was okay and so forth That doesn't excuse his behavior, but that's certainly gonna be a mitigating factor, right? He's certainly w we're not gonna throw him in jail as long. Or or that we're gonna at least understand more than if this is some guy who's never been molested ever and just decided that you know what, I'm just gonna do this horr horrendous act. So again, mitigating circles I don't mean to be uh crude there and massy there, but I'm just trying to uh try to bring this into reality or bring this into the level of experience so we can think through this and we understand by the court of law mitigating circumstances that rise or lower the the um culpability but n ultimately though you're never going to become innocent based on a mitigating circumstance. No one's ever going to say, Oh, ba based on this mitigating circumstance then you're innocent because of first Corinthians ten thirteen. God never places you in a situation that you are hemmed in. Remember also, James, that God tempts no one with evil. Ultimately we are tempted by ourselves, by our own evil desires. We actually and then we become uh morally culpable and and we and then we uh do the sin or or sometimes we resist and we do righteousness. So I hope that helps. If you needed some follow-up on that, uh please let me know and and I'll try to I'll try to get some follow-up. So I hope that helps. God bless