I want to answer uh a question that someone uh raised to me about my interpretation of free will and God's sovereignty and God's decree. And and and how all that flushes out, especially thinking about Romans chapter 9, that passage that says, God will have mercy on whom he has mercy, he will harden whom he um whom he hardens. And so, just to reiterate quickly, my view of free will is that people have the ability to choose the right or to choose the wrong. And so when they choose the wrong, then they're morally culpable. So I believe that that is what free will is. However, that man is so wicked in and of himself that even when he's resented with these two options, when he hears the gospel He will always choose to hate the light, refuse to come to the light, lest his evil deeds be exposed. And that does not mean that that wasn't on the table. But man made the wrong moral decision, and he will continuously make that wrong moral decision until God changes him so now that he will freely when when he has these two situations will choose to love the light, come to light, and be saved. And so they were wondering how how do I reconcile this with Romans chapter nine, which again says he will have mercy on whom he has mercy, he will harden whom he hardens. And this is all in the context of of election, in the context of God selecting one person before they were born. And the example there is in Jacob and and Esau that that he selected Jacob before he had done any good or evil. And so this all the more seems to uh make difficulties uh explaining what's going on and and and and how how God can do that and and that's not not violating this idea of free will or anything like that. Well, I think the first thing that we need to understand is that God views humanity as fallen. So he is already presupposed that he views humanity as who they are in Adam as in fallen creatures who, when left to themselves, they will always choose evil. He's not seeing them as neutral objects, but he's seeing them as fallen objects. And to prove this, think about the term mercy You have mercy on someone who is guilty. You don't have mercy on someone who is innocent. So the very concept of God has mercy on whom He has mercies presupposes that the object is fallen. Otherwise God would not need to have mercy on that object. And the mercy here clearly is referring to the mercy of salvation, of pardoning sins. So again, they're viewed as in in their already fallen state. Another reason that we so that's what mercy means. Well what's the so they're fallen, what does hardening mean? Hardening does not mean that God actively is causing someone to be wicked. Rather hardening is God allowing someone to choose the evil and continuously be given over to that depravity, to that evil. And we see that in Romans chapter 1, right? Romans chapter 9 follows Romans chapter 1 Romans chapter 1 talks about people being given up in their sin. They've going from bad to worse. And you can think about this. You can think about uh I know people who started off stealing, you know, a pack of bubblegum. Next thing they know, they were massively shoplifting. Next thing you know, they were breaking into houses, then committing armed robbery, and so forth and so on. This is also one of the terrible things about lust. You start off viewing things that you shouldn't, then pornography, next thing you know, you're into all kinds of disgusting things that you wish you would have never got into. How did you do that? Because you were being given over. You were being given over to your sins. That's hardening, is God letting you go. Now the reason why hardening is described as God actively doing this is because God is sovereign, God is omnipresent. He's omnipotent. He's omniscient. So God is decreeing, he is actively doing something, namely actively allowing you to be given over to your sins. And the example is so wonderful because the example in Romans 9 that he gives of who he hardens, who is it? It's Pharaoh. And it says in the Old Testament, God hardened Pharaoh's heart. And what is this result in? This results in in Pharaoh refusing to let the Israelites go and God getting glory over crushing him. Now God did not force Pharaoh against his own will not to let the Israelites go. And you know how I can absolutely 100% prove this. If you go back into the Bible, it says in Exodus, it says that Pharaoh sinned by hardening his heart. So for Pharaoh to harden his own heart was to sin. Okay, so if God actively caused actively hardened Pharaoh's heart, then God forced Pharaoh to sin. Well there's major problems with that. You go into James and says that God tempts no one. God tempts no one when everyone's tempted, they're tempted by their own desires, they're enticed, and then they actualize that sin. God tempts no one Let alone forces anyone to send. So are you going to say that God forced Pharaoh to send? No, that's not what's going on. What's happening is God is actively described as hardening Pharaoh's heart because he actively, permissively allows Pharaoh to harden his own heart. But God, uh, God is the one Who gets the credit because this is all under God's sovereign reign. Right? I mean, think about think about a king with all his troops in a house and some atrocities happening over here, and all the troops are right there Right there and this atrocity is happening over there. And they could send the troops at any time. Is that person not making an active decision to be passive in that situation? Yes. And if you can think of it that way, how much more the omnipotent God who holds people's very contingent reality in his hand, let alone all the angels, for him to allow something to happen passively is certainly him to do something It's for him to do something. So that's why that's why it's described as God actively doing that. And so that's what we need to understand: that God hardening is God giving you over. So so this is saying that God is totally just to give you over to yourself. God can say have it your way and let you full go into more and more gross immorality. God can also have mercy on whom he has mercy by taking off the scales, by changing your disposition, so now that you'll freely come and repent to him. I mean God can do that not just in in w when it comes to the sin of of refusing to believe and refusing to repent, but he can do that for all kinds of sins. Right? We see Abimelech he is stopped from from committing uh immorality against against Sarah. God can do this to you all the time. I in fact I think that is very likely we're going to find out that God's com Constantly restraining. In fact, it's very likely in Thessalonians, the restrainer is referring to God. But even if it doesn't refer to that there, God is clearly restraining evil. And so God can restrain us from evil. Right? He can restrain us from evil, and that in some sense it will be uh granting mercy in some sense. And God can say, no, I'm not going to restrain the evil. I'm going to let you have it your way. And that is hurting. So God can have mercy on whom he has mercy Which is to pardon and give grace, or God can pardon whom He pardons. But this hardening should not be twisted into saying that God is the author sin and God forces people to send Never. Absolutely not. God does not force anyone to send. We think about 1 Corinthians 10, 13, that there is always a path of escape. Always a path of escape. It's always available. God never hemmed someone and no one can say, God, you put me in a situation where I could do no other Then to send. No, no. There's always a path to a safe in the subjunctive. In the hypothetical, you could always choose to send or not to send In actuality, you being you will always choose freely, and no this is the mystery part, freely to actualize what you want to do Now precisely why do you do that? That's a mystery. Nobody can answer that. Nobody. Not not the there's just a mystery of how we make more decisions. We just know we do make more decisions and we're morally culpable for that. So that's what the mercy means And that's what the hardening means. I hope that helps. And if you need more clarity, just put some um comments in the comments. Reach out to me and and hopefully we can we can think through this together. Theology is best done in community. And so uh that's what I'm trying to do. So God bless you.