So I want to look at 2 Chronicles chapter 34 and look at the life of Josiah. Well not even the life, look at the beginning of his life and take some principles from this text about how we should treat the young folks or the the the teenagers or the the children of of the church. So let me remind you of what's in 2 Chronicles chapter 34. It says there, Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty-one years in Jerusalem, and he did what was right in the eyes of the Lord, and walked in the ways of David his father. and did not turn aside to the right hand or to the left. For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet a boy, he began to seek the God of David his father, and in the twelfth year he began to purge Jerusalem. of the high places, the ashram, the carved and the metal images. And then it goes on. But I wanna I want to focus in on what he begins to do when he is sixteen years old. He begins reigning at eight, and then in his eighth year it says that he begins seeking the God of his father, and then four years later then he starts cor um with with courage and strength starts to purge Jerusalem of all of these high places and all of these idolatry. So he's sixteen, he has a conversion to the Lord, and by the time he's twenty he's on a campaign of purging and cleansing the uh the city of Jerusalem of evil. And this is a great uh story and great encouragement to us of how young people can get involved um in ministry at very young ages. At at twenty years old, here's this man um being used by God to to purge his sphere of influence. He's the king, so he has a a huge sphere of influence, the the whole city of Jerusalem and all of all of Judea. But God is using him to uh cleanse his people and to lead them into righteousness even at the tender age of of twenty and he's converted to the Lord at sixteen years old And so in my testimony, I was converted at 15, and it was sincere and honest conversion. This man was converted at sixteen years old. And so but we shouldn't say, well just I was converted at fifteen, he was converted at sixteen, so there's no conversions prior to that. That means that, you know, our age of baptisms, our age of conversion should be fifteen or sixteen. But there's no reason to think that at all. The the the scriptures say if you call in the name of the Lord you will be saved. It says that we must believe and have faith. It doesn't say that we must have adult faith. It doesn't say unless you're um unless you're an adult or unless you're uh post-puberty or something and you call in the name of the Lord you'll be saved. But if you call on the name of the Lord with sincerity of your heart when you're a child, you won't be saved. It doesn't say any of that. Um children can be saved. Everyone can be saved as long as they have faith in the Lord. That's what we're looking for. We're not looking for age. We're looking for faith. We're looking for sincere and honest faith. And so I just exhort you as as parents, as as people of the church, don't forget about the children. Don't think that uh Christianity or religion or faith is something for the the grown-ups and the and the kids are just kind of being, you know, dragged along. There's a reason we bring the children to church. There's a reason that we do I wana and all of these things. We're not just trying to lay the foundation of future faith, but we're trying to build faith itself. We're trying to be used by God to see convergence of our little ones. And so be discerning. If you s just because uh a little child says that they believe in Jesus and that they have no fruit in their life They might be just parenting what uh they've been told by their parents. So we we do need to be discerning and and to see uh what's going on in the heart, look at the heart, see the fruit, and continue to adjust. continue to adjust based on the needs, have those conversations, get to the heart of the issue and keep pressing their sin, keep pressing the need of the gospel. But let's not have ageism. where we think that no one can be saved if they're a young person and let's not think that every uh young every young person or every teenager is necessarily in their teenage years going to fall into all kinds of of wickedness and sin. That's not necessarily the KJ very well uh could could at this time uh fall in love with the Lord even more and to walk after him. And I know that was That was my case when I was converted at fifteen. Yes, I still struggled with some with some sin that I had you know fallen into prior to that, but by and large I was trying to follow after the Lord. And so just like this man, by the time he had hit twenty, he was doing more service from the Lord than than previously. That was the case in my life as well. By the time that I hit nineteen and twenty I was doing more things for the Lord than when I was when I was 15. And that's that's the Christian life. We should see ourselves growing and becoming more and more holy and walking more and more in the Lord. So my exhortation from from this text it is simple, is let's not have ageism in the church. Let's not think that uh no one can become converted unless they're eighteen or older or anything like that or that teenagers are are destined and doomed to uh fall away from the Lord and then somehow come back. That's the only model. That's not the only model And in fact, that's an unhealthy model. We should be preparing our children to strive and succeed in their teenage years. Yes, some of them will uh fall into some sin and some rebellion. And we need to be patient with them and continue to pull them back to the Lord. But let's not think that that is by any means the the the necessary consequence of teenagers. um or that um that that we people can't get converted until later on. The scripture here describes him as being sixteen years old and describing him still as being a boy seeking the God of his father. And what an encouragement to us this is. Yes, he's 16 years old, but yet nevertheless the scripture still calls him a boy. And and like I said, people can uh start seeking the Lord even younger than this. Uh way younger. If you go into ask people their testimony. Go into your local church and ask people their testimony, and oftentimes they'll say that I don't remember coming to the Lord Well, if they don't remember coming to the Lord, that's childhood amnesia happening to them. And that means that they must have been saved, you know. three, four, f something like that, even maybe even under that, maybe five, but even at five they start remembering that stuff. So, you know, three, four, something, two Um that's when they must have been saved. And guess what? You'll find tons and tons of people in the church that have that testimony. So let's not have ageism Let's believe people as they as they say that they love the Lord, let's believe them. And we see the fruit of their lives, let's let's believe them. I'll end uh remember with Jesus, I'll end with this this the quote of Jesus. Jesus said, Let the little children Come to me and do not hinder them. Let us not hinder children and have an attitude, we may never say it, but have an attitude that their faith is incomplete, their faith is not enough because they are mere children. Let's not have that attitude. And let's instead encourage their faith. Be watchful. If they're saying I love Jesus , But then they have no fruit, then we should treat them like everyone who says they love Jesus and have no fruit. But if they say they love Jesus and their life matches, Let's believe them, let's accept them, and then let's build them up as people that we give the cher we give a charitable um Analysis, we give a charitable assessment and say you believe in Jesus. I look at your life, you look like you believe in Jesus. I'm going to say you are a Christian. You are a young person loving Jesus. And I'm super excited about that. And let me help you follow the Lord because we need to stick together. No matter how young, no matter how old, you're my brother and sister in Christ. And we love you and we're here for you. So I hope all that helps. God bless