A brother asked a a really good question. They asked whether or not uh I have ever been I've ever backslidden to a point where Uh it was difficult to worship, difficult to pray, difficult to have any real relationship with God if there were just this a great separation between uh me and God even for an extended period of time? And the answer is yes. Um when I when I first got saved For a long for a while there, it I felt like I would have really good seasons, six months, a year, uh really uh living holy and and just fire on fire for the Lord and then I would uh crash and burn and and be in a state of of of backsliding and then, you know, kind of resurrect out of it and and then and then uh a few months later, um six months, you know, whatever, a year later, then crash and burn. And it felt like I was ebbing and flowing uh for years like this And uh uh I will tell you that uh I do not feel like that anymore. The Lord uh has delivered me from that Um but but I've definitely ebbed and flowed uh throughout throughout the years. Uh the wonderful, the good news, the the encouraging thing is, like I said, not only do I uh have not experienced that in in years and I think I'm uh Lord willing, I'm I'm done with that. I never want to uh fall back into uh that time of backsliding ever again. So Lord willing I I'm done with that and that ebb and flow has been broken. But I have as I look back I realize that uh that my ebbs and flows decreased. There was more time of being with the Lord than than being away. So even though I felt like Here I am again, really. I'm doing this same cycle again. As I look back, the the cycles, the the time uh being with the Lord was increasing, the time uh backsliding was decre decreasing. But the brother wanted to know um how did how does one get out of of backsliding? How does one get back up again? And being someone who's done this uh several times, I can just tell you how I have uh got back up. Number one is stop punishing yourself. Stop trying to be the judge. God has already taken care of your sin. He's already punished Jesus. Uh if God's going to chastise you, he will chastise you himself. He doesn't it's not uh God honoring at all to grab a whip and and whip yourself and and lash yourself and I don't mean that literally or well certainly I do mean that to include literal whipping and lashing But just to try to punish yourself is is destructive, it's unhealthy, it's not God honoring, and really it's just a sinful behavior that will actually get you further away from the Lord instead of getting closer. So the first thing I would suggest is do not try to self-punish. Do not try to uh shame yourself. Your shame has been taken away by the cross. The first thing is do not try to punish yourself. The second thing It's just realize that you are forgiven. That what the devil tries to do is convince you that you're dirty, that you're nasty, God doesn't want anything to do with you, not no more forgiveness for you, that God is through. But that is not true at all God is wanting you to get up like the prodigal son and return back to him. God is is looking out of the window, waiting for you to return. He loves you, he cares about you. He's saddened by you doing this self-destructive behavior and separating yourself from him. God wants to be with you. And so recognize that God is not uh merely angry at your sin. Sure he is angry at your sin, but he's not merely angry at your sin. He's also saddened by your sin and also desperately looking for you to return. So don't run from God, run to God. So that's the second thing is is don't uh recognize the grace that you have that you have in your loving father. Um the second thing is is is is sometimes that your your strength is so low that you really can't pick up the Bible. You really can't pray. But you know what you can do? You can ask other people to pray for you. That's often a breakthrough. you know, the prayers of a righteous man availeth much. But just reaching out to someone and saying, Can you pray for me? I mean, can you can you just please uh pray for me? I some I got some things going on in my life. I don't feel um, you know, some unspoken request or I I don't feel uh that I have the relationship with God that I want to have. Just ask a brother or a sister to pray for you and I have seen breakthroughs happen by the power of prayer, just simply asking And and also listening to Christian music. Taking the means of grace will give you grace. Listen to Christian music. If you have no strength at all. Can you have strength to put on YouTube and look up Amazing Grace? Can you have the strength to do that? Listen to Christian songs. Listen to Christian music. You will find healing coming through your bones by listening to Christian music. Listen to your favorite Christian podcast. Listen to your favorite Christian sermon. Listen to some good Christian material. Again. This will breathe absolute life to your bones. Uh read a good Christian book, whatever. Get some Christian uh stuff into your body. It doesn't matter what it is. It doesn't have to be particularly on on killing sin or something. It can be literally on anything as long as it's about God, as long as it's about the Bible, and as long as it's edifying for your soul, it can be wonderful. You can go and start looking at eschatology if you're interested. I'm sure that peop there have been people who've been saved by studying eschatology and then just uh ingesting the word of God. So uh pick up Christian materials, pick uh pick up uh books uh songs, music, anything that will that's lifting up Christ and listen to it. Ask for prayer. As you gain more strength and start praying yourself. Just start praying and talking to God, recognizing that He loves you and He forgives you. Another thing to do is read the Bible. Pick up the Bible and read. Read a chapter a day. Listen to the Bible and audio Bibles Do something, just pick it up and read and digest the word of God. It's so wonderful, it's so powerful. You want this book inside of you Another thing is to go to church. Go to church regularly. The Lord's Day is Sunday. It's the Lord's Day. It's the day where Christians gather together for corporate worship. Go to church. Do not forsake the gathering of the saints. That's what but Hebrew says because if we do, we will uh we we will we'll fall away, we'll slip away from the living God. So stay in a healthy church. Uh make Christian friends and in constantly interacting with Christian friends. I've had a Christian brother where he saw me slipping away and saw me uh in sin and he called me out. That o could only happen if you have Christian friends. So make those Christian uh friends. But let me let me tell you and so doing that, just uh availing yourself to the means of grace will be a life to your bones and and that's really the way ahead and that's the way I've always gotten out Also, just recognizing that God's grace is new every morning. So if I do some vile, horrific sin, um, you know, Friday night um then then I repent. You shall also repent as fast as you can. But uh let's say you you don't repent uh you know until Saturday morning Well repent of it. And and there there's gonna be a sense of guilt, you know, you're trying to fight that. Uh memorize scripture, you know, to confess your sins, he's faithful and just forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Memorize scripture to attack the evil one. But usually you're gonna feel guilty uh pretty much for that day. It's pretty difficult not to. But when Sunday comes around the next day Uh don't don't revisit that. Recognize that his mercies are new every morning. It's gone. It's over, and now is a new day, new opportunity to serve the Lord and to to be with his people. So Um, just live your life day by day. Not as it that's what God given us days for is to recognize his mercy and the troubles of each day are new each morning. So just uh begin each day that new way Let me tell you though, the the thing that the the teaching, the actual teaching that changed my life and and really the reason why I haven't backslidted in years, and hopefully, Lord willing I won't ever backslide again And the teaching that absolutely revolutionized my life was realizing that God's commands are his blessing and God's commanding uh things to me. for my good. Once I realized that God wasn't just saying, okay, I'm gonna give him a law. I'm gonna tell him don't do this and I'm just gonna see if he's gonna obey me out of out of pure love, out of out of uh you know, just pure discipline. Just I told him not to do it and and let's see if he's gonna obey. I thought that that was God's I never would actually say that like that, but but that's really how I viewed God's commands, that God is trying to really keep something good for me and and he really just wants to see me see if I'm willing to sacrifice this good thing for him. And so that's how I viewed a sin and it was very difficult to get rid of it. I could do it for a season, but I always kept coming back Once I realize that God's commands are his blessing and God's commanding me things for my good, he knows what I need, he knows what is evil and corrupting and destructive for for relationships uh for relationships with myself, relationship with my family, relationships with the Church of God, relationship with him. When I realize uh through through teaching that God's commandments are his blessing, he's commanding these things for my goodies like a doctor giving me a prescription, telling me Don't do this. Don't smoke a million cigarettes a day. It's gonna hurt you. Don't do it. Don't get drunk. Don't do it. It's going to lead into all kinds of of of bad things don't do drugs. Once I realized that God was commanding things for my good that's what the Bible says I'm commanding these things today for your good. Once I realized that it changed absolutely everything. And now, you know, if if something is pulling on my heart, I preach against it and I say, if I do this, it's gonna destroy my image of myself And it's gonna destroy my relationship with my God. And it's gonna destroy my relationship with my wife. And destroy my relationship with my kids and my friends and my family and my church. You see what I'm saying? I don't let the devil lie to me and tell me it's gonna be good. I know it's gonna be horrific. Another thing is, a lot of the sins that we struggle with, we've done it before, right? And we've seen what it feels like to do it and to have your face in the mud. And I remind myself of that When temptation comes and said, No, I remember last time. You've tricked me once more. You tricked me too many times. I remember last time and I felt terrible about this and I felt uh so much remorse and repentance and shame. I don't want nothing to do with that. That is absolutely evil. See preach to yourself and remind yourself of how you felt last time and don't let the devil trick you. Uh another thing, uh just to avoid backsliding period is realize things that that are uh that that pull you into Sven and cut them off. Listen A holy life is going to be a painful life. You're going to have to cut things off, okay? You're going to have to say, I cannot watch this. I cannot play this. I cannot hang out with you type of people. I can't be your friend on Facebook. Whatever. I can't be your friend, period, maybe. You're going to have to cut things off that are causing you to sin. Oftentimes one of some of the reasons people can't recover off of backsliding is because they're not willing to r actually truly repent and get away from that sin. But let me say something. The the means of grace gives you the strength. Don't try to first get rid of the sin. First go to the means of grace which gives you strength and then you can cut that stuff off. But once you have the strength, cut it off. Don't let the don't let the devil have an inroad into your life. Don't let him drag you back So that's my this is my basic uh idea, my basic uh talk that that I would give to encourage people of of of how that you can come out of backsliding, you can stop backsliding And there can be true healing that comes to your life by recognizing God is your friend. God loves you. He's a doctor. Trust them. The very God who said Trust me, I'll save your souls. This very God who also said, Trust me, I know how to live your life. I know what's good for you. And I'm commanding you these things today for your good. I know fornication will destroy you. I know pornography will corrupt your mind. and destroy you. I know drugs will wipe you out. I know selfishness will ultimately lead you to misery. I know bitterness is going to destroy your relationship. with yourself and with others. I know these things. Listen to me. Trust me. I love you. I want the best for you. Once you realize that God is on your side like that, it changes absolutely It changes absolutely everything. And again, as I told you, uh that the living a holy life is gonna have to mean that you're gonna have to cut things off. I'm not talking about being a legalist, I'm not talking about commanding uh telling other people what they cannot can or cannot do. I'm talking about you looking at your own heart and saying, I cannot do this. This is not good for me. I this someone else can do this Sure, maybe that other person can watch that movie, but I can't. Right now, maybe I can't have a smartphone because I constantly use it for pornography. You see what I'm saying? And that doesn't mean every Christian can't have a smartphone and don't go around judging other people. But if you know that you're constantly using your smartphone for pornography, cut it off. Get rid of it. Take it away. Because that's something that's not for you. Maybe later. Maybe in the future you'd be able to come back to it, but not now. Cut it off. Get it away. Uh take it away from you. So So that's some things. Let me say something else real fast and and then we'll be done. Uh recognize that the battle of sin isn't uh, you know, when you're in the room with your girlfriend uh, you know, in in and doing things you shouldn't w be wanting to do and say, I'm gonna stop, I'm not gonna go all the way. That's not where the battle of sin is fought, okay? It's absolutely not fought there. It's fought way, way, way back. It's fought when you called her over to your house when no one was there. You see what I'm saying here? You need to fight uh batt the battles there needs to go way, way, way, way back. And for a lot of for a lot of a lot of you men out there, if you're battling with lust If you're battling with fornication, if you're battling pornography, it is the battle is not going to be fought when you're all alone on your computer about to take the clip. You've lost. You've lost the battle. Oftentimes the battle is fought by your eyeballs, by what you do with your eyeballs when you're outside and whether or not you're going to lust after a woman. That's why Jesus said that if you if you lust up the woman you commit adultery in your heart because lust is the root sin. The same thing with with all kinds of other sins. Find the root sin and fight it there So if you want to win the battle of pornography, you need to win the battle of watching your eyes as something inappropriate comes before it. all the time in public, all that. You need to control it. And if you fail there, you will absolutely fail in these other realms. This is how people fall into gross immorality. is because they fail on the minor things. They fail to it's not even minor, this is major actually, but you see what I'm saying? The minor of those of those types of sin, they fail there. So fight, fight, fight, fight, fight. In public, fight, fight, fight by looking and making sure you're not looking at uh inappropriate things. And if you do, okay, if you do the the battle isn't over. Now the second most important battle is gonna begin uh begin, which is how fast will you repent? Will you repent quickly and immediately? See, a godly man repents immediately, quickly, fast, not two weeks from now, not not, you know, a year from now. No, no, no. Right then, oh no, I did it. I I looked God please forgive me. Forgive me, Lord. You are more beautiful than this sin. Oh help me, Lord. Cleanse my soul from this immorality. Do it quickly, and God will restore you. But you wait, and that sin will fester and destroy you. So for for for as we're battling sin we need to cut things off and and then we need to fight things at the root at the root and then if you do sin repent So quickly say, you know what, I failed, but I'm gonna be a godly man and I'm gonna repent immediately. I'm gonna do this fast, quick and in a hurry. One more thing. When the temptation is there, right? You know it. You feel it, there it is, you feel it, what should you do? Pray. Pray and preach to yourself. Preach yourself, God told me not to do this, this is going to destroy me, and pray, God, help me. Don't let me look. Help me, Lord. You are more beautiful than anything there God, that is going to destroy me. Help me. Pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Watch and pray. Quote scripture. Memorize scripture. Right? Memorize scripture that will go against I've made a covenant with my eyes, how then could I sin against you? Vemorize Scripture then these things will help protect you. This is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual moral immorality, that each one controls his own body and holiness in holiness um For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that each one could knows how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God, that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because God is an avenger of all these things As we told you beforehand, Solomon 12. You see what I'm saying? We need to memorize these scriptures that we can pull out and say, no, I I'm not going to do this. This is a trap. This is evil. We gotta memorize scripture. and in and will help us. So so these are the things that I would say. Yes you can get out of backsliding. Yes you can you can cut these things off, but you gotta fight them at the root. You gotta fill yourselves up with the means of grace. If you got nothing going into your tank, you're not gonna get very far. So I hope this was encouraging. If if uh if you if you want any more information on this, you want some um uh anything like that, just let me know. Just send me an email, leave some comments. And and I'm more than unwilling to to try to to help any brother or sister out because because we're in a battle, guys. And and we're in a battle to be conformed to the image of the Lord and the Lord will do his work. But when a battle, the world's fuss and the devil's uh is waging war and we can win through the spirit, through means of grace, through the word of God, God can do it. God can God can do it. He absolutely can. We can do it together.