I read this really fascinating uh article written by C. S. Lewis. C. S. Lewis is a a wonderful uh author, wonderful thinker. Certainly we don't agree with everything he says. We eat the chicken spit off the bones. But he wrote this really interesting article called The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment. So you just Google it, the humanitarian theory of punishment, and you and you'll be able to find it rather quickly. Uh what what's so fascinating uh about this article is it feels like C. S. Lewis is writing uh today. He sounds like he's he's literally uh a prophet writing for exactly what's going on. And and here's what uh C. S. Lewis is saying. He's saying traditionally When when people have done crimes, we've talked about what's their due punishment, what's their just due. So this is the crime that they have done, and this is the punishment that they have deserve this retributive judgment or retributive justice. And so people for claiming to be humanitarian saying that this idea of of punishment and and justice And and just actually just giving people what they deserve is is old fashioned, it's inhumane, it's it's just inappropriate So instead we're gonna have this humanitarian theory of punishment. So now punishment is not going to be about punishing you and and you getting justice and you're just due. You did these things, so you're gonna get this punishment uh this recompense for your crimes. Instead it's gonna all be about trying to persuade others not to do the crime. So the betterment of society, that's the punishment's all about helping others not do the crime as well. and all about rehabilitation. Now we swim in this. This is exactly what uh what we think of prison as as being these two primary factors. Not so much about punishment, retributive justi justice. It's primarily about persuading others not to do the crime and and then rehabilitation um and and getting the person to be reformed and and no longer do the behavior. And and C. S. Lewis sees that this is extremely Extremely dangerous because what happens is instead of people being viewed as moral agents with moral decisions who have done moral evil and deserve punishment for that moral uh crime that they've done and and once they've uh once they've fulfilled that punishment then they can be released and there can be uh judgment on whether or not the punishment actually fits the crime. And and everyone can have a moral judgment on that. So if we see someone who's done something that's morally reprehensible, they've stolen, then we also look at the punishment that's given to them. Life imprisonment, cutting off their fingertips, whatever it be. And we say, is that just? This person deserves judgment? Yes, they did evil. But this punishment is not uh fitting the crime. And since we all have a moral compass, we can all weigh in on this. You don't need to be an expert. Everyone can say, I don't think it's right to cut off the man's fingertips for stealing the the piece of bread. We all have that moral compass and we can uh we can judge and actually see what 's interesting enough talks about how uh society was was corrupt in their judgment And so the juries would constantly find people innocent because they knew that the the punishment didn't fit the crime. So eventually this caused for reforms and people decided to make the punishment um i just and the punishment fit the crime. So that's true traditional model, and he says that this far from being a bad thing is a good thing and and it keeps equity and keeps uh actually uh mistreatment egos down It's a workable system. While the other side of this humanitarian sense of it's not about j judgment, it's not about justice, it's just about persuading others. And it's just about it's just a pathology, it's just a disease that you're just mentally ill and so we're just trying to reform you. You're otherwise a good person, but you have these these bad views that we need to uh work out of you, take that whole idea of of judgment and and and justice away from you. And so you can be sentenced indefinitely for something like this. And and he gives the the warning in saying, what happens when Christianity becomes a mental disease, a disorder? So now all of a sudden you can be incarcerated and you're not getting justice and you're not being punished, but instead you're being rehabilitated. And so you can be indefinitely in a state of rehabilitation and no one can say otherwise because they're not punishing you, they're just giving you the therapy. And now this is no longer a moral question of whether you're getting justice, so you don't have an opinion. The average man doesn't have an opinion. You're not the expert. You can't weigh on this. The experts are the one who knows what your therapy requires. Maybe your therapy requires indefinite treatment to try to cure you of this pathology called religion. And so it it it it prevents the person uh and and other people from being able to stand up because they can't have an actual opinion on this matter. Now this is absolutely terrifying and and and and just horrifying all around. When you take uh the dignity of humanity And same humanity is no longer moral agents that make moral decisions that deserve uh praise when they do good things and and punishment when they do wrong, and instead you make everything a pathology and and you get rid of this idea of justice and everything is about treatment, then true injustice can happen. C. S. Lewis has this wonderful quote. And he says that mercy needs to be on the bedrock of justice. And as soon as you take mercy out of justice, then mercy becomes unmerciful. and all kinds of atrocities happen. And and and that's so true. Same thing he also warns about this idea of merely trying to persuade others from from crime. That in in traditional models that was certainly a part of it, but it was it was killing two birds with one stone. You did something wrong, now you deserve justice, and and this because people don't want the justice, this naturally persuades other people from doing the crime. But now instead it's the that's become the front and center and there's no idea of justice, and so now you're being punished merely as an example for other people, other than to persuade other people. But if it's if you've taken this out of justice then why is it valid for me to be punished to persuade someone else from not doing something? See and then again, how much uh how much injustice, how much things do I need to to undergo to necessarily persuade the other guy. See, now my suffering, now my punishment is not called punishment anymore, but now the consequences of my actions are not based on again what I deserve but really on their value to keep other people from doing wrong. So again now maybe cutting off my fingertips will have the prescribed outcome of n of convincing uh my neighbor not to commit theft. And so all of a sudden is this now justified to cut off my fingertips? I mean, uh you know, obviously obviously that is not the case. So again, this is just a really interesting article from C. S. Lewis. It's just quite fascinating and it really shows you what the kind of consequence of And when people try to outsmart God, when people go away from the biblical model and try to come up with their own theories, not realizing their second and third order effects that can be quite disastrous. And and quite dangerous. We need to go back to that biblical model of we are moral agents who make moral decisions. When we do bad things, we deserve retributive justice. That's the whole foundation of of of what we see about the whole idea of salvation and damnation. That salvation is us receiving mercy because we deserve damnation. And damnation is getting what we deserve. These are the categories that the Bible has, and we need to uh keep those in mind and and remember that this is of the foundation of righteousness, this foundation of truth. And we need to be very weary of of excusing people and saying, oh, you're not a moral agent. You didn't do something wrong. You're simply diseased. You you simply have a pathology that this is extremely dangerous and can lead to uh terrible injustices and and and there very may well be my a day. Where all of a sudden it's pathological to have religion. Now it is deemed as delusional. And now we need to not be punished Because that would be un that would be wrong. But instead get treatment, get rehabilitated, be locked up, be stripped of our rights. And C. S. Lewis makes this point. Whether you call it therapy or not, this is the same form of punishment. You're stripping me of my rights You're you're taking my freedom away. Uh the this is certainly punishment, and you're just calling it therapy. So very interesting article again, it's called The Humanitarian Theory of Punishment by C. S. Lewis. Check it out in Google. It's free. Just type that in and you'll be able to find this wonderful and very thought-provoking article. Okay, God bless.