One of the interesting arguments that annihilationists often make is they try to make it seem like their system has it is more just a general positive view. that it it's that salvation is not fire insurance. It's something uh wonderful, something something so much greater than that. It's it's coming into a relationship with God. It's It's enjoying his presence forever. It's all that positive stuff and not any of that negative stuff. And I mean and certainly uh salvation is not merely fire insurance. It's not simply Okay, so I'm not going to hell, so now I can live on my happy way without any regard to God or any any sense of of dwelling with him and loving him and being with him. I I don't know any eternal goddess torment uh or uh or annihilationism only have to do with with with hell, only have to do with the final destination of unbelievers, it have n it has nothing to do with heaven. So the picture of heaven is is unchanged. And and so whether or not you want to emphasize the the beauty and and the splendor of heaven or the the horrors of of hell, e either way Um, the the the beauty of heaven doesn't change. It's just a perspective di difference and it's just uh whether or not you want to stress one or the other. The ironic thing is for people who who merely want to stress the beauty of heaven and not the horrors of hell, they're gonna have a real problem with reading Jesus because it's very clear that Jesus warned people of the terror of hell. In fact, Jesus warned people of the terror of hell a lot He did it more than just about anybody else. He was constantly warning people about hell. I think of of Luke 12, 4 says, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. Rather fear him who after he has killed has authority to cast into hell. Yes, I tell you, fear him. Does that sound like someone who's uh afraid of of talking about the horrors of hell and warning people. I mean I think about the other text. Jesus is talking about adultery. And he says, uh do not say You have heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery, but I say to you, whoever looks at a woman with lustful of ten has already committed adultery with her in his heart. Does he stop there? No, he says, If your right eye causes sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body Go into hell. And if your right hand cards are descended, cut it off and throw it away, for it is better that you lose one of your members, then your whole body be thrown into hell So again, Jesus is not pulling punches. He's constantly warning people about the the the absolute horror and terror of hell. I think one of the reasons is because he's the son of God and he knows actually how horrible and terrible it is. So even whether you want to hold an annihilationist view or eternal conscious torment view, you can't get around the fact that Jesus taught that hell was absolutely horrible and terrible and something that you do not want to go through and something that Jesus was uh willing to tell people, don't do this. And I mean and think about this. We do this all the time. Anyone who's a a parent knows that we warn uh people about not only the the benefits. of doing a positive action, but the consequences of doing a negative action. Think about a parent telling their kids not to do drugs. Certainly he's going to tell his kid about the wonderful uh realities of a drug-free life and happy marriages and and and just uh being sober and and smelling the fresh air and and and not always uh having these longings for for drugs. He's gonna tell him about the positive, but what what kind of good parent is not also gonna tell him about the negative about being high on drugs, about losing your family, about the possibility of getting all kinds of terrible diseases and being homeless. See, it it's just a balanced view to say the positive and the negative And another and and so this is just simply not a difference between eternal conscious torment and annihilationism. It's just a difference of perspective. I think that one of the reasons Why annihilationists think that this is a difference or often making a difference is because it's a difference to them. They are people who don't want to focus on on hell. They don't they don't want to focus on the destiny of the lost. They just want to focus on the positive side. And again, that's fine for them to do. I think it's uh not wholly biblical. We need to have both But that's just not a difference between eternal conscious torment and annihilationism. Both have the same positive outcome. It's just a question of what is the final destination. And e no matter what you do, the final destination for the wicked have to be something terrible. Another reality we have to think about is this is just uh part of the the story of salvation in general. Salvation presupposes damnation. Damnation presupposes the wrath of God. And so we're saved from the wrath of God, the penalty of sin, God's fury being upon us. So there is really no way. You can you can just try to pretend as if we can think of a salvation that's not Well, being saved from the wrath of God, but but you just can't get there. There is no such thing as a salvation from the wrath without being saved from something, namely the wrath of God. If if there was no wrath of God, there is no need for salvation. Think about Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden. No, they're just in a state of bliss. there is no salvation that is needed. So whether you want to emphasize it or not, I I think not emphasizing is clearly not biblical, but it's immediately presupposed when we tell them to be saved that Jesus Christ came to save you from your sins and you say save me from what? Well save you from the penalty of sins. And so what's the penalty of sin? Oh, I don't want to talk about that. I just want to tell you how wonderful it would be to be with God. So you just can't do that, right? It's Jesus Christ came to save you. And and and and bring you to this wonderful place called the he called heaven or and eventually the new heavens and the new earth. Right? It's so wonderful. Okay, what happens if I don't believe? Oh, I just don't want to talk about that See it it just doesn't it doesn't work. You might not want to talk about it, but the Bible certainly does talk about it. And and simply the annihilationist versus Eternal conscious torment again does not change, um doesn't change the message that hell is a terrible place. Now you one can argue that hell doesn't seem to be that such a terrible place under annihilation, which that's a different argument But ultimately, if annihilation isn't true, the Bible clearly teaches uh what it does clearly teach is that hell is a terrible place. So you whatever you do, you can't make hell not a terrible place. You can't change the fact that uh it's a a great motivation that tells someone they want to avoid going to a terrible place. So we need to be balanced. Certainly hell is uh the the salvation is not merely fire insurance that's a pejorative term. I the idea is all we're doing is insuring ourselves from hell and have no focus on the glories of heaven. No, the glories of heaven are wonderful. We see whole chapters given to the glories of heaven. And in fact, if you if you look at Revelation There are there is a a section on hell and and it's it's part of a chapter, chapter twenty. I mean it's also there in Revelation 14, but again they're they're parts of chapters But you have an entire chapter, s a couple chapters, actually, Revelation 21 and 22, that's all about the glories of heaven. And so that should be maybe a lesson for us in and of itself, that the emphasis for the believer is the heavenly city. Um, not necessarily hell, but hell is still there. See, there's still a there's still a half a chapter, and you put them together, Revelation 14 and 20, there's a full chapter on hell while there is two chapters devoted at the end of the book on heaven. So we need to the the Bible talk talks about keeping our minds on the heavenly reality where Christ is. So we need to primarily uh dwell on the glories of heaven, but we don't need to forget about the terrors of hell, and we certainly should warn people. God bless.