And pretty sure he wants us to be not just hearers of the word, but doers also. We're supposed to be not just hearers, but doers also, just like you prayed. Amen, Mr. Kevin. Okay, so if you could open your Bibles to James, the little epistle James, we're going to continue our study in the book of James. So good to see you all out here. Uh looking at this wonderful book. So James chapter one. I'm gonna read a few passages and then we'll backtrack. James chapter 1, verse 1. James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad. My brethren, counter all joy when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience, but let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. If any one of you lacks wisdom, let him ask of God who gives to all liberally and without reproach. and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith, with no doubting, for he who doubts is like a wave of the sea tossed by the wind, or let that man not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord For he shall not. Okay. So last time we uh made it into the first verse of the first word. James. I can't promise you we'll get past it. But we'll see. So just a very brief uh very brief overview and then we're gonna press forward. Does anyone remember how many James there are in the Bible? Four. There are four James, and in fact is we we saw last time that in Acts chapter one, all four James are found in the same prayer meeting, waiting for Jesus to come. There are two apostles that are have that name James uh closely uh related to it. And then there's the the brother James and then there's one of the apostles their father is named James. But basically there are two famous James and two obscure James, and the obscure James are definitely not it. So it's one of the famous James, and the other famous James other than the brother of Jesus is James, the son of Zebedee. But does anyone remember why we are almost sure that it was not James, the brother of John, the son of Zebedee, the son of Thunder? one of the close tight knit inner net inner uh inner tight knit apostles was probably not the author of our little epistle James. Does anyone remember why? He died really early in Acts chapter 12. He was one of the first martyrs, the the two significant martyrs in the book of Acts. What's the first one, Church? Stephen, and the second one was James, and that's when they tried to get Peter because they got Herod's like, oh, this is working. People are liking me because I'm killing the apostles. And he grabs Peter and then God saved Peter. Everybody remember that story? Okay. So that that other James dies too early, so that leaves us with James, the brother of the Lord. And he's also known as James the Just, and he's known as Mr. Camel Neese. And does anyone remember why he was called Camel Nees? He prayed so much that he got calluses on his knees. Alright, the next thing that we talked about, again, I'm getting through this fast, is the question was, was did Jesus really have half-brothers? And what we saw was, yes, he did, and he actually had a lot of siblings, if anyone remember how many siblings Jesus had. He he was one of seven. He had six siblings. It confuses everybody. It confuses everybody. But but we know that there were at least seven of them, six siblings. I know this is weird language. But the reason we know that is because we have the names of four of his brothers. Here are the names. The brother of James, that guy. Joseph, Judas, also known as Jude, and Simon. And then it says, are not his sisters with us, meaning there has to be six of them, because it's plural sisters, plus Jesus. Children, who knows that math? Six plus one? Seven. Almost like Ben's family, but they were all boys over there and he had some mix over here. Big family. Right? Big family. Um and it turned out well for them. Now, does anyone remember why it is that the Roman Catholics want to make these siblings into cousins? And want to say Jesus didn't have any siblings, half siblings. Immaculate conception? Yeah, percep perpetual virginity. Why are they so concerned about perpetual virginity? Anyone remember? What's their error? Well they worship her. That's a big problem. Make her back a human and you won't say such crazy things. Nothing short of worship, at least m many times. And I get tell I don't I gotta move on here, but okay, I'll tell you this quick story. Everybody likes story. Uh we went to the Baltimore Cathedral. Part of my end div was I had to go see a liturgical church And so liturgical worship with the what they call it the the smoke and the bells. Does that make sense? And so I said, if I'm gonna go look at the smoke and the bells, I'm gonna do a big. I'm not going Anglican I'm not going Episcopale, I'm going big. I'm gonna go find the biggest cathedral in town. Does anyone know the biggest cathedral in town? Boom. Baltimore Basilica. That place is big. It is huge. And they have the scary organ. It's really creepy. Some of you like the organ. I don't like it, especially in that building. Don dun. I was it was really, really creepy, and it was not meant for preaching, by the way. The w the the the the thing was so high that the preaching was awful Because it was just echo, echo, echo, echo. And a little kid would you think the kid's allowed in here? Boom, it is boom. It was it was awkward. It was absolutely terrible experience. I was like, this is why I'm Baptist. I'm never going back there But the the the one thing the reason I share this story to you the one thing that was fun or fascinating is after the service They they linger. I like lingering. They linger. And they have all these statues of Joseph and angels and they had a statue of Mary. Okay? And this lady, I think she was from another country, was crying over it, kissing it, bowing down to it. And I'm like, I've if this isn't worship, what is worship? So I decided to interview her. Remember this? My kids were there. I walked over to Mike. I'm teased, I didn't have Mike. But I walked over and said, excuse me, are you worshiping Mary? She looked shocked. Go talk to the priest. Get out of here. And that's that's the end of that story. And I I said I'm not talking to the priest. He obviously didn't care. He didn't care what they do But yes, you can say whatever you want, but if you're bowing down, kissing, crying, what else could we worship to a statue of Mary Right there in the Basilica of Baltimore, I was there once, and I saw a person bowing down, kissing, and worshiping Mary. So it's not just slander to say that that is actually happening Um but but yeah, so it's almost like a deifized figure. Uh but any other reasons, we gotta move on from this. Any other reasons that people would have a big deal about Mary's perpetual virginity? Why does that even matter? Who would care about that? What's the error? Steph? Exactly. They think marital relations, that's a euphemism, is sinful inherently. And so since Mary could has never sinned and could not sin, then she couldn't do anything sinful, and because that's sinful, she couldn't do it. You see that? And what does the Bible say? Hebrews chapter 13 verse 4. Marriage is honorable among all, the bed undefiled, but fornicators and adulterers will be judged. So they're just wrong. Strong. Mary does not have to be a perpetual virgin and there's nothing central about uh marital relations. So You know what? I'm skipping why the virgin birth. If anyone wants to hear about why the virgin birth, you can talk about it next time, but I'm gonna skip past that and move to what I wanted to cover last time. And uh what I'm going to cover this time. Namely, the story of James. So if you want to talk about the Virgin Brother, we'll talk about that later. But James is the half-brother of Jesus. There's no reason to deny it. And the virgin birth does not have anything to do with the sinfulness of physical relations. Everybody good with that? Amen. Okay. So the story of James. What would it be like to be Jesus' little brother? Very annoying. Okay, let's fill that out. I wasn't expecting that but I kind of agree. So uh why would it be very annoying to have Jesus as your older brother? Amen. Can you imagine? About everything. Everything. You know, y why are you like I can just I even especially James, can you imagine? So you have baby Jesus, perfect baby Jesus. I mean he probably wipes himself. Okay, he was still a baby. But but still I mean he cries perfectly, he doesn't throw a fit, he's sweet, he never bites. Women know what I'm talking about. He doesn't do that. Like he's just this wonderful baby Jesus and a little togo Jesus, no terrible twos. He he probably never disciplined. No, he wasn't. He wouldn't have had to. He wasn't sinful. He's just perfect. Perfect baby kid Jesus. And then you get the sinner. James. And you're like, what's wrong with this kid? This kid's evil. This kid's depraved. And that was probably uh James' experience. That James grew up in the shadow of his brother Big time in every way. In every way he was like that. And what do you think that would cause? What would that cause in your heart? To be inferior in everything, every time, and not even close. Resentment? Yeah. Resentment. Bitterness. Hatred. Jealousy. Envy. Quitting. Frustration. Well, that's what we're what we're gathering that. I'm gathering out from the crowd, and that's wonderful. But that is actually what happened to James. In Mark chapter 6, verse 4, it says this. But Jesus said to them, A prophet is not with without honor except in his own country, among his own relatives, and in his own house. You know that saying? A prophet, put it more put it differently, a prophet receives honor everywhere except where? In his own country. In his own home by his own relatives. Well, that's exactly what happened to James. Turn over to John chapter 7. John chapter 7. Jesus received honor everywhere except his own home, his own country, his own town, and his own relatives. Can somebody read John chapter seven and read verse one through nine? I saw some movement back there, Miss Lisa. You got it, Miss Lisa? When about Galilee, he would not go about in Dea because the Jews would kill him. Now the Jews' feast of Ludwig was at hand. So his brother said to him. Be here and go to Juseo, and your disciples also may see the work you are doing. For no one works in secret if he seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show yourself to the world. For not even his brothers believed in him. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is always here. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify about it that it's worked for you. You go up to the feast. I am not going up to the feast, for my time has not yet fully come. After saying this, he remains Amen. Okay. So let's look at this. Verse 1. So Jesus walked in Galilee, but but he didn't walk in Judea anymore because they were trying to kill him. So so that's the setting. Jesus is now a A man with a hit list. He's now someone they're trying to kill. You can't walk freely anymore. Verse 2. Now there's this feast, the Feast of Tabernacles. This is one of the three feasts where the Jews, Jewish males had to go up. Three times a year to go worship God. So Jesus has to go up to this feast and but but there's a problem. Namely, if he goes out publicly, he's gonna get killed. See the problem? Okay. So look at his uh wonderful brothers. What great brothers he has. Verse three. His brothers therefore said to him, Depart from here and go into Judea, that your disciples also may see the works that you're doing. The very place they're trying to kill him. Who do these brothers remind you of? Was there another, you know, son who had brothers who tried to kill him? Joseph. And Joseph is the Christ figure. This is what happened to Joseph is happening to Jesus. Bunch of jealous brothers. Trying to kill you. Giving you horrible advice. Yeah, go ahead and put the the fork into the the outlet. It's fun. No, it isn't. No. They're trying to kill him. Or at least they're giving him reckless advice of putting him in danger. But Jesus of course is too wise for that. And he and they say in verse 4, No one does anything in secret while he himself seeks to be known openly. If you do these things, show it to the world. Now, of course, why did they want to kill Jesus? Because he had done those things openly. Right? Isn't that how he got famous? Isn't that why his name is spreading? Because he's he's done all these wonderful things uh openly, but that's causing persecution, so he's pulling back, and then they're telling him kind of like Satan. To well you're not doing it what they're saying is true. If you want to be known, you don't do things in secret. But the reason Jesus is doing things secret because he had done them openly and now they're trying to kill him. This reminds me a little bit of what happens in John chapter 6, where Jesus does these miracles and he feeds the crowd. And you remember what they say to Jesus when he says, believe in me? What do they say? They say, we'll believe in you if you give us what? A sign. He had just fed them, but it wasn't good enough, and they say, well, we want a sign. That wasn't good enough. We need another sign. The same thing going on here. Jesus is already doing this, but they're trying to tempt him to do it. And why? So I want to read verse 5 again. Why do they say this? For even his own brothers did not believe in him. It's explicit, right? It's explicit. No question. His brothers did not believe in him. Now I read it's amazing what you're reading commentaries. It's amazing what you're reading commentaries. People who want to defend the thesis that these are the cousins of Jesus have a problem here. I don't even want to explain why, but they have a problem here. And so they have to make because what the problem is they they they want John of Alpheus to be this James, so he's an apostle. So they want this to be the apostle. But the problem is the apostles believe and this guy doesn't believe. So they twist the word of God to somehow make this not say what it clearly does say, namely, his brothers did not believe. And that's why they're trying to get him killed. And if there's any question about that, look at verse 6. Jesus said to them, My time has not yet come, but your time is ready. And I love this verse. The world cannot hate you, but it hates me. Because I testify of it that its works are evil. I want to preach this verse, but I'm going to move on. Isn't that powerful? It hates me. Why? Because I testify that its works are evil. And beloved, let me just tell you this. Mini-sermon , I'm moving on because we're going to do the story of James. But if you look like Jesus and you act like Jesus and you talk like Jesus, what's the world going to think of you? They're going to hate you And they're going to try to kill you. And they're going to shut you down. Because you testify that its works are evil. Minnie sermon now. I just want you to think about that. We often think if we were like Jesus, they would all love us. But you forget that they killed him. And they'll kill you too. Or they'll slander you. Or they'll speak bad about you. You do the works of God, and you better believe your accusers will come after you. Just know that. If you do the works of God, stand ballot, opposition, slanderers, and accusers are coming after you every time. And just recognize that. Okay? Moving on. They Jesus says to these people, The world cannot hate you, but it hates me because I testify that its works are evil. You go up to the feast, for I'm not going yet, for my time has not fully come. If anyone wants to ask why I like the New King James, it's in that verse right there, but we're moving on The bottom line is here is very clearly they're unbelievers at this time. Everybody see that? Including James. He's an unbeliever. So what happens to him? Now let's turn over to John chapter 19. Looking at the story of this man, James, how he went from a jealous brother to one of the greatest saints to ever walk the earth. What the man called James a dust, the man called Camel Knees. Alright, so can somebody pick up uh John chapter nineteen verse twenty-five. Get that Mr. Kevin? Go ahead, go ahead. Uh now they are stood by the cross of Jesus. Mother and his mother's sister Mary, and the wife of Cleopus, and Mary Mangolus. He saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son. Then saith he to the disciples, Behold thy mother. And from that hour the No, I love the Bible. And the Bible's true. And the Bible's real. And sometimes the Bible's like a jigsaw puzzle. There's all these little pieces. And if you follow it, it all makes a comprehensive whole, but you've got to be patient with it and you've got to study it. Now this is a this is a curious scene. This is Jesus in his last moments. And it's really kind of amazing. Jesus is on the cross, and there are people out there that are looking upon him. One of them is John. And one of them is married. It's not a lot of his disciples there, but but these are. And Jesus, I think he has seven sayings from the cross. He doesn't say the point is he doesn't say a lot. And one of the few things he says is taking care of his mother. Isn't that amazing? He says very little from the cross, but he sees his mother and he says, I gotta take care of you. Wow. Again, I want to preach another sermon on taking care of the elderly. And taking care of your family and taking care of your mother. But I'm moving on. The point is that he looks out at his mother and says, I gotta take care of you because I'm not gonna be here for you anymore. And I'm the oldest, and I'm responsible. And from this text, we know Joseph had died. Because if Joseph's there, then Jesus doesn't need to take care of her. Everybody see that? Now, now wait a second. Jesus is about to die. Joseph is dead. So he looks over at John and says, take care of my mom. Anybody see where I'm going with this? Why? Why not what why did he not ask James or his four other brothers? What about what about the sisters? Bobby the sisters are married off. Interestingly enough, you never see the sisters anymore. It doesn't say the sisters don't believe. In fact, even when the prayer group is happening, which we'll see in a moment, his sisters aren't mentioned. The sisters are gone. We got one reference to the sisters and they're all gone. They probably get married off. They're with their husbands. Right? Husband and husband doing that thing. But but why not James or Judas or Simon or his other brothers? Why not them? Something really profound here. They didn't believe because they weren't spiritual. And because Jesus said, I'm not trusting my precious mother into your hands. Isn't that amazing? He's saying that in fact the spirit is thicker than blood. We say blood is thicker than water, it is, but the spirit is thicker than blood Isn't that amazing? He says, I'm skipping over natural relations because this is my mother, this thing of God, and she's not going home with the eel. She's going home with My disciple, John. And John becomes an adopted son to provide and take care of this beloved saint. And he takes her home. But again, the point is that this only makes sense if James is still an unbeliever Otherwise, why skip over James? It doesn't make sense. So he's an unbeliever. He continues to be an unbeliever. Now, go over to Acts chapter 1. That's chapter one And let's see. Okay, can somebody pick up uh verse thirteen down through fourteen? Ethan, do you have that? Acts chapter one thirteen two. These all with one mind will continue devote themselves to prayer, along with the Lord. Mary, the mother of Jesus. This is the text I was talking about that has all four changes. We're passing over that. Who is in the prayer meeting? You have all the apostles, you have the mother of Jesus, and who else? His brothers. They're not believers at the cross. They're not believers in John chapter 7. Acts chapter 1. They're believers. Now here's the question. What happened between the death of Christ, and this is 40 days later What happened between those 40 days that made his brothers go from persecutors and doubters and people he would not ever trust his mother to take care of to people in that prayer meeting praying and waiting for the risen Christ? The resurrection. The resurrection is what happened. Now turn over to First Corinthians chapter fifteen. First Corinthians chapter fifteen and Ms. Brenda, can you pick that up uh one through seven? Now I would remind you, brothers, of the gospel I preach to you, which you receive, and which you stand, and I wish you would be safe. If you hold fast to the word I preach to you, unless you For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scriptures, that he was buried, that he was race of the third day in accordance with the scriptures. And that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve. Then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time. Most of all of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. Then he appeared to James, then to all the apostles. Do you see it? This is the gospel of first importance. Christ appearing to various people, showing that he's alive. And who did he appear to? He appeared to a bunch of people. He appeared to seepage, which is Peter. He appeared to the twelve, which are the disciples. He appeared to five hundred. He appeared to this group called the apostles, which may be the twelve or maybe other lesser individuals, and that's one of the areas of the Bible I'm not fully I'll be honest with you, I don't fully understand who these lesser apostles are And that'll be relevant in a second about James. But most importantly, verse 7. And after that he was seen by James. How did James become the man he would one day become? Because he met the risen Lord. Jesus Christ made a personal visit to his little brother. And it transformed his life. Do you see that? Did Jesus make any other visits to any other personal people? Well, says Stephen's, but he was already a believer. Any other unbelievers, did Jesus ever visit any other unbelievers? Did Jesus ever visit any other unbelievers? Paul. Saul. He knocked them off Damascus Road. The only indication we have of Jesus ever visiting unbelievers is James and Paul. And these two men became some of the greatest Christians the world has ever seen. Isn't that amazing? And the the best that we can tell, what happened was James saw the risen Lord and his doubt turned into belief And then he went back and told his brothers, I've seen the Lord. And they got converted. And then he felt, I'm sure, shame and humiliation for all this time being jealous of his brother who ended up being the son of God. And he repented, he turned around, and James ended up becoming one of the greatest Christians the world has ever seen. And if you doubt that, now let's go to Galatians. Let's look at who this man became. Galatians chapter 1. We're running out of time, so I'll just pick these up quickly. Galatians chapter 1, verse 19. But I saw none of the other apostles except James, the Lord's brother. So this is that little hint I was talking about. I don't fully understand who these lesser apostles are. There's the twelve. Then there's Paul, and then James is called an apostle, and then Barnabas is called an apostle. And to be honest with you, I'm not sure who these other 13th and 14th and 15th apostles are. But whatever it is, it's big. Right? You don't you're not an apostle if you're not big. James became whatever this lesser apostle is. And then if you go over to Galatians chapter 2 verse 9 , It says, this is Paul talking about what he did in Jerusalem. It says, and when James, Cephas, that's Peter, and John, who seemed to be pillars, dot dot dot dot dot In other words, James became one of the three pillars of the church of Jerusalem. Isn't that amazing? The man who doubted his brother his whole life and tried to get him killed later became one of the pillars of the church. And just to stop here and to make a point is this, regeneration is powerful When God says He's going to take that heart of stone and turn it into a heart of flesh, when God says he'll go from dead to alive, from hating God to loving God, it's not a it's not just some kind of Flowery language, some some giant hyperbole, and some kind of exaggeration. That's exactly what happens here, isn't it? The man who went trying to kill his brother now became the man who ends up dying for his brother Regeneration is real and is powerful. James later becomes the what many would call the president or the chief pastor of the Jerusalem church. And you can see that in several cases in Acts chapter 12 and 21 and Acts 15. The big one is Acts 15, when they're having the Jerusalem Council. Who was the final person to speak up as the speaker and in the matter? James. They're having the apostles are there. Paul is there. And all the big names are there. Peter is there. Paul is there, Barnabas there, all the elders are there, and who stands up, says, listen to me, shuts the matter down, writes the letter, and closes out the business meeting. James. Amazing. This man became such a mighty man of God. And how did he become that mighty man of God? One more time. He saw the risen Jesus. And so my question to you all is this, have you come and seen the risen Christ? Not with the eyes of flesh like James and Paul did, but with the eyes of faith. Have you had an encounter with God? Have you been born again? Have you been transformed? And if you have that same regenerating power that was in James and in Paul resides in you, and that power is called the Holy Spirit. And you too can do great things for God You. Each one of you. No matter what your past is, no matter what you've done, if you have that spirit in you, that's what makes a difference. Not your past, and not what you've done. All right, any questions on that? Any thoughts, any comments? Okay. Well we're gonna get out of verse one. We preach that first word. I'm gonna preach the next three words James, a bondservant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ. I promise we'll be done in two minutes. Maybe five. That word bondservant, what's the difference between a bondservant and a slave and a servant? Okay. Anyone else have any ideas? Yeah, but that is not indentured service. Indentured that is the word indentured. Yeah, they they have usually a period of time. Indentured servants. Indentured servants, okay. Malachi? I only know because I didn't learn from that sermon, but okay, go ahead. Well Go for it. Oh. You're thinking about the the permanent servant and yeah, see you tried to call me out, but that that's actually wrong. But but but yes, there there is a there is a permanent by the way, there's nothing wrong with learning from sermons. I hope you learn from my sermons. And anybody else's sermons, please I'm teasing you. No, no, that's that's actually that's good because that's what this text is talking about. Thank you for bringing that up. The the the Hebrews had a thing where if you were a temporary indentured servant For seven years, you could say, I love my master and I never want to go away from him, and you can become a permanent servant and you can mark your ear in the door and say, This is I'm permanently belonging to him. And that's actually the concept behind here. And you read that text and you think Who in the world would ever want to do that? Me. If your master's Christ, I do. Right? He takes care of me. He takes care of me a whole lot better than I can take care of myself. I want to live in his house and be his slave. And that's a picture of Christ. But just to answer that question, it's a trick question. The difference between bondservant and slave is your sensibilities. Your sensibilities. How you feel about the word, there's no difference. A bond servant is a servant in bonds. That's called a slave. The reason why the Greek word is doolos The reason John MacArthur wrote a book on this called Doolas. The reason why your Bibles often shy away from slavery is because of our history of slavery and so many people cringe with the concept of slavery. But you're a slave of Christ Did you know that? And that's important to know. Not a servant. The word is not servant, it is slave. You are a slave of Christ, and that's important to know because that means you don't belong to yourself. Servants, you can we have servants in the church. We have servants at your house. You can quit. You can't quit Jesus. He owns you. You belong to him. And that's what's going on here. And it's so important to realize that you were bought at a price, therefore, glorify God in your body and your spirit, which are God's. You belong to God. In the military, I haven't been in the military for a while, but Ethan, you tell me, do you have something that says like US Army, US Navy. You have that, right? That means you own they own you. And if you wonder that, if you wonder they own you, let them put you on orders. They're not asking you, are they? They didn't say, hey, would you like to come up here? No, no, no, no, no. And they can send you wherever they want. And as a military man, I knew that, and that's why I got out. I wanted my freedom back. And I said, no, thank you. You're not sending me to jail for not listening to your orders. Well, we have something stamped on our chest which says, Jesus Christ. We belong to him. We belong to him. I don't get to choose what I do with this body. It belongs to him. Bill, you gonna say something? Yeah, well I would say the concept would be when I was first familiar. They would. Actually I know a man who didn't want to deploy, who got his wife to run over his foot. Yes, I mean. He ran over his foot and they charged him a crime. Because you're destroying government property because you belong to them. We belong to Christ. That's the point. The man who hated his brother could later say, I'm a bondservant of God and of Jesus Christ. Isn't that amazing? This takes hero worship to a whole new level. He saw his brother as an enemy and now he says God. Good mercy. The difference between a bond servant and a slave? A bond servant and a slave is the same thing. It's just that people don't like the word slave. But I like the word slave. Because I want it clear. I want it clear that God has marked me with a hot iron that says belonging to Christ. I don't want to be confused about this. I don't want to think that I don't know about No, no, I belong to Him. I was bought at a price. He tells me what to do. I don't tell him what to do. Does that make sense? That's my master. That's my Lord. He commands me. And I say, and hopefully we all say, Amen. Speak Lord for your servant hears. It's not an option. Masters don't ask their slaves, hey, would you like to? They say you need to. And that's how the Bible comes to us. God is commanding us, and we need to recognize that you are the Lord's Slave. Don't shy away from that word. He's a good master though. We're his slave. Well I I I kind of gravitate toward bias because that we have been given free will. We have chosen that. we didn't really have to. But uh you know we're we're in the same place uh of salvation uh as uh of slits Yeah, I mean I'll I'll just say this that Again, I'm on my campaign if somebody likes that word 's a very good idea. bond servant. Again, let me tell you other thing though on a positive note. Another reason people don't like the word slave is because they Because so often slavery was coercive and abusive and and and and and they hurt be the master hurt the slave. But that wasn't always the case. And I just Malachi so pointly pointed out that people actually chose willingly to be permanent slaves. If you have a good master. Being a slave is not a bad deal. And just on a historic note, people would actually voluntarily become very rich and powerful people slave because it was better in their house. than others. And there's cases where slaves had more authority than freemen. Just imagine being Caesar's slave. You're Caesar's slave. Oh, you don't mess with Caesar's slave Right? Because he has the authority of Caesar behind him. So there was again we we we only think about one type of slavery and and and all that and again I'm not on a campaign. If you want to be called a bondservant, that's fine. You're bound. You serve because you're bound. What also to clarify is that we have bought the price. Yes. And the condition on that is we've been bought for a price that we don't have the ability to pay. A bond servant serves for a certain amount of time and then his bond is done. The indentured. Yeah, exactly. And we're not trying to. We've got to wrap this up. We're going to pray. We are not trying the the concept of of being a slave of Christ. You're not trying to free yourself. Number one. It's better in his house. And number two, we serve out of gratitude and out of being just in that relationship. Once you're a slave, you just obey because you are a slave. It's not about paying back. Your freedom is gone. Right? It's gone. You're adopted son of God. You're not paying I'm not paying back God anything. I'm saying by grace through faith alone Never. We're never trying to pay back. We never can. And we never even should even try to attempt to. We pay we obey because we need to, because we have to, and this is it. Because it's best to And that last part, I'm going to preach many more sermons about that. But believers, I really hope that at the end of many years with me, You'll say amen to that statement. We serve God primarily because it's best to. And when you finally get that, if you haven't got that, it will invigorate you like nothing else. It's not burdensome. Does that make sense? God's not saying these horrible things that I have to obey, but I can trust God and say, you know what? It's best for me to love my wife. It's best for me to discipline my children. It's best for me. To not watch filthy things online. Does that make sense? God is not an evil God and not a taskmaster, but he's a doctor giving us a prescription for our health. But that's it. We'll preach many more sermons like that. So let's go to the Lord in prayer.