The Book of Jeremiah is a wonderful book that's often neglected by Christians. One of the reasons it's neglected is because it's a difficult book because we're not used to this kind of genre. It constantly feels like it repeats itself. There's a lot of uh things that are difficult. It just can be challenging. But it is a a wonderful book and I really recommend uh reading it. Uh probably getting a good study bible so you can look in the notes if if you have uh confusion things that are confusing you uh but but I pick up this book and read it it is it is quite wonderful and so this evening we're going to look at Jeremiah 13 We're going to look at this parable, this lived-out parable that God commands Jeremiah in the 13th chapter called the Ruined Wayspan. So without further ado, let's go ahead and begin in verse 1. Thus said Thus said the Lord to me, go and buy yourself a linen waistband and put it around your waist, but do not put any water on it. Okay, so there's this waistband, this thing, this cloth that men would wear on on their from their hips, and that would go over their thigh And and this waistband was told by Jeremiah to buy it. But the first unusual thing is he says, Don't put any water on it. What what does water do? It cleanses it. So you're gonna have this this garment piece that you're never going to cleanse. What's gonna happen to it? It's gonna get dirty. Yuck. He's gonna have this nasty, dirty waistband on. Let's keep going. Verse 2. So I bought the waistband. Let me stop there. Isn't it wonderful? God says, go by the waistband, and Jeremiah says, but no, I don't want to. No, he says, so I did it. What obedience. What wonderful childlike obedience. that Jeremiah has here and we should have the same thing. God, if you tell me to do something, let me be like Jeremiah. Go by a waistband So I bought the waste and we have books written about us. Is that going to be your uh your book and your story? God's gonna tell you to do this and it's gonna say, and so he did it. Lord willing, that will be the case for you as well. So I bought the waistband in accordance with the word of the Lord and put it around my waist. Then the word of the Lord came to me a second time, saying, Take the waistband that you have bought, which is around your waist, and arise and go to Euphrates and hide it there in the crevice of the rock. So we see that the Word of God came to him twice. The first time it came to him, all it said was by the waistband, don't put any water on it. He didn't know what the full mission was, but he had enough to be obedient. And we often, that is like us. Often God tells us to do something and we can't fully see why we're supposed to do it. But it should be enough for us. If God tells us to do something and we can't see what's the full plan, that's okay. Trust not under your own understanding, but lean on the way of the Lord. So then the Lord comes to him a second time, and now he tells them to take this waistband that you bought, that's around your waist, and go to the Euphrates and hide it in the crevice of a rock Now you gotta understand, this is a far journey. It's a thousand miles away. This is gonna take a long time. He can't just get in his car. That'd be a long time uh for anybody, even in a car. But this guy has to travel by foot. or or maybe some other uh means, but it there's no mass transportation. It's gonna take him a long time to do that. But what does Jeremiah do? He obeys. What does it say? Verse 5. Again, look at the obedience of Jeremiah. So I went and hid it by the Euphrates. God, you want me to buy this thing? You want me to he a head uh go a thousand miles? And imagine how dirty this thing now is. He's never supposed to be cleaning it. This thing is filthy. He travels a thousand miles all the way over there. And he does what the Lord commands. Verse 6. After many days the Lord said to me, Arise and go to the Euphrates and take from there the waistband which I commanded you. to hide there. So he drops the waistband there. It takes some many days to get there. Many days to get back. We're not sure if the many days in this text is By the time he gets back, all of a sudden God tells him, Turn back around and go get it or there's some time after that. It's not errant, but nevertheless, at some time after he takes this really long journey there, really long journey back, God says to go get the waistband Again. And he's thinking, I just went so far to take the waste man. You want me to get it again? Does he complain though? No, he listens to the Lord. What? Faith. Faith. And then verse 6, after many days the Lord said, Arise and go to Euphrates, take from there the waistband which I command you to hide there. So he obeys, verse 7. Then I went to the Euphrates and dug and took the waistband from the place where I hid it. And lo, the waistband was ruined and totally worthless. Now, is that a surprise to anybody? This thing's been out by itself. for a long period of time. It was never clean in the first place. It was already filthy by the time he brought it there. But now when he uh he buries it and then retrieves it It's gone from filthy and nasty now to utterly useless. Now, if he tries to clean it, it's it it can't be fixed. This thing is totally destroyed. So what's the point of all this? What's this living out parable? Well, we don't have to speculate. Verse 8 and following tells us. Then the word of the Lord came to me saying, Thus says the Lord, just so I will destroy the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem This wicked people who refuse to listen to my words, who walk in the stubbornness of their hearts, and have gone after other gods to serve them and to bow down to them, let them be just like this waistband which is totally worthless For as the waistband clings to the waist of a man, so I made the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah cling to me, declares the Lord, that they might be for me a people for renown, for praise and for glory, but they did not listen. What a powerful text. Here's what we find out. We find out that Jeremiah represents God and the waistband represents the people of God. And so the the lack of cleansing the waistband shows that their own filthiness And their own refusal to be with the Lord in a a loving and and a uh forgiving and a and a holy relationship with the Lord. So they're filthy. Now certainly uh God sends them prophets, but they stone them. God calls them back, but they won't listen. God gives them the Torah, but they won't read it. Even if they do read it, they misunderstand it. And that's why it gets filthy. So eventually What does God decide to do? He decides to take them to the Euphrates through exile. And there they become ruined. There they become smashed and worthless. And there their pride is smashed by the Babylonians. And this is such a wonderful uh image of apostasy, right? That there's a time where we're like that waistband as apostates that we cling to the Lord. We're close to his people, and we get filthy though And eventually we stay on the Lord for a time and a season, but eventually that is enough. And we'll be taken like this waistband to the Euphrates, to the distant people of God. to the uh the people who are outside of the camp and we'll be taken of them and abandoned. And what happens when the waistband is abandoned? As long as we're on the Lord, there's hope for us, hope for cleansing and restoration. But when you're were abandoned by the Lord and taken to the Euphrage and left, when we c when it comes back, when the day of judgment happens, what will that waistband look like? It will be totally ruined and destroyed. This reminds me of Of John chapter 15, apart from me, Jesus said, you can do nothing. Every branch that's not bear good fruit will be cut off. and thrown into the fire. We need to be close to the Lord like this waistband, and we are for part of the covenant people of God. But we that's not good enough We need to actually be with him and not allow this separation to happen between us and our God. And we need to repent and be cleansed. by by repentance and trusting in the Lord, trusting in the Lord for real, not just being a part of the people of God, but being a true person of God, by truly clinging onto the Lord. And as we walk with them and we see separation and from our fellowship with him, we need to repent. If we refuse Uh to do that, we might not be saved at all, and we might end up being like this waistband who eventually is it becomes filthy and then eventually is is discarded. And then when we come back to see what that waistband will be like, it'll be utterly useless, utterly destroyed. This again reminds me of Matthew, which said that many people will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not do all these things? Was I not your waistband? Was I not close to you? And he will say, Depart from me, you worker of iniquity. For I never knew you. Make sure that you're not just part of God's people by being that waistband, but you're actually having union with Him and allowing Him to cleanse you. of your sins, because if not, you might one day find out that you are a false waistband and you're going to be discarded and that you are be totally ruined in the lake of fire will you be tormented day and night. forever and ever. So I hope this picture from Jeremiah Jeremiah encourages you and gives you a wonderful picture of what true faith looks like. of being the waistband and what false face looks like being merely the waistband, not allowing the Lord to cleanse you, and of ultimately being cast off and being utterly ruined. Let me end uh on a positive note. Look what the Lord says. Look what the Lord's plan w was for Israel. Was it to send them to the Euphrates and destroy them? That wasn't his original plan. That's not what he wanted for them. What did he want for them? That you might cling to me, declares the Lord, that they might be for me a people for renown, for praise, and for glory. But they did not listen. You can put your name in here. Right? This is this is God's plan for you, that you be renowned, that you be for praise and for glory. But the only question is, is this last part about you But they did not listen. Or you be someone who did listen, who did repent, who did believe, who does trust in the Lord. And then if you do, what does that mean? What are you gonna be? You're gonna be a person For renown. This is glorification. For praise and for glory. You'll be in a new heavens, new earth where eye has not seen and ear has not heard the wonderful things that the Lord has prepared for you. The choice is yours, life or death. Pick life. Believe in Jesus Christ.