In this teaching, I want to go over 2 Chronicles chapter 24 and just give kind of a summary of what this chapter is about and make some application to our life So we're in 2 Chronicles chapter 24, and this is the chapter that that uh gives you what Joash's But Rain was like. And if you if you remember uh Second Chronicles chapter 23, the chapter right before this, this is Joash being king and and remember this is the boy king. There's that evil woman, Atheliah, she tries to kill all of David's line And then Jehoiada, the priest, is is part of this plot to uh kill Athaliah and give the throne back to Joash. the king. And so Joash is crowned king and he's made king in in chapter twenty-three. In chapter twenty-four it it it begins with Joash was seven years old when he began to reign and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. So he he he died at 47 and for 40 years he reigned starting at seven. His mother was Zebah of Beathsheba. And Joash did what was right in the eyes of the Lord all the days of Jehoida, the priest. Jehoida got for him two wives And he had sons and daughters. And so that you can already tell something is is something is out, something's gonna go bad. It says that he uh he followed Joas, his boy King from seven, the line of David that was saved. He followed the Lord All the days of Jehoiada the priest, which tells you that after um after Jehoiada is going to die, then there's something bad that's going to happen to Joach, where he's going to stop following the Lord. And then so from from verse 4 all the way down All the way down to verse 15, you have uh Joash's uh uh uh showing his godliness. And and so he's zealous for uh rebuilding the temple. He's zealous to to collect his tax and to make sure that money is is being used. um to repair the temple. And he even is so zealous that he even uh commends Jehoiada to to make sure this is getting done because the Levites are not acting quickly enough And we see that in verse 5, he gathered the priests and the Levites as the king, and said to them, Go out to the cities of Judah and gather from all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that you act quickly. But the Levites did not act quickly. So the king summoned Jehoiada, the chief. This is that godly man who had a godly influence on him. He he summoned Jehoiada the chief and said to him, Why have you not required the Levites to bring in from Judah and Jerusalem the tax levied by Moses? And so forth. And so uh he's so zealous that he's even more zealous than Jehoiada to make sure And that the temple is restored. So this is looking great. He's super zealous. He's working with his king. He's rebuilding the temple. He's making sure that these offerings are coming in and being used to re restore the temple. This is wonderful. But look down at verse 15. But Jehoidah grew old and full of days and died. This is that godly priest. He died. He was a hundred and thirty years old at his death. And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel and toward God and his house. This man is a hundred and thirty years old. This is extremely old. He's hitting the the age of the patriarchs at this point. He's hitting the age that we see of of of godly characters. like like Moses and Sarah, he's at that patriarch age. This is unusually long age at this time period of of Israel's history. This is significantly past uh Solomon, this is the pre-exile uh period. So this is unusually long and it it seems to be highlighting his age to show how how that how unusually uh long this was and how God had uh given full fullness of days at this period And then it even goes on to say that he was buried in the city of David among the kings. He's not a king, he's a priest. But he is so godly and such a good influence that they bury him among the kings And it tells you why, because he had done good in Israel and toward God and his house. He honored God, he honored Israel, he honored his house. And this is a reminder to us. that we should be people. Hopefully that this will be something that we hear at the end of our lives is that we have done good in Israel. What was it in modern day Israel that'd be uh the church universal, right? That'd be the church of God, the people of God, that we have done um good in Israel and to God and to his house. So well to God is obvious that we need to be um being good to God, but also to his house. Are we people of not only the universal church, Israel, but are we people of his particular house, his particular church, the local church. Can at the end of our lives are we going to be people who've done good toward his house? to toward the local church. Not just the universal church. And not just toward God generally, but to his house, the local body Okay, and so that that's this man, Jehoidah. But look at verse 17. Now after the death of Jehoida, the princes of Judah came and paid homage to the king. Then the king listened to them, and they abandoned the house of the Lord, the God of their fathers, and served the Ashram and the idols, and the wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for the guilt of theirs. Yet he sent prophets among them to bring them back to the Lord. They testified against them, but they would not pay attention. So this godly priest, Jehoidah, dies, and then the princes of Judah come and pay homage to the king, and the king listened. to them. He was carried away by uh by by being puffed up. He was carried away by these this evil influence on his life, this godly influence, Jehoidah, he followed after God. And this evil influence, these princes were able to puff this man up. He was able to listen to them, and he ended up abandoning the house of the Lord, the very house that he spent so much time working up and building up, he abandoned the house of the Lord. The god of their fathers, and third of the ashram and the idols, he went after idolatry. That is a very sad tale of of what happens uh when we we when we beg let when we let the uh main things not become the main things anymore and we get puffed up and and we lose are our footing toward God. Apostasy is real. This is a case of apostasy in this man's life. And it should be a warning to us that this man was following after the Lord for quite some time with Tehoida uh on his side, but then he fell away from the living God and fell away and and turned into these uh with these idolatries in the ashram. But God uh was gracious toward him and then he he sent them prophets. He sent these uh the king and the uh and and the princes of Judah, the these the he sent Israel uh these prophets, but they would not listen to them. And in fact, this is how bad it's going to get. Look at verse 20. Then the Spirit of God clothed Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada The priests. , This is the very guy who who was following who saved Joash's life and and was leading him and helping him and he was following God during his uh during uh during his life. So his son, Zechariah And he stood above the people and said to them, Thus says God, why do you break the commandments of the Lord so that you cannot prosper? Look at that. Why do you break the commandments of the Lord? Don't you know that breaking the commandment of the Lord is a sure way to be cursed? You cannot prosper going this direction. That's something we all need to hear. You will not prosper by breaking the commandments of the Lord. Because you have forsaken the Lord, he has forsaken you. If you forsake the living God, he will forsake you. That's true for everybody. You forsake the Lord, He will forsake you. Now, what's wonderful is the true believers in God that God will never forsake us because he will never allow us to completely forsake him. We can stumble, but we will not fully forsake the Lord, but this man, because he was never truly of the Lord, he was able to forsake the Lord completely, and the Lord forsook him completely. But and so this is that's what he says to them. But look, but they conspire against him and command and by the command of the king they stone him with stones in the court of the house of the Lord. Isn't that horrible? By the command of the king, this this prophet of God is stoned, is treated as a false prophet. And is stoned to death in the very house of the Lord. The very house that Joash spent so much of of his resources and so much of his zeal to build up, now he's going to murder the prophet of God in the house of the Lord. Thus Joash the king did not remember the kindness that Jehoiada, Zechariah's father, had shown him, but killed his son, and when he was dying, he said, May the Lord see and avenge. He killed this man's son. He did not remember. This man spared his life for him. And and followed him and guided him and gave him counsel. And he repaid him by killing his son because he forsake the Lord. That's what sin does. It gets you to do absolute insanity Absolute wickedness. This is what I'm sure Joash never imagined that he would be the murderer of Jehoi uh Jehoiada 's son Zechariah. He would never imagine that, and yet he did. And this man cries out, May the Lord see and avenge. And so he did avenge. We see from verse 23 down to the end of the chapter. this vengeance. And so what happened was that the king of Dis Damascus came down with this army of the Syrians and they were a few men But the Lord delivered the the hand of the great army of Joash into the hand of these this few men of Damascus. And it and the text says, Because Judah had forsaken the Lord The God of their fathers, thus they ex executed judgment on Joash. So God uh raised up this small army, and and now the Lord was now going to be with them to execute judgment on Joash And then verse 25. When they had departed from him, they severe that he was severely wounded by his servants. When they departed from him, leaving him severely wounded, his servant conspired against him because of the blood of the son of Jehoiada the priest, and killed him on his bed. So he died, and they buried him in the city of David, but they did not bury him in the tombs of the kings. And look at that, isn't that that's just that's just crazy. Think about this. So Jehoidah, a godly man, who's not a king, is buried with the kings, but Joash. The an actual king was an ungodly man and he dies in his treachery because he killed Zechariah, ends up being killed, and not being buried. in the tombs of his fathers, not being buried with the kings. And this should be a warning to us all. It's one thing to start off good, it's another thing to finish good. This man started off well, but did not finish well He had he was doing well when he had the influence of Jehoiada, this godly priest. But then when these princes, these godless men came around him, paid him homage, he started following their ways. and he fell away from the true and living God. It says in Psalm one, Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. We need to pick our friends. wisely. We need to be careful who we let influence us. This man was walking after the Lord and then abandoned him when this godly influence Jehoiada died, ended up killing his son, ended up God uh judging him, bringing up the this king of Damascus, ended up destroying his army, ended up being wounded. And then he ended up being assassinated and killed on his on his uh in his bed by these men because he killed uh the son of Jehoiada , Zechariah. And he ends up being buried outside of the king's And ultimately we we can be almost certain that this man uh ended up in hell into the lake of fire in Brimsom. Uh Zechariah And Johoreda, they're in heaven dwelling with God forever. And this man is in Hades, burning, waiting to be judged, resurrected, only to be judged, and cast in a lake of fire forever and ever. How horrible, how Terrible. Do not let this uh story be your story. Don't let don't become a Joash. Don't become someone who the people of God love on you and treat you well, and you follow after the Lord for a time and a season, and then you fall away from the living God And you ultimately forsake God and God forsakes you. You ultimately die in your sins. Don't don't let that be you. Trust in in the Lord and don't have an unbelieving heart. He is good. He is lovely. If you do not follow the Lord, how can you possibly prosper? Ultimately you don't want someone saying at the end of your life, May the Lord see and avenge, because the Lord does see, and the Lord will avenge