Then you open your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12. We'll begin reading in verse 1. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Therefore We also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which so easily ensnares us And let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking onto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and he has sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So we as Christians are surrounded by so great a c a cloud of witnesses. You can think of Abel who offered a greater and more God-honoring sacrifice than his evil brother Cain who became jealous and slayed him. You can think of Enod who walked day in and day out with God. He pleased God because it's impossible to please God outside of faith. And he pleased God in his godly life, and he was not, for God had taken him. Or we can think of godly Noah, who day in and day out preached the gospel, built the boat, was ridiculed, and through his efforts was used by God to save his household and through them save humanity in that boat. We have Moses, who valued the reproaches of Christ as greater riches than all of the treasures that Egypt, the most powerful and glorious and rich nation at that time, had to offer. And we have all of these glorious examples. We have a Bible. We have a library. The Bible is 66 books, but it's really a library. It's a collection of all these individual books. And all of these stories of heroes who have trailblazed the way, who have shown that the path is achievable and shown what it looks like. And not only do we have a book, 66 of them to be exact, full of all of these examples of men who have run their race. and have received the prize, but we also have 2,000 years of church history of Christians who have done that same thing That this race is achievable. People have done this race. We know their names. I was recently at a museum and I was looking at this almanac and I was scanning through it and I saw the name of Justin Martyr. Now some of you might know that name and I said, look, Justin Martyr's in here. And the person said, Who's Justin Martyr? I said, oh, uh early Christian who was martyred. Hence the name Justin Martyr. But here's another Christian before us. And they're just everywhere is my point. Even at a museum I find examples and testimonies of these Great cloud of witnesses who have gone before us. And not only do we have them in the Bible, not only do we have them in church history, but we have as a church ourselves Lord willing, and I believe it is true, we have them among us right now, those who have followed Christ for days, weeks, months, and decades. And I've had the privilege of burying some of these saints, and if I The Lord Terries, I will probably bury some of you who will also have run that race. Who have done it, who have achieved the prize, who have gone to glory Now, even though we're surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses, we must remind ourselves that none of these people are perfect. And if you are a fault finder, you can remember David not for him slaying the giants, or not for him riding the Psalter, or not for him being the king, which all other kings are judged, or not based on God's words in the book of Acts. where it says that he served God in his generation, you can instead of remembering him of all of those good things, you can remember David as what? The murderer, the adulterer, the wayward king, the one who had not one, but multiple rebellious sons. If you're a fault finder, you can do that Well, you can think of Noah not as the man who saved humanity, who built the boat, who was being ridiculed, who saved his family, but you can remember him as white. Anybody remember? The drunk, who lay naked in his tent, humiliated by his own son. You can remember Samuel, not as the great little boy who was first hearing from the Lord, who said, Speak, Lord, for your servant hears, which I hope you all remember Samuel for, but you can remember him as the man Who had unreal unruly children that he did not judge. But as you are tempted to do that, I caution you and say, with the judgment that you judge others You too will be judged. Matthew 7, 2. For with the judgment you judge, you will be judged, and with the measure you use, it will be measured back to you. Christian, aren't you glad that a book isn't being written about you? Well, it kind of is. But aren't you glad that that book is not currently being published and has your very worst moments recorded for all to see? I think if we did, we'd all be ashamed. And we'd all have things that people could rightfully ridicule us about. This does not mean that we cannot rebuke the saints for their failings. We can. We can recognize that men are, even great men, are still men indeed. But it does mean that we should celebrate them for their triumphs I'm very glad that in the end of the world I will not be judged by you, and you will not be judged by me. But rather I will be judged by God who sees both righteously and graciously. You see that? He sees both righteously, he sees through my bluffs and through my excuses And through my lame attempts to blame shift, but he also sees graciously, and with kindness, and with mercy. Psalm 103. Verse 10 says, For as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward those who fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far as he removed our transgressions from us. As a father pities his children, so the Lord pities those who fear him, for he knows our frame, and he remembers that we are but dust. I think many times as a Christian I've read this and I've only applied this to my life before Christ. That He pities me and He has mercy on me and He shows compassion on me and He's forgotten my sins before Christ. But truthfully, this replies to before and after Christ. God pities me. He recognizes that I am What it says here, he knows our frame. He knows my frame. He knows your frame. That you are what? He remembers that we are but Dust. And if this is how God treats us, it's not to excuse them, but it is to recognize God has mercy upon us. If this is how God treats us, how should we treat each other? And how should we treat the memories of those who have gone before us? Remember, Calvin was just but dust. Jonathan Edwards was but dust, and the person that you have a personal gripe against Who's also a Christian is but dust. We must resemble God who covers a multitude of sins by his grace and by his mercy. Remember the role of Satan. Satan is the great accuser. Satan is the one who always likes to remind God of the sins of his people, and God is the great justifier of his people. And you can see a great example of this if you want to turn there. To Zechariah chapter 3. You don't have to, but we're going to look at this real quick. Zechariah chapter 3, Old Testament, minor prophet. In verse 1, we have the scene. We have Joshua the high priest, and there's two figures before him. Children, you may have seen the little cartoons, and you have the individual, and he has someone on his left shoulder and someone on his right shoulder. And someone on his right shoulder is trying to tell him to do all these evil things, and someone on his left are I mess maybe messed up the order. Maybe the right is the angel of of righteousness and the left is the devil. But you have two people on the shoulder, one demon and one angel. Everybody seen the scene? And one is whispering good things, you know, love the neighbor, give the money, be kind, the other one's saying, forget them. They don't deserve any of your kindness Treat yourself to McDonald's instead. Anybody seen this scene? Am I the only one? I'm the only one who watches car scenes around here? Come on. I know you've seen it. You've seen that picture. Well, you know, sometimes those pictures are more biblical than you might think. Not entirely, but it's a little bit biblical, and we see that actually happening here. So we have Joshua, the high priest And standing before him, I want you to note the people. Standing before Joshua, you have the angel of the Lord. Now who's the angel of the Lord? Is this merely a created being? Is this Michael the Archangel? Who is that? This is the pre-incarnate Christ. This is Jesus. Okay? Yes. Amen. This is Jesus here. This is the angel of the Lord. This is God incarnate. This is his pre-incarnate state. But this is Christ. So you have Christ, the angel of the Lord, and next to him, next to Joshua, who do you have? Satan. And he's standing at his right to accuse him, that's Joshua. And the Lord said to Satan, The Lord rebuke you, O Satan. The Lord has chosen Jerusalem, rebuke you. Is not this a brand plucked from the fire? Now Joshua was standing before the angel clothed with filthy garments. So here's Joshua. Angel of the Lord, Jesus, Satan, and Joshua has what kind of garments on? He has his high priestly garments, but are they spotless? Are they bright? Are they clean? Do you see the jewels? What kind of garments does he have on? They're filthy, they're disgusting, they're nasty. Does the devil have a right to accuse him? Yes, he's filthy, nasty, and disgusting, and God cannot allow evil to be in his presence. The devil isn't making up stuff. Do you see that? He isn't accusing a clean man of being dirty. He's accusing a dirty man of being filthy. But look at God's response. Now Joshua was standing before the angel, clothed with filthy garments, and the angel said to those who were standing before him, remove the filthy garments from him. And he said, Behold, I have taken your iniquity away from you. I will clothe you with pure vestments. And he said, Let them put a clean turban on his head. So he put a clean turban on his head and clothed him with garments. Christ, our great high priest, takes a filthy man and makes him clean. And that's why he's able to rebuke Satan. And say the Lord rebuke you, Satan, because this is a brand plucked from the fire. This is the gospel in a nutshell here. It's right here The devil is not accusing you of things you have not done. The devil is accusing you of things that you have done. You are filthy. You do deserve his accusations, and you deserve to be with the devil himself in the lake of fire that burns with fire and sulfur forever and ever. That's what you deserve. And the devil knows it. And guess what? God knows it too. But if you are in Christ with the Lord's avocation, That's what we have here is the angel advocating, functioning as a mediator for filthy high priest Joshua. The Lord rebuke you. That's the difference. Do you have the angel of the Lord saying to Satan, the Lord rebuke you, remove the filthy clothes, give him clean clothes, and bring him to glory? You need that. You need it. If you think you're going to stand before Christ without his advocation, you're wrong. The devil will accuse you. You'll be cast into the lake of fire with him So how do you get this advocation from the angel of the Lord? How do you get Christ saying, the Lord rebuke you, Satan? You have to be his friend. You have to be his son. You have to be in him. You have to make peace with God through Christ. And you do that by believing the gospel, by repenting of your sins, and by putting your faith in Jesus Christ. In Romans it says, whoever calls upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now, what does it mean to call upon the name of the Lord? What does that Christianese mean? What does it mean to call upon his name? What does it mean? It means the call. Right? It means to pick up your phone and say, God, I need some help God, I'm a sinner. God, I am filthy. God, will you rescue me? Whoever calls upon the name of the Lord will be saved. Whoever believes in his heart. that God has raised him from the dead will be saved in the end. So my simple question to you is this. Have you called upon his name? Will you one day stand before God and God said, Did you ever call upon my name? You say, I didn't think he meant that. I thought that was just a meaningless expression in the Bible Or we say, yes, I have. I recognize myself as a sinner. I recognize you as a great savior, and I asked you, Lord, to save me, and I believe that you did. And if he will, the Lord will advocate for you. That filthy garment will be removed, and you will be saved. But remember this, brothers. The devil accuses the saints, Christ advocates for them. So in your own behavior toward other believers, do you function more like the devil, who's their great accuser? Or do you function more like Jesus, their great friend? They're great advocates. The one who washes them. The one who gets down on their feet, get on their knees, and washes their feet Sometimes we get into these discussions about you remember Jesus on the night that he was portrayed, he got down, took off his clothes, and washed people's feet And sometimes I hear sermons like this and they really irritate me, to be completely honest. I hear sermons that say the entire sermon is about why we should not literally do that, and why we don't need to wash each other's feet. Okay, fair enough. But the truth is Jesus actually literally did wash people's feet. And maybe it would do some of you, including myself, some good to get down there and scrub some actual feet. Because we can claim that we got the spirit, but then we don't even do the spirit. Maybe you need to get down there and scrub some feet until you're willing to spiritually scrub each other's feet. And you're willing to wash each other's feet and to love each other. Jesus had the spirit and he also had the flesh. No, do we need to wash feet? Not necessarily, but if your heart's not right, maybe you need to get down there. And start scrubbing some feet. So here we have an example of Satan, and we have an example of Jesus, and we have his avocation. Here's the point of all this. We are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, of people living God, honoring lives who have ran the race And I pray that all of you will be able to say with Paul at the end of your race, we see this in 2 Timothy 4. 7. He said, I am ready to be poured out as a drink offering And the time of my departure is at hand. Paul knew he was going to die. He knew his end was up, that his gig was coming to an end, and his retirement was near. And he says this, I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Finally, there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness. which the Lord the righteous judge will give me on that day, and not only me, but also those who have loved his appearing. Beloved, it is possible for you to get to the end of your life and be able to say, I have fought the good fight. I have finished the race. I have kept the faith. Now, here's my caution though, I think some of you don't even realize you're fighting a fight at all. Maybe some of you don't even realize you're running a race. You are. This is a fight. That this is a race. That you need to keep the faith. This is active ideas. But the point is, it is possible. It is not impossible to get to the end and say, I have done this. And not only is it possible, again we have such a great cloud of witnesses. There are so many saints who have done it before us. I absolutely love the book, The Pilgrim's Progress, and it's funny because when I first read it, I hated it. Because all I wanted to do was learn theology and learn new doctrines. There's not much new in that book. It's merely a Figurative description of the Christian life. If you're going into that book to say, Teach me, make me smart, expand my brain, it's a bad book. But if you're getting in that book to say, help me walk this race. Help me fight this fight. It's a fantastic book. And one of the things that's so interesting about that book is how dangerous it is. Anybody read that book? There's so many pitfalls. In fact, I I think, as I recall, they get to the very end and they find that there's a pathway to hell at the very gate of heaven. People are still getting caught up and falling into the gates of hell at the very gates of heaven. From start to finish, he's going through from the the mirror of the spawn. All the way to the river of death. He's going through all of these dangers to get there. And in fact, if you go through the pilgrim of progress, you constantly see the bodies of dead pilgrims. Isn't that true? There are so many who don't make it, but yet there are so many who do make it. When he gets to the end, he finds a city full of saints. That there are so many, if you walk this Christian life any period of time, you're going to see weddings and divorces, you're going to see children who are born and children that have passed away. You're going to see baptisms and you're going to see apostasies. If you walk this faith any amount of time, you'll see all of that. But you'll also see so many people finish the race. You can do it. You can make it to the end. But just recognize that making it to the end is not like on an elevator ride. Or for some of you it's an escalator. I'm constantly in the metro. And there's these escalators. And there's these these rules. And here's the rules. When you're on an escalator in the metro, there's two sides: the right side and the left side. The right side I was gonna say for lazy people, but not necessarily. It's for people who don't want to move. You just sit there, you just get taken up effortlessly. Also for me with my bike. I don't want to pick pick up a fifty-pound bike and try to anyways, I'm over there too. Okay? Actually some way my bike's over there and I'm over here on the left side and people get mad at me. But on the left side That's the moving side. You got the escalator and it's helping you, but then you're walking and you're chugging. Right? Everybody know this. Okay? The Christian walk is not the right size where you do nothing. And you just get effortlessly taken up. It's not an elevator. You just hit the button and zoom Going up there, right? It's the left side. You're getting assistance, you're getting help, you're being propelled along, but you need to pick up your legs and walk And go up that escalator. And if not, move over and move out the way because people are coming through. That's the Christian line. I say is that really true? Well it it's right there in verse verse one. Of chapter 12. I want you to see the active words here. Therefore, since we are also surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, that was point one of the sermon. Point two, let us lay aside every weight And the sin which so easily ensnares us and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. That phrase, let us, is that a recommendation? Is that a suggestion? Is that if you want extra spiritual bucks? If you want extra spiritual rewards in heaven? Or is that a imperative? Is that a command? Which one, guys? A command, right? It's not a recommendation. You need to do this. Let us, this is a polite way of saying, get it moving. Lay aside every weight Let us run with endurance. These are active commands, and these are two different things. Let us lay aside every weight and sin, and let us run. So we're going to take these one at a time. The first thing is let's look at the picture. This is a picture of athletic activity. Some of you like athletics. Some of you like athletics too much. But Paul apparently liked athletics somewhat because he uses their analogies. Not a lot of painting analogies in the Bible. Paul apparently wasn't into painting. He was into running. He was into sports. In fact, this whole scene is a sports scene, right? You have a stadium and you have people looking down. Everybody's seen those ruins of the magnificent Roman stadiums and these Greco-Roman stadiums that they had, just like one day we're gonna see ruins of Baltimore, we're gonna see that big stadium. There. We're gonna see ruins of DC and LinkedIn's gonna be left at the big stadium. There, these big things that we are so into. And you get in these stadiums and then you look down and there's people doing their athletic games. Right? And we have, that's the picture here. You have the great cloud of witnesses, all the saints, we talked about that, who have run the race, and they're looking down at us, the competitors, running the race down there. And we're competing. And we are running. Now by show of hands, anybody anybody like running here? Any strange person here likes running? A child. We can run together. I don't like running. Apparently none of you like running either. Well, this is the metaphor, I'm sorry. You're called to run. You're not called to walk and you're not called to jog. You're called to run. And most of us don't like running You gotta be encouraged to run. You've got to run for your lives. And you need to run for your lives because we're running from the city of destruction and we're heading to the Lord. But let me tell you something about running. I've been running a long, long time My dad was in the military and my dad had a philosophy. If he was gonna be out there running, so was I. And that was two miles. And he said, I'm gonna get a 300 of my PC test And I'm going to spend time with my son. I'm maybe making it more positive than it was. I'm not sure. All I know is I was out there running with him from the smallest ages on. And at first he told me, he said, I don't care how fast you run Just keep running. You're gonna keep running eight times around that lap. That's a pretty good deal. Kind of. So I just kept running. Well, when I was able to do eight laps, all of a sudden he cared about how fast I ran. And he said, well you need to run fast. And you always tell me if you can talk, you're not running fast enough. So here I am p panting around, panting around, and making around that track. Well, I've done a lot of running in my life and I've seen a lot of people running. And what I've never seen is somebody running, whether casually or professionally, or for sports, with a backpack full of books And they cooked them on a little lunch, little lunch box there for snacks, just in case they got hungry on their journey. Now, somebody out there is going to say, yeah, I'm that guy. Okay. I've never seen it. Nobody intentionally puts on a backpack full of their favorite books with the little lunch the little lunchable and then you know what I'm gonna put a little two-liter or maybe a coke on the side just in case I get thirsty. Why would you not do that? Anyone who's out there running? Not the theory person, not the person who never run, just theorizing. The person who's actually been out there On the track, running. Would you ever do that? And if not, why not? You want to do that? I go out there every Saturday. We can try this. I can run with my t-shirt and my shorts and you can put the back back on And I think you'll quickly realize that you've made a mistake. That the backpack is not aiding you, but hurting you. Because when you run, you don't want extra weight. You don't want things to encumber you. You're going to have to carry that weight. For some of you who are more into tenting and hiking, you get the same concept, right? We spent a lot of money on getting the lightest tents and the lightest amount of this and the lightest amount of that because you're gonna have to carry that stuff. And you don't want to carry all this extra weight as you hike through the mountains for days on end And that's the picture here. That as a runner you are to take off all the extra weight and only take with you that which is absolutely necessary. Now just on a side note, people take this a little bit too extreme. If you're running around the BWI trail, you can put a little bit of clothes on. It's going to be okay. But don't carry the backpack. Right? Modesty is still acceptable while running, but you don't want to carry all this extra weight. And this is the picture here for us, that we are running this race of the Christian life, and we're told to cast aside all of the extra weight that we are carrying. So what is this extra weight? Well, the first thing we should notice is in most commentaries, almost every commentary I saw, will distinguish the weight from the sin. They see two different things here. You have to cast aside every weight and the sin which so easily ensnares us. So they see a distinction there and I think that's probably right. And distinction seems to be this. A weight is different than a sin. A sin is any transgression of God's law. There are certain things that are just sin that you're not allowed to do, that are wrong, certain actions that you commit or certain things that you do not commit. Acts of commission or omission And children would get confused about that, ask your parents later. But basically, it's when an act of commission, it's something that you weren't supposed to do, is you going to the store And seeing that lollipop and decided to put that lollipop in your pocket and walk out. You shouldn't have done that, right? That was wrong. An act of omission was when your parents give you an allowance, you say, all for me and none for God Hope kids aren't doing that. Parents hope hopefully you're teaching the kids not all for me and none for God. Right? That we're supposed to be giving or treasure, not a might would I withhold, the song we just sang. That'd be an act of omission of refusing to give to God. So that's sin. But it seems that weights here are distinguished from sin. And a weight is something that is a legitimate thing, but that is a hindrance for you. It's legitimate in and of itself. It's okay, but for you, it is hindering you. It is weighing you down It is something that's causing you difficulties. And this is something that we as Christians today seem to have such a problem with, this idea. We are so afraid of being a Pharisee and being a legalist that we forget that Paul said all things are profitable, but not all things. Anybody remember the rest of that verse? Helpful. Not all things are helpful. Just because it's lawful doesn't mean you ought to be doing it. Just because you can doesn't mean you should And that's a weight. A weight is something that is unhealthy for you. It could be healthy for me, but it can be unhealthy for you. And where Pharisaicalism comes from and legalism says, if I can't have it, neither can you Does that make sense? If I can't if this is unhealthy for me, it must be unhealthy for you. We should not do that. But we should also not despise those who, through reason and common sense, say this is unhealthy for me This is not good for me. And sometimes you have to look and ask yourself, are your freedoms healthy for you either? Right? I'm not going to judge you, but God will. God knows what is await in your life, and you are to cast these aside. Recognizing that they are weighing you down. The other thing that we are to do The other category is sin. Again, these are things that are not questionable. They're not, mm-hmm, maybe I can handle them, but they are just prohibited for all believers everywhere at all times. And these things that we need to cast away from us. We need to free ourselves from these things. Now, I want you to notice though, when it describes sin here, it doesn't just say cast away the weights and cast away the sins But I want you to see the adjective, the descriptor that is around, surrounding that word, sin. I want you to look at your Bible. If you have the ESV, I'm so sorry. Do you have a better translation? Alright, we can keep going. What does it say around the word sin? It describes sin as what? The sin which so easily And sinner though. If it says which so which clings so closely and that's fine so sin does cling so closely because we love it and it's so hard to get rid of. But I think the better translation here, at least the translation I'm going to preach from, is the better one, which says, the sin, which so easily ensnares us. And I think it's so helpful to recognize and to call attention to that word easily. Recognize as a believer, sin so easily ensnares us. For some of you who were at my Wednesday night Bible study, I hope I didn't offend interview, but I said there that when we look at David And we remember David's sin, we should first have humility to recognize that David was most likely more holy than anybody in this room. And I hope I don't offend you by that, but I think it's true. I think if anybody in this room would have been standing there with Goliath, you've been shaking in your boots. I know I would have been, and not go grabbing some rocks and trying to chuck it at the giant And if you think otherwise, we'll talk afterwards and you tell me about the giants you've slain with rocks, and we compare. But I just have a feeling that that probably wasn't you That David was an unbelievably godly man. And yet, David found himself stealing a man's wife Murdering and lying about it. And I think we make a huge mistake when we think David was so wicked and we were so righteous. And so that David could do this, but we wouldn't. I think that's the wrong perspective. I think it's better to realize that David was so righteous and David did this, and that means What about me? That means I'm fully capable of everything that David did. That just as David was slain by But I would say the giant of Bathsheba, we talked about that some other time. So too can you be. You need to recognize that. You need to be humble enough to say God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. That David could be fallen if David could fall this way, so could I Here's the point. Sin so easily ensnares us. So in light of that, what should we do? We should be very afraid. We should put on the full armor of God and we should do everything we can to avoid running into Bathsheba. And if you do run into Bathsheba, you should do everything you can to withstand in that evil day. Because if you overestimate yourself, you're going to find yourself in a ditch, destroyed. Because you thought too highly of yourself. Sin so easily ensnares us. There's a famous man, a famous guru, a famous man that we love to celebrate for his righteousness or whatever. His name is Gandhi. And he once said this famous quote. He said, I like your Christ, but I don't like your Christians. This is Gandhi's favorite, his famous quote from Gandhi that rebukes us all, supposedly. Well, my response to Gandhi is I don't like you either. Here's an interesting fact about Gandhi. Did you know that Gandhi This supposedly righteous guru man would actually was known to share a bed with young, fully undressed women. Did you know that? You can look it up. He did. Why did he do this? Because he thought that it would show how righteous he was that he would not do anything in those situations Yeah, I think that's unbelievably foolish. Unbelievably unwise. Why? Because of sin that so easily ensnares us. Christian, you shouldn't be doing that. And I think we all can see that, right? That's insane. If you found out a pastor would be doing that, he would be deflocked. None of this, well, I didn't do anything. You did enough. You're out of here. But we laugh about that and we think we would never do such a thing like that. But I ask you, Christian, are you doing stuff like that Are you putting yourself in unbelievably compromised situations, watching things unbelievably filthy, talking about I'm skipping it or I'm closing my eyes or doing whatever? I didn't actually do anything. And you too are being unbelievably foolish. And I pray that you never fall. But Somebody tells me, I don't want to be doing anything like Gandhi did, anything like that. And I'm warning you, be so very careful. Because recognize that sin so easily ensnares us. So, in light of this, what should you do? You should run. You should flee. You should get out of her, my people. Touch no unclean thing. Avoid the wicked. Recognize that the wicked Through the accompanying corrupts good morals and do everything you can to avoid. But sometimes you can't. You can only avoid so much, right? You can only say I'm closing my eyes so long We're stuck in a world full of sinners and eventually we'll be ambushed. Eventually you'll be like Christian in Pilgrim's Progress, you'll be minding your own business, and next thing you know, there's a Pollyon coming and attacking you right right on the way So when that happens, when avoiding no longer works, when you've decided to flee like Joseph, but part of your wife is chasing with all her might, eventually you've got to turn around and say that's it. I'm going to have to stand against the devil and his evil one. And how will you do that? What does the Bible tell you to do? Put on the full armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. You must have the breastplate of righteousness, the helmet of salvation, the word of God. When Jesus fought the devil, when he himself fought Apollyon, what did he do? He quoted scripture. His mind was on salvation. His life was full of righteousness, and he rebuked Satan. He was a man full of prayer. And that's what we must do as well. When we fight our Apollyon, we must be full of prayer. And we must go in the power that God does. Let me just say this too. If we're honest, sometimes Apollin knocks us down. Sometimes we fall and we slip. And when we do, get back up. If you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Sometimes we get our blows and we get our licks and we do things that we ought not to do. Get back up. Trust in the mercy of God and recognize that He's the author and the finisher of our faith. That He's going to hold us up. That His grace is new every single morning. You're not going to do anything that's going to surprise God That God already knows the end from the beginning and he knows our weaknesses. Now, let's look at the other Indicative. Let's look at the other, excuse me, not indicative, the imperative. Let's look at the other command here. Let us run the race with endurance. What kind of race is this? Is this a sprint? It's just an all-out sprint where you just give it everything you got? No. It's a race full of endurance. Now I am a endurance athlete. I was built to run and built to run very, very long distances. And whenever I run with somebody, Even other racers, they always make the same mistake. Unless you're trained, you're always going to make the same mistake. And here's the mistake. We get on that track, we get to that finish line, uh the bit starting line, should I say, and you hit go And the person always just puts me in the absolute dust. They are just way out their head. Even my kids do this every time. Just pew. They're gone. And the whole time I think, I'll see you in a few minutes. And that first lap, they're just they're so far ahead. And the second lap, they're not so far ahead anymore. And then the third lap, I'll see you later. And by the fourth lap, I can't even find them anymore. We're all tempted to do that. And the reason is because of adrenaline. There's an adrenaline storage that just tells you to just go for it. And you feel so great and you're like, wow, I can do this forever. And you get to that second lap and things start uh things start going side sideways. And you get to the third lap and you run out of juice. Anybody experience this? Okay? Well if you're trained, here's what you do. Here's what I do. Here's my strategy and how I used to win my races. That first lap I do everything I can to not run as fast as I can But I still end up running my fastest lap using that first lap. But since everything is telling me to run with all my might and I'm trying to reserve, I ended up running about a pace that I can run every other lap in, but I'm doing everything I can to not run that. By the second lap, I'm trying not to slow down. By the third lap, I say I'm gonna go all out and I'm gonna sprint, but I'm not sprinting. If you look at me in my time, I'm not sprinting anymore. I'm going the exact same pace, but now I'm completely running out of gas, so my sprinting is actually my normal. Here's the point of this little athletic analogy for you. You have to run the race differently if you have four laps or eight laps than if you have only one lap. You have to run the race with endurance. And this is the Christian walk for us. It's not good enough To just run the Christian walk for a few days, for a few weeks, for a few months. You gotta run this day in and day out. You gotta give these things up, not for a season, but for a lifetime. You have to run the race with endurance. So the question, how are you going to do it? How are you going to refuel? How are you going to keep running and keep going? Well the first way is to recognize that you've got to run with endurance. It's not okay just to give something up for a season. You might have to give it up for a lifetime. But you also need to constantly refuel. You need to be encouraged. You need to be strengthened. You need to be exhorted. You need these things. In other words, you need other people. You need God. You need his people. You need these things And one way we can do this is by meditating on the Word of God, by reading the Scriptures, by memorizing the Scriptures. Another way is do it do the what it said before here. Lay aside heavy weight. And every sin that so easily ensnares you. Those are the things that are going to keep you from making it to the end. That's why that guy with the backpack is such a foolish idea. He can run that first lap. But he's not going to be able to run lap after lap after lap, being ensnared, tripping over his feet, tripping over his shoelaces with a backpack full of books. You have to be unencumbered and not weighed down. You also need to be in fellowship with the Holy Spirit. You need to be walking with Him, full of His grace and His love. If not, you're not going to make it. You will not get there to the end. Now that's scary, and you thinking, well, I don't know if I'm going to make it There is comfort right in our passage. And you'll see this a lot in the book of Hebrews. It will scare you and warn you and then comfort you right immediately thereafter. So I want you to scan these first two verses. And see if you see anything comforting about whether or not we really will win this race and be able to run the race with endurance. Go ahead, scan the first two verses, and see if you see anything that gives you comfort. Well, look at the description of Jesus It describes Jesus. We're supposed to lay aside every weight and every sin which so easily ensnares us and run the race for endurance, and we're to do that, cast that aside, and we're to do what? We're to cast their eyes upon Jesus. And there's two reasons to cast their eyes upon Jesus, and I'm running quickly out of time. Here's the first reason. We're to look at Jesus as a model of success. Just children or even young adults, stop trying to do your own thing. Here's a much better strategy. Find someone successful and imitate them Much better. You're saying, I'm just gonna do my own thing, and I'm just gonna trail blaze, and I'm just gonna grab my machete and just start chopping things and I'm gonna make it somehow to DC. You're not You just won't. Just go in the WBNA. It's nice and paid track. People have gone there many times. It'll be much easier, I promise. Just imitate success. And that's what we have here on passage. It's saying you want to run that race with endurance? Look to Jesus and see how Jesus did it. And it doesn't say Jesus did it because he's the Son of God and sin wasn't sin for him, it wasn't tempting for him, and he just obliterated the devil with the power of his omnipotence. It says nothing of a sort. You may believe that, but that's not what the text actually says, does it? Rather, it points to Jesus and talks about Jesus' mentality of how he was able to conquer sin and how he was able to run his race. You see that in verse 2? And what does it say? That he ran the race before him for the joy that was set before him. You see that? The way that Jesus was able to run his race and not give up is because he saw that there was joy that was set before him. What about the shame? What about the shame of the cross? What about the pleasures of sin? Well, it addresses that too. Now, many of your translations say that he despised the shame. That's fine. It's fine translation. I prefer what's found in the NLT as an example, in the NET, which says that he disregarded the shame. I don't think the concept there isn't so much that he hates the shame, but really his disregard for the shame. How was Christ able to disregard the shame? How was Christ able to say, this is nothing to me? And this shame is going to be put to the side. How was he able to do that? He saw the joy that was set before him. Or maybe this verse sounds familiar to you. Paul says that these these momentary and light afflictions are not worthy to be compared. Right? To the surpassing glory that we have in Christ Jesus. Paul is saying the exact same thing he's recommending for us that Jesus did for himself. Namely, we are to disregard the shame, the embarrassment, and even the passing pleasures of this world and see it as nothing. If you want to use the word despise, then despise it because you disregard it. Because it's nothing compared to the glory that you have in Christ Jesus. Jesus looked to the joy that was set before him. Jesus saw the prize and that it was worth it. And what was the prize for Jesus? Well look at the end of verse 2. I mean there's lots of things. He redeemed many sons to glory. He bought a bride. He bought a people. He redeemed all of creation. He did all that, right? But it's interesting, this is so interesting. It doesn't say any of that, does it? Look at verse 2. That's all true And biblically solid. And you can find other passages that are like that. But actually in verse 2, the joy that was set before him, the one that's identified, is actually not the redemption of creation or the redemption of us. But his own glorification. Do you see that? Sitting at the right hand of God the Father. The joy that was set before him, at least the one that the text wants to emphasize, is his own exaltation and glory. But what happened after he died, rose again, and now is seated and throne. And the reason I point this out is this. That for us The joy that is set before us, there's a lot of things that are outward that benefit others, but truthfully, there's a lot of things that benefit you too. Christ is exalted, and what will happen to you? You will be exalted. Christ sits at the right hand of the Father. And what does Christ promise you? Just as I sat at my Father's right hand, so too you will sit. Anybody know this verse? At my right hand. We will be co-heirs with Christ. We do not know what we will be, but we know we'll be like him, but we will see him as he is. The point is you're supposed to see Christ as your example and recognize just as he was able to endure and despise the shame for the joy that was set before him. So you too, and that joy in part is your own self-exaltation It's kind of crazy to think that because we're so taught so often to disregard ourselves and to put others before us. But really, if you look at a biblical perspective, God says, I want you to disregard yourself for now. And stop trying to steal the cookies so I can give you glory. I want you to humble yourself now so at the proper time I will exalt you. Did you know that We're trying to build our own kingdoms, and Christ is saying, I'm going to build your kingdom if you'll let me. If you'll give yourself over to me If you will treat yourself as a servant, I will make you a king. That's what he did to Christ, and that's what he'll do for you. That's the first thing. The second thing, you reform folks, I think we're like this. The second thing, we're supposed to look to Jesus as the author and finisher of our faith. How will you endure to the end? Because that same triumphant champion Jesus who conquered the world, the flesh, and the devil, is the one operating that elevator for you, that escalator for you. He who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. You're going to get there because he started his work in you by sending his Holy Spirit. And that Holy Spirit will never abandon you. I'll never leave you nor forsake you. He's going to continue to work in you, to cause you, to lay aside, not by not doing anything. But by doing things, he's going to cause you and work in your heart to cause you to lay aside heavy weight and to lay aside the sin that so easily ensnares and cause you to look to Christ. Who for the joy that sat before him disregarded the shame and now sits at the right hand of the Father. You're not in this alone. If you were, you'd be hopeless. None of you would make it. None of you. Neither would I But thanks be the Lord that he will never abandon us, that he will strengthen us, he will cause us to sit with him He began a work from eternity past. That's the golden chain of redemption. I'm ending this sermon now. The golden chain of redemption is saying this. If you are currently saved now, you can know things about eternity past and eternity future. If you're saved now, if you're called and justified, you can know that before the foundation of the world, you were foreknown and predestined. For what? For glory. Yeah, you will be glorified because Christ will not let you go. And he will pursue you like the hound of heaven to the end of the earth. Let's go to the word in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for your gospel. We thank you that we are not in it alone. That we don't have to run this race all by ourselves. That even when we do act like David and act so foolishly and embarrass ourselves before everyone. That you will bring us to repentance. You will cause us to write our own psalm, asking you to create in us a new heart, a clean heart. But I pray that if there be anyone here today that has Soiled their garments, that they have been filthy, that they would repent, that they would get up and run their race again, trusting that you are not their great accuser. But you are their great advocate and friend, and they have trusting in you, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.