So recently I ran across a report uh informing me about a new, or at least something I had not known about, a more popular Chinese spy work plot. Now I had been previously familiar with China's main tactic of grabbing our secrets, and it's not just top secret documents of the government. But the things that they like to steal is really everything they can get a hand on. But one of the things they particularly like to steal is sensitive uh information, uh trade secrets, things that uh researchers spend uh millions of dollars doing, research and development uh doing. And one of the ways that they do that is something called insider insider threat, that these best and the brightest come into the company to give the secrets and then they share the secrets. This shouldn't be surprising to anyone. Uh it's not just China that does that, by the way. Everyone does that, including America. We also uh do that to other countries. So I've been familiar with that. But this report mentioned a uh a different technique that I was not really that familiar with. And it was through uh beautiful women. What apparently our adversaries and in just various countries would do is they'll send these beautiful women to seduce workers that work in those companies or work in the government. And then once they have gathered the information and all of this other thing, they're able to blackmail the Employee to give the national secrets. And I remember at the end of this report it said something like this if an incredibly beautiful woman very young, is interested in you, be careful, she's a spy. I thought that's pretty good advice. If an incredibly beautiful woman happens to be interested in you, it's not you The only problem with that is a man in its his arrogance, right? Well ten out of ten, so of course he's interested in in us. But but no, it's it's good advice. Now the reason I bring that up to you today is this. From from news articles or new report about spy work using beautiful women or we're going to see in our Bible this problem of men particularly, but women too, but mostly men being particularly vulnerable when it comes to beautiful women and Because of beautiful women or because of their sin with beautiful women, they end up compromising their morality and ultimately the security of the nation. So the problem we see in the Old Testament is a current problem, and it's really not a their problem, it's an our problem. We all need to be desperately on guard and recognize that we too could fall in this way. So with that in mind, can you open up your Bibles to Malachi chapter 2? Malachi chapter 2. And we will begin reading in verse ten. Malachi chapter two, beginning in verse ten. Have we not all one Father? Has not one God created us? Why do we deal treacherously with one another, profaning the covenant Of the fathers. Judah has dealt treacherously, and an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the Lord's holy institution, which he loves. He has married the daughter of a foreign God. May the Lord cut off from the tents of Jacob the man who does this, being awake and aware, yet he brings an offering to the Lord of hosts. And this is the second thing you do. You cover the altar of the Lord with tears, with weeping and crying. So he does not regard the offering anymore. Nor receive it with good will from your hands. Yet you say for what reason? Because the Lord has been a witness between you and the wife of your youth, with whom you have dealt dealt treacherously Yet she is your companion and your wife by covenant. But did he not make them one, having a remnant of the Spirit? And why one? Because he seeks godly offspring. So to bring us to reorientate ourselves to what is going on here, you recall that this is the last book of the Old Testament. This is God's final word to his people, and it's not one of uh commendation. He doesn't say how wonderful you are, but rather he brings one of rebuke. The people of God are failing him. They are not doing the things that they ought to do. So he sends Malachi, which means messenger, to be his messenger to rebuke the people. And he begins that rebuke. Before he even gets there, he says, I love you. Before I rebuke you, I want you to know that I love you. Then he goes on to the central issue of their problem, which is a worship problem, and they have half-hearted worship, and you see that in chapter one. The issue is that they're not giving God his best, but rather giving God his leftovers. Then we moved over to chapter two, and he says, the reason you have a worship problem is you have a leadership problem, you have corrupt priests. And we talked about that last time. But here's the issue. That when you have a people problem and you have a leadership problem, you have a worship problem, does it simply stay in the pulpit or in the pews? Think about that. If your worship to God is inadequate, if you're giving God your second best, will the problem merely be a worship problem, or will it spill over to a life problem? Can you just keep your sin in one category? I'm just not going to give God my best, but I'll give my wife my best. I'll give my family my best. I'll give the church community my best. Beloved, that's not how it works, is it? We got to get right with God if we have any chance of being right with our neighbors. And that's exactly what goes on here. There's a people problem of not worshiping God because there's a leadership problem of not rebuking the people and keeping them from giving God this half-hearted worship. And this spills over to a people problem of the congregation treating each other in the way that they ought not to be treated. And that's where we are in this book in verse 10. And before he identifies the problem of treating one another treacherously, and by the way, if you scan down from this section of Malachi, you'll see the word treacherous Five different times. It's the word that highlights the whole section. You have been treacherous. You have treacherously treated me. You have treacherously treated each other. And before he identifies the wickedness or the specific sin of their treachery He says something in verse 10. I want you to look there. Before he identifies why they have or how they have done something treacherous, he wants to first identify who they've done such treachery to And he has those rhetorical questions. Have we not all one Father? And has not one God created us? Why then do you deal treacherously? That's that word. Now, when he says, do we not all have one father? Has not God all created us? This is not the liberal doctrine known as the universal fatherhood of God. And by extension, the universal brotherhood of men. That is their mantra. We talked about that a little bit in Sunday school about uh theological liberals. And one of the things they like to say is that God is the Father of all people, and we have a universal brotherhood, and hell is a m is a myth. And ultimately, everyone is saved and everyone will end up in heaven. Is that true, church? No, it isn't. The Bible declares, Matthew chapter seven, verse thirteen, enter by the narrow gate. For wide is the gate and broad is the way that leads to destruction, and there are many who go by it. This broad gate is contrasted with this narrow gate. And if you like, I have this track at my house. It's called the Narrow Gate. It's a beautiful track 'cause there's this picture of this huge broadway with all these people walking on it. And you even see like the Pope and and various religions and all kinds of funny stuff. It's a very funny track. But it's a serious matter because there's this broad way of all these nice people heading down to destruction and then they fall off the cliff into hell. And then right across the way of that broadway, there's a little evangelist that says, Turn here, turn to Christ And it's this little narrow way that goes off of the Broadway. And in that track, my children know about this, you know that track? In that track There's a family on the broad way. And the wife and the kids turn off to that broad and narrow way where they slither around. And the father says, I'll come later. And the end of the track, the children and the parents ultimately end up in glory, and the father ends up in hell. It's a beautiful track teaching a biblical reality. Namely, there are two roads. The Broadway That many will find that leads to destruction in the narrow way that's narrow and difficult, that is named Christ, that leads to life Isn't that terrifying? Do you realize that? The vast majority of people you know, unless you only know Christians and the born-again type, the real ones are actually on the Broadway leading to destruction. It's a terrifying reality. And that's why we need to go evangelize them. And that's also why we need to recognize that so we're not unduly influenced by them. And actually, Brother James was talking about that We need to bring them the light, not let the darkness come upon us. But before you can ever do that, you need to recognize those people are actually in the darkness. They're alienated, right, Mr. Dennis? enemies of God in their mind hostile to the truth of God. Revelation chapter 20, verse 10 says this. Anyone not found written in a book. Church, what is that book? The book of life. And how do you get in the book of life? Believing in Jesus Christ, the one that the book is named after, the book of the Lamb of God slain from the foundation of the world. But everyone who's not in that book, because they have not bowed the knee to Christ, because they have not repented of their sins, because they have not trusted in Christ alone, are not in the book. You see that? Not everybody's in that book. Only believers are in that book. And the Bible says, Revelation chapter 20, verse 15, if anyone is not found written in the book of life, he was cast in the lake afire. The lake where the worm shall not die, and the fire shall not be quenched, and where they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. So I bring this to your attention to say that when our passage says that do we not have all one father, it is not teaching this false universal doctrine of the universal fatherhood of God. The Bible teaches that nowhere. Rather Jesus says, you are not the sons of God, but your father is who? The devil. See, Jesus was, what did I say last time? He's not a tame lion. He's a roaring lion. He's a kind lion. He's a loving lion. But love tells you the truth. You are not a child of God if you have not come to God and believed in his son. Otherwise, you are a child of Satan. Now, on a quick caveat here, the Bible occasionally, rarely, a few verses, do in fact teach that God, in a generic sense, is the creator of all, and so in a generic sense, they're his creations and his offspring. It does teach that generically, but the vast majority of the Bible teaches that this is the way that you become a son of God, by believing in him whom he sent. So our passage is not teaching the universality of the fatherhood of God, but rather it's saying, don't you realize that we all, the covenant people of God, have one father? And God created us. And so if we have one Father, one God who saved us, what does that mean? Our relationship is to each other. One father means we are what to each other? Somebody say it. Siblings. So brothers. And sisters, you may have noticed this, but sometimes I call you Brother Alan or Brother James. Did I say that, James? I say brother James. And that's not just because I'm a Baptist. I am. But because that's my brother Because that's my sister. Right? We're related. And not just me, you two each other. We're brothers and we're sisters. Now now what does that mean? Is that just eh, whatever No, that's significant. That means that we're family. That means that we love each other. That means our relationship should be close and intimate. And guess what? Loyal. You have siblings that you don't like? Nobody waste nobody shake their head. Especially if your siblings here. Okay. Well we probably all have Some siblings that we maybe wish we were closer with. Can we say that? We wish we were tighter with. But there still are siblings And we still love them. And we're still there for them. And even though our relationship isn't what it ought to be, if they need something, I hope to believe that you would say, unless it's real bad, I'm here for you. Because you're my brother. Because you're my sister. See, that's the difference between brothers and friends. Friends can come in your life and boot them out, right? You're no longer my friend I'm gonna ghost you. I'm gonna delete you, you're out of here. A sibling you're stuck with because they're your siblings. And there's a certain loyalty. Well think about it. If we're brothers and sisters, does that mean you can boot me out of your life? No, that we're we're we're together. We have a relationship together that is based on that brotherhood or that sisterhood And that's the point. He's saying, recognize this. We are brothers. We are sisters to one another. Yet you are dealing with one another treacherously. You're treating your brother or your sister in a treacherous way, in a way that you ought not to be doing. Well, what are they doing? Well, let's read the verse. Verse 11. Judah, actually before we do that, one more comment on verse 10. Why have we dealt treacherously with one another by profaning the covenant of the fathers? I want you to notice this. You cannot mistreat the people of God and think that your relationship with God is okay. Do you see that? They're doing treacherously with one another, and the Bible says that they are profaning the covenant of the fathers. That's the old covenant. That's the ancient covenant. They're profaning a covenant that transcends them and goes way, way back. In other words, their relationship with each other directly reflects the relationship they have with God. Parents, can someone mistreat your children and think they're going to be cool with you? Can you imagine? They're bullying your kids, they're teasing your kids, they're making fun of your kids, and they say, don't worry about that, we're cool. No, we're not cool. This is unacceptable. To disrespect my child is to disrespect me. My job is to protect them. You can't just come harm them and think Papa Bear or Mama Bear is not coming out. I'm looking at PJ, isn't that true? Nobody's messing with your kids without messing with PJ. And that's the way it ought to be. It's not just because he's huge, it's because he's a man. It's because that's what parents do. Well, the same way. You mistreat You're sibling in Christ, and God says, you're profaning me. You have to answer to me, their father. This is wrong. You cannot love me and hate your brother. First John says, how can you say that you love me, God, who you can't see And yet hate your brother, which you can. He says, everyone who does that is a liar. Remember, God is not interested in our platitudes. He wants it in sincerity. You say that you love God. Well, show that you love God by treating your brothers and sisters with love and care. Because that's what he wants us to do. So what's their sin? Look at verse 11. Judah has dealt treacherously And an abomination has been committed in Israel and in Jerusalem. For Judah has profaned the Lord's holy institution which he loves, and he has married the daughter of a foreign God. Now before we get to the sin, I just want you to see the build-up. Verse 10, we have done treacherously with one another. Verse 11, Judah has done treacherously. An abomination has happened. The Lord's holy institution, which he loves, has been profaned. This is very, very serious. And yet, what is their sin? Can anybody see it? This profaning, this treacherous behavior, this thing that infuriates the Lord. What is their sin? It's at the end of verse 11. For he has married the daughter of a foreign God. Does that surprise you? This horrible sin that they committed that God is so angry about Has to do with marrying the wrong person. Now that might surprise you. I can tell you that We often think about church discipline, about having to discipline a member. And the case that always gets people's mind first is the pastor running off with a young secretary. This is the case that always gets into people's minds, but truthfully, that's a very rare case. It does happen, and some of you might say, I know that's happened. You can tell horror stories But that's actually the rare case. The much more likely case that I've seen in a church's life is to Utter complete abandonment of Christ's people with no justification, probably the most common reason. And the second has to do with marriage And the reason the second has to do with marriages, for some reason, in many Christian people's minds, they think this has nothing to do with the church. This is my life, and I can do what I want. Is that not true? Somebody say I'll show you amen. This is my marriage. It's between me and my partner. That sounds like same sex. If me and my spouse, my wife or husband And this has nothing to do with God, and it has nothing to do with God's people, and instead of my life. I may or may not even notify the church because it is none of the church's business. Have you not seen this attitude? Has this been your attitude? Well, we have to take everything to the Word of God. If that is the case If who you marry or who you stay married to has nothing to do with the church and nothing to do with God and nothing to do with the people of God, explain this verse. Because this verse has everything to do with you treating each other treacherously and the prophet, who's a spokesman of God, coming and saying, this is Wrongly, it's not a private matter. It's not something that has nothing to do with the people of God. It has everything to do with the people of God. And what you're doing is treacherous to the people of God, to one another, and ultimately profanes the covenant Now again, that's shocking. We don't expect this. We think, what is the pastor? What's wrong with the pastor? Why is he talking about this? Don't we know we live in no fault divorce land? I'm talking about this because it's in the scripture, not because I want to offend any of you. Because the Bible talks about this. And I have to address it. Now, we'll talk about divorce the next time because that's what it's getting at and and that is kind of probably hidden behind this verse. What's probably happening is they're divorcing their spouse who is a Christian and marrying the younger version who's an unbeliever. But we can talk about that some other time. But that's probably what's behind the verse. But what 's definitely in the circuits of the verse is that what they have done treacherously is they have married an unbeliever. Divorce is not actually, it's probably in the background, but it's not actually in the foreground here. The sin that they've committed is they have married an unbeliever. In our text, it says what? It's it again, it's shocking. The language It's almost offensive, but it says it, and we have to believe it. He says, you have married the daughter of a foreign god To put this in our modern language, you have married a daughter of Satan. You have profaned the covenant of God. You have done treacherously to one another. It is an abomination. You have defiled the holy institution, which I think is probably referring to marriage. You have defiled marriage in by doing this grave sin. You know, the Bible only has one command about what Christians should be looking for or the stipulation of marrying. There's only one command for Christians about marrying Now this is Lord willing, and I believe so, a room full of Christians. So what is that one command that the Bible from cover to cover, old and new, tells us that we must Fulfill in order to marry somebody. Anybody know? Amen. That's all it says. Can you believe that? It says you must marry in the Lord. It doesn't say that the wife has to be younger than the husband. It doesn't say that the wife has to be shorter than the husband or The husband has to be stronger than the wife, or even the husband has to make more money than the wife, or it has to be a real good looker, because you know that's real important. They have to look real good. It doesn't say any of that. That's what we say That's our advice. Some of that might be true, some of that might be false, but it's not required. It says nothing about that. It doesn't say she has to be so charming, he can't have this much debt, he has to make this much money. Again, I'm not saying any of those things should be considerations, but do you know the Bible doesn't say any of that? None of those things which are on the top of our list have anything to do with what the Bible says. Or maybe closer to home. They have to really love each other. They have to really get along. If there's that magical chemistry, it must be from God. It can't be from Cupid. No, it can be from Cupid In fact, I'm going to get a side note, but you've got to guard your heart, married men and married women, because you, even as a married person, can fall in love with somebody else. Did you know that? And that's why so much adultery happens. It's because instead of standing on God's word, we stand on the Grec, the Greco-Roman myth of love and think that that must be who we must marry, whoever we fall in love with. What happens if you fall in love with someone other than your spouse? That's not from God. That isn't. We need to put everything according to the Bible The Bible has one qualification and one alone. Somebody say it again. What is the one thing that Christians must find in their spouse? That they were in the Lord. And yet, God gave us one command, God gave Eve one command, God gave Adam one command, and we can't obey it, can we? The one command that God gives us, this is the one that we like to squint at. Well, I mean, she's not a believer, but she's really beautiful. Have you seen her? And she's, you know, she's perfect. We love each other. You know, it'll work out. There they'll come along on the other side of this They're actually attending church with me, so surely they're going to become a believer on the other side, right? Wrong. Is it true that sometimes this is called missionary dating? By the way, you shouldn't be dating any s anybody that you're not willing to marry. Because dating is the beginning of what will end up in marriage. So if the marriage ain't right, the dating ain't right. Does that make sense? Now, sometimes missionary dating actually works, but that doesn't justify the behavior. Sometimes marrying an unbeliever actually works, and they do get converted on the other side of this. But that doesn't justify your disobedience. Why would you ever think that God is going to bless your disobedience? You think he's going to bless your disobedience? You think you're going to steal Bibles, steal from the church, go rob a bank and tithe it to God, and he's going to bless that? No. In fact, there's a biblical picture of this. And you remember Judas? And he portrayed the Lord for those few dollars and then he felt bad and he tried to take the money back to the priest. And he says, here, have the money back. And I said, what can we do with that? That's contaminated. We can't take that back into the church's money. God will not bless this money. And he throws it out into the ground. And they're like, what are we going to do with this? And they basically buy a dumpster. This is all that's worth. A dumpster. To throw away the trash We would not be blessed if we explicitly disobeyed God's word. Can God do a miracle? Absolutely. Has God done this? He absolutely can. Should you do this? Absolutely not. That's what he says. Do not marry the daughter of a foreign God. The Bible says, Jesus says, if you love me You're going to sign the right creed. If you love me, you'll be a member of the right church. If you love me, you'll be a deacon or a pastor or a trustee. Where's that in the Bible? It's not there. It isn't there. In fact, one of the guy who was the deacon and the elder and the pastor and the trustee, his name was Judas. In fact, he was better than all that, wasn't he? And where did he end up? And like fire. He said, if you love me, you will do what? Keep my commandments. Keep my commandments. Don't marry the daughter of a foreign God. There's many commandments, but that's one of them. Don't do that. And so I'm primarily in this sermon talking to you all You young folks, you single folks who are not married, don't do it. Commit yourself to say, Lord, I hear you. I hear you. I'm not going to do it. And in order for me not to do that, I'm going to make sure I don't fall in love with the daughter of a foreign God. I'm just going to commit myself now. It doesn't matter how beautiful, how wonderful, how much money, how perfect it will be. If they are outside of the Lord, they are out of bounds. Maybe you struggle with same attraction. It's the same way. It's out of bounds. We're not going there. It's completely unacceptable. We're not talking about interracial marriage, we're talking about interreligion marriage. You will not marry, you should tell yourself this: I will not marry outside of the Lord. I will not marry the daughter of a foreign God. Now I haven't I, as you probably are aware, you can just look at me, I haven't lived as long as many of you. I haven't pastored it as I don't have the longest pastorate record, is what I'm saying. And so what I try to do is rely on the wisdom of those who have lived longer than than I have And I heard a pastor say this. He said in Scotland, which I think is no different than here, that he grew up in the church and he had been in the church for many decades. And he saw so many people baptized in the church and they grow up in the church and then abandon the faith. Have you seen that? I think there's probably few things more tragic than that. And church, if I have any desire at all, is for that not to happen here. Is that our children would be saved. And that they're raised up in the faith. And if I can do anything, it'll be that. But he said That he saw so many children baptized, singing, Jesus loves me, this I know, for the Bible tells me so, and they later abandoned the faith. Have you seen this? You have. And he said this. What he noticed in so many of their cases is that the first step to their apostasy, which means to abandon the Lord. To no longer be walking among us was they married the daughter of a foreign God. Have you seen that? Have you seen people, young folks, who walked among us, who then went off to college, who then went off to work, who then started dating an unbeliever, who then ended up in a relationship with an unbeliever, whether it was marriage or cohabitation, and eventually you never saw them in church again? See, we lie to ourselves, and for me, one of the big things for me is don't lie to me, and more importantly, don't lie to yourself. If you're doing bad, just admit that I'm doing bad. If you're falling to sin, just say that I'm falling to sin. That's your only hope of repenting. If you're saying I'm going in the wrong direction, say I'm going in the wrong direction. I am dating the daughter of a foreign God. And I know what God's Word says, but I just don't care. Say that to yourself. Don't lie to yourself and say, I'm actually going to bring them into the kingdom. Could that happen? Sure. But much more often, what happens Why do we have this verse? Why doesn't it say, yeah, go marry the daughter of a foreign God because you're surely going to convert them? That's what man says. What does God say? Such an act is profanity. It's profane. It's treachery. Why? Because so often the opposite happens. And in fact, as that pastor said. The first step of apostasy is often marrying the daughter of a foreign God. More often than not The darkness does not overcome the light, but the light is overcome by the darkness. That's a sad reality. But it's true. And that's behind our text. And did you know? Actually, the Bible explicitly says that. You can turn there. Why don't you turn over to Deuteronomy chapter 7? Deuteronomy chapter 7. Here's what the Bible says, because I know that is a very controversial statement. You think there's no way. That can't be true. More often, the light overcomes the darkness. More often, missionary dating works, right? Well, here's what the Bible says in Deuteronomy chapter 7, verse 2. You shall make no covenant with these unbelievers, nor shall you have mercy to them. Nor shall you make marriages with them. You shall not give your daughter to their son, nor take their daughter for your son. Now there it is in verse 4. Why? Why should you not marry the daughter of a foreign God? Why should you not marry the son of a foreign god? Why? Look at verse 4. Not just Pastor Jamie saying this. This is the Bible. For they will turn your sons away from following me. to serve other gods, so that the anger of the Lord will be aroused against you and he will destroy you suddenly. It's not just that pastor of Scotland that said this. This is the history of the Old Testament, is it not? He told them to destroy the nations and not to intermarry with the nations and to make no covenant with the nations. And what did the people of God do? They didn't destroy them. They made covenant with them. And they married them. And what did God do to the people of Odin, the old covenant? What happened to their temple? Burned. What happened to their people? Dragged off in exile. What happened to the northern tribe? Destroyed by the Assyrians, never to come back, only to end up as the Samaritans? What happened to the southern people? A guy named Nebuchadnezzar came, burned their temple, took their wives and children, dragged them off into captivity. Why? Because they abandoned the worship of God. How though? See, we make this all spiritual and magical and mystical, and we have no idea how. We know how. How did they end up worshiping the false gods? They married the daughter of a foreign God. They didn't obey God's word, but they said, we know better. We're more kind. I don't like this sermon. We're more generous. We're more loving than God who didn't want us to marry. We're going to marry, we're going to missionary date, it's going to work. No, it didn't. And no, it won't. Can anyone think of a man who's the epitome of doing this? He married the daughter of a foreign god. Amen. I like the Old Testament. He married the daughter of a foreign god. Actually married mo a mo a lot of them. And what happened? His heart was turned. Did they all convert? No. Did he convert? Yes. Now here's the question. Who's the wisest man besides Jesus? Somebody say Jesus. Besides Jesus in the Bible. Solomon. His name means Jedediah, which is an authority of the name, I think, actually, which means the one who is loved by the Lord. God loved this man. He walked with God. He answered his prayers. He made him the wisest man in the kingdom. He had all the power. He built the temple of the Lord. What I'm trying to say is this, his resume is better than yours. His resume is better than mine. And yet he married the daughter of a foreign God, and what happened to him? He was destroyed. So exactly what this passage said happened. There was not a mass conversion of them, but a terrible apostasy in him. Be careful. Parents, when you're looking for a spouse, when you're counseling your children to find a spouse, I beg you to remember this verse. Remember I said, I have no greater desire? That's somewhat of an exaggeration, but probably not, than to see these children saved. Well, part of the way that they're going to be saved or not abandon the faith is by not doing this. And by us, and specifically you, parents, grandparents, loved ones, encouraging them toward the right and discouraging them toward the wrong. I understand that you ultimately can't control them, but can you at least encourage them? Can you at least let them know it grieves me to see you doing this? Don't do this. Can you warn them? Again, Deuteronomy 7, verse 4. For they will turn your sons away from following me to serve Other gods, so that the anger of the Lord will be aroused to destroy you. Remember, I said that behind this text in our Malachi text is probably people trading in their older wives for the younger wives. And that's why you've done this treachero treacherously you've done treachery toward each other because they have disregarded their wives. That might be true. But it doesn't have to be true. Because the reality is, even if they were already single when they did this, this is covenant destroying reality. Remember that national security thing I talked about about people stealing our secrets? Just you selling secrets to a foreign nation is actually hurting all of us. Well, our future isn't just bringing people in from the outside, but keeping people who are already here. Is that not true? And the people that are here and the people that are growing naturally are our children. And so for people to marry the daughter of a foreign God is cutting off entire branches of people from the church. That thousand generations of faithfulness is not going to occur if instead he's angry to the third and fourth generation. And that's why it's actually treachery for the entire people of God to commit this sin. Now again, I don't want to anyone to be confused. I am not talking about the case where you were an unbeliever at the time. And you married another unbeliever. That's not what's going on in this text. This text only addresses people who are already believers going and marrying an unbeliever. Or, potentially, you could have been married to someone who you thought was a believer and later turned out to be not a believer. Again, this text has nothing to do with that situation. It only has to do with the situation of somebody already being a believer and instead of marrying a believer, running off to marry an unbeliever. Recognize the danger, children, young people, singles. Recognize this great danger. Do not believe that you'll be okay. The Bible says pride goes before destruction and a haughty spirit before fall. Marriage between a believer and an unbeliever should never occur. It's not a private matter. It's a matter that the church needs to address. I promise you this, that if I am aware of you trying to marry an unbeliever, I will not marry you. Ever. I will not do it. It doesn't matter who you are. It doesn't matter who you're related to. I will not do it. Because the Bible says I can't. Because it's sinful. Now, for those of you who may have done this in the past, all I can tell you is this we serve a God who's a forgiving God. That there is forgiveness at the cross. Recognize your fault. Recognize that you did wrong. Go to God, 1 John 1. 9. If you confess your sins, He is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Don't be on a campaign to say the word of God isn't true. Even if it worked out for you, the word of God is still true. God was very merciful to you And if you have done this and you have suffered the consequences of this and you have felt the tension in your marriage, what I would exhort you again is to pray for God's forgiveness. He will forgive you. And two, warn others. Would you do that? Would you say, I have done this, I have lived this, I have tasted and seen that it's horrible. And that this was a huge mistake. And would you spend your life warning others not to do this? And I'm running out of time, but I could tell you many stories of people who have done this very thing, and their marriage was rot with pain and sorrow in difficulty because of it. Trust the word of the Lord. Lean not on your own understanding. Commit yourself to not doing this. You will not marry the daughter of a foreign God. Let's go to the Lord in prayer.