In this talk, I want to discuss a situation that's happening to a friend of mine's uh child um the the son is having uh some some difficulties in in in referring to uh just a very tender conscience that uh they feel a lot of guilt and a lot of remorse about big sins and and little sins and and this is uh just uh causing a lot of grief and a and a lot of uh trauma. It's very traumatic that we are sinners, right? We are born in iniquity. We are constantly sinners and so this this tender conscience is It's just being pricked by all kinds of of sin. And this can be a very problematic of of of developing a a healthy and relationship with God because we're sinners. And so if we constantly see all of our sin as as the most uh grotesque and heinous thing possible, then our relationship with God is going to be uh destroyed, right? If everything is is always God is just mad and He's angry and He's just judge then we we can't uh blossom in our relationship with God. So so what I want to tell uh this this this young man is that we need to emphasize both God's grace and God's wrath. Yes, it is true that our sin is of of infinite heinousness. Now, that doesn't mean that all sins are of the the same heinousness. There are some sins that are that are worse than the other, but but all sin is of uh a magnitude that we cannot even conceive of of how sinful it is. That is most certainly true. In fact, even the smallest sin deserves damnation. However, that does not mean that some sins are not worse than others. Just because some sins are are are are are so uh great that we could never pay them off, doesn't mean that other sins cannot be even of more heinous nature. So there is the Bible does teach that there are degrees of sin. Some sins are are less big than others too. This is why God constantly says I desire mercy rather than sacrifice. Well you think about it, well God required sacrifice too, didn't he? I mean, yeah, he requires sacrifice as well, but even more important than that is acts of mercy. You think about the account of of Jesus criticizing the Pharisees that they weren't they were tithing mint and in dil, they were tithing the smallest things. He says, these things you should have done. but you neglected to do the weightier matters of God's law. So there are some sins that are some matters that are even of more weightier matter and thus By breaking them is is more of a uh serious sin than than others. You can even think of when when Jesus was talking to uh to the cities around him and saying that it will be more tolerable to the cities of Sodom and Gomoran than to you, because you have done something worse than they did. because you rejected the miracles. So to reject the miracles of Jesus and to reject Jesus is even worse than to be uh gross in immorality and and not know anything about about Jesus and his and and his uh and his greatness and his beauty. So the more we know, the more guilty we are. So so this this young man, he's absolutely right to feel the magnitude of his of his sense, okay, but we do need to recognize some sins are more heinous than others. But what what what I think the healing bomb that he needs to hear is how mu how great God's mercy is. See, we don't understand the full magnitude of our sin, and this young man seems to understand it to a level that that some of us do not understand. But what with with what's being missed is the magnitude of God's love and God's mercy. As bad as those sin are Okay, we have a God. For God so loved the world, he loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believed in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Okay, if this young man is in Christ, you are loved beyond your wildest imagination. That Jesus that God Jesus loves you so much that he was willing to die for you, to be separated from God, to take the full wrath of God's penalty. on his on his account and let that wrath pour out on him, eventually rising from the dead and and bringing salvation. That's how much God loves you. And so if you are in the beloved, if you are in Christ, if you are in him who is beloved, then you yourself are beloved. So the first thing that I would that I would really stress on this young man is, do you know the Lord? Do you you know your sin? But do you know the Lord? Do you know that you are headed to hell outside of Christ? Do you know that? Do you know that your righteousness is a filthy rag? You have absolutely nothing before God that if God were to give you what you deserve, it would only be hell. Do you know that? And if you do know that, then the fear of God is a clean thing enduring forever. The fear of God is the beginning of knowledge. That is good for you to know, that you deserve hell and that you are going to hell. That is good for you to know. But there's something better for you to know, and there's some good news that through Jesus Christ, all of your sins, the small stuff, the big stuff and everything in between, all of your sins can be washed away and completely removed. God says that He can take your sin and make it as far as east is to the west that's infinitely far. He can completely uh take it away. He can send it to the sea of forgetfulness. He can heard you. He can wash you. He can cleanse you. He can renew a right spirit in you. He can forgive you of all of your sins. Does that sound like something you want? If it is, you need to cry out to the Lord. Jesus said. What the Word of God says, for all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. If you confess with your mouth and believe in your heart that God has raised him from the dead, that's Christ You will be saved. If you confess with your mouth and believe with your heart, you will be saved. God said that He would answer those who call upon His name and the things that they would ask, He would give to them. How much more so would He give the Holy Spirit to them who have asked? So my question for this young man is, have you ever got on your knees and cried out to God and said, Lord, have mercy on me. I am a sinner. See, it does you no good to feel guilty about your sin, but refuse to go to Jesus and ask for forgiveness. I'm not talking about mama 's fate. I'm not talking about anybody else's faith, the people that go to your church's faith. I'm not talking about your siblings' faith. I'm talking about your faith. I'm saying, do you trust in Jesus and him alone? If God were to say, if you were to die tonight and God would say, Why should I let you into my heaven? What would the answer be? If your answer isn't because I don't deserve this at all, but I trusted in your son and you promise Whosoever called upon the name of the Lord will be saved, and I called upon your name. If that is not your answer, then you need to put pause and you need to go and cry out to the Lord right Now, you need to go and cry out to the Lord right now with your lips. Have you ever done that? And if you have, then you need to, or after you have done that, you need to realize that in Christ you are loved with the love that God has for the Son. That you your filthy rags have been taken away and now you have the righteousness of Christ. See, you lied, you stole, you tricked, you manipulated. But Jesus never lied. He never tripped. He never manipulated. He never did those things Not once. And so now what his perfect righteousness, his perfect life of holiness, is now been placed on your account, and your sins, all that lying, all that stealing, all that manipulating, all that bullying your brothers, all of that has now been placed on Jesus at the cross, taken away completely. So if you understand your sin, will you also understand God's mercy? You are more sinful than you could ever imagine But God is more gracious than you could ever imagine. That is the good news. That is the gospel. If your heart continues to break over sin , Will it continue to sing because of his righteousness? Because of his grace. It's unmerited favor. Unmerited favor. So what should you do? Now that you have, if you have, hopefully you have, that you have now believed in Jesus Christ and are resting in his righteousness alone But yet you continue to live a life of sin. You are a butt flesh. You are a man. You are someone who will send. Yes, God is reforming you more and more to the image of his son, but you will send. The first thing is you need to do It's like I was saying, recognize that all sins are not equal. That doesn't mean that we shouldn't uh wrestle against all sins, but all sin is not equal because you know what happens when you do that? What ends up happening is everything gets leveled off and your gross sins are not so gross anymore. And your and your lot your small sins They they're they're everything gets leveled off. See, you can only live in this state of all sins being the worst sins for so long you go crazy, you go nuts. What ends up happening is all your gross sins go down. So you need to understand that some sins are a whole lot worse than others. Some sins are a whole lot more heinous than others, and you need to spend the bulk of your energy going after that nasty stuff. That nasty sin you need to cut it off and throw it away. And then the stuff that remains, that stuff that's lingering in the heart, confess it. Jesus said, if you confess if you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins, right? To forgive you of your sins and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness We need to confess it and say, God, I lie, I steal, I'm selfish, I hurt people. Confess that, believing that you're forgiven and that God is working and work in you to conform you into the image of your son. Come and taste and see that he is good. You know? You hopefully you know the Lord's prayer. Let's let's read the Lord's Prayer. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. What's that saying? God, let your name be glorified. Let your kingdom spread. Let your kingdom come, let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. God we're wanting that perfect kingdom to come down on earth. Give us this day our daily breath. God thank you for the food and the provision that you've provided for me. And here it is. Forgive us of our debts as we also forgive How often should we pray this? Give us this day our daily bread. As often as we pray, give us this day our daily bread, which is every day, we should also pray, forgive us of our debts. As we also forgive our debtors. God help me be someone who is forgiving because I know that you constantly forgive me. That's you're not alone. We all sin and we all need God to constantly forgive us of our debts as we forgive our debtors and look, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from the evil one. How often do we pray that? As often as we pray, forgive us our debts. And as often as we pray, give us this day our daily bread. As often as we pray, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as as it is in heaven. Every single day we're asking for God's kingdom to come. Every single day we're thankful for God And it's provision and we're asking for that provision every single day. Before we even ask for deliverance from sin, we admit I'm gonna fail I'm gonna fail. Forgive us this day. Forgive us of our trespasses. We also forgive those who have trespassed against us. Forgive us of our debts, but we also forgive our debtors. We pray that every single day because we know that we are sinners. And then we ask God to lead us not into temptation. Help us not to sin, even though we know that we are but flesh and that we will sin. Guess what? Young man, God doesn't just look at you. He knows all of us. He knows every single person who's ever lived, and he knows how we all struggle with sin. And he doesn't look at you as a meaning person who wants to just smite you if you've been in Christ you're forgiven and he looked at you as a son and he says I have children he looks at you and says you can do better I want better for you but I understand Get back up. Come back to me, who is the source of all joy, who is the source of all happiness. Find your joy in me. Recognize I'm commanding these things for your good. Get back up, my son And come back to me. That's what the Father wants you to do. Get back up, my son, and come back to me. I I'm I'm doing a work in you. He began a good work in you, will bring it to completion into the day of the Lord Jesus. He is doing a good work in you Let him complete that good work. Come back to him. When you sin, get back up and come back to him. And it's not just when you sin, but how fast do you get back up? How fast do you get back up, young man? Do you get back up quickly? Or do you soak in your own filth? Don't soak in your own filth. Get back up and go to the cleansing fountain found in the blood and the mercy of Jesus Christ. Go back to him. Don't look in. Look out. Look to Christ. Don't be disappointed in yourself, but look to Christ who forgives you of your sin. See, that's the Christian life. Looking away from self and looking to Him. You shouldn't be disappointing yourself. You should see no good in yourself. It's only the work of the Holy Spirit. So young man, Christ loves you. He loves you so much that he offers you a chance to reign with him and be with him forever. So the first thing is make sure that you're in Christ. Second thing is, once you in Christ, make sure you recognize that you are more vile than you could ever dream. And your your self-penance can never make it's not impressing God, it's not impressing anyone. You are more vile than you ever can imagine But God loves you more than you can ever dream. Rest in His love. Rest in His mercy. Be outward looking Find good works to do and do them with your vigor. Look to Jesus Christ and cling to him. Point others to Christ Point others to Christ. Live for Christ. There is works to do out here. And being self-reflective and only worrying about self is not the way to go. We need to worry about others who are lost and are headed to hell We need to look to Jesus and find him as our all-satisfying joy. I love you, young man, and I'm praying for you. And I hope and I pray that you will be with us, the people of God, forever. And that you will find Jesus Christ as your supreme pleasure and joy. And you will find fullness of life in him and you will find him sweet and you will find that even when you sin his mercy is greater than your sin And you will say, what a savior, what a great God that I have. Every day I'm a debtor to sin, but every day his mercies are new, and he forgives me. It cleanses me and loves me and I am loved in the beloved. Love young man. May God bless you.