All right, who wants to open this time in prayer? Oh, please. Heavenly Father, I thank you so much for uh today. Let us use medicine. Uh Father God is uh making words. Uh that you let you come I'll pray about on. that if you would use the learn and uh be able to get some questions answered as well. Yeah. Alright, do we have a couple hand mics out there? Okay. Um can I have a couple of volunteers to read? Mr. Dennis? All right. Um All right, we have twenty-nine verses. What's half of twenty-nine? Alright, fourteen. So the first one we'll do fourteen and then you're finished the rest. So Maurice we do the first fourteen and then fifteen to the end of the chapter. Oh that's what I meant. I figured you didn't like the MID y then. Oh no. We gotta get him a better Bible. First fourteen verses, please. Okay. Hello? Sometime later there was an incident involving a vineyard belonging to Navith. Is that the Jesuit? The venue was in Jezreel, close to the place of Ahab, king of Samaria. Ahab said to Nabut, Let me have your vineyard to use for a vegetable garden, since it's close to my palace. In exchange I will give you a better vineyard, or if you prefer, I will pay you whatever it's worth. But Nabuth replied, The Lord forbid that I should give to you the inheritance of my ancestors So Ahab went home, sullen and angry, because Nabu, the Jezreelite, had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my ancestors. He lay on his bed, sulking, refusing to eat. His wife Jezebel came in and asked him, Why are you so sullen? Why won't you eat? He answered her, Because I said to Nabu, the Jezreelite, sell me your vineyard Or if you prefer, I will give you another vineyard in its place. But he said, I will not give you my vineyard. Jezebel, his wife, said, is Is this how you act as king over Israel? Get up and eat. Cheer up. I'll get you the vineyard of Nabu the Jewelite So she wrote letters in Ahab's name, placed his seal on them, and sent them to the elders and nobles who lived in Nabut's city with him. In those letters she wrote. Proclaim a day of fasting and seat Nab Nabuth in a prominent place among the people, but seat two scoundrels opposite him and have them bring charges that he has cursed both God and the king. Then take him out and stone him to death. So the elders and the nobles who lived in Nabuth City did as Jezebel directed in the letter she had written to them They proclaimed the fast and seated Nabuth in a prominent place among the people. Then two scoundrels came and sat opposite him and bought charges against Nabuth before the people, saying, Nabuth has cursed both God and the king, so they took him outside the city and stoned him to death. Then they sent word to Jezebel, Nabuth has been stoned to death. And it came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth , the Zezreelite. which he refused to give thee for money, for Nabus is not alive but dead. And it came to pass when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Nabus to Zezare. to take possession of it. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite saying, Arise, go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel. is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to possess it. And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus set the Lord. Hast thou killed and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus said the Lord. In the place where it where dogs licked the blood of Nabus, shall dogs lick the blood, thy blood even time Even thine, sorry. And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, And Hast found thee, because thou hast sold thyself to work evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will take away thy prosperity prosperity, and will cut off from Ahab from Cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall and him that is shut up and left in Israel And will make thine house like the house of Jeroboam and son of Nebat, and like the house of Basha, the son of Ajiha. For the provocation wherewith Dahl has provoked me to anger and made Israel to sin And of Jezebel also spake the Lord, saying, The dog shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel. Him that dieth of Ahab in the city the dog shall eat, and him that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat. But there was none like unto Ahab, which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of the Lord, which Jezebel, his wife, stirred up. And he did very abominably in following idols according to all things as did the Amorites. whom the Lord ha cast out before the children of Israel. And it came to pass when Ahab heard these those words that he rent his clothes and put sackcloth upon his flesh and fasted. And lay in sackcloth and went softly. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite, saying Seeest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? Because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days. But in his son 's days will I bring the evil upon his house. Here ends the reading of God's word. Amen. Right, so uh a lot a lot here, a lot of long chapter. Usually I don't preach such long passages, but I think they're all it's all really one story. It's kinda hard to preach this over multiple multi multiple sermons and you have to do so much recapping that it's challenging. So that's why I did it that way. Um as As you're reading this or as I was preaching this sermon, what are your thoughts, comments, reflections? How does God speak to you through this passage, or how would you point someone else? I think catch this morning the fact that he offered him a better vineyard or cash, whatever he wanted. So I like he just came and said, I want your vineyard, I've taken it. Up they said it was it was Jewish law at the time that you were not allowed to permanently sell your family's land. That was generally Yes. So so yes. Um he didn't just say, give me your land or I'll kill you. Right. Right. He he came to him and said, I really like your property, it's next to mine. You know, if you want me to give you money, I'll give you money. Oh, I'll give you a different feel that's just as good. But this kind of reminds me a little bit of like what the county did to this church. It's like We don't really want a public domain, but we will. But we'll give you some money and give you some property that's just like it. You better do it. But you know, we're trying to bless you. Take the deal. Like do you get what I'm saying? Like it it it ended up being a blessing. But what if we were like this staunchly, this is our building? We don't and in fact, I mean I wasn't here but there's a lot of inconvenience of moving. Well they also took our lots in the back. Okay. So they wanted us to take them back. Really? Yeah, so I I guess I'm simply saying is When an authority figure like Anorano County, or even worse, the king says, I really like that, it's not he he is asking, but at the same time you this is not that surprising that this happened. Does that make sense? Like in the history of kings asking for your property, how many have you been how many people have been able to successfully tell the king no and ended up not killed? The answer is probably very few. But to Mr. Jan's point, the law of God is clear. You are not allowed. And that's part of his answer. And I and I mentioned that, if you recall, that uh let's see here. But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you. Depending on how you read that, I I think you you might just take that as absolutely not, I won't sell it to you. But but I think that is reading it from more of like an American, we use the Lord's name in vain as almost a meaningless expression. So Lord forbid, like definitely not. But it has no reference to God But I don't think that's going on here. I think when he says the Lord forbid that I give this to you, he's bringing up the Lord because he's essentially saying this is prohibited by God's word. Which is by the way his only chance of saying no to the king anyway. If you're gonna say no to the king, you've got to give your best reason up front. Does that make sense? I mean if you're gonna deny the king of something, you've got to tell him why. And I think it's very clear here that In that answer to the Lord forbid, he's pointing back to the law of God that of course Ahab himself knew about. That he was not allowed to give his ancestral property to him. And what I tried to bring out in the sermon is Ahab doesn't care. Do you see that? Ahab is not concerned about God's word. He's concerned about his vegetable garden. And just think about this. It's a vegetable garden. Now I have a garden at my house and I like my garden. We're talking about a human being's life versus your vegetable garden And that's how sin can do. It can distort things so much so that you need a vegetable garden. And if it takes the death of your neighbor to do it, you're going to do it. And that's what happened in Ahab's heart. one of the things that um that stood out when you uh was preaching the time question is um The fact that Ahab continued to see God's hand and continued to ignore it. And I think about uh you know my father and other loved ones that you know we can share the gospel with and continue to ignore it. Yeah , uh things like A seeming miracles, but I think for me it just has continued the the public. Say, look, this is being a praise, be you to ask God to have mercy on my loved ones or with my co-working friends that uh just hope not. I I realized that it's not on me. To the point where I can't force it, I can't, you know, strong arm and say, man, come on, you gotta you gotta come, we gotta repent, you gotta Yeah, I mean. So how many of us Think not when we have our theological hats on, but just normally, that if we could show our loved ones Our father, our brother, our sister-in-law, whoever that person that we love, or or children maybe, whatever it is, the miracles of God, that surely that would have some positive effect on them. Right. How many of us, you know, feel that way or think that way? Or even sometimes we think, well maybe this person, or or maybe this charismatic person, or or I don't know if you guys remember Kanye West getting saved Remember that? Oh now we got Kanye. Oh yeah, this is gonna be great. Revival's surely going to happen because Kanye is so influential Right? We often think that an influential person, a a miracle, even sometimes we think our own presentation of the gospel. That if we were just a little bit more clever, if we just knew a few more facts, if we could make that cosmological argument just a little bit a little bit better than than they would believe, or you think You know, the person's not responding to me because I'm a female. I I can't tell you how many times I've heard that. That because I'm a female, they don't listen to me because people don't listen to females. So if I if just a male would go and talk to this person, then they would hear. And by the way, whenever someone's told me that in let's say I've been that person, that male who went to go talk to the person, they never got saved. They never got saved. They never it was never true. But I'm simply saying this idea that the again, that's not the they're not the only people who It's not that females are the only people who say that, but I can just think of cases, many cases where a female has told me they won't listen to me because I'm a female when it comes to the gospel. You talk to them because they were male. And when I have, or some other male talked to them, they discovered the problem had nothing to do with XX chromosomes and everything to do with the fact that they didn't want to hear God's word. Does that make sense? Did anybody relate to this? That the miracles of God, the gender of the person, even your ability to communicate the gospel largely doesn't matter. If you are accurately presenting the Word of God, what are they hearing? The Word of God. So Sunday school, right? What are we talking about on Sunday? Who who met who on the road? Yeah. Yeah, and is there any indication in the text? that Philip was just such an amazing evangelist and had it been anybody else he would have totally floundered the whole thing and and he had like a twenty five minute argument but he could beat him in every argument and then Zero, right? God was clearly at work, divine appointment. God was clearly at work in the Ethiopians' hearts. And so when he saw Philip, he saw a messenger of God. And when he heard Philip's message, he heard a message from God. The power, what I'm trying to say to you all is, the power is not in us And it's not in external things. Yes, should we do all things to all men so that we might by any means win some? Yes. Should you be intentionally belligerent? No. Should you try to be kind and friendly? Should you try to be articulate? No, of course of course, all of those things. But the reality is, and you all know this, you could have all your ducks in a row and it still not work. In fact, sometimes you have none of your ducks in a row and it works. Some of J. C. Ryle was saved. Anybody know J. C. Rile? He's he's a famous Anglican, um uh uh famous Anglican preacher who was uh ev evangelistic Anglican and he wrote many books and he's a godly man. He was apparently saved by a guy reading from the Bible, Ephesians chapter 2, verse 8. And it was He says that he doesn't remember anything about the sermon. All he remembers is that the guy was reading Ephesians in a strange way. He was like doing unusual pauses, you know, uh, for by grace You have been saved through faith. And it said he happened like a lightning bolt. And he realized that was saved by grace through faith. And he got saved. This is not a normal strategy of how to go around evangelizing people. Somebody's gonna leave here saying, I'm gonna evangelize my neighbor by saying four, five, three, in a very slow way But but it that's not the point. The point is it's the power of God that lightning bolts people and opens their hearts so that they can hear and see and believe. It's not miracles. And to to test that, what did the miracles of God do to Ahab? What happened to Ahab? It made him worden him, didn't it? It hardened him. It did not produce what we wanted it to do in Ahab's life. Ahab called the greatest prophet of the Old Testament, and Ahab called him two things. What's the two things that Ahab called Elizabeth? Troubler and Enemy. So guess what? If you could do all the miracles in the world, I'm somewhat joking here, you could do all the miracles in the world and call Trump to repentance, you know he'd probably call you? Trouble of America and my enemy It probably wouldn't result in this conversion. Does that make sense? Because the power is not in the miracle. So it didn't work for Ahab's life. Did it work for the wilderness generation that saw all of Moses ' signs? What does the Bible say about that generation? They died in the wilderness because they didn't have faith. The wilderness generation is the generation that the Bible tells you don't be like those people over and over. So they all were doomed. What about Jesus and all of his miracles? Did they produce. . A great effect among his contemporaries? Didn't Jesus say that this generation is worse than even the Sonomites? This is the worst generation ever. They've seen all the signs and they utterly rejected him. What happened to the apostles? Did they cause mass revival in the Jewish world? Sunday school again. What happened to them? Getting beat up? Threatened? In the face of miracles, remember, Mr. Dennis? They're doing miracles and they can't deny and they say just be quiet. Just stop t stop doing this. We can't deny the miracles, but just be quiet because we will not believe the truth And so I hope I'm trying to belabor this point to really get into our heads. The power is not in you. The power is merely in God. I hope that gives you relief And so we really are dependent on God's work in somebody else. We really are. We should be praying God soften hearts, God send me to your people. God direct me to the person that you're already working in. You're already softening, you're already doing a work into their hearts and direct me to them. Pick on you, Ms. Giovanna, for a second. I mean, I wasn't there, but I just something tells me that the the two people who evangelized you weren't like Billy Graham talented. They they probably weren't the the most talented people but God was working in your heart and they were the people that you needed. Is that fair? That's what we need. We need not to be Billy Graham. We need to just be the people and that that's those two unnamed people that was in Giovanna's life inviting her to church. And why did she come? Because God was working on her heart. And what happened? Again, I doubt the the preacher there became a famous preacher. Everybody knows his name. No, he did a normal guy preaching the gospel, preaching regular sermons, and we see the fruit later. The power is in God's word. It's not in the vessel It really is in gone. Any thoughts on that? You know it it's uh I'm gonna mess up with the name. Well and he said, gee, let me go back to my Lazarus. Okay, Lazarus, good. Uh and and and he said, Let me go back to my people and tell 'em what's what's ahead. And and he said even if someone Somebody raises from the dead, they're not gonna it's not gonna change things. Which is almost well it is with Jesus, he be he was raised from the dead, but those people Holy God didn't do it. Yeah. The power is in God. The power is in the word. The power is in the conviction. It's not because Jesus is a perfect example. Jesus raised from the dead. And what did they say? They stole the body. That's what they said they stole the body. Now, I will point something out. Did two people get saved after the resurrection? But did two people particularly get saved after the resurrection of Jesus? Saul. Saul. And who else? Somebody's gonna disappoint me and then guys don't listen. James. James, the brother of Jesus. So God can work through miracles. He does. He can work through miraculous means. But again, it's not the miracle itself. It's really God working through these things. So if you have the privilege to evangelize someone, give them the gospel, and they convert, you can say, I'm amazing. Wow, look at me. You would never do that. But you should not think that. You shouldn't be like, what did I do? You should be like, what did God do? This is incredible. Look at the power of God. There's nothing stronger than the word of God. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. We saw this in James, that we're born again by the word of truth. The Holy Spirit uses his word He can use signs and miracles, but we are not, let me put it differently. I think some people think that the church is hamstringed because we don't have the ability of the apostles. We can't do signs and miracles and all this. And again, if only we had the power of the apostles. But that's not true. We have all the power that we need. It's called the gospel. There is no more powerful message than the gospel. You give all the miracles and no Holy Spirit and nobody else nobody's ever gonna get saved. Because miracles are not enough. And that's exactly that parable. The man is in hell saying, Please let me come back. I can warn them. I'll be your greatest evangelist ever. The guy from hell, I'm gonna warn all of my brothers. I I don't want them here. Right? And just on a side note, nobody wants to be in hell. The guy in hell, even as wicked as he is, doesn't want his brothers in hell. Please let me go back and warn them. He said they have the scriptures. No, they'll listen to me. The scriptures are passe. Me. No. If they have Moses and the prophets, and they won't listen to that, they're not going to listen to you either. And I'm gonna show you one more one more place of this. Let's turn to John chapter six. That's a pretty neat passage. John chapter six. Okay. Can somebody uh read John chapter six, verse sixty one? Through sixty three. He said to them Does this offend you? What then if you should be the son of man of things that you was before? It is the spirit Who gets life? The blessed prophets nothing. The words that I speak to you are spirit, and they are life There are some of you who do not believe. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were who did not believe. And who would betray him? Okay. So look what he says. He gives them a hard he gives them some a hard preaching. He's preaching hard truths to them. Eat my flesh, drink my blood, stuff like that. And it's difficult for them. Right. So then he says, does this offend you? And the answer is yes. Right? They're offended. Oh, I don't like this. This is this is hard stuff. I'm not I'm not really liking what Jesus is saying. So he says What then if you should see the Son of Man ascend to where he was before? Now again, a little bit of context. John chapter 6 Jesus has just fed the five thousand with all these loaves of bread. Then he leaves because he knows that even though they want to make him king and they say he's the prophet of the world, they're thinking about food and they're thinking about conquering Rome. They're not thinking about God and conquering the devil. Does that make sense? They're thinking Jesus is our political leader and because he can, you know, do these miracles with the food, he can probably do miracles, other miracles so we can top of Rome. So Jesus leaves them. He meets him on the other side and calls them to be his disciples instead of his revolutionaries. In other words, they want Jesus to baptize their plans, and Jesus says, well, I want you to be baptized in my plans. And then they say, Well, if that's the case, you need to show us some more miracles. Because we like you following us, and so the bar to follow us is down here, but the bar to follow you is up here. Right? You want me to go into your plan? Okay, I need more I need more miracles. Moses gave manna for heaven. What can you do, Jesus? Remember, they still have the food in their bellies that Jesus just said them. But they still, remember miracles don't work, they still need more miracles. And so Jesus is having this discussion and he starts giving more gospel truth. Well in light of that, these people are offended. And he says, okay, you who want miracles, what if you would see the Son of Man ascend where he was before? It it it's it's a rhetorical question. They're like, Uh-huh, yeah, this is what we want. If we see you ascend, we'll believe you, Jesus. That's what they think. They honestly think that. And if you talk to unbelievers, many of them honestly think if God were to show them more stuff they would believe. They really believe that. But look what Jesus says. It is the Spirit who gives life. The flesh profits nothing. So how much does the flesh profit? Zero. So if you if these people, slash the loving the the people, the atheists down the street, were to see Jesus ascend into heaven, and they're like, Yeah, I wouldn't be offended, I would believe. According to the Bible, is that true? No, because if it were true, the flesh would profit a lot. Because by the flesh they would believe, because with their physical eyes they would see and they'd believe. But Jesus says the flesh profits nothing. It's a rhetorical question. What if you were to see me ascend? You wouldn't believe, because the flesh profits nothing. It's the spirit who gives the life. The words that I speak to you are spirit and and life, but there are some of you who do not believe. We get converted by the Spirit using his words to give us life. We do not get converted by seeing where our physical eyes Jesus ascend into heaven. Hope you see that. This is a really cool text because it says exactly what we're talking about. Ahab is not the exception. Ahab is the rule. Ahab is a man who saw in the flesh God's mighty works and it only made him worse and more accountable to God. Um years ago I had prayed for my brother. Some of these part of the school before I just try to, you know I'm just trying to hold on to you know, you know And so in my heart and heart thinking I was doing the right thing, I said, just now it shows itself to you. I mean I know you will believe. And so I I asked him, I said, Can I pray for you? And so I prayed this prayer and I was just like, Lord, just please show my brother that you are real. And within the week he had gone to an IHOP celebration. This young lady walked up to him and said, I didn't want to let you know looking at my heart to let you know that he was real. And so he comes back to me and tells me this. I'm like, wow, I'm I'm shocked and amazed that he was God did that, but he was like he was just going to then we just take this thing. And it's but his heart was hardened all the more. Like he Bill doesn't see that of God allowing him to see that he's real. It was more so like said, like he is not put conviction. the gospel. So I may I'm just like giving them the gospel. Because God has made it like He answered my prayer, praise the Lord, but that wasn't enough to convince him. You know this thing. You know, you have to have to know God to show you their heart. Of course, that's your faith and he was Amen. This is a this is a perfect time for our memory verse. Psalm fifty-three, verse one. The fool has said in his heart, there is no God. They are corrupt. This is the really I want you to memorize the next part. They are corrupt. They have done abominable iniquity. There is none who do good, no not one. Remember that. It's so difficult. We love our brothers, we love our sisters, we think they're good people. All of this, remember, the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They're not innocent. They're not neutral. They are in hostility toward God. The issue is not God has not shown them enough. The issue is their heart is hard as stone. They are corrupt, they have done abominable iniquity. They don't want God to be true. They don't want these things because that would require repentance. That would require their life to change. That would require that they would have to do some forsaking, or at the very least, they would have to give themselves to God who will cause them to forsake. And a lot of people? They want heaven but not God. That's the issue. They want heaven, but as long as heaven would look like a place ruled by Satan. The problem is that God is holy and they are not, and they don't want his holiness. That's the real issue. They love their sin and they refuse to come to me John three, nine, twenty and twenty one. They hate the light. Hate. Again, it's like hard to believe this because you look at them and do they really hate? Yes, believe the Bible. They hate the light and refuse to come to the light lest their evil deeds be exposed. That's the Issue is because they're holding on to their sin and they come into the light and God exposes them. And when God exposes them, they got two choices to let it go or to run into the darkness with their sin. And unfortunately Many run to the darkness with their sin because they're not willing to give it up. Again, that's a heart issue. It's a fundamental heart issue. It's not a reasoning issue. It's not an evidence issue. It's not God's fault. It's their fault. God has made himself, Romans chapter 1, Psalm 19, God has made himself evident. through creation, through the testimony of their heart, through the Holy Spirit. How long will we resist the Holy Spirit? These people are not innocent. We we should pity them and be heartbroken and just pray that their hearts will be softened and they would come to see God's truth. But the problem is not God, and the problem is not evidence. And the solution is not you. And the solution is in your argumentation. No gimmicks. Gimmicks will not work. I would do them if they would work. I really would. Let's bring in the the the soaker, super soaker, and let's bring in the clowns and let's do whatever it c whatever it takes to save these people. But none of that will actually save anyone But I'll tell you this though. If you do those, you can get decisions for Christ. You can manipulate decisions for Christ. You can get people to sign a card to prayer a prayer, but you can't convert a soul. You can get someone so you can say I saved them, but you can't convert a soul. Only the gospel can. Gimmicks will give you the satisfaction of saying, look what I did But it won't actually produce the salvation that you want. Only God's word can do that. Amen? Does that make sense? Do you think God ever say don't praise this salvation any longer? Do I see God? Alright, let's uh that's a that that's a hard question. That's a really hard question. And uh when people ask me hard questions, I like to run to the Bible. I like to run to the Bible. Okay, so let's go to Hebrews. Hebrews. Did somebody Marie I what's Ethan? Brother Ethan. Type in phone Google E Google AI. Okay? Type in um send on to death. It's in first John. I think it's first John 5. Send or unto death. And when you have that, can you let me know where it is? So Hebrews chapter 6. Hebrews chapter six. And Miss Brennan, could you ask that? Can you read verse four through six? Four through six. In the case of those who have once been enlightened, who have tasted the heavenly gift and have shared it in the Holy Spirit and have tasted the subject of the Word of God and the powers of the ancient time and then have fallen away to restore them again to repentance, since they are crucifying once again the Son of God to their own harm and holding I'm not gonna make too many comments on that. I'll just say this is one of those terrifying passages that people don't like. It's one of those absolutely terrifying passages that people don't like. But I will so simply say this. It says what it says, there there are there is a group of people that it says it is impossible for those who were once enlightened to taste the heavenly gift and have become taste of the Holy Spirit and have tasted the good word of the powers to come, if they fall away, to renew them again to repentance. So once the Bible doesn't insinuate salvation that they are saved. No, I don't think if we are saved. I don't think the people are saved, but I will say that there's again this means something. There is a group of people Whoever they are, we can talk about it. I can talk about many hours, but I'll just say now, there's a category of people that this applies to that's impossible to restore them into again to repentance. because they have done something. They crucified for themselves again the Son of God and put them in the open chain. I want you to think about that category for a second. Now let's flip back. To uh chapter three and verse seven. Can you read that? Hebrews. Hebrews, yes, Hebrews chapter three, verse seven. Trip to three percent Can you do that, Mr. 37? Yes. Therefore the Holy Spirit says today to hear his voice. Keep going, sorry, keep going, keep going. And do Not harden your heart as in with the rebellion. On the day of testing in the wilderness where your fathers put me to the test and saw my works for forty years. Therefore I was provoked with that generation and said, They always go astray in their hearts. They have not known my ways. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Again, this this verse isn't that terrifying until you really look at it. Think about what this is saying. There's a group of people out there, in fact, these people are the outward people of God. If you see later on, who did he say this to? This is the wilderness generation. Remember that generation I told you that was really bad off? That's them. And it says here, he says to them Today, if you will hear his voice, do not harden your hearts in the rebellion. Well, these people did hear his voice and they did harden their hearts. So he's talking about a group of people who have hardened their hearts to God's truth. They heard it, but they have hardened their hearts. They no longer hear the voice of God. That's what it means to have a hardened heart. And look what God says to them in verse 11. Can you read verse 11 again? Verse 11 again. As I swore in my wrath, they shall not enter my rest. Just think about that for a second. God has sworn that these people will not enter his rest. He swears by himself. He's not going back on something, he swears. He swears they will not enter my rest. Later on, we're told there's a group of people who will it's impossible for them to restore them to repentance If we go to Hebrews chapter ten, I'll read this one. Hebrews chapter ten. Verse 26 For if we sin willfully after we have received the knowledge of the truth, there no longer remains a sacrifice of sins, but a certain fearful expectation of judgment. And fiery ignition which shall devour the adversaries. Anyone who has rejected the mo Moses dies without mercy on the testimony of two or three witnesses. How much more worse do you suppose will be thought worthy of the one who has trampled the Son of God underfoot, counted the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified a common thing, and insulted the spirit of grace For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. And again the Lord will judge his people. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of a living God. The things I want you to hear from that passage Is there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins? And outrage the spirit of grace They have outrage. I'm saying these are the same. This is all the same group of people. These people have hardened hearts. They no longer hear God's word God sworn his wrath. It's impossible to restore them to repentance. There no longer remains a sacrifice for sins. And they have outraged the spirit. Of grace. Now flipping over again. It's a hard question. I just want I just somebody's gonna get mad, but I just wanted to show you the scriptures. Um chapter Okay, um okay, chapter twelve. This is what it says about Esau. Look carefully lest anyone fall short of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness spring up cause trouble, and by this many become defiled Lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright. For we know that afterward what he wanted to inher when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place for repentance. though he sought it diligently with tears. So Esau's given us we're given a picture of Esau who he found no place for repentance. Don't be like this man. Where he made he rejected God. to the point where even when he does debate what what he sought, but he sought something good, he sought restoration, and he couldn't find it. He could not find it. These are I'm telling you, these are terrifying scriptures. Whatever they mean, they're absolutely absolutely terrifying. Ethan, did you have that passage? Alright, so this is directly d addressing your question now. First John What? Will for him with life the will to commit sin not leading to death. There is a sin leading to death. I do not say that he should make request for this. Yeah. So here the contrast. If is verse 16, if anyone sees his brothers sinning, somewhat Christians, a sin which does not lead to death, he will ask And he will give him life for those who commit a sin not leading to death. So if you see your brother committing a sin not leading to death, you'll ask and he'll be forgiven. He'll be saved. Okay? There is a sin leading to death. I do not say that he should pray about that. Well, if you're committing the sin that leads to death, he says, I'm not telling you to pray about that. And the implication is because he 's not going to be healed. Because it's no longer once you've out I'm I'm trying to put this all together. Once you have outraged the spirit of grace, you've hardened your heart, you no longer hear or being drawn by God, you're doomed What I'm simply saying. If our only solution is God, and you've hardened your heart against God, and you no longer hear his voice, you've outraged his grace, he's no longer drawing you, what hope is there? Is what I'm simply saying. You have no hope. If that is happening. If the person is no longer hearing the voice of God, they're no longer being drawn, there is no longer hope. Now, this verse also does not say don't pray for them I'm not saying don't pray for them. I am saying there are a certain group of people that you pray for them, the outcome will not be different. Your prayer will not save them. And again, I want you to think about the Bible. Did God ever tell people Even if the greatest men in the world were to pray, it's too late. That says multiple times in the Old Testament. Even if the greatest people were to pray, the city has gone too far. The judgment of God is coming upon the city And you can see that elsewhere. God says, you can see this in Proverbs. God is beckoning people, come to me, come to me, come to me, come to me. And then eventually It gets to a point where God's like, no, it's over. Judgment will come. And then they try to cry out, at least externally, to God. And God says, I will laugh at your judgment. I will laugh at your calamity. Calamity will come and destroy you swiftly So I'm simply saying that's a long way of simply saying uh yeah, I do believe that there are people who have hardened themselves so do we always know who they are? No. But there are people who have hardened themselves so much to the Spirit of God that they're no longer being drawn. And if they're no longer being drawn, there's There's no hope, at least in that state, for them. Could potentially well That's all I'll I'll leave it at that and I'll let you make your own applications on that. But that that's that's my long way. That's my long answer Any other thoughts or questions, comments? And the question was from this record was should we pray for the other thing? Is it possible that God will tell you Yeah the w here's what I'll simply say. My last answer to that question is this. What I would say is this When you no longer have motivation to pray for someone's salvation, when you no longer have any stirring in your own heart to pray for someone's salvation, I think that is the worst sign for that person. I think you you having a desire to pray for someone is their best hope. Because who put that desire in your heart? Does that make sense? I i if that desire like my prayers for my children, my prayers for your children, my prayers for you, I believe God is the one putting those desires God works for for the ends and the means. I think my prayers are the effectual means that are going to help produce those outcomes So God's producing those things, right? That's how that works. But once my desire scribbles up and I'm not Because n God 's no longer producing any desire in me, to me that is the scariest thing for that person. a part of her community church down where she left lived for years. And I don't know if it was just a social thing. You know, that's my feeling is she was part of the community. It was the thing to do is be there and the fact that when she turned completely away from God and said, just a use for God, for years and years and years I've prayed for her salvation and to turn her heart and open her heart. But at some point in kind what I've done is I just fell on my knees and said, God, this is yours. Yep. This is yours. Only you have the power to to deceive her and to have her turn with you. So not that I don't every once in a while feel hurt about I have people like that in my life too. That I pray and prayed and prayed and prayed for their salvation and burdened my heart so so bad and eventually It just it it's almost like acceptance. But again, I'm not suggesting don't pray for these people. If you still want to pray for them Absolutely. Keep praying for them. But you might find that the desire to pray for them has shriveled up and almost disappeared. And I would simply say That's a bad sign for them. That is a hor when the the godliest people in your life stop praying for you, that is like probably one of the worst signs for that person. Does that make sense what I'm saying? That's that's not a good sign. That's really bad. Any any other thoughts or comments? Questions? Okay. The group of people that you're talking about, however , Question. They were never truly saved. They may have visually seen things, but they couldn't have been saved. Because we understand through through our doctrine that you can't lose your salvation. Yes, okay um I think there's two categories of people I'm talking about actually. Um I think there are people I think they're very similar though. There are people who are blaspheming the Holy Spirit. I don't I uh these people are oftentimes not even professing believers at all. And I would say what I think blasphemy, and this is not controversial really, I think blasphemy the Holy Spirit is totally, completely, and finally resisting God's work entirely. is by saying this which is God's work of drawing and leading is actually the devil. This is what they which is what they committed. They said all of these signs, all of this from God, no, it's actually the devil. Once you declare that the Holy Spirit's work is actually the devil Not like I thought that guy spoke in tongues and it's no. When you actually God's real drawing work and there's nothing else. Once you declare that the work of God is the devil, you're you 're doomed. Because that you can only be saved by the Holy Spirit. So I think that's one group of people that you have preached the gospel. They've never been believers. You preach the gospel to them. Have you ever experienced this where you were preaching the gospel to somebody and you saw tenderness? And maybe they attended church with you, maybe they listened to Christian songs, and you really thought they were going to get saved. Has anybody seen that before? You really saw something that was moving in the direction of God, and you were really hopeful, and then disappears. All of a sudden they're no longer listening to Christian music, they no longer attend church anymore, they're no longer reading the Bible, they're not interested. They never professed Christianity. They were just moving in that, oh, I think something's happening, and then it's gone. And now you talk to them and he's like a talk into her. Anybody see this? Am I the only one? Anybody see this? I would say that that is the blasting of the Holy Spirit. Now, caveat Some of those people will eventually get saved. So I can never definitively say that individual, but I'm talking about this category of people. There are people like that that go from tender to super hard and never turn back. I think that's blessed in the Holy Spirit. And I think for those kind of people, your prayers will not help them You can you can do it, but they're not gonna help them because they're not hearing from God. That's category number one. Your question particularly. Category number two, a person who used to profess Christianity, a person who was baptized, a person who was attending church, a person who was Teaching. Some of the apostates I know were teachers. Judas is a case in point. Judas had better credentials than anybody. Right? He was an apostle. He did miracles. He probably preached better than anybody else. And he was never truly saved. He was a devil from the beginning. So um There are unfortunately there are people like that. And I think that is who Hebrews is talking about. Those lot of categories. But to me, they're both really the same. They're people who have had encounters with the Holy Spirit, resisted him to the point of numbness. Well they no longer feel and God says, okay, have it you are. I'm done. I'm done. Does that make sense? But as far as them being saved, as far as were they ever saved? No. These people were not saved, they were pretenders. They looked safe, they act safe, they talked safe, but they weren't. Christ would not lose any of his people. You 're in his hand? In fact, I was looking at John 6. It's really interesting. John 6, we just we're just there. There's just a really good round of time, but let's go there real quick. I want to show you one more thing in John 6. It's just a little uh a weird little tidbit that's You only really see if you have a red letter Bible. So I'm not I don't really I'm not a huge fan of red letter Bible, but my Bible's red letter, so He makes remember he spreads he spreads all the baskets, right? And he feeds all the people. Okay? Now can somebody read the red letters in verse 12? Mr. Allen, can you do that? Oh no, that's fine. Anyway, can anybody read six verse twelve of the red letters? Gather the pieces that are left over He's talking about bread. He's talking about bread. Why is that in your Bible? I mean, why in the world is that recorded in your Bible? He tells the disciples after he does his miracle, make sure to gather the pieces of bread, lest any of the pieces of bread be lost. What? Do you see that? He's talking about pieces of bread and making sure pieces of bread won't be lost. Of all the things recorded in your Bible, Jesus is concerned about pieces of bread being lost. Anybody see where I'm going with this or no? Nobody see where I'm going with this? Huh? Okay, you remember when Jesus was on the boat and he told them, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and the Sadducees? And the disciples thought he was talking about the fact they didn't bring any bread. And he's like, this has nothing to do with bread. I'm telling you to beware of the teachings that come from the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Does anybody remember that? What I'm saying this is Jesus is not concerned about pieces of bread, but rather he's making a point. That Jesus is making sure that his provision that he has just done by the power of God, this multiplication, by the way, he's going to multiply the disciples, they go from 70, 12 to 70 to 2,000 to 5,000. Sound familiar? 5,000? He fed 5,000? Well, Jesus also makes sure that none of this bread is lost. In the same context, right after this, Jesus says that all who come to me, I will lose none. But I will raise them up. So anyway, that's a long way of saying Christ is not going to lose any of his bread. He's not losing any of his people. All that come to the Father, I will raise up on the last day. The caveat is all who come. You actually have to come, not pretend to come. Because some people pretend to come and they show themselves false by departing one day. But pretending to come and coming look very similar to other people. Have you ever been tricked? Has anyone ever seen this? Someone look like a Christian, talk like a Christian, act like a Christian, and then they abandon Christ altogether? Anybody know anybody like that? I know. It happens. So they look similar, but no. If you truly come to Christ, you began a work in you, we'll bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. Any final questions or thoughts? Clarity, congregations? Okay. This is a lot more theological than I thought we were gonna go this evening, but that's why we're here. Um