Matt, can you can you lead us in prayer? Dear Mather Follow, we're going to thank you this morning that we can come to your house to worship you and pray that you open our hearts and our ears to your truth as well as we can Listen to the study that Jamie's prepared we be receptive to what you have to learn. We do pray for those who are sick, traveling. For whatever reason they're not This morning we're going to do it if you look in a special way. They could be reminded what they need for you. And they need to fulfill that great commission. Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. So to recap what we the ground that we covered last time, we were trying to create a theology of emissions. And I argued last time that I'm muted? Is that better? Okay. Uh I tried to argue last time that evangelism was really a subset of missions. So if we can understand the big story of missions, then we'll understand better how evangelism and our task fits into that mission What I wanted to make sure of last time is to that we were not trying to gain knowledge for knowledge's sake. The goal here is not to try to build libraries. It's not to be able to try to impress friends of how much you know, but rather we're trying to equip the army of the Lord. That's what we are. We are the Army of the Lord. We are his soldiers and I'm trying to help better equip you to know what the mission is and what the what the uh how this fits into his grand story and the and the tools. to need to be successful. So I want to see, I want us to think about this as equipping an army rather than building a library. And that's really the whole point of all theology, really. All theology should affect our lives. Should affect the way that we look at things, the way that we perceive things the way that we do things. Theology should drive action. There shouldn't be this giant wedge in between them. In the last class, we looked at how the reason that God created the world and all that is in it. We saw that God did not create the world because he was lonely emotionally or because he needed anything. We argue that God has a saying, he has necessary being, he has always existed. And he's always been existing in a Trinitarian relationship. So we have perfect harmony between the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. So if he didn't create the world because he was lonely or needed anything, why did he create? And the answer is he created the world and all that is in it for his own glory. And that includes humanity. We also saw that God created man for his glory, but also with a specific mission of how to bring about that glorification of himself. That being, that man was created to image God, to fill the earth, to subdue it, to have dominion over all creation, and extend the Garden of Eden throughout the entire earth. That was the plan and the mission of man. Unfortunately, Genesis 3 records that man utterly failed at his mission. Man did not extend the garden even an inch. Because man was kicked out of the garden because of his disobedience and his failure to properly image God But we noted that some aspects of the mission seem to still be intact. What are those aspects? Well man was still in fact in the image of God. We saw that in Genesis 9, the justification for not killing a man was because he was in the image of God. To kill a man was to attack God himself. So we saw that man was still in the image. We also saw in that same chapter, Genesis chapter 9, that man is still commanded to be fruitful. And that beckons us back to Genesis 128, be fruitful and multiplied, which we'll look into more details in a moment. But some things seem to be obviously suspended from man's mission. The command to subdue the earth is not repeated. We don't see that in Genesis 9. We saw that in Genesis 1. Man's dominion over the earth is very destructed and disturbed. Man is commanded to have authority and dominion over the animals previously and now the animals become his food supply and they're in dread of him. So something seriously has been disrupted under that uh dominion. Then finally we saw the most the biggest problem I argued was that man cannot extend the garden because he was cast out of the garden. He can't get in. There's a cherubim and a flaming sword. Man can't get in, he's not supposed to get in So how could he in fact accomplish the mission of extending the garden throughout the earth? Is this simply impossible forever So we're going to start off today by looking a little more closely at man's command to be fruitful, that component of the mission. And recap, we saw that that was given originally in Genesis 1. 28. Um by the way you should probably we should probably uh turn your Bible to Genesis chapter nine. We're gonna spend a little bit of time there Genesis 128 says, and God blessed them, and God said, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it, have dominion over the fish. of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. What's fascinating about Genesis 128 is we see it starts off with God bless them And how does God bless them? And he said to them, be fruitful. So being fruitful is an imperative, it's a command. But this is stated as God's blessing. And we see that throughout the entire Bible, that God's commands are in fact God's blessing. God gives us these commands because he knows that these are the means that we're going to be blessed. We are blessed when we follow God's commands. Psalm 1 talks about blessed is the man who meditates on the law of the Lord. God's commands are his blessings. If you get this, then your life will be changed. Right? And you'll be of your understanding that God is not trying to steal your joy, but he's trying to give you joy. He's trying to bless you. Okay, so the command, the blessing and the command of being fruitful and multiple, I found in 128, the original Decree of man is repeated in Genesis 9. 1. There it says, God blesses sons and sets of them be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth. It's repeated in verse 7, and you be fruitful and multiply increase greatly on the earth and multiply in it. Again, when we see repetition, we should immediately say, this is important, and ask the question, why is this important? Why is this being stressed? So we have these two commands, right? These two commands being repeated from Genesis 1, Genesis 9, but the obvious question is what happened in between? Why you don't see this command all over the Bible, it's just seemed to be repeated in these two significant spots. So what happened Well if we go into Genesis 6, 5 through 7, we see what happened There it says, The Lord saw the wickedness of man was great on the earth, and that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. So the Lord said, I will blot out man, whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals, and creeping things, and birds of the heavens. For I am sorry that I have made them Genesis 6, 5 through 7 is a stark contrast between Genesis 1:31. There it says, and God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and morning the sixth day. So in Genesis 1. 31, when he originally creates the world, God sees that it was good. But then we get into Genesis 6. God saw the wickedness of man was great. There couldn't be a greater contrast. Then it goes on to say the heavy intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continuously. This is one of the a very strong and uh wonderful text that shows us the human condition. Total depravity. This is one of the text. And actually you see that in in John chapter two, when Jesus says That they had faith in him, but he didn't have faith in them, because he knew what was in the heart of man. , What's in the heart of man? All his thoughts of his hearts was only evil continually. What's God's response? Verse 6. And the Lord regretted that he had made man on the earth. Now this is somewhat of a difficult text Because the question is, what does it mean for God to regret? Is this text denying the fact that God knows the future? I think obviously it is not doing that. What it's doing rather is doing anthropomorphic language. That's just a word meaning that that which applies to man is being applied to something else We usually think of this as personification. When we take characteristics of a human being and put it on, you know, we talk about trees weeping, or we put them on animals as personification. Anthropomorphic language usually refers to though when we take human uh characteristics and traits and apply them to God. Right, so personification is bringing up the animals to humanity and anthropomorphic language is bringing God down. He's cooing to us as Calvin says. He's giving us these word pictures so we can understand something. What are we trying to understand? We're trying to understand is that God's sorrow is being described or likened to a man regretting. We all know that experience when we're doing something and something bad happens and they're so terrible we think, if I could only go back. If I could only not have this happen, it shows the intense displeasure of the results that's happening. That's what God is saying. This is terrible. This is not my intent. This is not what I wanted. This interpretation is supported by the fact that the same word, the Hebrew word for regret in verse 6, the Lord regretted , is also found in verse 7, and there it says, for I am sorry that I have made them. So at least the ESV translators seem to be on the same page of understanding regret being to be sorrowful. So, what is God's reaction to this great sorrow of man being so wicked when he was intended to be very good? We see that in verse 7. The Lord said, I will blot out man whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things, and the birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them So God decides that because man is so wicked and man is filling the earth with violence and wickedness, that he's going to blot him out. He's going to cleanse the earth from humanity. This text is very important to understand the command to be fruitful and multiply. It was not just trying to make more humans. Because we would, this makes no sense of why he's blotting them out. The whole point of the command to be fruitful and multiply was to multiply God's image throughout the entire world. God wanted his image, his glory to be over the world. But instead, what does he see? He sees apostate image bearers all throughout the world Causing great violence. This is not his plan. He regrets that this is not what he wanted when he created man. So he's going to fix it by blooding them out. And that's the flood. It's God starting over. The question is, what happens immediately after the flood? And that brings us to Genesis chapter. Chapter 9. We see Genesis 9 verses 1 through 7. We kind of look through that. That's describing the reissuing of the command, the reissuing of the mission of man. We also see some chronicling of changes of animal and human relations. That's the command to eat and the dread of the animals from humans And then we see also the changing of human relationships to one another. Now man is given the ability to do capital. And that's also where we reveal that man is still in the image of God. That capital punishment harkens us back to the story of Cain, Cain the first murderer. See that was the problem that you you have is Cain who's murdering people, even has Lamek who's murdering people, we get to Genesis six, there's full of violence all out throughout the earth. So it seems to be that capital punishment is kind of a solution to getting rid of Cain-like figures and preventing mass murderers from running around and causing all kinds of havoc on the earth. Moving on from that part of the section, Genesis 9, 8 through 17 records the Noetic covenant, which is extremely important, and we will come back to that in a moment. Beyond that, verses 18 through 27 record the events that happened right after the flood. So this is them getting off of the boat. This is what we'll look into detail now. Verse 20 says Noah began to be a man of the soil, and he planted a vineyard. He drank of the wine and became drunk and lay uncovered in his tent. And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brothers outside. Then Shem and Jacob took a garment, and laid it on both their shoulders, and walked backward and covered the nakedness of the father. Their faces were turned backward, and they did not see their father's nakedness. When Noah awoke from his wine, he knew what his youngest son had done to them, and he said Cursed be Canaan, a servant of servants shall he be to his brothers. , He also said, Blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem. And let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tents of Shem. And let Canaan be his servant. servant. So verse 20 and 21 record the very first event of what happens, at least in the narrator's mind, that's significant to us. After they get off the boat, they get off the ark. And what is that event? That's the man of God, Noah, falling into sin. This brings us back to Genesis 3. There are striking parallels between Noah and Adam, which tells us that the the author of Genesis, Moses, is trying to bring, trying to see for us to interpret both of these characters in the same light What's some of those parallels? Well, both Adam and Noah are workers of the field. They both fall into sin through the fruit. And both are described as being naked and shamed. We're supposed to see the fall of Noah in the same light as the fall of Adam. They've fallen into sin. They have ruined. God's perfect plant of righteousness to flourish throughout the earth. But things go from bad to worse in this account in Genesis 9. In verse 22 , Not only has Noah failed his mission, but so has his son Shem. Um Ham, excuse me. There it says, it introduces Ham as being the father of Canaan. From the very beginning, we're supposed to look at Ham through the characteristics of Canaan. Of his son Canaan, which is obviously a very wicked person. He's a great enemy of the people of God. So what does he do? What does Ham do? It says that he saw his father's nakedness. Now the sinfulness of this act was not simply that he saw his nakedness, but what he does with that sight. What does the text say? He says he goes and tries to tell his brothers. He's bringing shame upon his father. This is not an innocent just recording of facts, but this is trying to shame and humiliate and to accuse his father before his brothers. He's dishonoring his father. And his mother, his parents. Now we usually don't think of being disobedient to parents as a big deal, but the Bible has a different perspective. Disobeying parents is a very big deal and it's very serious. Deuteronomy 27, 16 says, Curse be anyone who dishonors his father or his mother, and all the people shall say, Amen. Exodus 21, 17 says, whoever curses his father or his mother shall be put to death. Romans 1:28 through 31, which gives this is Paul's condemnation of the world and showing how sin gets more and more wicked as God hands them over, states this. And since they did not see fit to acknowledge God, God gave them up to a debased mind to do what ought not to be done. They were filled with all manner of unrighteousness, evil, covetousness, malice. They are full of envy, murder, strife, deceit, maliciousness. They are gossip, slanderers, haters of God, insolent, haughty, boastful, and ventures of evil, disobedient to parents Foolish, faithless, heartless, and ruthless. Though they know God's righteous decree that those who practice such things deserve to die, they not only do them but give approval to those who practice them This is a perfect description of Ham. Because here it says that those who do such things deserve to die. We saw that in Exodus. Being disobedient to parents deserves death. But not only that, it's worse than that, they only not only do these things, but they give approval to those who practice them. That's what Ham is doing. He's doing this, he's being disobedient to his parents, he's cursing them And he's trying to get his two brothers to join in on this act. Now, what does all of this have to do with the mission? The mission of expanding the people of God throughout the entire world. I would argue it has everything to do with the mission, because again, the mission is about having not only just people expanding, but holy people. People following after the Lord. And this can only happen when godly parents are raising godly children following after them. This is made explicit in Malachi 2:14. There it says, The Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. Did he not make them one with a portion of the Spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. And Malachi here God is accusing the people of completely breaking faith with him and breaking faith with their wives. And then it gives us the motivation of what is the intent of the union in the first place. What is the one God seeking? Godly offspring. Because this is the whole point of the command to be fruitful and multiply. We see this connection also found in the Genesis account itself. Genesis 5:1 states: When God created man, he made man in the likeness of God. Male and female, he created them. And he blessed them and named them man when they were created. When Adam lived 130 years, he followed his son in his own likeness after his own image and named him Seth. So in this text in Genesis 5. 1, we see that Adam is again repeated and we're reminded the fact that Adam is in the image of God. Then it says that Seth is in the image of Adam. So the image of God, the way that Adam images God, is being directly contrasted between the way that Seth images Adam. Now the question is, in what way then does Seth image Adam? The only way we can discover this is finding out what the Bible says about Seth. Namely, at this canonical moment What do we know about Seth? , We find that out by just flipping over the next page prior to that and looking at Genesis 4. 25 when Seth is introduced. What does it say there about Seth? Genesis 4. 25 And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth. For she said, God has appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him. To Seth also a son was born, and he called his name Enosh. At that time people began to call upon the name of the Lord. What we find out about Seth is he is a replacement of the godly offspring of Abel. Abel was a godly man that was killed, and his replacement is Seth. So there's a connection of the godliness of these two children. We also see in verse 26 that Seth is closely aligned with people beginning to call upon the name of God. The only thing we know about that is he's a godly man and replacement of another godly man. We also this idea of this replacement though, why why does why does Abel even need to be replaced What do you think about that? Why does he need to be replaced? There's many children they had. Why why is there a need of replacement? Well, we see that harkens back to Genesis 3. 15. There it says, I will put enmity between you and the woman, between your offspring, that's the serpent's offspring, and her offspring. He shall bruise your head and you shall bruise his heel. We ultimately know that this is fulfilled by Christ destroying Satan. But there's something else being hinted at here. There's a grand conflict between the offspring of the serpent and the offspring of the woman. And all of humanity could be divided into this grand cosmic battle. These are the offspring of God and the offspring of the devil. This is confirmed by 1 John 3:10. There, John divides humanity into two sections. He says in that passage. By this it is evident who are the children of God, and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his So we see here that John is dividing just as Genesis 3:15 did, humanity as this offspring of the devil and the offspring of God. This is the grand narrative of the Bible. How is this battle going to unfold? We see more evidence of this idea of the godly line of Seth and the godly line of the woman back into Genesis 5. In verse 22. When we look at the genealogy of Genesis 5 of Steph's offspring, we see that all of the people that are given details about are godly. We have the seventh generation uh of of Adam and Seth in Genesis 522 says this. Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah 300 years and had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were 365 years. Enoch walked with God and he was not, for God took him. So the wonderful, uh this wonderful man, Enoch, who walks with God 365 years, completion. Right? He doesn't even die. He's taken up mysteriously. It's part of the line of Seth. And so is Noah's father Lamech Genesis 528 says this about him. When Lamak had lived a hundred and eighty-two years, he followed a son and called his name Noah, saying, Out of the ground that the Lord has cursed, This one shall bring us relief from our work and from our painful toil of our hands. We have Lamech prophesying over his son Noah. And saying that, you know, through this man Noah, he's going to somehow be part of the reversal of the curse back in Genesis 3. This does not sound like an unbeliever. This is even more supportive when we go back to Genesis 4 and look at the genealogy of Cain. In that line of Cain, the murderer, we see the only person that we're giving any moral details about is another Lamak. And he's also at the end of the genealogy. And this man, unlike the other Lamic of Noah's father, is a liar, is a polygamist, is a murderer, and he's presumptuous. He also says, talks about the seventy-fold vengeance of Lamech, which God of course never says. He gave, he said, anyone who uh tries to get vengeance on Cain will be paid back seven times. And he presumptuously takes this upon himself and multiplies it significantly, saying the seventy-sevenfold. This man is the uh archetype of evil essentially He's expanding the evil king way beyond. This is in direct contrast with the other lay in Genesis 5 at the very end of the genealogy, who is described as a righteous man. Interesting enough, the number 7 shows up in his light too. This Lamech, Noah's father, is described as living 777 years. He seems to be being described as a perfectly righteous man who lives a perfectly righteous life and lives in a complete way. The contrast could not be greater. Unfortunately, though, and this is the narrative of the story, and this is the narrative of the mission of the conflict, by the time we get to Genesis 6, what happened to the Gali line? They're nowhere to be found. Unfortunately, the only person that seems to be a godly person still around is Noah. He's the only one left And this is of course what led to the flood. This is why when God sees, he saw great wickedness, and he deserves he decides to blot out man, because this was not his intent. So as we return back to Genesis 9, we see more parallels of the fall of Genesis 3 with that of Genesis 9. Because the actions of Ham parallel that of Cain. Just as Cain was the very first heinous sin that happened after the fall, which shows us that things kept on getting worse and worse, so was Ham's sin, the first heinous sin. Ham is also being introduced as the father of Canaan, and anyone in the original audience would have immediately recognized who are the Canaanites. They're those extremely wicked people that God has called us to exterminate Right? They would have seen the connection. What this shows us though is it telling us even back in Genesis 9 is that the godly line of Cain has returned. That these people that were wipe out how they survived. They were back on the boat and they've come back. And this is the reason, uh one of the reasons why Canaan is cursed and not Ham. Interesting enough. Ham does the sin, but Canaan gets the curse. Why is that? The reason is because Canaan takes the characteristics of Ham and expands it. The same way that Lamex expanded the wickedness of his father Cain, so does Canaan expand the wickedness, the characteristics that we see in Ham. The idea of your offspring taking on and expanding your behavior is found throughout the Bible. We see this also, this principle described in the second commandment in Deuteronomy 5. 8 -10. There it says, You shall not make for yourself the carved image, or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth You shall not bow down to them or serve them, for I am the Lord, a jealous God, visiting the iniquities of the children to the third and fourth generation, to those who hate me. But showing steadfast love to thousands of those who love me and to keep my commandments. This commandment gives us, again, the idea of the godly line: those who love me to the thousandth generation. This is not irrespective of the children loving them. It's those who love me, the thousand generations of those who are following like the parents, loving. This is our great hope as parents trying to raise up Agali offspring. Likewise, the third and fourth generations of the iniquity of the fathers are not irrespective of their own belief. But it's respective of their belief, that's why it says to those who hate me. So we we see this that parents actually do have a grand effect on their children So returning to Genesis 9, not only do we have parallels of the Adam-like figure, Noah and Adam falling a decision. sin not only do we have parallels of a Cain-like figure showing the continuous downside of that sin to other other generations But we also have the typology, the same pattern of a gospel presentation being presented after these events or around the time of these events. Just as in Genesis 3. 15, we have the Proto-Evangelium. So we have a gospel presentation found in Genesis 9. That gospel presentation is found in verse 26. There it says He also, that's God. I'm sorry, that's Noah speaking. He also blessed, blessed be the Lord, the God of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. May God enlarge Japheth. And let him dwell in the tents of Shem, and let Canaan be his servant. So just as the woman back in Genesis 3:15 is identified as the bearer of the offspring that's going to destroy Satan Now we have a further identification of that who that uh that archwing is going to come through, and that being the blessing of the god of Shem. That the offspring is going to come to Shem. We know ultimately as we follow the Bible and the storyline of the Bible that this is further going to be identified as the offspring of Abraham, Isaac, Jacob. Judah, David, and finally Mary. And of course the offspring is Jesus. So the continuous revelation of who this great Messiah is going to come through is revealed here in Genesis 9. We also see another revelation that gives us some kind of gospel presentation, and that's in verse 27. May God enlarge Japheth and let him dwell in the tent. Now this is this understanding of what this prophecy is, is really two possibilities here. One, this is the a future promise of the unification of Japan. In Shem. That being that one day Japheth will dwell in the tents of Shem. This is this will be fulfilled. We see this wonderfully in Ephesians chapter two, of God breaking down the dividing wall. That separates Gentiles and Jews, and that these people of Japheth are going to be you reunified under God. And interesting enough, probably most of us in this room are somehow related to Japheth. And we see the manifestation of this prophecy in this very room today. That's one interpretation. Another interpretation is the antecedent of let him dwell in the tents of Shem is actually God. It's saying, and let God, he God dwell in the tents. And we would see that being fulfilled in John chapter 1, when the Lagos, when the Word becomes flesh, and he dwells among us. So either way, this is a prophecy of the gospel and somehow fulfilled in the life and work of Jesus Christ. I personally believe that this is actually referring to Japheth coming in. into the the sense of shem. And the reason is it's because it's just a rule of grammar, and everyone really recognizes this intuitively, is that when you have uh uh uh an unidentified subject, you have an antecedent, right? How do you figure out which it's referring to? Well whatever the last subject was And the last subject is, may God enlarge Japheth, and let him , antecedent of him, seems to be Japheth. But that's just what came before that. The only time that would not be the case is that for some reason that the context showed you clearly that that wasn't the case and it didn't make sense and it was referring to someone else. That's just a a basic rule of grammar that we all intuitively know and that's why I think that this is probably referring to Jews and Gentiles being unified. Let me stop here and ask if there's any questions or comments or concerns about anything we talked about thus far. They supposedly have been wiped out when Dr. children out of Egypt and brought into France and Gentile Jacob You know, it's it's funny, um it's funny that you mentioned that 'cause that's where I'm going next, um, to to point out that that tension, but that's wonderful that you you're seeing that, right? You're seeing unification, the goddess Shin, Japan, these seems to be good guys, right? gonna be one day brought together, but what about Canaan? He was cursed. What's up with him? He's the he's the ungodly offspring. What's gonna happen to him? And that's exactly what the question reflects that you 're following the storyline and asking that question because the Bible's going to reveal They answer that question. But um certainly we see that um God tells that there's a cursing of Canaan, right? And God tells the um the Shemites, the Abrahamites, right, the the Jews to exterminate them, right? Because they are wicked. And this this also hardens back to hell. that there will be some there's a Gentile Jew inclusion, but there's also a mass portion of people, Shemites and Japodites and Hamites, right, who reject God and don't get unified. And they have the curse of God upon them. And that's what God does. He takes that curse away. He brings us peace. And that's what we see in Ephesians 2. He's taking the curse and bringing that peace. We have peace with God. And peace with each other. But even in this gospel presentation, there is no universalism. There's still a curse. There's a blessing, unification, but still a curse. Because that's the grand story. That those who ultimately reject God forever will be forever rejected. We'll get to the the continuing that that that can aline. Any other questions or comments or concern? So once you make some type of a statement, like it's not what God wanted intended to do but but it still happened. How do you what do you mean by that in in light of you know idea for forty six eleven and things like that. Yeah, so we we need to always um try to balance both of those things, right? We certainly know that God's not, you know, looking down there and saying, you know pulling out his hair and saying, This is not what's happening, this is not my I can't control them. You know, certainly that's not what's happening. Um I understand that uh this this idea the the scriptures clearly say um and you're right I did say though, but the scriptures said that this is not God is sorry. He repents. He did not want man to be this way. I understand this the same way of the Lord's prayer. He said, Our Father be in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. That's an imperative. We're praying for God's will to be done. We're not denying that God's will in some form or fashion is being done. What we're asking is what's called God's prescriptive will. Not God's secret will. We're asking for God's prescriptive will, that sin be eradicated, that righteousness flourish. But this this comes in the same way we can pray that without denying that God is still in control and in some way God's will is still being done. It's the same way I understand these passages. And God is saying that the reason, the original mission of man, was not for a bunch of apostate image bearers to go around killing each other. That's not his original plan. That's not what he intended. And ultimately that's not what we'll see in the end of the story. Those people are going to be thrown into hell. Now again, do you does that make sense? I'm not denying that God did not know these things, but I'm just trying to use the Bible's language of this prescriptive versus secret word. That God certainly has a secret will behind why He does that and He doesn't reveal that to us in Deuteronomy 29 tells us we shouldn't be going there. We should recognize it there, but leave it alone You know? Um but we also should see that God's uh prescriptive will, God's intent is for righteousness to flourish, for for humans to be happy in in glorifying Him. So that that's how I kind of understand those two those two tensions. Um and put those things together. Okay. We'll we'll keep going um into this story and we're gonna jump off what you pointed out. uh i about this idea of what about canaan? Wha what what about this what about this curse? And that's really the problem The problem is the offspring of the serpent is still around with the cursing of Canaan. And this again is what happened back in Genesis chapter 6 is the offspring of the serpent essentially eradicated the offspring of the godly people. There's only Noah left. The question is, obviously, will this happen again? Who's going to win? What's going to happen in this cosmic battle? Well the answer is found immediately in uh in Genesis chapter 11. If you could turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter 11, we're going to look at some details there. Genesis chapter 11 is of course the event of the Tower of Babel. I'll start in verse 1. It says, Now the whole earth had one language and the same words. And as people migrated from the east, they found the plain in the land of Shinar and settled there. And they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had uh They had bricket for stone and bitumen for mortar. And they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its tops in the heavens. And let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of man had built. And the Lord said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language, and this is the this is only the beginning of what they will do. And nothing that they propose to do will come will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down and confuse their language, so that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord dispersed them from there over the face of the whole earth They left the building off the city. Therefore this name was called Babel, because the Lord confused the language of all the earth. And the Lord And from there the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth. So verse two begins this story quite positively. It says, And as the people migrated from the east. Originally the Garden of Eden was from the east. the east. They seem to be, this migration seems to be in continuity with the mission, to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. This is a good note. They should be migrating and they are migrating. Unfortunately, our hope that this is going to be a good event is obviously shattered in verse 4. There they say, Come, let us build a city for a city for ourselves with its tops in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves. This is quite the opposite of what they were supposed to be doing. They were supposed to be making a name for their God. That's what we're supposed to do. We're the images of God. We're here for his glory. Instead, they're trying to make a name for themselves. It gets even worse in the latter part of verse 4. It says, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. Why were they here in the first place? They're trying to migrate. They're trying to fill the earth. Now they decided we're no longer going to do that. This is no longer our plan. We're no longer in cooperation with God. We're no longer trying to build his name. We're trying to build our name. And we don't want to go. We don't want to disperse. We want to stay right here. They knew the mission, and they explicitly rejected the mission. Verse 6 says, and the Lord said, Behold, they are one people, and they have one language, and this is only the beginning of what they will do. Verse 6 tells us that this isn't just a bunch of The extra bad people on the earth. This is the people unified in this. This is the nations. The nations that have come out from The boat from Ham, Shem, and Japheth are unified in this act. They are representative of all of humanity. This is very disturbing because what did this tell us? This tells us we're back to Genesis 6. There doesn't seem to be any godly people around anymore. What happened to the godly line of Shemites? We don't know, it doesn't tell us, but we do know that they're not here and they're well, they are here, excuse me. They're not in opposition to this. They're unified in this. So, what does God do? And he also says in verse 6, this is only the beginning of what they would do. This is only the first act. This unification is terrible, and it's going to only get worse from here. So then verse 7 records God's confusion of the language. We usually think of this as an act of justice, really of cursing. But I'm going to argue that it is in sense an act of cursing because they were doing wickedly, but really it's an act of mercy. Because he's dividing them so they can't be unified and do more and more of these wicked, horrible things. Right? He's dividing them to keep uh humanity around. This is very interesting. Well, I'm gonna stop that. Let's keep going. Verse eight and nine. Then records the outcome of all of this. So the Lord dispersed them from there over to the face of the earth. And now it says the same thing. And from there the Lord dispersed them over the face of the earth of all the earth. It's very clear that we've seen this idea of being dispersed over the face of the earth three times in this passage. Again, repetitions for emphasis. They originally say, we don't want to do this. God ultimately wins in the end. And that's one of the stories of missions and one of the stories of the Bible is God always wins. And we should go on God's side. God is going to get what He desires. That which they did not want to happen is exactly what happened. This division of humanity and the dispersing of them and breaking them up into different languages is the creation or the birth of the nations. Up until this point, humanity has been unified. Now we have the nations. This is what is recorded in the previous chapter, Genesis 10, 32, which says, these are the clans of the sons of Noah according to their genealogies, and the nations, from these are the nations spread across. uh the earth after the flood. If you go up from that you have the list of all the different nations Cain and put and all that other stuff in Canaan. Now, this is a very serious problem. Genesis chapter 11 is huge. It's not just a story about a tower. It's not just a story about trying to explain language. It's a serious, serious problem because the nations are rebellious. He took the unified people in apostasy and broke them up. What this means is if you take some kind of disease and spread it, it spreads all over the place. The people being separated are not just neutral people, they're apostate people, the people who have rejected their God. Again, we should recognize that this is a return to Genesis 6. So, what happened in Genesis 6 is because this was not God's plan, this is not what God wanted, this is not the ultimate vision, if I can say it like that. God wants to be full of his image bearers. Again, Revelation 20, he will 22 and 21, he will have this. This will happen. This is what God is going for, and this is not what it is currently in Genesis 11. So will God blot them out? Well, the answer to this has already been answered, and this is where the Noadic covenant becomes so centrally important. Let's go there. Genesis 9, 11 through 17. There it says, I will establish my covenant with you that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth And God said, This is the sign of the covenant that I have made between me and you, and every living creature that is with you for all generations. I have set my bow in the clouds, and I will be a s and it will be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth And I will bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the clouds. I will remember my covenant that is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. And the water shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the cloud, I will set it and remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature on all of all the flesh that is on the earth. God said to Noah, this is the sign of the covenant that I've established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. The Noadic covenant is such a centrally important Covenant and this is such a centrally important passage because it explains why we are still here. Why has God not blotted out the work? It's not as if Genesis 6 they were extremely wicked then and then somehow Genesis uh nine and ten and eleven and they're not that wicked, they're just kind of wicked, and then today we're not back to that wickedness. No, we're just as wicked as they were. In fact, you remember that Jesus says that the that um the the second coming would be like the days of Noah We have never left that wicked state. But the reason that we're still here is God's grace, God's mercy. God promises in covenants that he will not do it. He will not destroy them. The text itself, in Genesis, there's no idea that covenant. Hints at the reality that the conditions, that being the wickedness of man, the conditions of deserving to be wiped out would still be present. That's the reason the text constantly says that God will remember the covenant. He will see them, and again this is an ample Martic language, he will see them, they deserve to be destroyed, but then he'll see the rainbow and remember, wait, I've coveted, I won't destroy you See what you see that you see how that that that that uh interplay is being made there. So when we get when we got to Genesis um Chapter 11 in the Tower of Babel, even though we're back in the Genesis 6 condition of humanity, we know the Noetic covenant, and we know God is not going to destroy humanity. So Genesis 6 is not going to happen again. So what is going to happen? Because again, this is not what God's plan ultimately is. He does not want the world to continue to stay in this condition of violence and evil and wickedness and apostasy. He has a people. He has the nation. He wants the world to be full of his glory. We find the answer immediately after the death of Babel. And this is Genesis 11, 10-32, which then records the lineage of Shem all the way to Adam. What's amazing about this genealogy is that it ends with a man named Terah. And this man named Terah has three sons, Abram, Nahor, and Haram. Now, this is an intentional, not that he doesn't have three tons, he really does have three sons, but this is an intentional literary device to remind us of two other figures. The first being Adam. Adam has recorded three sons. He has more sons than that, but the text only records three sons. And what are the names? Cain, Abel, and Seth. The next genealogy that we get is of the godly line of Seth. And it ends essentially with a man with three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth This genealogy again ends with three sons, Abram, Nahor, and Haram. The point is, we're supposed to be seeing that Abraham is again going to be an Adam-like figure. The mission is restarting once again. Now, this brings us all the way up to the first three chapters of Genesis. What's fascinating to realize is how much history we have just covered. We've only made it through 11 chapters. You seem like we're not going very fast, but we actually are going unbelievably fast. How fast? The first 11 chapters of Genesis record 2,000 years of history. To put that in perspective, how many years of history do we have? 6,000. The rest of the Bible, from Genesis 12 all the way through Revelation, cut off the apocalyptic literature of the new heavens, new earth, cut off that stuff. The actual history is another 2,000 years. So the rest of the Bible is recording the same amount of history as these first eleven chapters. Another interesting thing is how far are we from the events of The end of Acts essentially. 2,000 years. So we've already covered a third epoch of the entire history of the world. This shows us just how central that the first 11 chapters of the Bible really are. They explain the rest of the Bible and they explain ultimately our mission on this last epoch. of what we're doing and how the the creation of the nations and now the salvation of the nations So we have the problem, we have the setup, we have the stage. What is the solution? And we'll just hint at this a little bit and then we'll try to grab some application points. The solution to this problem of these nations, these apostate nations, God trying to grab the peoples again, is found again, right? Hapto. We're not just making this up. We just follow the storyline and see what what is Moses telling us next. What does he tell us? Genesis chapter 12. Now the Lord said to Abram, Go from your country and your kindred and your father's house to the land that I will show you, and I will make you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing, and I will bless those who bless you. And curse those who curse you. And in you, all the families of the earth shall be blessed. This is in complete intentional contrast with Babel. Babel, they want to be great. Abraham? God will make Abraham great. Babel is the cursing of the nations, the division of the nations into apostate people and rebellion against God. And how is God going to fix this? With the blessing of the nations. to Abraham. To Abraham, the blessings of the nations are going to come. The nations are going to be brought back. What's what's what's quite interesting though is that we look at uh the the the vision of Babel, we see that you know these all these apostate people in this apostate religion were separated all across the world And in fact, when we look at the world, we see animism all across the world. And we see extreme similarities in this what we call animism and polytheism all out to world. world. And this is empirical evidence collaborating the Bible. And so I guess this is exactly what did happen. All these people with the same religion were in fact separated all across the world. And we are, and through Abraham, and we're part of that, and we will get to that, are to grab these nations back and to bring them back. Let's look at some quick takeaways. This narrative of Genesis isn't just some fascinating details about randomly occurring events that are just for our curiosity. It's chronicling the unfolding of God's plan. Genesis through Revelation is about God's plan of having the earth and humanity be reconciled and full of God's glory throughout the earth. The divided nations is ultimately something that is a problem. This is not we're not supposed to be divided people. We're supposed to be unified. Again, that's what God is ultimately doing. He's reconciling Japan and Shem together. He's breaking down the wall of the vision so that we can be one people. Abraham's election is in direct solution to that problem. And we are proud of Abraham's election. Therefore, as we see this, we recognize that evangelism is in continuity of Abraham's election. Evangelism is God using us to reconcile the nations. Hopefully, this helps you understand Genesis 28 a little bit more. We're going to flect out some of these details in the classes that follow. But hopefully when you see verse 19 of j of the Great Commission, which says, Therefore go and make disciples of all the nations. This helps you understand what is really being said here. This is the solution to the problem back in the Tower of Babylon. That these nations will be saved. That they will be blessed through Abraham through Christ and through the efforts of me and you empowered by the Spirit. Alright. Any last comments, questions, or concerns about any of that? Um I was thinking, you know, how you were making uh a good point about Genesis one and Genesis nine, the the blessing and the multiplying, and I was I was thinking about the Abrahamic covenant and how The language might be different, but I think the I think the idea is the same. Where verse two of Genesis twelve says, I will make you a great nation and I will bless you. And so it's it's almost like in the in Genesis one and Genesis nine it's it's it's an imperative, do this and Genesis twelve Lord says, I will do this for you. Yeah. Um I don't know, do you do you have any any thoughts on that? kind of how that ties together or absolutely that that's wonderful and and that's what we um that's really next class okay of of looking at how the mission of man is picked up with Abraham And that is one of the central points. That this idea of the seed showing up is again repeated. And it is inverted though. But you go and do this. Now God is going to do this because you have failed. And we actually, and there's so much to say about that. That's just the tip of the iceberg, but certainly, and I'll say one other thing about that. This command to be fruitful and multiply shows up again in the Bible. It's not just in Genesis 1 and Genesis 9. It's also going to be applied to Abraham's offspring. Not to the nations, but to Abraham's offspring. Because we're supposed to see, and we'll look at this more, that again, that Abraham And um and and his offspring, his seed, is a new atom. They ultimately, just fast forward here, they ultimately fail. And so a new Adam must come, and that is the last Adam. Jesus Christ. And he will lead his people, us, and they won't ultimately fail. Because he's already accomplished salvation and we're just part of the cleaning up squad. That's what our evangelism is, is God leading his army to victory and to gather the nations back. But certainly there is that wonderful connection that that all of this is going to be being put together. That that's wonderful. Um probably one more any other questions or comments, Stan? That's right. Absolutely. That's a prophecy in the Bible. It's not just Jesus didn't just randomly say that, this idea of being fishers of men and hunters of men and go grabbing Israel. and and grabbing the nations. It's all it's all prophesied. It's all being it's not just some separate events that here, here, here, here. We don't need the Old Testament. It doesn't matter. It's just me evangelizing because God told me to. There is a sense we need to obey God with God's blessing and God's accomplishing something. And He's accomplishing something wonderful and blessed through us. We are such blessed that God would use us. It's an amazing thing that God could do this all by himself. But instead, God decides, I'm going to use you. You know, I think of it like when my children. They they sometimes want to help. They're not helpful. At least at this stage. But I let them help because they get a part of it. They get a part of the a part of the accomplishment. You know, they get to be a part of the team. And they get to enjoy uh all of that. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that that you have a mission, that you are sovereign. And you have a plan. And when as we look through the Bible, as we look through our own lives, we can see your plan. We can see that you have a great design for the world. God, I ask that you would help us to to To see your plan greater. And that vision of you and your plan would help motivate us to be obedient to you, knowing that your command is your Help us not to fall into the lie of Satan that you're just trying to keep something uh good from us. But you we know that you are not keeping that good, but you are you have blessing and wonder and goodness for us. Let us follow that in faith. Help us to pray for the nations and to be a part of your victory. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.