I want to share my testimony from going from a state of deadness to sin and in love with sin and not thinking about God, not worrying about God, just it God not being in my life at all, to being converted. So I was converted at fifteen years old from a life of of gangs and drugs and immorality and just vileness. So where does my story begin? My story begins when I was a when I was a little child. My dad, uh he he you know, he had some affiliation with the church growing up but but really he was not saved, he was not Christian, he was a thug. He was just that kind of a rough kind of guy. And so when um my dad and my mom who had their first child, then that then through a series of of difficulties and trials and all of that, then that's when my my dad got converted. He married my mom. And so I come along, you know, two or three years later after that. And so th so then during that time my parents were going to church. So when I was very, very young, from you know, from all the way up until about seven and I'll explain that in a second, I was I was going into church. So my early my spiritual journey really begins You know, when I was that little tiny boy going to church and spending time with my parents, some of my earliest memories is going to church. with a with a suit on. I just remember uh having the suit and feeling uh like I was dressed very nicely for the Lord's Day for for Sunday. I don't really remember church itself. I just remember that suit and it just had a a real profound impression on me because because of that experience, because I remember going to church with the suit then I always felt like a church kid. I always felt like someone who who was raised and grew up in the church. Ironically, my parents stopped going to church when I was around seven. So how much of a church kid was I really? Not so much But nevertheless, be th those small, those early impressions and even just dressing differently and something being distinct, um, as as a small child had it had that profound effect on me and I always felt like a church kid I also remember during this time that my parents would read me a story Bible, the pic the little picture story bible um from from Zonderman. I remember reading through that. I remember my and it just had such an impression on me that I that that really was the foundation of my faith of believing in God that he was the creator of the world. I remember Adam and Eve and understanding the fall. I don't remember how far my parents actually got and I don't think that they got too too far because I don't remember anything past the Old Testament. I remember Samson and his great strength, but I really don't remember any stories about Jesus. And so that doesn't mean my parents didn't do that. But it means t it tells me that we didn't do that regularly. And I I that was actually quite a short phrase a phase that I really don't remember continuing to do that. So but that was a profoundly impactful uh moment in my life of of just of of reading those stories, of seeing the pictures, of of understanding the concept of God. And from that time from the time I can remember with the story Bibles and that implanted a belief in God in me. And so let me just make some way of application uh right here. Please uh read your your children a a story bible with pictures that had a profound impact on my life. It it gr it found it it um it had a profound impact on my life. It it planted the the seeds of faith in my life. The earlier the better. As soon as they can uh start reading that story bible to them is so it's so helpful. And this is also, um, based on my own testimony, my own experience, this is also why I make sure that my children are dressed nicely to go to church. They actually wear they have church clothes. They wear things that are different on ch on Sunday. Just you know, they don't even wear the full suit. They do well sometimes wear a suit jacket. But they at least have that collar and that tie. Something different to distinguish that and to make Sunday special. Make something different. I'm trying to recreate basically the experience that I had and how that had a profound impact on my life. So that was kind of like my early childhood from, you know From one to to about seven. By the time I turned seven, my dad had walked away from the faith. He no longer attended uh Uh well that's not actually true. He walked away a little bit later. When I was seven, we my family just stopped going to church. And isn't that the drift, right? You f you start abandoning the Lord, abandoning the Lord, saying not gathering, forsaking the gathering of the saints, and then you fall away. And so I was about seven, I was a military kid, so we moved into a new location, and in that new location we didn't we didn't uh join a church. And so We just didn't we stopped going. So from about seven to nine we we just didn't go to church and and I we didn't get any uh instructions or anything. I and really the God the the thought of God, the belief of God just kind of fell from my mind I thought that I actively resisted God, then disbelieving him, we just never talked about him and my mind was filled with a whole bunch of other childish uh Java's thing. So I started drifting I don't want to say drifting 'cause I don't even remember having a necessarily a personal relationship with God. I just had belief in in a concept of God, but not a personal relationship. So God just kind of drifted from my mind completely. When I was Um when I when I grew up a little bit more than that, when I was probably nine to you know, nine to eleven and twelve again, my parents just never went to the church. But th that those seeds that those seeds that they planted um did always make me probably more reflective, more more someone who was concerned about um more important topics. I remember when I was probably about eleven asking my mom, what is the purpose of life? And and she said something like Philosophers have been uh questioning this and and coming up with so many different answers and and no one really knows. I I love my mom Uh but this was a this was a mistake moment, right? This is one of the times that learning a catechism would have been so wonderful. What's the purpose of life? To glorify God and enjoy him forever. That would have been wonderful to hear. instead of nobody knows. But I was just that kind of person who's just constantly um you know, I wanna say constantly, but sometimes I would just think about are certain things like this. But for the most part God had just faded from my mind and I really didn't think about him. When I started going into my earlier teenage years, then rebellion started uh rushing into my heart and I I became uh very violent, uh very very angry, um just you know, that angry teenager stage. That's when I I fell into all sorts of immorality things that I'm really quite ashamed of. I don't even really like talking about Just that just that gross immorality that you can imagine that that he needs you can get into, that was me. Even at one point joined a gang. Um just living just living a life of crime and in that kind of thug uh gross immorality And so one of the things that that God did to wake me up. And during that whole time, by the way, I still believed in in God. I still believed in heaven and hell. And and uh I I but I did know that I was uh probably going to go to hell. I I I knew that But I my plan was to convert at the eleventh hour. I was gonna be the thief on the cross. I was gonna live like the devil. I thought I could I could play God, that God could be mocked, right? I I could live like the devil all the way to the end and then get converted on the back end. I thought I could have the best of this world and then also heaven. That was not going to be the case. But that was at least my plan. Let me let me back up a little bit. When I was also around uh f uh uh you know, that early stage of when my parents were going to church, I was five to seven, my my parents also read me uh these tracks with p pictures in them. And that had a huge profound effect on me because the story Bible was was wonderful in in teaching me about God and creation and Adam and Eve and just a basic story. Especially that Genesis story is so important for for kids to understand. of just have a foundational worldview, uh a builder. But it it doesn't I don't like I said, we never really went into the New Testament and the the concept of hell really wasn't in there, the fear of God really wasn't in there. So I I don't remember that. But in these tracks, these gospel tracks with pictures, oh, they really hit heaven and hell. and and salvation and damnation and that put the fear of God in me. So I already believed in God and now I I seriously believed in hell and always had a a very real sense of of heaven and hell. It was not a joke to me and and I did I definitely did not want to go there. So I encourage you as well to to get your hands on some some gospel tracts with pictures. Make sure that you're communicating to your children very, very early on Heaven and hell is real and and speak it into their language. Those pictures are absolutely wonderful. I've read my children of these same gospel tracts and I saw a transformation happen in their lives. when when I was reading it to them and and they were, you know, two, three and four. I didn't really see much in the two year old, but certainly in the in the three and four year old they profoundly changed. The fear of God came upon them and I wouldn't be surprised if they were actually converted in the early stage. I've seen so much more godliness in them, uh than them after that, and so much more thinking about heaven and hell, even in them as well. And so that that that was also uh something that was in my life. So so I believed that I that I was going to uh go to hell if I I knew I was gonna go to hell if I if I died in that state, but I really uh thought that I was going to convert at at the eleventh hour And so everything started really spiring out of control when I was around fourteen and fifteen. Uh I I started flunking out of school. I I failed every single class in ninth grade. I got straight F across the board. Um, I was getting into all kinds of trouble, everything was just uh really uh s drugs were happening, girls, everything was just really spiraling, um, really out of control, and it really came into a climax. when when I was uh fifteen years old then I got into this altercation where I ended up be uh beating beating this kid up and and then he ended up getting his older siblings involved. and they ended up threatening my life and saying that they were gonna kill me and that I need to watch out and all this other stuff. But you gotta understand at that time in my life people were threatening me all the time. People saying that they were going to kill me and jump me and and take me out. That was just, you know, par for the course. It it really didn't uh it was just another day, so I didn't really think much of it. In fact I just went to to go um to my to my friend's house. I went to sleep. I I really wasn't thinking about it at all. Then I hear a knock on the door and I'm groggy. I open the door. It's uh someone that I know, they they say that I need to go and and see something at the park, which was right across the street. And and this is, you know, my friend and I trusted him and I was like, For what? I don't you know, I don't need to see anything. I'm not interested. I'm sleeping. And and they kept on being persistent about this And so I said I finally agreed to to go out there and to see what was going on outside on the park. And I didn't even I as I recall I don't even have uh it was it was a it was a um a winter day. It was a cold winter day, it was already dark I don't even think I had shoes on. Um and and I think they told me that I I should probably get a jacket and uh I had like a hoodie on and I should probably get a winter jacket and get some shoes on But I was like, forget that. I'm I'm I'm just gonna walk out here, see this is dumb, and then walk walk back in. And so there I go. I go out there at this time I had long hair, you know, the earrings, I had uh a long chain on, just the the whole the whole nine yards. And I walk out there and I don't see anything And as soon as I get to the park which was which was a dark area and kind of away from from people, then I there was these cars that were also parked there. Then as soon as I get over there I see them I see all these guys uh run around from the clock and surround me. And from this time I knew that I was in some serious trouble. I knew that somehow I mean I knew that I was gonna get jumped, but somehow when I I saw the scenario, I was out in the park isolated from a population. Something is whispered in my ear that if I were to stay in that park, I was gonna die there in that park. And so then they surrounded me, they started they started punching me and all that And it was it was almost a miracle. I just knew I had to get out of that park. And so I I bolted through them. And this is when I say it's kind of a miracle because Here they are surrounding me, punching me. And somehow, some way I was able to run through them. They I don't remember hitting them. I don't remember touching them. I don't remember being any conflict. It's like I ran completely through them ran across the street and got to the street light on the main road and at that point they grabbed my hair and and I think they hit me or something. I still have a scarf from it, I'm not sure, but all I know is next thing I know I was on the ground being stomped out Um and it it was just an absolute miracle that I got there. Another thing that that uh one of the reasons uh that that saved my life that night was uh a couple of weeks prior to that I got into uh a fist fight with with two guys at the same time. And the way I used to fight is I always used to try to uh beat up just uh just try to just use extreme aggression and and I'd be willing to take uh punches. but I was just gonna do extreme aggression on you. I tried that with the two guys, that didn't work very well because if I just tried to fight one dude, the other guy kept on punching me, it was a very it was a painful experience to say the least And so because of that experience, I knew when I was surrounded by all these guys that no, just trying to inflict pain on one person was only gonna inflict a whole lot of pain on me. So that was probably another reason uh that saved my life is I knew that in this scenario it was not time to be a tough guy, it was time to try to survive and and not uh just try to hurt one person but try to save myself So anyways, I run across the street, I fall on the ground, here they are, they're s literally stomping me out, um on the ground with their feet. I'm at the street light, it's all dark. And and next thing I I saw calling in and out of consciousness at this point. I if you ever in a violent scenario like this or near death uh scenario like this, you have no time to to think. It's you don't even really feel pain. It's just a whole lot of drama and and it's it's hard to describe. But there there's not there's not clarity of thought. There really isn't. And I'm just going in and out of consciousness. And I'd literally wake up and they were stomping me out and I'd go out and next thing I know I'd wake up again and they were stomping me out. And so at this point, um the next thing I remember is uh looking up and seeing headlights. There was a car that had come. And I remember uh looking up also from the ground and seeing them run off and yell at the car, This is none of your business, uh th you know, you have nothing to do with this. Uh you'll be next to this kind of being threatening st you know, threats at the car. And and to see the headlights. Next thing I know when I when I wake up again the car is gone. I'm all alone, uh all by myself out there. And to this day I don't know uh who was in that car or or what was going on there. It's it's odd to me because here's this car that stopped, uh saved my life, caused them to to run off But then when I woke up again the car was completely gone. It was it was gone. No ambulance was called, no police were called, no nothing. I mean here I am uh just laying out there um you know uh unconscious out there And actually w the guy my friend, it wasn't a real friend at all, let me tell you. Uh there is no loyalty in in this this stug life, let me tell you. But um he actually later on told me that they thought that I was dead because I was I was lifeless and and laying on the ground. So it's very odd. Here I am lifeless laying on the ground not moving. This car uh spent enough effort to to get these people off me or and you know, just scare them off by just being there in their presence. But then they didn't call the police They didn't check on me. It's just quite odd. To this day I I wonder if that was angelic uh beings out there to save me. Whether it was or not, God certainly used this person to save my life So here I am, I get up, I go to my friend's house, and as soon as I go to my friend's house, they are they're looking in absolute horror at what at at at my face and how I looked and I got into lots of fights and I never got a reaction like this after getting into a fight so Um I was I was curious of what what to see and and I saw myself and and wow I look like I I can't even describe, I didn't look like I was human at all. My face was humongous. super swollen, amulets were called, police were called, charges were pressed against those individuals and and and that's a whole different story. But um but that's not what we're here to talk about is is that we're here to talk about my salvation So as I'm as I'm in the hospital uh recovering from this this incident, this I thought was going to be my testimony. I thought that in and I'm sitting in the hospital being self reflective here. I thought that I was gonna be converted after this incident, that God had saved my physical life in appreciation and thankfulness for him, I was gonna convert to convert to Jesus Christ. That's what I thought when I was in hospital bed. hospital bed. And as soon as that thought came into my mind, it was utterly repugnant to me. It just I couldn't do it. I it just was uh repugnant. I I just absolutely could not convert uh to Jesus Christ. I could not change my own heart. And that experience actually really scared me, to be honest, because Uh here I am in the hospital believing and I I made the connection between the the vehicle and um in in my in this person saving me and believing that was uh God had sent that vehicle, whether it's angels or not, that save me And and so here I am in the hospital believing that God had saved my life and I could not convert. I couldn't become religious even for a moment. And the very thought actually was were puzzling in my eyes and I knew I was in trouble because I knew then that I couldn't just repent at any moment. Further off, I just nearly was beat to death. I mean I nearly died in that uh during this incident. And if I would have died I know that I would have gone to hell. And guess what? Remember I wanted to be saved at the eleventh hour. I thought that I was going to be saved at the very end. But but in this experience I I couldn't uh I I couldn't say a prayer fast enough. I couldn't even think about anything. Like I said, it was so it was happening so fast And I was in and out of consciousness and even before that there was just absolutely no time to be saying the sinner's prayer and and asking God to save a sinner like me. And so this experience really, really scared me because I knew that if I I waited for a long time Um and and just just if I died through cancer or some, you know, long experience where I knew I was gonna die in this long agonizing experience, there was no guarantee I was gonna be able to convert because here I am in the hospital, perfectly able to convert I thought so at least, and I couldn't do it. So I was terrified if I if I died some kind of long, agonizing death, then what says uh that I wouldn't be like I was in this hospital unable to repent. Very, very scary And what if I died a quick death? What if I died in a c heart attack? If I was murdered, uh just like this experience over here, um, if you know, if if something else had happened more rapidly, was I gonna be able to convert? Died of car accident, something like that. Well well no, obviously because I don't have time. Even if I was being beat to death like this experience, I kind of knew I was gonna die. Again, you you might just didn't have time. So this really scared me because now I knew that I was almost certainly going to hell um that there that I wasn't going to be uh able to be saved in this way. It certainly uh gave me uh s significant amount of fear. But again I I still was not converted. I still lived a a pagan life, a life of of sin and immorality And so during this time more and more conflict, um, more and more trouble with with all kinds of things happened. This also put a uh a huge uh strain between me and my my father, who were always very close. And so eventually, uh, you know, I get I get my parents kicked out of the neighborhood and and then through a series of events, then I'm actually gonna go and live with my grandma, it's just uncontrollable here, it's just everything's uh chaotic and I'm I'm gonna go live with my grandma. And so me and my father's relationship had completely fallen apart. We were very close, and at that time we our relationship had completely fallen apart. And so one day my dad comes home. and asked me uh if if I would be willing to go for a walk with them. And this is a strange event too, because he asked me, 'cause we weren't talking at all, and I knew what he was doing. I knew he was he was asking to reconcile the relationship through a conversation. A wonderful way to reconcile a relationship, by the way, is just talking to people and having a communication. It's very hard to be angry with someone that's talking to you in kindness and and and all of that stuff. And so to this day I remember saying no. I remember saying no. I don't want anything to do with this And yet somehow my lips said yes. I I still can't understand it. I swear I said no in my mind and yet out of my mouth. Came yes. We went for a walk, we had a good talk, and forgiveness was was really one during that conversation and we decided that we really wanted to rebuild our relationship. And so what my dad recommended, because my dad was is actually a very smart man and and understands psychology and all of that other stuff, is he he recommended that we um that I read the Bible a chapter a day and then discuss it and and talk to him about it. Also I think he he understood that my my needed um I I needed God and and if I had God in my life then things would change and oh was he right Um, and so he recommended that I read a chapter of Matthew a day and discuss it with him. And so that's what I did. I picked up the Bible, uh a modern translation, the King James. I had tried to read the King James in the past, the archaic language was just so difficult, and I tried to read the old testament. I tried to read the old testament and in archaic language and and man that was that was some tough stuff. So I read a a modern translation In the New Testament, beginning in Matthew, and I remember reading uh Matthew chapter one. And and if you know chapter one, there's a genealogy there, and I suffered through that genealogy. I'm like Man, do I really want to read this book, right? I I read the genealogy and then I read something um s you know, things about the Christmas story. And I thought that was interesting, but nothing really nothing really to see there. Then chapter two the next day, again I see that I see the Christmas story. Not nothing really to see. Then I get to chapter three and there's John the Baptist and he talks about the axes laid at the root, and every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. And at that moment when I read that, now the fear of God really came upon me. I already believed in God. I knew I didn't have a personal relationship with God, but I I already believed in God. Um, I already believed in heaven and hell. But now hearing John the Baptist talk about hell this way and the axes laid at the root and every uh tree that does not bear good fruit we cut down and thrown into the fire. Now I knew for sure that that was talking about me. Here's the word of God telling me that I'm going to be cut down. I was not a good tree and I knew it. And I was going to be cut down and thrown in to the fire. And so now the the fear of God came upon me. The fires of hell were vivid before me and I knew that I was going to hell and it scared me. And I absolutely did not want to go there. The fear of God was infused into my to my heart. And so then uh the next day uh just continuing to to read the Bible and and introduce to Jesus and and he's talking about repent and b and and for the kingdom of God is near And then I remember reading the Sermon on the Mount. And I started reading that. And it was incredible, the wisdom of of Jesus. He was so He is so wise and it was just incredible. And I wanted to highlight the whole thing and say, this is incredible. This is this is beautiful and wonderful I had never seen anything like it. I also realized that I knew about Jesus, but I didn't know Jesus. I had never read Jesus before. And in fact, this is how ignorant I was of Jesus. I remember reading some of the sayings of the Sermon on the Mount and thinking, wow, this is amazing. Some of these wise sayings go all the way back to the time of Jesus. I was thinking, like, man, they've been saying this since since Jesus' time. And then it was like someone slapped me in the back of the head. And I realized, wait a second, these sayings don't go back to Jesus' time or the biblical time. These sayings originate from Jesus Himself. himself and it was just an a shocking moment and I realized at that moment that here was uh beauty, here was wisdom, here was everything that I was always looking for a right here and that this really was the son of God and he was beautiful and he was lovely and he and and he he accepted me and and he was willing to embrace me if I would just merely cry out and repent to him. And and at that moment now I felt the conviction of God and and uh certainly I felt the ability to I I felt longing and desire for Him, which I was in the hospital room, you know, a few weeks prior to that And I had no desire desire. So I you know, I remembered that and said, I I better jump on this now. Uh that was my attitude. So I'm not gonna wait. uh, you know, another day because just the other day I couldn't do this and now I I feel uh the love of I feel the love of God, I feel affection, I feel able to convert. So I got on my knees in my room all alone and prayed that God would forgive me of my sins and that God would save me. And I ended my prayer with something, I think it was these exact words, if you have me. You can take me. And and that's what I prayed. And and when I opened my eyes, the world has never looked the same again. And I really mean that. The world has never looked the same. It was like I lived in a world full uh that was black and white. And then I opened my eyes and it was full of color. Everything looked different. Everything. My life was uh unbelievably converted. I remember expi uh life before that prayer and after that prayer and I can tell you life has never seemed the same again. My conversion to Jesus Christ was the greatest thing that ever happened to me. My life has completely changed. Everything that I that I thought was good was was evil and everything I thought was evil was good. My my whole world was absolutely turns upside down. And to show you what I mean by this, I certainly uh I ended up moving to my grandma's house uh shortly thereafter. I certainly didn't get myself involved in gangs anymore. My my grades, they didn't even want me back into that school because I had all Evs And I seen such a trouble child, so when I went to school the next year, I got all A's, A's and B's. I never got I was suspended all the time. Uh I was ex I was expelled from my my middle school I never got it a another suspension in my entire academic career. I never got into another fight. I used to always get into fist fights. It was just part of the course I've never gotten to another fist fight in in my entire life. So it was just this is what I mean that it's just you can you can see a massive transformation in my life light from darkness into light, just night and day. I I've never done uh you know, didn't do gave up the drugs and and just everything. Everything uh was completely changed and my heart was changed. And I was converted. So I know the Lord is real. I know that God has power to save, that God can save anybody. He can save literally anybody Um he has that power and that ability, so never give up on someone. Uh preach the gospel and proclaim the truth to them. I did forget to mention something. During during this uh during this time of of deep rebellion when I was when I was younger I remember one day uh being you know, I'm having all my thug gear and just being a a a rebel and and I remember sitting at the mall and I remember this this this little Asian lady coming up to me with those same gospel tracks that I remember as a child. And they walked up to me and said, I have a blessing for you. And they handed me that gospel tract. And I remember reading it. And I remember thinking that this was a message from God. that that God was drawing me. And so I didn't get conversion at that very moment, but I remember that I I recognized that that was from God. And that God was drawing me. The same thing happened a a little a little while later when I was walking through the concession stand and I saw one of those gospel tracks on the candy bar section. picked it up and I read it. Again, I didn't get converted at that very moment, but I knew that God was calling me and drawing me. And notice, remember, I said I got saved. by the Sermon on the Mount. Well, the the gospel isn't explicit on the Sermon on the Mount. So how did I get saved uh during the Sermon on the Mount? Well it's from it was from those gospel tracts that I had read. It was from that lady who handed me a gospel tract. It was from that gospel tract I picked up from the Concessions and it was from the gospel those same gospel tracts that I remember um uh reading my dad reading to me when I was young And so please this is why I encourage people, use any means necessary. I was reached through a variety of means, but not to uh to include gospel tracts, that that's how the gospel was implanted in my heart and so all I had that that vial of gospel salvation and and when God through these circumstances and I saw Jesus that's beautiful I was able to crack that vial open and and and to drink it And so that's what I encourage other people to do for other people, to make sure that everyone has the vial of the gospel of salvation implanted in their heart. that if God can work a certain circumstances in their life where they can be converted, they don't need to hear necessarily a sermon invitation at that moment or a gospel invitation at that moment or a presentation. They already know it and that God can work in other circumstances to draw them. So that's why it's so important to proclaim the gospel to every living creature and how God's word does not come back. come back and forward. And so so from all of this, um that all I can I can really say is that we serve a wonderful and and That we serve a wonderful and great God. I uh am so thankful that God saved a sinner like me. I know that God opened my eyes. When I read those scriptures, I didn't make a a conscious decision. Where where I decided that I was just going no, God opened my eyes and I saw him as as beautiful. It was the only reasonable thing to do. I I saw I was going to hell. I saw that he was beautiful and wonderful, and the only reasonable thing to do was to get on my knees and repent and say how wonderful and beautiful and awesome he was And so I just I just encourage you all um to know that we we have a God who is alive and who is powerful to say. The same God who showed up to Abraham is the same God who showed up in my life. The same God who showed up to Paul on the road of Damascus. and and and hit him with that light and and peeled off those scales from his eyes. It's the same God who did the same thing to me. God is so powerful to save. There's so many different people involved in my salvation, but it really began when I was young and of getting me to understand who God was. getting the fear of God in me and then God worked a variety of circumstances including gospel tracts and handing me gospel tracts to eventually cause me to bow the knee and and to repent and to believe And so I just hope that you encourage that we serve a living God, a true God, a wonderful God. I don't regret being saved one moment. I constantly think about this, of of what my life would have been like if I wasn't converted. I am I am convinced. that I would be dead. I'm absolutely convinced. I would have died that night, number one, but but my life was just heading in that direction of violence. and gangs and all kinds of things like that. I am convinced that I would be dead and if I wouldn't if I wasn't dead, I'm convinced I would be in prison and absolutely miserable And so I thank God all the time for saving me because he saved me from the destruction of sin. Now some of you listening to this may be thinking, Well, I'm I'm not living a life of gangs and violence and and life of that. Well I in some ways I feel sorry for you And because I knew that I was a vile sinner, I knew that I was more wicked than the people who were around me. And this was a a real blessing because I didn't stumble over that, you know, that I was able to see my wickedness and able to see Christ's beauty and his forgiveness that he offered me. Well, all people are sinners, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. It doesn't matter if you're a Pharisee, it doesn't matter what you are across the spectrum, that that all people have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God, and that the least sin is worthy of damnation. And so we're all sinners and we all need forgiveness. If you think God's going to grade you on a curve, you got another thing coming Okay, there own there's only one way to be saved. There's only one name by which we can receive forgiveness. Jesus said that I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but by me. You will not make it to heaven by your own good works. The only way that you will be saved is by repenting and trusting in Jesus. Jesus said, all who labor and are heavily laden. that to come to him and you will find rest. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Jesus invites you to come to him and to repent of your sins and to receive that forgiveness. Do you see your sin? Do you see it? Do you see that the wages of sin is death? Do you see that outside of Christ you will perish? You will end up going into hell where the fire is not quenched and the worm shall not die. Do you see that? Do you see that's where you're headed? This is not a joke. Do you see that the fear of God Has the fear of God ever come upon you and you see that outside of Christ, you are damned to eternity away from Him in eternal conscious torment? If you see that Do you also see that he is so lovely and so beautiful that he says that he loves you and that God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever, whoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. For God did not send the Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Do you realize that Jesus is your solution? that your sin is the problem and your sin is dragging you to hell. But Jesus is willing to break that chain and to rise you up so that you can go to heaven. And if you see that, I encourage you right now to get on your knees, the very thing that I did so long ago, and repent of your sins. And say, Jesus Christ, I am a sinner and I deserve hell, but I see that you are so great and so merciful and that you've offered me forgiveness in Jesus Christ. I repent of my sins. I turn my life over to you. You are now in charge and you can be the Lord of my life. I encourage everyone listening to this to repent and to believe. And if you're not sure, if you have any doubt whatsoever that if you were to die tonight, that you would go to hell to make sure that right now that you get on your knees and make make it right with God. God is is near today, but when you die he will be far away. Disappointed man wants to die and after this. the judgment once we die there is no more forgiveness of sins that's it we're headed to hell if we die outside of christ But if we die in Christ, if we die after repenting and believing, we will be in we will go to a place where the all the eye has not seen, the ear has not heard the wonderful thing that God has prepared for them that love him. will go to a place where of all joy, all tears being wiped away. That is the glorious inheritance of the believer. That's what Christ invited me into. Christ gave me my life back. He gave me value and importance not only in the next life, but this life today. I don't regret it one, but it's the greatest thing that ever happened to me. It really is. And it's the greatest thing that will ever happen to you if you repent and turn to Jesus who loves you and who who and who died for sinners in the world. And he died so that those sinners, if they repent, could bel could be saved by belief in him. So please repent and believe in the gospel. He is absolutely wonderful. You will never regret turning your life over to Jesus Christ. And if you have not read the Bible, I just encourage you to pick up the book of Matthew. Read it a chapter a day. Just pick it up and read. And see for yourself the beauty of our Savior, the beauty of the Word of God. It is the Word of God. It is sharper than two uh any two-edged sword. It is what was the direct means to save my soul, is seeing the beauty and the wisdom and and the truth of this book. And I have not put it down because it is a wonderful, great book that is food for my soul.