Dear Heavenly Father God, we ask for your grace, we ask for your strength, we ask for your power, we ask that you meet us here today and that we can hear you. Well, we want an encounter with you. We want to fill your spirit. We want to walk away saying we have met with you and that we have been changed. And brought in greater conformity in our minds to your thoughts and your word. And we can be transformed into your image. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Heathen, can you sign this up a little bit? So several years ago, I remember standing in a hospital room and The person before me was a young man who had died of an overdose. And it was a very small room, a tiny little room, hospital bed. His body was there. His family was there. I was there. And I have to admit, it was a very ominous sight. Uh he was so alive looking, but yet he was so dead. as well. And probably one of the most ominous things about his appearance was that they hit him with the shock paddles, so his hair was all fried and he was stiff and very disturbing looking And one of the ladies that were there said, Let's try to raise him from the dead. And I thought, hmm. Well, what was I to say? She wanted to do it, so I acquiesced and I at least bowed my head. I'm not sure if I prayed, but I bowed my head as I watched her try to pray his spirit down. Well after several minutes of trying and doing various incantations of various notions of the power of the blood, a few minutes of tongues and uh other praying techniques, the man still lay completely dead. Eventually she says, Jesus told me that he wants to keep him there And we ended the prayer, and I left the room. Now, I personally, maybe you call me a skeptic, don't believe necessarily that Jesus told her to pray that prayer. Or then later told her that he wasn't going to answer that prayer. I was very skeptical, and unfortunately my skepticism was not relieved. But the question arises, has such a scene ever been different than that? Has Jesus ever actually told a man of God or a woman of God to raise the dead? And has God ever done such a thing? And if he has, where? Is it just in some missionary biography, or do we have an accurate account of such a thing happen? And if he did, what was the meaning of it? Well, today I have the pleasure of showing you in the scriptures such an event and exegeting it for you so you can see what it would have looked like and why God would have done such a thing. So please open your Bibles to 1 Kings chapter 17 And we will pick up in verse seventeen. So 1 Kings chapter 17, picking up in verse 17. Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. And his sickness was so serious that there was no breath left in him. So she said to Elijah, What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son? And he said to her, give me your son. So she took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was saying. and lay him on his own bed. Then he cried out to the Lord and said, O Lord my God, have you brought also tragedy on the widow with whom I lodge by killing her son? And he stretched himself out on the child three times. And he cried out to the Lord and said, Oh Lord, my God, I pray let this child's soul come back to him. Then the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came back to him, and he revived. And Elijah took the child and brought him down from the upper room into the house and gave him to his mother. And Elijah said, See, your son lives. Then the woman said to Elijah, By this I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord is in your mouth, and the word is truth. So this morning we will continue our study into the fascinating life of Elijah Remember where we were? We were in the book of Malachi, Malachi chapter 4, verse 5, the Lord says, Behold, I send you Elijah the prophet. And I was tempted just to simply gloss over this great man of God's life, but I really didn't want to do that. Instead, what I wanted to do was to look into this man And to understand how great he was, and so that ultimately when you hear the name of Elijah, you say, I know that guy, that's my man. Does that make sense? It's kind of like when someone quotes the book of Matthew. I get excited because I say, that's my gospel. That's my Jesus. I hope you will eventually grow to have a fond appreciation for this man Elijah because he truly is an amazing man of God like few others. In fact, did you know? And it gets confusing because there's Elijah and Elisha and Elisha knew Elijah. In fact, Elisha was the follower of Elijah. It's all confusing. But nonetheless, Elisa, his follower At the end of Elijah's life, when he's caught up in the whirlwind, here is what Elisha says about Elijah. He says, My father, my father. the chariot of Israel and its horsemen. And it's kind of an amazing statement because I was tempted to think that what he was talking about was the fact that the chariots of Israel came down and swept him away. But if you actually go and read nearly every commentator, because the same word was said about Elisha when he died, it actually means that this is in reference not to the angels, but Elijah himself. Elijah himself is the chariot of Israel and its horsemen. And again, if you look at the commentators, what they say is this the true power and the true strength of Israel was not in its army But in its man of God. There is true power in the prophets of God. And so we're going to look at this man. Who was this man who was stronger than a chariot? and more powerful than horsemen, the true power of Israel. Well he was a man whose words made kings tremble. You know, one of my great burdens is that today's prophets, their words don't make people tremble, their words put people to sleep. Isn't that true? We don't get offended by the words of the prophet. We're bored by the words of the prophet. But not so with Elijah, a true man of God. He made kings tremble. He burnt up the wicked men who tried to apprehend him. He was fed by ravens. He was the razor of the dead. He was the one who set up the heavens. so that there was no rain. He was the one who called down fire from heaven, so that spiritual rain came down and revived the people. He was a man who ran faster than a chariot, and was strengthened by a single meal. For 40 days and 40 nights. What a man of God this man Elijah is, and it's my prayer that as we unfold him, you too will jump in excitement about this man Elijah. At wonderment of how God used such a man as this. And if you go into the book of James, you know what it says about Elijah? He was a man of like passions as one of us. Sometimes when we read Jesus, we say, yeah, but that's Jesus, the Son of God, which is a wrong way of looking at Jesus, by the way, because Jesus did his powers and miracles primarily by the power of the Holy Spirit indwelling in him Nonetheless, we often do that with Jesus. That's the Son of God. But when it comes to Elijah, Elijah is not the Son of God. He's a man of like passions as you. You too have the potential and the capacity to be used by God in similar ways as Elijah because Elijah is just a man. A man who sold out to God and committed to do God's will. So let's recall who is this man Elijah and where did he come from? Well, if you go back into chapter 17, verse 1, you can just look over there, what you'll see is that Elijah comes from nowhere, basically. And we don't know much about this man. What was his occupation? What did he do before being a prophet? We do not know. What school did he go to? Does he have a bachelor's degree? A master's or a doctorate? We do not know. How long has he been ministering? Was he a youth pastor? Was he an evangelist? A senior pastor? What's his resume? We do not know because ultimately none of those things matter at all. What matters is that Elijah has the anointing of God on his life. That God called Elijah to be his prophet, and he filled him with his spirit, and he put his word in his mouth. And most importantly, God could trust Elijah with his word. Because when God put the word, his word in Elijah's mouth, guess what he did? He opened his mouth and he proclaimed it, even when he had to put himself in physical danger. God has put his word in your mouth too, hasn't he? You have his word. Right here, 66 books. But so often we keep our mouths shut when we have to face our Elijah 's. God has equipped this man. A famous pastor named Ravenhill. Does anybody know that name Ravenhill, he was a great former pastor, and he would say this about prophets. He said prophets are God's emergency men for crisis hours The prophets are those who prioritize God's fire over human comforts, who speak God's message to a culture that has long stopped listening, who have shut their eyes so that they cannot see, who have stopped their ears so that they cannot hear, who have hardened their hearts lest they turn and be healed by God. God sends the prophets to throw cold water on a generation that has fallen half asleep and half dead. And the prophets come to wake them up. And this is what's going on in Israel's day. Elijah is one of the greatest prophets that the world has ever seen. And Elijah comes on the scene in the backdrop of evil Ahab. And the Bible says about Ahab that he was the worst of kings. He was the one who followed the sins of Jeroboam. He was the one who married Jezebel. He was the one who was killing the priest of God. He established a temple. And an altar and an image for Baal. The Bible quite literally says of Ahab that he is the worst of all of the kings. He's number seven. I learned this from Mr. Dennis' Sunday school. He has a little chart. He's number seven of the kings of Israel. And he's a complete disaster and full of wickedness. So, what does God do in light of the greatest challenge of the greatest of the evil kings? What does he do? He sends the greatest of the prophets. I hope you see the connection. That when the darkness is the greatest, so too will God send the light in the midst of that darkness. Remember what God that we serve. We serve the crucified Savior. When all seemed dark and destroyed, Jesus Christ had a ministry for three and a half years. He went preaching and teaching and doing good. And what did he get for his service? What do prophets get when they serve God? Do they get a big thank you? They get killed and crucified. And it all looked dark. And even the disciples were terrified and afraid and all looked hopeless, right? It was all over. And then yet, three days later, Christ rose from the dead What I'm trying to show you is that this is the God that we serve. That in the midst of darkness, he shines forth the light. So if you feel like you're in darkness, if you feel like all is hopeless, look up for your redemption draws near. When you see Ahab, when you see the death of Christ, rather Recognize three days from now the resurrection will come. 1 John 2. 8 says, the darkness is passing away, the true light is already shining. So Saints, as you look at the darkness, can you look beyond the darkness, look to the hills, and see that the day is breaking and new life is coming. So we see that Elijah bursts into scenes in 1 Kings chapter 17 and he confronts wicked Ahab, this diabolical man, and he says to this man, I am going to shut up the heaven so that it no longer rains. But if it no longer rains, do the crops grow? And if the crops don't grow, does the economy grow? Now the crop the economy is collapsing, the cop the crops are not growing, and the people go hungry. And if you've ever met a bunch of hungry Baptists, they get angry. And those are saved people. Imagine a bunch of hungry outside people. Things are really bad. What Elijah has done is he's brought The nation of Israel into an emergency state because of their spiritual condition. He's bringing the nation to its knees. Oftentimes, we think that it's our own power and our own ingenuity that provides for our needs. It's my resume. It's my intellect. It's my good looks. It's my charm. It's all of these things, all these crafty things that we have done, and that's why we're prospering. But guess what? The real reason is that God shines his light. And sends his reign on both the just and the unjust. Because if you start boasting and say, What a man I am, how great I am, look at what my hand has done. There was a king who once said that. Look at the great kingdom that I have created. What was his name? Nebuchadnezzar. And God said, Oh, you proud man, I'm going to bring you down and make you like a beast. So that you will be humbled. And so that's what's going on here. People thought that they had done all of this by their own ingenuity. So God sends Elijah to shut the heavens so that it no longer rains and bring people back down to their knees to recognize that they're actually dependent upon God. Does God need to send a famine in your life for you to start realizing that you are utterly and entirely dependent on Him? Is that what you need? Well, can you even now recognize that all blessings, all sustenance, all provision come from you, Lord? Well, the people of God back then needed a famine. And so Elijah brings the famine by shutting down the rain. This is God's discipline on his people. But Elijah needs provision. Again, with no rain comes a drought, with drought comes dead crops. He needs food and he needs water. So God tells him to hide by the brook. And so he hides by the brook. And who feeds him? God. But what instrument does God use to feed Elijah? He sends the ravens and they come morning and evening. They come with bread and meats. And what we can learn from this is that God will provide for all of your needs. He will always take care of you. And that's why he tells us in Matthew chapter 6 Do not worry, saying, what shall we eat? Or what shall we drink? Or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles strive after these things. And your heavenly Father knows that you need them, but instead seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added to you. You see? That's told to us in all circumstances. But think about Elijah. In the midst of a famine, he's not to worry about what he shall eat or what he shall drink, but there's no water and there's no food. But yet the Lord provided by sending the ravens. That's the God that we serve. A God who can send the ravens when everyone else starves. They can feed us and give us water at the brook while everyone else has no water and is thirsty. Beloved, God is going to feed this church out by the ravens. He's going to send the bread, morning and evening, the bread and meat. But we have to trust them and believe them. It's not by human ingenuity that this church will be rescued, but it's by the grace of God. God is the provider of this church. Amen. And he's the provider of our lives. Our trust is in the God who sends the ravens, who will provide. Let me ask you this. Well, before I do that. That's God beating Elijah by the ravens. But what's next? The brook dries up, and Elijah must go. And where does he go? Anybody remember? The brook dries up. The word of God comes to him and he must depart from the brook and depart from the ravens. It must have been a sad day. Goodbye, Ravens. Goodbye, Neats. Where to now? He's told to go to the widow's house. And God first provided by the ravens, and now he provides to him by this poor widow who's gathering sticks. to prepare her last meal. She has a little jar, a little flour. She's going to make a last little cake. She has a little bit of olive oil. canola oil, whatever kind of oil you like, a little bit less. She's gonna make her last meal, she's gonna eat it, and then she's gonna starve to death. And Elijah comes on the scene and says, Don't provide for you first, provide for me, the man of God And when you provide for me, God will provide for you. And that's what happens. God multiplies the oil so the oil does not run dry. He multiplies The flower so that the flower will not run dry. You see that God is duplicating his provision once more He fed them by the ravens and now he feeds him by the widows. And God is doing this multiple times to show us stiff-necked people the message that God will provide, whether by ravens or by widows. He will take care of us. So let me ask you this, beloved. Can you testify that God has fed you by the ravens? Has God fed you by the widow with the little jar of flour and the unending oil? Is God your God or is he merely the God of Elijah? Where is the God of Elijah? Or better, where are the Elijas of God? Who has walked with God and seen God show up in his life? And that God provide all of your needs and take care of all of you. Let me testify something that just happened. This Saturday, like yesterday, I didn't prep this for this sermon. I went out to Cracker Barrel. Pastor's favorite place for breakfast. Kind of. And uh I was sitting there with a pastor and we were talking and fellowshipping and discussing ministry things and things of that nature. And as we're about to leave, a gentleman walked up, put a card on to the table, and said, God told me to give this to you. And he gave it to him and he essentially paid for both my breakfast and the other pastor's breakfast. I never talked to this man. I did not know this man. He literally just put this on the table, walked away. The other pastor was shocked. He was confused Do you know this man? What's going on? What's happening? And I was surprised that he was shocked, to be honest. Because I can tell you, this stuff happens to me all the time It's really true. In fact I've gotten used to it now so that if I'm at Walmart and somebody comes up to me at Walmart in the middle of the night and starts grabbing in their pockets, I'm no longer afraid they're gonna mug me This has happened before. In the middle of Walmart at night, coming up to me, pulling out, and instead of pulling out a gun, they pulled out some kind of blessing. Again, I'm not trying to brag about that, but I'm simply giving you an example of God providing for all of our needs if we'll simply trust in Him. And I'm sure, and maybe Sunday evening, we can talk about your testimony of God doing these kind of things to you. Because God can feed you by the ravens, and he can feed you by the widow. This is the God that we serve. God provides. God takes care of us So he's uh everything is going well. I want you to see this. God has been the God of Elijah, He's providing for him, He's protecting him. Everything's going well for both Elijah and the widow, right? Hallelujah. We got a new pastor. It's wonderful. Things are going well. Until they don't. Tragedy strikes in the midst of blessing. And you'll see that. All is going well, we're just, it's going to be happy, go lucky, till the Jesus returns, right? No. What happens in the midst of the blessing? The son that was supposed to starve to death is now gotten fat and healthy. But what happens to that boy? He dies. Do you see? I want you to see this in 3D. All is well. He was gonna die. The prophet is here. How wonderful! And then the prophet Maybe his presence, instead of being a blessing, has become a curse, and my son has died. Now. And what I want you to see is this. We have a God that's very patternistic. It would be wonderful if things just went from bad to great. Things were bad, now things are good, it'll never turn back. But is that the story of your life? It's not the story of mine, okay? I fully don't expect that to happen in any of the sagas of my life Usually things go from bad to better back to bad only for God to redeem at the end. Do you see that And that's exactly what happens in this passage, right? God just won't let us just go straight up without trial and affliction. And do you know why? Not because God's a bad God, but because God loves us too much to withhold the blessing of trial and tribulation. Now that's crazy, I don't like preaching that. But it's true. God loves us too much to withhold his blessing of trials and tribulations. James chapter 1, verse 2, my brethren, count it all joy. when you fall into various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces patience. But let patience have its perfect work that you may be perfect And complete, lacking in nothing. God wants you to be perfect and complete, and you want to be perfect and complete, but you don't want to, and neither do I want to go through his process of being perfect and complete But guess what? God didn't ask your opinion, and neither did he ask mine. Right? He says, I'm going to transform you into the image of Jesus Christ, and I'm going to bring you through the ringer to get there. Yes, we can trust God, but don't expect it to be just straight this way. We might have to go through some trials and tribulations on our way to glory. Now look at verse 17. And see what I'm talking about. Remember, the boy is getting fat. The oil is running unlimited. The flower continues to produce. And what happens in the midst of this with the prophet's presence? Now it happened after these things that the son of the woman who owned the house became sick. How bad? His sickness was so severe that there was no breath left in him. Tragedy happened Now, we're going to look in verse 18 of her reaction, but I want to remind you of her previous reaction. She's all cool and collective. Remember, she's gathering sticks. The prophet comes. Hey Prophet, how are you going? Can you give me some food? Well yeah, we're preparing our last meal, we're gonna starve to death. It's all cool and collective. Right? She's all ready I surrender all. Lo the Lord's will be done. It's all good. We are under God's providence until it actually happens. Do you see that? It's real easy to say, God's will be done. It's all good. I trust in God until you get the kidney stones. Anybody have kidney stones? It'll make you scream. You'll be in a fetal position crying out. I've been there. God's good and he is good. But it feels a lot different when you're in that fetal position crying out in pain. Just know that. There's nothing wrong with being confident in God, but just know it's going to feel a little bit different when you curled up in pain than what you thought it would be. And that's what happens. Look at verse 18. The woman who was calm and collective becomes panicky. So she said to Elijah, What have I to do with you, O man of God? Have you come to bring my sin to remembrance and to kill my son? You see the pain and the anguish? She's shocked. She's mad. She's disturbed The woman who was cool and collective is now panicked and freaking out. And she she's a smart woman. We look at this and think, what's wrong with this woman? Why would she think that God would kill her son? That's because you kept reading the Bible. You kept reading the story. Look at the connection. The prophet of God comes and all of a sudden her son dies. She's no fool She knows, hey, wait a second. This doesn't seem like a coincidence to me. I think maybe the presence of the prophet has brought this tragedy. And guess what? Was she altogether wrong? She wasn't. In fact, it was the presence of the prophet that caused this tragedy. And we'll see that in a second Here's the other thing that she's not totally wrong about. She thinks that God is remembering her previous sins, bringing them back into remembrance. and killing her son. And again, we're tempted to think, that's crazy. What's wrong with this woman? She needs the New Testament. But actually, is it really that crazy at all? Does the Bible not teach that the wages of sin is death? Does the Bible not teach that the sins of the Father follow the second and third generation? Did the people not say that we have sinned? The fathers have sinned, that you have put the children's teeth on edge? Have we not seen this over and over? That the sins of the father affect not just the family, but everyone? Even remember the story of Israel. What was the last plague that broke the back of Pharaoh and caused them to release The Jews. The death of who? The son. You have to read our Bibles, even the uncomfortable parts. It is true. That oftentimes the wrath of God, the blessing of God, and the cursing of God doesn't just remain isolated with the individual, but flows downhill. And if you read the Bible, you're going to see that over and over. She also is not a fool to recognize that we often are not punished immediately for our sin. We sin and then we expect a lightning bolt to come and then no lightning bolt comes, so then we think we've gotten away with it. Somebody say amen. You know this is true You sin and you expect you're going to get into a car accident, but no car accident comes. You expect that you're going to get caught, but yet you hide in the darkness and nobody seems to ever find out. You know it's true And you are tempted to think, I have gotten away with it. God does not care or God did not see. But the Bible says, Ecclesiastes 8. 11, because the sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore The heart of the sons of men are fully set to do evil. In other words, because God doesn't whack you with a lightning bolt every time you sin, we get Encouraged. Maybe God doesn't see. Maybe God doesn't care. Maybe I can keep doing this nastiness in the darkness and get away with it. Actually, I want you to turn here. This is such a good passage in the Bible. Turn to Psalm 50. Keep your finger here, but turn to Psalm 50, middle of your Bible. Crack it open right in the middle. Psalm 50, verse 21 Hopefully this will help you, maybe underline this in your Bible. Hopefully it will help you when you're tempted to think that God will not bring your sins into remembrance because He will. Psalm 50, verse 21. These things you have done, and I have kept silence. You thought that I was altogether like you, but I will rebuke you. And I will set in order things before your eyes. You think I didn't care? You didn't think I remembered? You didn't think I would bring all things into judgment? You are greatly mistaken. I will come. I will set everything in order even before your very eyes. The kindness and the goodness of God and his patience is meant to lead you to repentance. It's not meant for you to think that God does not care. God said that every idle word that you speak, He will bring into judgment. Things that you've said in the secret will be shouted from the rooftops. You don't get away with anything. And many times God will bring your sins back into remembrance if they are not covered by the blood of Christ. What is the punishment of sins? According to Daniel chapter 12, it's shame and everlasting contempt. According to Matthew 25, it's eternal punishment. Matthew 13, it's wailing and gnashing of teeth. And of course, Romans chapter 6, it's the wages of sin, is death. So the widow was not altogether wrong that if God were to bring back her sin into remembrance Then it would be death. And death would not only be limited to her likely, but also spread to her family. But that's the bad news. The plague of death is coming. The punishment of sin is death, eternal punishment, wailing and gnashing of teeth. But here is the good news. Here's another passage. You don't have to go there. Hopefully you memorize this. It's in Romans chapter 8, verse 1, there is now no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus. The plague of death is gone. It's been taken away. This is the gospel that Jesus and God will by no means clear the guilty, but God has punished the innocent on your behalf. And he has declared Christ guilty so that you could go free. You remember shame and punishment and contempt? Well, who took on our shame? Christ as he lay Stripped and naked on that cross. He took our shame. He took our contempt. Do you remember all the people Lashing out against them, saying horrible things against them. He took our shame. He took our contempt. What about our wailing and gnashing? What about our torment? He took our torment. He took our pain. He was beaten and tormented so that you could receive joy and pleasure at his right hand. He was shamed in strips so that you could receive honor and glory by being in him. He received death so that you could receive life. This is the gospel. God does not bring our sins into remembrance if we're in Christ because he has washed them clean in him. So, why did the the widow of Zarephath's son die? What was the reason? Jesus, why did this little boy Who did nothing wrong? Well he did do things wrong. But why did this boy die with the presence of the prophet? Well we have an answer. John chapter 9, verse 1. Jesus saw a man who was born blind from birth And his disciples asked him, saying, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents? That he was born blind? And Jesus answered, Neither this man nor his parents sinned. But what? But that the works of God should be revealed in him. Why did the little boy die? Was it because he sinned? No. Was it because his mother sinned? No. But that the works of God could be revealed in him. Now watch God move. Watch him work. Verse 19. 1 Kings chapter 17, verse 19. And Elijah said to her, Give me your son. So he took him out of her arms and carried him to the upper room where he was staying, and laid him on his bed. So, what does Elijah do when he's confronted with tragedy? I mean, she's blaming him, right? No good deed goes unpunished. He shows up, he's blessing her, and now he's blamed for killing her son. What does he do in light of this slanderous accusation against him? Does he go into social media and complain to all his followers about how terrible this woman is? Does he go and tell everyone that will have an ear how terrible this woman is and how ungrateful she has been to his kind service? Does he go to the local grocery store, grab a big tub of ice cream with the fudge on top, and just drown his sorrows as he cries themselves to sleep Or does he hit the bottle to drown away his sorrows or the prescription drugs to neutralize the pain? He doesn't do any of that. Do you see that? What does the man of God do when he's confronted with trials and accusations and problems? What does he do? He goes into action. You see that? He immediately says, bring the boy to me. Take him upstairs. I will handle this. Here's the application. Sometimes we do too much of this. We do too much talking and not enough walking. We do too much complaining instead of enough action. We need to speak less. Doesn't the Bible say that? Speak less? Listen more? We need to move with faith, not move with complaints. It's time for action. Give me the boy. Take him upstairs. It's time to start seeing the miracle of God. But that miracle will never happen as the boy lays dead in the hallway. Do you see that? We have to move. We have to act in faith. But also recognize dragging the boy upstairs is not going to bring him alive. That alone will not bring the miracle. But as long as the boy stays in the hallway, the miracle will not come. Follow God, trust in God, start moving in the right direction, and believe that God is going to bless your efforts. Not that your efforts alone will mean anything. Do you see that? Drag the boy upstairs, he's still gonna be dead. But not when God's at hand. God is gonna see those efforts. And he says, ah, look, a man of God who has faith, let me bless that effort. Is that your life? A man of God who has faith? A man who will go out and evangelize is hopeless. How can you raise the dead? Who will listen to you? Nobody like people are knocking on their doors anymore, right? It's not when God's behind it. God can do whatever he wants. He can take a boy from a hallway, drag him upstairs, and bring him back to life. We have to follow the actions of the prophet. We have to be willing to move Let's see what happened. Verse 20. He takes the boy upstairs, puts him in his room. Then he cried out to the Lord and said, Oh Lord my God. Have you brought tragedy on the widow with whom I lodge by killing her son? Stop here. Who is he talking to? He's talking to God. We spend too much time talking to each other sometimes. Talking to ourselves and talking to the devil. We need to spend more time talking to God. Take your problems to the one who actually can solve your problems, which is the Lord. You see what he does? He talks to God. He goes to Him O Lord, have you done this? But it doesn't stop there. What does he rely on? He is expecting a miracle from God. Who does he rely on? Himself? On his own anointing? On his own power? On his own persuasion? On his own resume? On his own resources? If he relied on any of those things, would this boy be brought back from the dead? No. He relies on one thing and one thing alone: the God who can work miracles. God is the one who must do it. It's Him. We can't do it. We trust in Him. So look what He does, verse 21. And so He stretches out on the child three times. Note that. Three times. He stretches out on the child three times and cried out to the Lord and said, Oh Lord my God, I pray, let this child's son come back. Who does he call on? He calls on the Lord. What does he say? What's his magical incantation? It's quite simple. Oh Lord my God, I pray that the child's son come back. It's amazing. People will look for like magical incantations in the Bible. What's this one? God please do it. That's it. Some of the best prayers of God help me. I'm about to fall into sin. God, I don't want to do it. God help me. Turn my eyes off Turn my heart off. Close my mouth. Help me to stop. Calm me down. It doesn't have to be fancy. Do you see that? There's nothing fancy here. There's no power in the blood, plus this, plus the water, plus the Holy Spirit. It's none of that It's a simple prayer. God bring the dead back to life. Here's what Jesus says: Matthew 6. And when you pray, do not use vain repetitions like the heathen do. For they think they will be heard by their many words. Do we think that sometimes? I can't pray just a real quick prayer because nobody will be impressed I gotta pray a long prayer, because that's the powerful ones. Jesus says explicitly, you don't have to do that. Now nobody put a timer on nobody's prayer. If you want to pray long, go for it. You got a lot to say, that's fine. But understand though, there is no special power in saying Jesus' name five times over and saying the same thing three times in three different ways. There's no special power in that. What does God say? Therefore, do not be like them with these vain repetitions and these many words, for your Father already knows the things that you need before you ask. So what's Elijah's secret? Well, one, he actually does it. One of Elijah's secret is he actually prayed. How many times does somebody say, pray for me, and you never end up praying? Or even worse, you think I need to pray but never end up praying. God will never answer your unant your unprayed prayer. It's not gonna happen. You've got to actually pray. And that's what Elijah does. You have not because you ask not. Good intentions don't cut it. Good intentions have no power. You need to go to the Lord and pray. So he prays The second reason Elijah's prayer actually works is found in his prayer in the very beginning. He says, Oh Lord, my God. Do you see that? God's not going to answer, oh Lord the God of Jacob, oh Lord the God of Isaac, oh Lord the God of John MacArthur, oh Lord the God of the pastor, oh Lord the God of Billy Graham. That's somebody else's God. Go answer their prayers. He's going to answer your prayers if you say, Oh Lord, my God. Because you have a saving relationship with him. Because he is your father. Jesus said, you don't have to ask through someone else's name, ask through my name, and God will hear you. Oh Lord, my God. We need to have clean hands and a pure heart and a true saving relationship with God. Elijah's prayer were answered because he was the God of Elijah. Thirdly, the reason God answered Elijah's prayer is because Elijah believed his prayer. He believed it. Remember James says, if you ask with doubt And you're a double-minded man, you're unstable in all your ways. Don't expect to receive anything from the Lord. Don't waste your time. You have to pray in faith. And believing that God will actually answer your prayers. And third thing, remember I told you to underline where it says three times? Elijah prayed persistently. Why did Elijah stretch himself out three times? Here's the answer. Because the first two times it didn't work. Had the boy come alive, he wouldn't have spread himself out on a living boy, still praying for him to be revived. God did not answer his prayer immediately. But did Elijah give up? No. He kept praying, he kept stretching himself out, and so God answered that prayer Some of you need to be stretching yourself out over your children every day until God revives their soul. Don't give up. He didn't answer the first time. He didn't answer the second time. Will you be Elijah who will pray the third time, the fourth, the fifth, and however many times it takes until God sends his miracle He prayed persistently. And we can go to the words of Jesus, but we are we're running out of time. Jesus tells us to do that. But instead of Jesus, I'll give you another picture. Remember a man who was wrestling with an angel, which was really God? all through the night. And he clinged on to him and he said, what to him? I will not let you go until you bless me. Do you cling on to God? Are you holding on to him and saying, God, I will be the nagging widow, and I'll harass you day and night until you bless me. Elijah was persistence. And that's why his prayer was answered. Let's look at the final result as we get ready to close. What happened? What was the outcome of the raising of the widow's son? Look at verse 24. Then the woman said to Elijah , Now by this I know that you are a man of God, and that the word of the Lord is in your mouth, and it is truth. What was the realization of the widow about the raising of the boy? What was God trying to show in and through all of this? That Elijah was truly a man of God, and that the word of God in his mouth is true. That was his point. This ultimately points to the true man of God, Jesus Christ, who said, if you do not believe me because of my words, believe me because of my actions. Because they testify of who I am. We ought to believe in Christ because not just his words are true, and they are, just read them, they're amazing. No one's ever spoken like this man before. In him is pure wisdom and truth. But not just because of his words, but because of what he does. Who has come back from the dead? Who has raised themselves from the dead? Only Christ. But it's more than that. We I can say something about me. Do you know why I ultimately believe in Jesus Christ? Ultimately? Because I was once blind. and now I see. I was once deaf, and now I hear. My heart was once cold and lifeless, and now it is alive. I was once dead, and now I have come to life. Now we know, Lord, that you are truly the man of God. And that your words are true. My boss actually the other day had a long diatribe telling me how the Bible wasn't true and atheism was the best and all these other things. Very uncomfortable conversation. Because I thought, I better not just make a fool of this guy, because he's my boss. So I just sat there quietly. It was actually kind of disturbed at the end of the conversation, to be honest. But truthfully, none of his words meant anything to me because I know that my Redeemer lives. When God raises from the dead, we can say, like this woman, Now I know that you are truly the man of God, and that your words are truth. True. Let's go to the Lord and pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you that you have proven yourself in so many ways. You have proven yourself in history. You have proven yourself in miracles. In Sunday school, we saw the prophecy of Cyrus hundreds of years. before it came true. You have proved yourself through nature, through creation, through the moral law, through all of these things. We thank you that you've given us so much evidence. But Lord, we thank you, most of all That you give us your Holy Spirit that testifies with our Spirit that we're sons of God. Lord, help us never to doubt you, but to believe you And not just in word, but in action, that we would be like Elijah, trusting in you, stretching ourselves out, believing, and watching the miracles of God fall in our lives. We pray us in Jesus' name. Amen.