If you can open up your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, we'll begin in verse 1. Therefore, we also, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight. And the sin which so easily ensnares us and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking onto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and he sat down at the right hand of the throne of God. So you see there in verse 1 our passage begins with the words therefore, which is indicating to us that this beginning of this chapter is intimately connected to what has previously been spoken of. And of course, in chapter 11, we have that hall of faith, and it describes all of these Old Testament saints that we went through. many many weeks together describing these heroes of the faith. And so when you go into the commentaries, most of the commentaries recognize that the great Cloud of witnesses described there in verse one are in reference to the people described in chapter eleven But I would say that many, unfortunately, in my opinion, stop there. They see that connection, but they don't go any further, and I think that we need to go further. It's not just that the people up there are those people described in chapter 11, but there's a much more intimate connection. So I want you to look back to what immediately precedes this, chapter 12 and chapter 11, verse 39 and 40. We read this. And all of these having obtained a good testimony through faith did not receive the promise, God having provided something better for us that they should not So who are the all of these? Well it's the same cloud of witnesses here. All of these, again, is a describing All of the people, to remind you, we have Abel who offered a more excellent sacrifice than Cain. We have Enoch who walked by faith, and he did not see and taste death. We have Noah building the ark. for the saving of his family. Abraham leaving his homeland with the land that God had promised him. Sarah, who was unable to conceive by faith, was given the ability to conceive even when she was as good as dead. We have Abraham offering up Isaac. doing the unthinkable, but trusting that even if he was to sacrifice his only son, that God would raise him from the dead. You have Isaac blessing both Jacob And Esau. You have Joseph giving instructions about his bones when he was going to die in Egypt. You have Moses, his parents hiding him for three months, not fearing the command of the king who said that if You but you need to cast your child into the Nile. You have Moses, he forsakes the riches of Egypt, and instead decides to suffer the sufferings of Christ, finding the riches of Christ greater than all of that in Egypt. You have the people of God encircling Jericho, do you remember that marching around, being told to do the preposterous, just to march and march and march, and yet through that the walls of Jericho fell. And then of course we have Gideon, Barack, Samson, Jeptah. David, Samuel, and the prophets. And all of these, we get that beautiful summary, just amazing in verse 33, who through faith subdued kingdoms, worked righteousness, obtained promises stuffed. The quenched the vi the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness, were made strong, became valiant in battle, turned to flight the armies of the aliens, and women received back their dead. These are the all of those that are described there in verse 39. It's an incredible group of people who did all of these amazing things to faith, and I skipped over The fact that they were tortured and they were slain, the world was not worthy of them, but you remember that as well. This is that group who did these incredible things through faith. And yet we find something very surprising in verse 39. These people are amazing, they're incredible, they're our heroes, they they trailblazers in some sense, we should be following in their stead. And then look at verse 39. All of these, those guys , Having obtained a good testimony through faith, everything we just described and I summarized for you, but what does it then go on to say? They did not receive the promise. Despite the fact that they had this good testimony of faith, that they fought the good fight, they ran the race, they were faithful. At the end of their journey, what does it say? They did not receive the promise. They lacked something. They didn't lack faith. They had faith. But they lacked something. They did not receive this promise. So the immediate question that should be coming into all of our minds is. What promise did they not receive? Where are these Old Testament saints? Where is Noah? Where is Enoch? Where is David? Where is Gideon, Jeptah, Samson? Where are they? Anybody know? Kids? Where are these people? Where are the Old Testament saints? Come on. Somebody say it. In the presence of the Lord, thank you. They are with him. So in what sense did they not receive the promise Put differently, what promise were they looking for? Now people can come up to any conclusion they want. They can just search the Bible and scour from its many pages. There's tons of promises in the Bible. So the question is what promise is referenced here And how do we find out? Well, I think the easiest way to do this is look at the immediate context. Scour the context and see is there any mention of something that they were looking for. Specifically, if they're looking for a promise, this might help us. They did not receive a promise, the promise that they were looking for. So I want you to look back to verse 13. They get a hint about what the promise was that they did not receive. Verse 13. These all died in faith. Not having received the promise. Sound familiar? They didn't receive the promise. Okay, which what promise? But having seen them from afar off, were assured of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims of the earth. For those who say such things declare plainly that they seek a homeland. And truly, if they had called to mind the country from which they had come out, They would have had an opportunity to return, but now they desire a better, that is, a heavenly country. Do you see the contrast? That on earth they were these pilgrims. On earth they were people who had no homeland. But they did not call back the place that they had left They had a homeland, they left it, they become pilgrims on this earth, they did not receive something, but instead of looking back, they looked where? They looked forward to their promise. And what was the promise? A better, that is, a heavenly country. Do you see the connection? The promise that they were looking for is this heavenly connection, this heavenly home. And that is what they did not receive on this earth. Hence the reason they had abandoned the kingdom of man in pursuit of the kingdom of God. But here's the question. Did they receive this kingdom when they died? They didn't receive it on earth, but did they receive it when they died? Well, verse 39, the passage that we're looking at, answers this. Again, let's read it. And all of these having obtained a good testimony through faith, and then of course, they died. Did not receive the promise. Hmm. Look at verse 40. God having provided something better for us that they should not be made perfect apart from us. Now this is really important. We have to Not lose this. That they did not receive the promise, but God has provided something better for us So what has he provided that is better for us? And what does that mean? And why does he do this? Well we continue to read in verse 40, God having provided something better for us, that they should not be made perfect Apart from us. So their perfection coincides with our perfection. Right? God has given us something better than they had, and what we'll end up being is when we become perfect, they too will become perfect. So some people believe that this refers to the future resurrection, that the thing that God has provided better for us Or this idea, you can see where they get this from, because I just said that they become perfect when we become perfect. And so the question is when when do we become perfect? And you can see how someone can say that we become perfect at the resurrection, the perfection of the body and the soul. And so our point of perfection will be their point of perfection, and then they point this to the resurrection. But I don't think that is correct. If you think that that's fine, but I don't think that. And here's why. Take Paul as an example here. Because what we see here is that there's something better that God provided for us than them. It's not just that latter part that we'll be perfect together. That's true. But God provided something for us New Testament saints that's better than He provided for those Old Testament saints. Everybody tracking that? Anybody see that in the text? Something better is for us now than it was for them. So let's take two cases. We'll take Noah and what happened to him, and then we'll take what happened to Paul. So consider Paul. Paul lives a life of faith. He fights the good fight and he dies. And where does he go? He goes straight into heaven 2 Corinthians 5. 8, we are confident, yes, well pleased rather to be absent from the body and to be present in the Lord. So Paul dies in this earth. and immediately goes to be with the Lord. Philippians 1. 21. For me to live is Christ, to die is gain. But if I live on the flesh, this will mean fruit for my labor. Yet what shall I choose? I cannot tell, for I am hard-pressed between the two, having desire to depart to be with Christ, which is far better Nevertheless, to remain in the flesh is more needful for you. So here in Philippians, you have Paul struggling and saying, I'm torn between these two realities. I love serving and ministering to you, I'm useful to you, and you're mourn if I'm gone, because I'm serving you And that my ministry is causing fruit in your lives. But he says there's another reality, and that if I were to die, it would be gained for me because I would be immediately translate into the presence of Christ. And so he's torn between to die and to gain and to be with the Lord and to stay and labor upon among them. Does everybody see that? Anybody get this? So what happens to Paul according to Paul? He dies, he gains, he bees, he goes with the Lord And this relates to a promise of Jesus. In John chapter 14, Jesus says this, and hopefully many of you memorize this wonderful passage. And he says, In my father's house are what? Many mansions. And if it were not so, I would not have told you so. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you to myself, that where I am There you will be also. It's what a great promise, right? And this is an amazing promise of Christ here that even says it's like he expects you not to really believe him. You see that? He says, but if it were not so, I would not have told you so. But I'm telling you that there are mansions in my father's house, and where I will be, there you will be also. So children, where is Christ? At the right hand of the Father. So if he's going to receive you to where he is, where is he going to take you? To his father's house. Where there are many mansions. And some of you might be already thinking, What happens to heaven at the very end? Heaven comes down To earth. So there's no tension here that you're going to go up to be with the Lord and He's going to you're going to dwell with Him in His mansion. And then one day heaven's going to come down to earth. And you can see that in Revelation chapter 21. So hope you get the picture. Paul dies and immediately he goes and dwells with the Lord in heaven. But what is Paul waiting for? Has Paul received everything? No. Paul is waiting for one day Christ to return and the resurrection of the righteous to happen. And Paul's been waiting for 2,000 years. Now take the Old Testament saints. What are they doing? They're in heaven as well, and they've been waiting for 2,000 plus years. And so the point I'm trying to raise to you is This doesn't seem to be any difference between, say, John the Baptist and Paul. They're both sitting there waiting in heaven for thousands and thousands of years for their resurrection body. But look at our text again. Verse 40, God having provided something better for us. So what did he provide better for Paul than John the Baptist, according to this view? Not much. Because both John the Baptist and Paul are waiting in heaven for their glorified bodies. Everybody see that? It doesn't seem any different. I mean you got a couple years between the two, but both of them are in heaven in glory waiting for the resurrection of their body. It doesn't seem to answer this statement here. Namely, how God has provided something better for us in the new covenant than he provided for John the Baptist in the old covenant, because both are sitting there in heaven waiting for their glorified body. And so for this reason, I don't think that view adequately explains this text. Now others see this problem and they say, okay, God must have provided something better for us than them, and that doesn't work. So they say what he's done. As he has given us the fullness of the knowledge of Christ. They knew in part, but we know in whole. They knew in shadow, but we know in reality. Think about the Ethiopian eunuch as he was reading Isaiah, and he said, Sir, Who is this referring to? And what does this mean? I don't know. And of course, the evangelist was able to explain after the fact what these things meant. And so the better thing they would say that he has provided is this greater revelation. And so here's Matthew Poole's commentary on this. He says, but none of these have fulfilled to them in their day the manifestation of Messiah in the flesh. Though they saw his day in coming by faith and did rejoice in it, yet none of them saw as Simeon did. And so the idea is that they saw through faith, but they didn't see reality, but he has provided something better for us, namely the fulfillment of these things. Now, I think that this explains the something better that he's provided for us, but the problem is this doesn't sound like the promise being referred to. When it says they did not receive the promise and that they were not perfected, this does not seem to go far enough. And so I think again the reality is the promise that they're waiting for is and look at Hebrews chapter 11 verse 10. This is the promise. For he waited for the city which has foundations, whose builder and maker is God. They were waiting for that city. That was the promise, but our text tells us that they had not received that promise. So here's my conclusion, and then I'll try to back it up from the text. I think what this text is telling us is that when Old Testament saints died, they did not receive the promise. And again, what is the promise? The heavenly city. The heavenly Jerusalem. They did not receive the kingdom of God in its fullness. They had to wait for us so that they would not be made perfect apart from us. And so where were they? I believe that they were in Hades. in Abraham's bosom, waiting to be received up into glory. And when Christ died and rose again, he empties out Those saints from Hades takes them from Hades, takes them into glory. And so that's why in the New Testament we have this glorious hope that immediately when we die, we go to be with the Lord. Now let me give you some scriptural evidence for this reality. I want you to turn over to Matthew chapter 27. Matthew chapter 27. Alright, let's look at verse 45. Matthew 27, verse 45. Now from the sixth hour until the ninth hour, there was darkness over all the land. Now we just parachuted in here, so let me just back up. You can scan up and down to see what's going on. These are the events surrounding the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. Right here in verse 45, Jesus is on the cross. Right? And from the sixth to the ninth hour, there is darkness over the land. How far is this? How expansive was this? Was this people in Maya? Was it dark for them? We don't know. The land could be either the land of Israel, that immediate sin, or it could be the entire earth. It doesn't really matter. The point is where Jesus was, it was dark. If you were there with Jesus, it went dark on you. Now skip to verse 51. Then, behold, the veil of the temple was torn in two from top to bottom, and the earthquaked, and the rocks were split And the graves were opened, and many of the bodies of the saints had fallen asleep and were raised, and coming out of the graves after his resurrection, they went into the holy city and appeared to many. So why have I taken here? Here's my thesis. I think that the events happening around Jesus' life, these symbolic realities, the sky going dark. The earthquake, the temple veil being torn, and these bodies that appeared are all symbolic representations of spiritual realities that happened on the outside. Happened in the background. In other words, you see the darkness physically, and this represents something spiritually that happens. You see the temple veil rip Physically, and this represents something spiritual that happens, and you see the resurrected bodies of many of the Old Testament saints physically, and this represents something spiritual that happens. Everybody get the thesis? Everybody see that? So what happened? What could the darkness surrounding Jesus' crucifixion represent? Here he's on the cross and it goes dark. And I think what this represents is that he who knew no sin, becoming sin, so that we could become the righteousness of God. It went dark to represent the darkness that was coming upon Christ and as he became our sin bearer. And just by the way, if you guys don't know this, hopefully many of you are already Christians and you know that, but this is the gospel. that Christ took on our sin, God put all of the sin of humanity onto him and punished him in our place, dying and rising again So that if we accept him, his righteousness is transferred to us. If that confuses you, let's just make it this. You have the debt, he has the payment. The payment was won on the cross, and so if you accept him, recognizing your debt Ask him to take it away. He will take your debt and give you his riches. Your sin will be washed away and you'll be as white as snow. That is the gospel in a nutshell. And here the darkness is representing that spiritual reality behind the scenes. And I hope everyone agrees with that. It's pretty simple. But what does the veil being torn represent? There was a veil here of the Holy of Holies where only the high priest could go into. And what we see in Hebrews is that this veil represents the Holy of Holies. This is the holiest place that only the high priest could go into. This represents God's kingdom. This represents glory And now the veil has been ripped. And we don't have to wonder what this means, because Hebrews tells us, and it says this, therefore, brethren. having boldness to enter the holiest by the blood of Jesus by a new and living way that he consecrated for us through the veil that is his flesh, having become a high priest over the house of God. So here's what he's saying. That veil meant you can't get in there. And if you were to get in there, you were to die because you're filthy and you're sinful. But because of what Christ did, that veil is torn so that you can now boldly approach the throne of grace. with the blood of Christ by a new and living way. Now check this. Think about this. If this veil is now torn, so that there's a new and living way into the presence of God, what was there before? There wasn't the new and living way. You weren't allowed to go in. That's the whole point. Christ came and tore that separation from you. But prior to that, you could not get in. But he has now provided a way for you to get in. Now this would immediately be thinking, but if you couldn't get in, how'd the Old Testament saints get in? I don't think they did. They couldn't get in. They had to wait for a new and living way to be consecrated for them once it's torn. Everybody can get in and everybody can become perfect all at once. Now, so those are those two things, and I don't think that should be too controversial. Maybe that last point. Maybe some of you disagree on that last point, but the idea that the veil being torn represents that we can now boldly approach the throne of grace is undeniable. That is what the scripture teaches. So here's the question. What do these graves opening up in the body of these dead saints wandering around the Holy City represent? Anybody know? Any fakers? Anybody ready? Okay, Malgar, I'll I'll give the answer. You hold on. But but here's the reality. You know, I was at CHBC and I've only been there like once or twice. And I was there for many years ago. And I remember I happened to go there when there was a pastoral council uh a bunch of pastors were there. It was like a All hands, pastor, something like that. You guys who see HBC people know this. They invite a bunch of pastors, they encourage them or whatever, and they send them back out. It's a local church down in DC. So I was there surrounded by a bunch of pastors, right? And I I don't even think I was a pastor at the time. So there's all these people with white hair. Okay, they weren't white hair, but they they're a lot older than me. And this passage came up. And you know what the pastor said? He said, I don't know what this passage means. Does anybody else know what this passage means? It was dead silent in the room. Nobody said that they knew what this passage meant. Now I thought I knew what this passage meant, but I thought I better not say anything. I can't be the only guy who knows what this passage means. I think the reason people don't know what this passage means is because they threw out the answer. They don't know what this passage means because they don't know the spiritual reality that happened to Old Testament saints when Christ rose from the grave. But if we actually get the puzzle piece, we'll understand. So here's the point. Something must have happened to The spiritual reality must have happened to these saints of old. It's not just random people. It's only the body of the saints that appeared to many on the Holy City after the resurrection of Jesus. What does this mean? Here's what it means. Something happened spiritually, resurrection-like to these Old Testament saints, and that's why it happens after the resurrection, and it points, this physical thing points to a spiritual reality that happened. Everybody tracking that? Something happened to them that looks like a resurrection. And it happens after the resurrection of Jesus. Now, do we have any other passages that describe some kind of resurrection that happens to Old Testament saints after the resurrection of Jesus? And I think the answer is yes, we do. Where do we have that? Revelation chapter 20. Revelation chapter 20 describes that we see the beginning of the vision is that there's an angel that comes and binds Satan for a thousand years. And I think that that represents figuratively what we see in John chapter 12. John 12 31 says John 12 31 says this. Now is the judgment of this world. Now the ruler of this world has been cast out. And for when I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all peoples to myself. Jesus says, after his death, Satan will be cast out of this earth. Where did he go? Symbolically the abyss. He was cast out, he was locked up. And now when he is lifted up, he will draw all peoples to himself. I look at this room and I see all the people he's drawn He will get all of the nations, and the devil will be unable to prevent him. Deuteronomy 32, verse 8 describes God separating the nations. And he says that he's taken Israel for himself. but given the other nations to the sons of God. And I think that refers to the devil and his minions. Israel became his inheritance and the world was cast over into Satan. But what we see in the Great Commission is Jesus takes back the keys to death in Hades. He destroys Satan, he casts him out, and says, Now I am boss. All authority in heaven and earth has been given to me. Go thereforth in what? Make disciples of every nation. The nations can no longer be held by Satan. The strong man has been bound and the gospel is marching forward. And then as we continue in the book of Revelation, we see a vision. Of all of these dead saints rising, resurrecting, and dwelling with Christ for a thousand years I think that this refers to exactly what we're talking about here. There's a spiritual resurrection that happens at the resurrection of Jesus of all of the Old Testament saints and now all New Testament saints upon death, that they can now be taken from Hades. Abraham's bosom, and now go directly into the presence of Christ. I think that Revelation 20, as mysterious as it is, is just describing this in a symbolic, pictural form. Here's another passage. Turn over to Revelation chapter 12. Revelation chapter 12, verse 54. And the dragon stood before the woman who was ready to give birth to devour her child as soon as it was born. She bore a male child who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron, and her child was caught up to God and his throne. Satan was thrown out of heaven. So here we have a picture, again, this is a symbolic representation of the church giving birth to the Messiah, Jesus, and then it says, and he was caught up. What does that refer to? Jesus being caught up. What do we call that? The ascension. This is Jesus' entire life summarized. Death, burial, resurrection, and ascension. So Jesus' life is completely summarized there. And then what happens next? Right after Jesus ascends, what happens? Verse 7. And a war broke out in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon and his angels fought, but they did not prevail, nor was a place found for them in heaven any longer. Do you see this? Up until the resurrection of Jesus, there was a place in heaven allowed for Satan. Satan was allowed to go up there and do something. But not any longer. No longer is Satan allowed to do whatever he used to do in the past in heaven. So what did he do? Verse 9 The great dragon was cast out, that serpent of old called the devil and Satan, who deceives the whole world and was cast to the earth, and his angels were cast with him. Verse 10 Then I heard a loud voice in heaven saying, Now salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ has come. For the accuser of our brethren, who accused them before our God day and night, has been cast down. What was he doing up there? He was accusing Noah of his drunkenness, David of his adultery. He was accusing Jephthah of his foolish vow. He was accusing them of all these things and accusing them day in and day out. But after the work of Christ, now the salvation has come. Now these souls who were once unperfected have now become perfected by the way you will be perfected by the blood of Jesus. And now the devil can make no more accusation against them. And by the way, he can no longer make an accusation against you either. Because once you're in Christ. He has no charge. Your sins are washed away. You're righteous. But again, I want you to see this. The gospel not only takes effect on us at belief, but it took effect on them after the resurrection of Jesus. The devil could accuse them, but not after Jesus rose and died and rose again on the cross. That's what our text says. We don't think like this. But how do you explain this? He was allowed in, accusing them. He's no longer allowed up there any longer. Verse 11. Look at this. They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony, for they did not love their lives to the death. It describes all of the Old Testament saints as martyrs for Jesus. Do you see that? What does Revelation 20 describe all believers as? Martyrs for Jesus. This is the same description. Because these are the same people. Because all believers are represented as spiritual martyrs for Jesus Verse twelve, Therefore rejoice, O heavens, and you who dwell in them. But woe to the inhabitants of the earth and the sea, for the devil has come down to you, having great wrath, because he knows that is time. My point is this. This text shows undeniably that something amazing happened for the Old Testament saints that has to do with salvation and accusation. Right around the resurrection of Jesus. And I'm saying as you put all this together, what you come to realize is this. The Old Testament saints were not made perfect upon death. They did not receive the promise, which was the heavenly city. Hades, in Abraham's bosom, is not the promise. You don't want to go there, and neither do I, do you? I don't want to go to Hades. I want to go be with Jesus. Jesus isn't in Hades, and neither is God the Father. I want to go be where he is, where these wonderful angels are. And they did not receive that until Jesus, I believe, came back, who died on the cross, rose again, and ascended into glory. One more piece of text to show, and then I'll wrap this up. Hebrews chapter 12, I think, is absolutely crucial to kind of put all this together. Remember, our text said the Old Testament saints did not receive the promise, they were not made perfect, but they'll be made perfect with us. It's very important to catch this. The Old Testament saints were not made perfect. They did not receive the promise, but they will be made perfect with us. Now turn over to Hebrews chapter 12, verse 22. This is the vision, and the point of this is to contrast the Old Testament, Mount the Mountain of the Law, with Mount Zion, the New Testament. Jesus as you don't go to this fearful mountain, that's a mountain of dread and death, but now you come into the new covenant, into ultimately the kingdom of God And he describes this new mountain, this new covenant, with these words, But you have come to Mount Zion, and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, to an innumerable company of angels, to the general assembly of the church, of the firstborn who are registered in heaven. To the God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect. They were not made perfect, it says. They did not receive the promise. But now you come to this new heavenly city, and those same people who were not made perfect back then are now made perfect today. The same people who had not received the heavenly city now have received the heavenly city. I think you put all this together, you see this reality. So that's my thesis. Now what does it have to do with Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1? Everything. Look at it again. Let's look at that really quick. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1. Therefore, we also, since we have we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight So who are these witnesses? We just talked about them. They're all the Old Testament saints in Hebrews chapter 11. Where are they? And how are they surrounding us? They're surrounding us because they are now in heaven. We are now surrounded by this great cause witnesses because they now have received the promise. They now have been made perfect. They are now in heaven, looking down upon us, and we are in fact spectators to them. And he's encouraging us in the way this work says, we both look at them and they're cheering us on saying, I've done it, I overcame you do it too. And it's also to encourage you because you have these people looking down upon you, watching you run your race. I don't know if any of you have ever played athletics before, but there's something about someone that you love cheering you on down there in the field. In fact there's a lot of sports shows like this where there's dad on the sideline and there's an athlete doing the thing and he looks over and recognizes dad's watching And that becomes the encouragement to push a little harder and ultimately win the battle. And I think that's what's going on here. That we're being described as being surrounded by this great cloud of witnesses of people who have run the race, that have overcome, that have gained the crown, and that's to encourage us to run that race harder. Now for some of you you don't like that, and that's okay. You like the next part though, and that's fine for me, which says not only should we be encouraged by those who went before us and they're looking upon us, but ultimately we should we're supposed to do what? We're supposed to cast our vision on Christ, the perfecter of our faith. It's both. It's not one or the other. We're supposed to be encouraged by Old Testament saints, but in the end, we fix our eyes not on heaven, but on Jesus Christ, who is in heaven. Recognizing that it's through him that we will overcome all sin and run this race, casting aside every burden and all the sin that clings so closely. Whether you've agreed with this term or not, that's fine, but I want you to recognize this fundamental point that hopefully none of you will disagree with. Namely, do you want to be with Christ? Do you want to go to glory? There's a debate about what happened with the Old Testament Saints immediately upon death. That's interesting and we we looked at that. But there is no debate about what's happening to believers and unbelievers immediately upon death now. There's only two faiths, heaven or hell, the lake of fire or glory, resurrection, being perfected. Through Christ? Well ultimately being cast away. Eternal death. Burning and tears and pain. And ultimately Your destiny is what you do with Christ. Will you believe and live? Or will you reject and perish The George is yours. I put heaven and hell before you, and I plead with you, choose life, choose Christ, believe in him, be rescued from your sins. Please join me in prayer. Dearly Father God, we we love you, we thank you for your gospel. We thank you that Even though you have put many Easter eggs in your Bible and complexities and difficulties on some of these things, the plain message of the gospel is so clear. And so plain, and we thank you for that, Lord. We ask that you would help us have simple faith, that we would believe, and we would trust, and we would cast ourselves upon you. And I pray that, Lord, we work toward the saving of the lost and that we work toward the saving of our children. We pray this in Jesus' name.