In this talk, I want to talk about uh seminary and what kind of advice I would give to someone who's thinking about seminary. I went to seminary I went to seminary and completed my MDIV from Southern uh Southern Baptist Theological Seminary, and I really, really enjoyed my experience there. I went to seminary from two thousand and fifteen to two thousand and eighteen and I did uh my my seminary experience. I did it online. There was a there was a time where I took a few classes that meant moduli, which meant that I would show up to a a location and hear and meet the professor, meet the students, and it would be like this uh ex intensive class where we'd be there for For two days essentially four, five, six hours of that day, just getting tons and tons of of election material all in that one expression So I did a couple of those classes as well. But for the most part, I did um my my seminary online and I absolutely I absolutely loved it. One of the great advantages for doing it online was one at that time when I first enrolled into seminary I had two kids. I ended up by the time I was out of seminary, um, I had four kids. And so I needed to work a full time job and so it just wasn't very practical for me to or it was not not only was it not practical, but it was impossible for me to go and move down to a seminary and and to try to take care of my family and and uh and and do seminary. So that just was not possible. And so being able to do it online was very, very helpful because I was able to work full time and I was able to do seminary. And I think it's just uh just a a shame. It's just crazy to go into debt um to for a seminary education knowing that when you get out of seminary it's gonna be difficult for you to take care of a family, let alone pay back uh three years of of student loans and that's that's to adding on top of whether or not you did the four years for the bachelor 's in student loans. I mean if you've already done four years of student loans there's just no way you're gonna be able to take on another three years of student loans. and and then su uh expected to support yourself um after that of seven years of student loans. That's just crazy. Even three years of student loans in my mind was just crazy. And so it was a lot easier to afford seminary while working full-time. Because if you think about it, at least half of of the money that you the student loans cost is just living cost. There's also an opportunity cost of you not working, and so that's half to probably three-fourths of the price of seminary is the the money that you would be making if you were working. And uh and and then also um also just paying t to live. So working full time really worked out great for me. Now if you're a if you're a young man, not married, no kids um, you know, then it might be you might be in a totally different scenario where you can just go out there and you can work part time and and you can l you know, live in a motel basically or or live on campus or whatever and have very little expenses and and just, you know Just uh fight through it. And so that makes sense and I don't really have uh any any opposition to that. In fact I think that, you know Th there were some things that I think that I I missed out on, the the fact that I wasn't on the campus. Uh the main thing I think I missed out is just being able to interact with uh with the teachers. I'm I'm the kind of person who asks a million questions. and it's just always asking, asking, asking, asking. And I missed out on that, not being able to constantly drill my professors through questions. And so I I do admit that I I missed out on that. But there's a lot of students, even when I do modular, I was always sitting in the front and just asking and bearing questions. Uh there was tons of students who were doing those modulars or just tons of students, you know the kind of person that you are, where you're sitting in a class, sit in the back, sit in the middle, don't ask any questions and walk straight out. I mean, are you really missing too much if you're that kind of person? I don't know, you gotta answer that for yourself. I d I don't think y if you're not gonna be constantly uh drilling the professors in questions, are you really missing out because uh your distance. Th the other thing is there is a sense there's a camaraderie and there's a possibility of of of developing friendships through your seminary classes. And and that is true. Um and so that's something I kind of missed out as well. Now the the counterbalance of that is I I have heard of of people Um, you know, let's not just not pretend like you're gonna get you know, millions uh uh tons and tons of friends that way. People are busy just like you're busy and people don't really have time uh how busy you are in seminary and doing all these other things, how much time are you gonna have to build friendships, you know, it's gonna be limited. But that's not to say I know people who have built like extremely good friendships in in contacts that uh were gonna be extremely important through seminary. So that that's something to consider. But if you're if you're a married man, if you're working full time, you're middle aged, uh that's in my mind does not outweigh the the the cost of of um of having to afford three years of not working and and relocating your family. So I would uh seriously recommend online education Another reason that online education is so wonderful is that you stay in your local church. You stay ministering in your church. They already know you. This is most likely the church that said, hey, we see gifts in you. We think you'd be good in seminary. And so they already think that way. Now you're going to seminary. Now you become the seminary guy in the church. And so it automatically kind of elevates you and puts you in a in a different realm because everyone knows you're going to seminary. because you want to be uh doing ministry. So you automatically become like a ministry prospect kind of guy. You're building relationship. You're growing. You're in the actual natural environment. Where's the real environment for uh the believer, it it's the church. And it's a real church that you're going to. Not um I don't want to call campus churches not real churches or college churches not real churches. But they are and very much uh artificial in some way because they only exist to minister to the the campus. They they're they're constantly having All of the students uh go in in and out, in and out, in and out. And and so this is high flux. You're you're in a you're in a place uh with a bunch of people your age and and it doesn't really lend very well to interacting with different demographics. It's just not a regular church environment. And it it's just I I think that's a major disadvantage of and so I would encourage if you do go to a uh on campus location, find a real church to go to, not just the the church campus church with the with the amazing band and and all of the young folks. I mean that's just a totally artificial environment. One of the great things about going to uh a regular church is that you get senior citizens, you get babies, you get everything in between, you get the teenager, you get the whole thing and we get to grow together and minister. together. And another reason is, you know, to be honest, if you're going to this campus church and they know you're only going to be here for three years, how much is the leadership naturally going to invest in you knowing that you're three years and you're gone? See I'm I mean, I'm sure they want to minister to you, but there's just a reality, you're one of three hundred of these people coming in and out. It's easy to get lost. It's easy to to say I'm not really gonna uh invest myself into you rather I'd invest the guy who actually lives here who's gonna stay here and be here for a long time. So That's that's another thing I would just encourage you to um to minister in in a local church um that that's a regular church with with all kinds of diff different demographics. It also doesn't spoil you if you're so used to going to a thousand plus membership congregation. I mean, is that the church that's really going to call you as their head pastor or something, uh, after you're done with seminary? I mean, good grief. Probably not, right? You're probably gonna go to that that you know, that small church that that sent you most likely to seminary in the first place. And you kind of spoil yourself because all of a sudden every time you went to Bible study, every time you went to um went to some kind of ministry thing. There was a hundred people, you know, of that thousand people plus congregation showing up to every ministry. Now when you're in your regular church, right, and you only have a hundred people and when you do a ministry, five people come up. Is that really gonna um is that really the best environment to motivate you to minister with all of your heart to those five people? Again, just being in a a natural environment Also, who's the most p likely person to uh give you that uh opportunities to train and teach and do all that? Is it the church that just met you, you know? because you showed up on campus and they're just trying to get to meet you in first year, second year and and when you finally develop relationships you're you're about to head out the door? Probably not. It's you probably have a much better relationship with your home body church. Another thing about that is for me, um, th there was it I wanted confirmation more than just my speaking ability, my teaching ability. I wanted confirmation on my character. I mean, if you look at the qualifications of being an elder, so many of those qualifications are are not about teaching. There there is a qualification about teaching, but so much more of that qualification is about who you are, who is your person, who's the best people to um to really be able to assess your your person and your godliness. It's that local church, that local church that actually know you, where the elder knows your name, and he knows when you're not there. He knows when you're dozing off in church. that's the kind of the the kind of elder that you want. So for all that reason I think online um seminary can be absolutely wonderful because you're s you're you're plugged into your local church. Now you can still get some of these advantages by just when you go to seminary, going to a a regular local church around there instead of going to the the hip um the the hip college the college church. Let me say something else. Um be careful about seminaries that are have have um Bible colleges connected to them and you might be uh sorely disappointed Um what I mean by that is I when I visited Southern, I love Southern, it's a great seminary, but it has a Bible college there connected with it And I really hope that this was gonna be kind of like a utopia of of of ministry candidates and and very serious Christians and just you know, it was just gonna be wonderful that way. And it was there was some of that and there was also just a um Christian college which had, you know, college kids who were you know so i I'm just saying that y you don't expect a Christian utopia with with with eighteen year olds, nineteen, twenty year olds um living in the worldly environment that we do. You're gonna be watching, you're gonna be guarding your eyes uh like you like like you're in the mall. Uh so just just know that. Um I think that this is probably less so if you go to a smaller seminary that's only connected with the seminary, but just don't expect some kind of utopia where it's just gonna be ministerial candidates because you very much so might walk by someone dressing completely inappropriate and you're absolutely shocked. That they wouldn't even profess the name of Christ into wear things like that. I mean just know that that's what a a uh you know a Bible college pretty much environment is going to be like Uh especially we're not going to like some kind of like hardcore fundamentalist church. I mean, and and I don't want to get to a tangent here, but this is one of the weaknesses of the evangelical movement is that we're so terrified of being called legalists And and we're so, you know, uh wanna be broad and inclusive that it's really hard to st you know, st come down upon short shorts and, you know, all kinds of inappropriate stuff. I mean, we just don't do it. We we don't want to be called the the heretic and it's kinda like you know, with with with it's just kind of a free-for-all going on. So just know that that's kind of gonna be the the environment you're gonna be in this. So don't expect some kind of Christian utopia, it's just not gonna happen And so that's kind of uh my my big assessment on on seminary online education uh versus versus being in an actual being at the seminary itself. Um in the in the next session I'm just going to talk about just seminary in general and some things and some advantages and and and what do I think it's worth your time. Should you do it? how to be successful, just some more general uh things about seminary. This one I just kind of wanted to to talk about online education and versus um being at the actually at at on site and and then if you are on site how to kind of get some of those advantages from online uh online education as well