Jeremiah 923 is one of the most beautiful passages, probably in the entire Bible Uh certainly in in Jeremiah. It's just it's just so lovely. Hear this hear this uh passage from God's word. Thus says the Lord, let not the wise man boast in his wisdom, let not the mighty man boast in his might. Let not the rich man boast in his riches, but let him who boast boast in this, that he understands and knows me. That I am the Lord who practices steadfast love, justice, and righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, declares the Lord. How wonderful, how applicable to our lives. Let us not boast in our wisdom. Let us not boast in our strength. Let us not boast in our riches. But instead of boasting in this, let us boast in the one thing worthy of boasting. And what is that? That we know the Lord. We know him who has this steadfast love, this justice. and righteousness. And if we boast in the Lord, God says that he will delight in this. He will delight in us if we boast in him. But what if we boast in ourselves? What if we're we're arrogant and we think highly of ourselves? What will the Lord do? The Lord said he resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. God will resist us. God will curse us. We will be rejected. How humbly? What are you tempted to boast in in and of yourself. Are you tempted to boast in your beauty? Are you tempted to boast in your intellect? Are you tempted to boast in your academic credentials. What are you tempted to boast in? Even are you tempted to boast in your general godliness? Whatever it is that you're tempted to boast then and to feel proud and feel that you're better than other people. Remember you are not better than other people. In fact, every person that you meet is your superior in something. But even beyond that, we're all sinners. We all deserve nothing but hell. That's what we deserve. We deserve hell, but instead If we believe in Jesus Christ, God gives us grace. So let us be people who boast in the Lord. Say, it's not about me. It's not about what I do. It's not about how great I am. I'm not great. I'm not anything. But I can tell you one who is great, the one that I know I am a sinner saved by grace every single day, and in fact you are too. You are a sinner, and I'm pleading with you to learn him who is great. Know him who has that steadfast love. Do I have steadfast love? My love is wavery. I need God to help me. Am I always just? Absolutely not. A perfectly just person wouldn't sin, but I am. a sinner. What about righteousness? Of course I'm not righteous. I have a continuous need for forgiveness. Give us this day our daily bread. Forgive us of our debts as we also forgive are debtors. We are constantly sinners who are sinned against who we extend grace to other people. I am not the one who's awesome. I am not the one who's so wonderful. God is the one who is awesome. God is the one who is so wonderful