Amen. All right, let's turn over to Romans chapter four. Romans chapter 4 and can I have uh Miss Brenda actually can you read verse uh Romans chapter 4, verse 13 all the way to the end of the chapter? For the promise to Abraham and his offspring that he would be heir to the world did not come through the law but through the righteousness of faith. For it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs. Faith is null and promise is void. For the law brings wrath, but where there is no law, there is no transgression. That is why it depends on faith, in order that the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all its offspring, not only to the adherent of the law, but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is the father of us all. As it is written, I have made you the father of many nations, in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead and calls into existence the things that do not exist In hope he believed against hope that he should become the father of many nations, as he had been told. So shall your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old. or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, but he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why his faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words it was counted to him were not written for his sake alone, but for ours also. It will be counted to us who believe in him, who raised from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. We always want to cover the service in prayer. Alright, so I want to I'll just open it up for any thoughts, comments questions on anything we talked about in the sermon that you remember? If not, we can press into the passage. But anything, any thoughts, questions, or concerns that you had about the sermon or anything we talked about this morning? Well um you mentioned about uh laser may I find you, my go ahead. Keep on and um I just remembered um my One of my good friends had brought that up. Um a while ago he said he was following the Lord and then fears Later he uh said that he's not following us. And he brought that up to me and well, you know, it might be good if I do. you know, just in case it is, you know, kind of truth. Yeah. Um, and we may have a back and forth conversation, but you know , thinking about what you're saying, It doesn't work like that. It doesn't it's not a well you know what I think I'll uh go ahead and do it as a as a emergency just in case in case. Yeah. I pray for my my um my my friend is that he would, you know, come back. Yeah. Yeah, so li I'm glad you bud okay, let's talk about pass scales wager. Before we do that we gotta talk a little bit about Apologetics, period. Okay, so apologetics are is the word not apology, but to give it offense for the r for the hope that we have in us. So if somebody says, you know, well, why are you a believer? W what is this Christianity thing? Why should I believe this? You're apologetic, your defense is the answer to that question. Okay. Um and and hope well I'll just I'll just stop here. If someone were to ask you that question, why should I believe this? Or why do you believe this? I I mean you could be in million other places Why are you here? Why are you devoting yourself to this story from 2,000 years ago? And really the story goes way farther back than that. It goes back forth outs of written history. I mean, you know the oldest books that we have? Yes. When when writing started to uh form on the earth, uh the Bible was being created. And so this is the oldest book, the best selling book, the light the book that we devote our lives to. Why why believe it? Do you read any other old books? Are you just in the old old stuff? Old stories? Why this story? What would you say? What would be your apologies? What would be what would be your defense? Amen. I I think that's that's exactly where I would go to. Because I have experienced the power of God in my life. Because this book spoke of truths that were true of me and came true of me. In other words, when I read this book, this book reads me. This book discerns my heart and my intent. And actually, doesn't that isn't that what Hebrew says that the Word of God is sharper than any two-edged sword discerning the difference between the spirit And the soul and the bones and the marrow discerning the hearts and intentions of man. The Bible searches you and it pierces you and it reveals things about you that only God could know It's an accurate assessment of who you are, is what I'm saying. And so just as it speaks accurately about who you are and who other people are and the society that we live in It also speaks accurately about the way of redemption. And so, for example, and some of you who, um, I think hopefully most of you, if not all of you, who are converts As an adult, which surprisingly this room, it seems to me is like full of people that converted as an adult, at least a lot of you, right? Is that is that fair? I think there's probably a an imbalance uh in this room than the greater Christian, there's a lot of adult converts is what I'm simply saying. And if you are an adult convert you can see much more starkly than most people who aren't the radical difference of not walking with the Lord and walking with the Lord And I pray and I hope that when you read passages like God will take the heart of stone and put a heart of flesh in you, or that you must be born again, or the washing of regeneration, you don't scratch your head and say, What's this strange doctrine? I wonder what that means. Right? Instead, you should be able to look at yourself and say, oh yeah, that was like what happened to me when Christ changed my life. And so I think that one of the, and I think you're saying that, Miss Lisa, one of the most powerful testimonies is your own testimony. Namely, I have tasted, I have seen, this is wonderful. And truthfully, uh people have figured out the power of testimonies, and it's a billion-dollar industry, and it's called influencers. The problem is they're paid off. I don't know if you notice this. Right? There's an influencer. Anybody tracking this? There's a person online who has a YouTube channel. And then advertisers send them their product and they all say the same thing. I'm not bought off, but I just have to tell you that this product was sent to me. And then they say how wonderful it is and it's just incredible and they throw a fake con in, like, oh yeah, but it's a little too expensive. And then you're like, oh wow, what a great testimony, and you go and buy it. What I'm trying to say is even the world has figured out the power of a personal testimony. You saying this is wonderful. This is great. You're like, ooh, what's that? Let me go check it out. And just by by the way, and I've said this before, but this is my hope for this church. My hope is that we, as we continue to walk in the Spirit and pray down God's blessing, if we're not there, I hope to be there. We might be already there, to be honest. Would get to the point where you could tell somebody else, this place is wonderful. Come and check it out. Come and see people who will love you. Come and hear songs that will stir you. Come and hear a message that will pierce you. Right? I mean to me that would be the best advertisement ever. And for it not to be false advertisement, for it to be true. That's my hope. So the power of the testimony. Everybody see that? The power of the testimony of a life changed by God. Any other thing that you would point to? And shortly after I was saved at Spelling Test and I had a ring, it was my father's baby ring he w wore. And I remember the spirit telling me, Leave that ring at home. You're not tempted for a cheap. baby was gonna be on me. Really? That's my first memory I have of being touched by the spirit to do something. Yeah. with him mo almost all my life. There was a period when we didn't go to church, but still he was there. He constantly shows me that he's with me. Even this morning he gave me a He gave that to me. I am currently doing things like this. Amen. So what I'm hearing is, and I profoundly agree with it, it's not just the testimony of a God who changes our heart, but it's actually also the testimony of walking with a God who remains alive, who never leaves us or forsakes us. In other words, Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd I shall not want. He leads me beside the still waters, right? He leads me into the pastoral righteousness for his name's sake. God is alive. And I do hope that not only can you testify that God has changed your heart, that God has filled your heart with love. And with kindness, but also that he just walks with you. That you see miracles in your life. You see God touching you and touching others and you just walk in with God. What a great life that would be Hopefully that's your life. What a great life it would be if you just walk around and like God is with you and He protects you and He defends you. Right? That got sometimes I joke and talk about my angels, but I'm really talking about God That I truly believe that angels are surrounding me and that they guard me and that they protect me. And I think sometimes you I think it's you, Miss Brender, who mentions somebody here constantly mentions all the interventions that we never know about. I'm fully convinced that happens. That God is protecting me. His secret hand is keeping me, even when I'm just foolish, right? Even times I should have died and been injured, God has protected me, and it's not because I have great dexterity. It's because God he lead us thing. But he doesn't always protect us from getting good. He sometimes we do. But he's there. Yeah. To get us through it. You're right. So even if for whatever Yes. Even there. Even there. But I will tell you, he protects me so much that I'm really surprised when those things happened. But they do happen. No, they do happen though. You're right about that. But they shock me. I'm like, God, what happened? Isn't surprising. How'd you let this one through? And it it has a good reason. I could tell you a real moment like this happened Um we were go does anybody know what pickleball is? I love some pickleball. I'm a recovering pickleball addict I've been I've been free for four years. But I love pickleball. So we were out playing pickleball, right, and I was getting the kids, Come on, come on, we gotta go, we gotta go, right? And um one of my kids said, Oh I forgot something and another kid was rushing out to come And he ran around the corner and busted him his his head hit the other one's head and his teeth were bleeding everywhere and he had just been injured in his mouth and it was just permanent teeth and I was sure his teeth were gonna go No. And I was just cradling my son in my arms as he's gushing blood out of his mouth and his teeth look like they're gonna be destroyed forever. The dentist said we don't know if we can we can't do anything. It's just God really. And at that moment I just wanted to cry out, Why God? Why? Why? Does that make sense? You've been there in that moment where you're just like, God, it it was just the the per right around the corner. What do you think? A couple of seconds and it would have been fine. But perfect collision of one skull going into one person's mouth and it it was horrifying. But God made a spirit. So yeah, there are those moments that we do have those those things, but how many times do we not go through that? So often we're free of that, but yes, if you walk with the Lord enough, you will watch horrible things happen. And you will be tested and have those moments where you're just honing your baby and crying Why? Why? But we can trust him. God leads us. He guides us. He blesses us. He's faithful to his word. Any other reasons that you would point to if someone says, Why do you have such hope in you? Why do you believe in this Christ? I'm playing just look around. You know , creation. You know, revealing who he is. That's the the big thing Yes. Couple with all these theories in intelligent ways of trying to go around it, but it's not really funny. Yeah, no, so can you go to uh Psalm fifty three, Miss Jan, can you go to Psalm nineteen? We're gonna we're gonna let's put this as our next memory verse. Psalm fifty-three verse one. Right. Oh, yeah. Psalm fifty three verse one. Yeah. And then we're gonna go to Psalm nineteen next. All right. Psalm 53. 1. The fool has said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt and have done abominable iniquity. There is none who does good. Okay. Don't ever forget this verse. This verse is so important, especially in our atheistic, scoffing, God-rejecting society. Don't ever forget this. In fact We just celebrated Good Friday. And just on a side note, thank you all. Most of the people in this room came to Good Friday. Thank you for the show, Alice. I was very proud to be the pastor of Death at Baptist Church. I felt wonderful. I mean that. It was wonderful to to see you all. We did have some somewhat apostates at some else, but that's fine. That's fine. There was a Jessup row and then then these people decided to put someone else. I was waiting over the road. No, they were that's one. Had you come over there though we might have become proud. So perhaps it was a good thing that you sat elsewhere. But no you I I really had a great time and and and and there was a a beautiful showing and I I I really thank you all for for coming out. It was it was really w it was really wonderful and special. But that's Good Friday, right? Good Friday, what was that, the third? Good Friday was the third yet. Yeah, and and before that we had the Atheist Day, April Fool's Day. Right Everybody get that? Okay. So never forget this that the fool says in his heart, there is no God The second somebody tells you that there is no God, immediately you should be thinking of this passage. I don't care how many PhDs they have behind their name. I don't care they wear a little bow tie and have a little pipe and a strange mustache. It does not matter. The fool says in his heart that there is no God. God has said that long ago. It is utter folly and foolishness to say that. The second thing I want you to remember is this When someone says that there is no God and they try to hide behind intellectual reasons and they want to argue with you about why the Bible's corrupt and the Big Bang Theory which is ridiculous, which says that nothing went boom and created everything, which is It's just it's it's laughable that anyone would actually actually believe that. But they have to because one the science the science itself points to the fact that the universe is expanding. And so we know that. The universe is expanding. Okay? But if it's expanding, then that means you can rewind the clock. But you can't rewind the clock forever because if something expands, it has to eventually start have a starting point. This is why the Big Bang Theory is out there. Even though it's absurd, it's because they say because it's expanding, we know we can rewind the clock and it has to go back to a point of singularity. But that means that eventually before that point there was nothing. And then nothing went bang and blew up and it's continuing to expand. It's absurd. Rather, that points to what we find in the Bible. God said what? Let there be light. God burst creation by speaking it. That is the true Big Bang. The power of God speaking the world into existence and that's why the universe is expanding. But they can't believe that because they reject God because they're fools. Right? That makes sense? Now sec so understand that the fool says in his heart that there is no God, and that's on the next memory verse Remember this too, though. They claim there's just intellectual reasons they don't believe in God. But what does our text say? They are corrupt. They have done abominable iniquity. Remember the person you're talking to who is a fool, who is an atheist, is themselves extremely biased. They will tell you how moral they are and it's actually intellectual reasons they don't believe God, but the Bible tells us they have done a Abominable iniquity. That's their real problem, is they're hiding in the darkness and claiming these intellectual reasons are just shields for their evil practices. So I just want you, that's just the the framework that keep to always keep in mind that the atheist that you're talking to. You're talking to a fool and you're talking to someone who's desperately in need of grace and desperately hiding in the darkness of their sin. Okay. Yeah, just keep going, I'll take on the start. Okay, sure. The heavens declare the glory of God. The skies proclaim the work of his hands. Day after day they pour forth speech. Night after night they display knowledge There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard. Their voice goes out into all the earth. Their words to the ends of the world. In the heavens he has pitched a tent for the sun. Which is like a bridegroom coming forth from his pavilion, like a champion rejoicing to run his course It rises at one end of the heavens and makes its circuit to the other. Nothing is hidden from its heat. And then it goes on to describe The scriptures. And so Psalm 19 is divided in two sections. It talks about creation and then it talks about the scriptures. For general revelation, God revealing himself in creation, special revelation, God revealing himself in the scriptures. Hopefully someday we'll come back to this and I'll preach through this. It's lovely. This is an amazing song, okay? Spend some time in this one. This one's fantastic. Some one, some two, some 19, some nineteen. There's a couple, many of them are great. But this is one of the top ones But we came here because it says back in verse 1, the heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament shows his handiwork, day onto day utter speech Night onto night reveals knowledge. There is no speech. There is no speech or language where their voice is not heard. Let me turn that off. Let me turn those off. Um, what this is saying is, creation is shouting that there's a God. It's shouting that there is a God, right? It is just constantly bombarding you with the amazingness of who God is. Just look up there. Just look take some time to look up there and just be like, wow, who made this? Look at your fingers. Look at the the capacity of movement of your hand This is amazing. The fact that you can grip things and grab things. The fact that you're walking, talking, thinking, bag of dust, it's incredible. It's really incredible that we eat and that we drink and that we have emotions and that we have freedom of will and it's amazing if you just stop and look at yourself in the mirror for a second And if you stop and look at creation and the animals and all these things, so much more complicated than anything we have created And we would never look at, you know, a building out there or some software on our phone and say this was just some kind of cosmic accident. We know that, and yet you are so much more complicated and amazing than this thing is How could you possibly believe that this was just an accident? It takes really, really smart people to convince you of something so dumb. And that's called evolution Really, really smart people and you being very biased because you want to believe what they're saying to believe something not foolish. God has revealed it to you. It's always been true and it always continues to be true. You don't need to convince someone that there is a God. You need to be convinced that there is no God. Because you know that there is a God and you have to harden your heart against it. So Where what is apologetics? Apologetics is defending the faith. You sh you don't have to prove God, you just have to point to God and speak about God and testify to what he's done. Sometimes though, people will give you these intellectual problems. What about this? What about that? about this. My best advice to you is recognize what is going on. If they on if they're honest and they're I say honest, if they're just trying to seek for the truth and these things are true obstacles, then I think you should give them true answers. Answer fool according to his father, lest he be wise in his own sights. So if he says, what about this? What about that? Then you know give him an answer. Many times they're not asking insincerity at all. They're trying to be a scoff and trying to corrupt you. Do not answer a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him. And sometimes you just have to say, nope, Jesus saved me, and that's all. Preach the gospel and walk away And let God's power be at work. Now I'm saying all that because we talked about Pascal's wager. So where does Pascal's wager come in? I don't think it's useless. I actually like Pascal's wager in the sense that it can be used to try to reason with an unbeliever and show them the folly of their own position and the ultimate outcome, even if they're right. Okay, Atheist, if you are right, and I am just a bag of dust, and I will die and disappear, never to be seen again Sounds kinda gloomy, doesn't it? Like you're not giving me good news. You're actually giving me horrible news. So yeah, you might be right, but the the outcome is terrible. And by the way, what I just described, which is actually what atheism is, is called nihilism. And true nihilism, the only real question that makes any sense is whether suicide should be done. Because nothing else matters But even suicide doesn't matter because nothing matters because you're going to die and everyone you love are going to die and the universe is going to implode and have cosmic heat does heat death and there's no escape. Does that make sense It's truly futile. And the Bible speaks about this in Ecclesiastes. Vanity of vanity, all is vain under the sun. Outside of God, nothing else matters. So that's that is nihilism, that is atheism to its logical point. If you're a right atheist, then what you're saying is nothing matters whatsoever If I'm a Christian, it doesn't matter. If I'm not a Christian, it doesn't matter. If I live a good life, it doesn't matter. If I live a b Life it doesn't matter. If I live through a hundred, it doesn't matter. If I die at nineteen on a motorcycle, it does not matter. We're all gonna die and everything we do will come to nothing That's just the hard facts of nihilism. People try to deny that and try to run around, but you can't really escape that. So I think it is helpful to point that out to the atheists and say your position leads to nihilism. However, if you're wrong, if you're wrong, there's a hell to pay. You are not a bag of dust, you're actually a creature made in the image of God. And that's why you're so much better than all of the rest of creation And that's why you yourself know that God has put eternity in your heart and that you will not die forever, but you will rise from the grave. You see? I I think there's a value of Past Gilles Wager to show them the benefits, if you want to call it, of their view, namely their bag of dust going to disappear, and the consequences of being wrong, namely that they're going to go to hell. And the benefits of the Christian view, namely that we will dwell with God I think that I think that's fine to do that. What I don't like about Pascal 's wager is the concept that someone can simply say, well you know what? If I'm wrong, I'm then There's bad consequences. But I don't even really believe this, but you know what? I'm just gonna act like I believe it because possibly I could go to heaven That's where it goes wrong. If it plants a thought in someone's mind to get them thinking and to get an audience for the gospel, it's okay. But if you actually convince someone and they say, you know what, based on Pascal 's wager, I'm going to start going to church and I want to be baptized. Somebody told me that. I've been reading Pascal 's wager and I figured it was more foolish. To wager on atheism than the wager on Christianity. I'd like to be a Christian. I'd say, get out. I wouldn't say that. I would preach the gospel to the person, tell them repent. Right? Pascal 's wager is not the gospel John three sixteen is the gospel. So any thoughts or comments on that? Does that make sense the difference between Gospel's wager and the gospel? I'm not sure. Go ahead. I'm not sure I'm even never So if we're talking about the even the heavens and the earth and we're being prayers for glory to God and we're giving our testimony to that person and then we have this scripture to back it up. So unless God has called them, then it's not gonna matter. Would they not be able to That's a great question. Um on on the here here's what I would say. Let me just give the basic answer and we can keep digging if you want. Okay. The basic answer is let God be God and let me be me. God's responsibility is to be the sovereign ruler of the universe And I'll let him do his purview. My responsibility is to obey what he's told me to do, which he told me to go therefore and make disciples of all nations, preaching the gospel to every living creature. Right. The second thing I would does that make sense though the first thing is I'm gonna let God be God and I'm gonna let me be me. Right? God has told me to do certain things. He has not told me to call people That's God's supernatural power. He sends his Holy Spirit. He does all this calling business. I do the preaching, the praying, the pleading business That's the first thing I would say. The second thing I would say is God calls through our evangelism, through our efforts, through our prayers. It's not like he does these things outside of those things Right? Think about Paul as an example. That God called him by his grace. He says that in Galatians. When God was pleased to reveal himself to him, he revealed himself to In the case of Paul, this is extreme too, right? Remember Paul, he's on his horse, right, heaven's open, and he's knocked down. I mean, that that was pretty miraculous. And that's when God decided to call him in that way. But does that mean that God didn't call anyone else to interact with Paul? No, he did. Remember Stephen? He preached the gospel to him and all the various other peoples that preach the gospel and worked toward them. So that that's my very simple answer is that God has called us to do things. God has called us to evangelize. God has called us to share and we're trusting that as God is as God has called us and we are obeying God, that He will bless our efforts Move in their hearts and ultimately they will believe. Yeah. Yeah, I mean so if someone said no, that that is Of course. Yes, John three. Never. So let's turn let's turn there. John chapter three. The the idea of blaming God is um Wrong. It's not good. It's wrong. And the idea of excusing sinners is wrong. Absolutely not. And we can go to Ezekiel as well, that God does not desire the death of the wicked. So a sinner is never given an excuse for their disobedience. And this is actually the text that explains the damnation of the wicked. And so since we since you brought the question, Miss Lisa, can you read this? Um John three eighteen and then moving down. Whoever believes in him is not condemned, but whoever does not believe is condemned already because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment, the life that comes To the world and people love the darkness, right in the light, because their works are evil. For everyone who does wicked things hatefully and does not come to the light, thus his work should be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his work has been carried out in that. Okay, so this is a condemnation. Pretty clear, right? Jesus tells us this is the combination. And for sake of time, we've got to move. So verse 18, this is so important. People are not condemned for rejecting the gospel. That might sound crazy, but just hold hold one second. People are not condemned because they reject the gospel. People are condemned for n for being a sinner Neutral people don't need a gospel. We don't come to neutral people, and we definitely don't come to good people. Does that make sense? You don't come to someone who's neutral or someone who's good. You come to someone who's a sinner Already with the wrath of God abiding upon them. They already have the sentence of death upon them. We come to tell them good news, namely, you don't have to stay there. You can be forgiven Does that does that make sense to everybody? So this is the answer fundamentally about what about the person who never heard the gospel? The person who never heard the gospel is not going to be condemned for not hearing the gospel. they're going to be condemned for being a sinner. There's also the answer which you brought up of natural revelation, that God has revealed Himself to them and they've rejected what they know. But it's very important to realize people are not fundamentally condemned because they reject the gospel. The gospel is the solution, the gospel isn't the condemnation. John 3. 16. But God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him, Jesus came as a savior of the problem of man. Jesus did not become the problem of man. Is everybody everybody tracking that? Okay. So let's keep going. Verse 18. He who believes in him is not condemned, but he who does not believe is condemned already, which is what I was talking about Because he's not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. And this is the condemnation. And so whenever you have a theological problem, what I highly encourage people to do is stick very closely to the Bible. Right? When we want to think about where does God tell us why people are condemned, this is the passage. It's explicit right here. This is the condemnation that light has come into the world And men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For everyone practicing evil hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his evil deeds be exposed Why is it that when you preach the gospel, people reject the gospel? If they do, according to this passage. Does it say anything about God's fault? Is that God's fault? That they love the darkness and refuse to come to the light? Isn't God the one who created them, sustains them, preached the gospel to them Calls them to him, says, come to me, he pleads with them, I have no desire in the death of the wicked. You see how it's just crazy to and just distort it and wrong to say, God, it's your fault. It's a you. You did this? No, they did this. They refuse to come to the light. They refuse to come to God. In fact, what does he say? He says, All day long I stretch out my hand to a disobedient and contrary people. He says that. He invites people to come to him. And when they say, I love my sin more than you, their condemnation is absolutely just. Now I understand people say, well what about how does this reconcile with that? And my most fundamental answer is this. We don't need to explain how all these things reconcile. This is my passage and many others like it that explain why the wicked are in fact condemned, because they hate the light, refuse to come to the light, unless their evil needs be exposed. Now, there's another question, which I don't think we have time to. Why do the righteous come? Why do people come to God? And I find another group of scriptures that answer that question, and then I'll point my finger to those scriptures and say, that's why. um people come. And so my my most fundamental theology, if you want to have it like a nutshell, it's this. You get all the blame for all the evil. God gets all the glory for all the good. Is that is that does that sound reasonable? When somebody does something kind to me, I say praise the Lord. I might thank you too. I might. I'm joking about that. But I say praise the Lord. Every perfect gift comes from him. Paul says, why do you boast as if it came from you? As if you did not receive it. What do you have that you did not receive? All good things come from God. I'm thankful for the hu human agent, that's true, but ultimately I give all Glory to God. And if I find out in the end I gave God too much glory, well that's forgivable. I'd rather give God too much glory than to steal his glory and to try to take credit. So God gets all the glory for all the good. And you get all the blame for all the evil. And I actually believe that the Bible teaches that. You get all the blame for all of the evil. God is sovereign over it. God is still in control. God uses it. But in the end of the day, you can never point your finger at God and said, it's your fault No, it's not it's not his fault. He called you. He's been drawing you. He said the gospel. You hardened your heart against the truth. That's not that's that's you have no one to blame but yourself So I hope that answers. That's a long way of answering. I put all the blame on sinners who resist God. They resist natural revelation. They resist special revelation. Even God draws them and they resist. God is not to blame in the least for uh for their disobedience. Any other questions, comments, concerns as we go to prayer? Any other thoughts? That last verse you said um justification is referred to as faith, um salvation, not um Mm-hmm. Yeah, so Romans chapter uh so all the way back to Romans chapter four. Uh Romans chapter four, he was raised for our justification. Has anyone ever like stumbled upon that verse or anybody seen that verse before? This morning? He was raised for our justification? Romans four twenty five? Yeah, it's an it's it's curious, I'll say that. We don't usually think of justification as being accomplished by the uh by the resurrection of Jesus. And I think strictly speaking it wasn't. And that's why I and other commentators think that the word justification is there is being used more broadly. To speak by way of synecdoche, that's just a fancy word, but but speaking more broadly of the entire thing. So he was raised for our justification would be like saying he was raised for our salvation. And then and what and then what aspect of our salvation does the resurrection of Christ pertain to? And I tried to say, well, one, he had to be raised because the scriptures could not be broken God said this. Number two, he needed to be raised to vindicate him. This was God's seal that people's thoughts, well, we can prove that Jesus isn't the Christ by putting him on the cross. Putting him on a stake of wood. Because the Bible says that if you put a man and hang him on a tree, he's cursed. Remember that passage? So they thought if I could put him on that tree, I can prove he's cursed by God, and the Messiah can't be cursed by God. So there, we've proven that he is the false Messiah. But it was pleased for God to crush him. God made him a curse so he could turn him into a blessing. They didn't see that. Even the devil didn't see that. Nobody saw that coming, but then that's what God did. But then God the the the pangs of death could not hold him. He was vindicated that God rose him from the dead, proving that he was the Son of God. That he crowned him with glory and honor and all that, right? So that's the second reason. The third reason though, and I really just hope that Christians will get this, is that we have a destiny so glorious and so wonderful and so embodied. You have no frame of reference to being a floating something. Does anybody want to be a floating something If I look at like embodied universe, like, oh I really don't like the sun, I really don't like the beach, I don't like the sand, I don't like friendships, I really want to be afloating something. You ever got excited about being afloating something? You don't even know what that is. In fact, just on a side note, people get really weird about the spiritual world. People claim all kinds of things about the spiritual world, and I like to To stop them and say, you have no idea what you're talking about. You've never been there. Not one day, not one moment. What are you talking about? You have no point of reference to the spiritual world at all. You have no idea. So when you say, well, this couldn't be true and that couldn't be true and this can't be there, I'm like, what are you talking about? You don't know what you're talking about. Be humble enough to realize you have no frame of reference. Is that right there with that? You have no idea what it's like to be in heaven for you in a moment because you've never been there. And you don't know what it's like. But you do know what it's like to be on earth because you're a human being with a body And so what God is promising you is not this floaty thing that you can't get excited about. You can't get excited about the floating thing. But you can very much get excited about walking on a new heavens. and a new earth reigning over all of creation. And sometimes I get weird with this or I may not embarrass myself about riding on Pegasus and running like cheetahs. Okay, I embarrass myself. I believe all that. I fully believe I'm gonna be sleeping on top of a tree. Yes. And swimming with the dolphins. I believe that if you don't want to do that, that's fine. You can do something else. I will do that and I'll praise God while I do it. And it excites me. And I believe that we will truly reign over true creation. And true creation will have trees in it. I fully expect there to be trees in the new heavens and the new earth Because that's what earths have. They have trees and they have animals and they have people and they have sand. And I'm going to be in perfect harmony and I'm going to sleep in grass and it's not going to itch. And it's going to be great. And I I fully expect that to happen. I really do. I fully expect it to be grass and I'm gonna sleep in it and I'm not gonna itch. If you don't want to do that, that's fine. You can float. But I will sing in the grass That's exciting. That's your true destiny. Because you're going to be embodied. You're going to be immortal. You're going to have physical flesh. And that physical flesh is going to be perfect. You're gonna look in the mirror and you're gonna see pure beauty. It's amazing. It's incredible. It's everything we all want. And again, if we pretend like we don't want it, well just I'll just I'll just say you're kidding yourself. Because we very clearly want that Every time we exercise, every time we just follow your life and see how much you care about the body. And the answer is a lot. Isn't that true? We actually care about our body and we're supposed to people it's really the Gnostic error that said that this body doesn't matter, it's just the spiritual stuff that matters. But the Bible actually says the opposite. It says, Enjoy food because I gave it to you. Enjoy creation because I gave it to you. That sunset, give me praise for it. No one said who cares about the s sunset is just about the heart. The heart appreciates the sunset and feels that beautiful sun on your face and watches the cherry blossoms. Come on, we know this. We enjoy creation. And it's we're going to continue to enjoy creation. And one day when we get there, I'll say, I was right, as I run like a cheetah, and you run with me Or maybe you won't. Does that make sense though? It's exciting. It's wonderful. I'll be in the vision. Thank you. Hey you're getting the vision. You can ride the cat and I'll ride I'll I'll run But this is this is our destiny. I cannot prove the cheetah thing, but I can prove the new earth thing. The Bible says that explicitly. Go to Isaiah chapter 65, I create a new earth. Isaiah chapter 66, a new earth. Revelation chapter 21, a new earth. There is no justification to say, oh, that's just all figurative. Why is that all figurative? It's not. He really is going to create a new earth. And we really will dwell there with them. And that's why Christ is truly embodied, never to die. That's your destiny. Embody creation. Never to die. It's going to be great. If it's if we don't learn what cheaters, it'll be better than that. Any other thoughts, comments, questions? It also is it also true then the safety and a resurrect to do serve a living guy versus the other room. Yeah, that's great. That's a great point. Um I wish I wish Mr. Kevin was here. Tell him I sent this. I'll tell myself this. Christ is alive. He's alive as the God of man. His divine nature is of course alive, but his physical flesh, the human being that walked on this earth, is alive. And sometimes people don't realize that. They just think like, well, this is a temporary thing that God became man and then he's done doing that and his body was somewhere in the sea or something, or in heaven, stored away somewhere. No, but Christ became a man, and Christ will forever be a man Which by the way, then we're not trying to get into this, is why I think your be glorified means a lot more than we realize as Christians. Because when you realize that Christ was a man and is still a man and has glorified humanity. then wow, how how glorified is Christ? Beyond measure. That's the whole cheetah thing. Can Christ in his humanity run and spouse as a cheetah? I think he can Again, I don't want to get too much into that, but I really think that Christ and his humanity can do all things that humanity could possibly do. Because he's glorified man. And you'll be like him is the voice. So so yes, Christ is alive. He reigns at the right hand of the Father. He's the the empty tomb is still empty. He didn't just become empty and then toss his body in heaven or somewhere, right? That he's still physically alive as a physical man, as a glorified man, and we too will be like him. So we live, we serve a living Christ, never to die. He's never gonna die. And neither would you and him. Alright, any final things before we go to prayer? Okay. Let's go to the Lord and prayer answer