A very popular American saying, or an English saying, is that an individual can be described as have being a jack of all trades and a master of none. Interesting enough, apparently that's actually not the original saying. It originally was that We would describe people as a jack of all trades and a master of one. So not a master of none, but a master of one. Well Today we are going to look at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, and we are going to examine a half dozen or more. Exhortations and instructions of how to live for the Lord. But I hope that as we come to a close of our session tonight, we will see that there's a unifying principle that brings this all together so we can in fact be a jack of all trades, a jack of all of the instructions of the Lord and a master of the central command to live and to be holy. While we love God and love our neighbor. We can in fact be uh instructed in the multifacetess of what it looks like to love and follow the Lord, and at the same time can recognize that there's a centrality. to it all that brings it all together. So please open your Bibles to First Thessalonians chapter 5 beginning in verse 12 and we'll read down to verse 21. That's 1 Thessalonians Chapter 5, beginning in verse 12. We ask you, brothers, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord. and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Be at peace among yourselves, and we urge you, brothers, admonish the idle, encourage the faint-hearted Help the weak. Be patient with them all. See that no one repays anyone evil for evil. But always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit, do not despise prophecies, but test everything Hold fast to what is good, abstain from every evil. So in this couple of verses, we have a dozens, we have dozens and dozens of benedictions, dozens and dozens of of instructions and commands of things that we should be doing. And we can divide it uh into several different sections. We'll skip the the first command uh found there in verse 12 and 13 because we saw that last time about the need to respect and to honor those who labor among us Verse 14 is very similar to verse 12 because it begins with, and we urge you, brothers, to admonish the idol, encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak, be patient with them all. This beginning statement and we urge you, brothers, sounds like verse 12, and we ask you, brothers, the difference is simply the the strength of the command it's it's just a synonym, d a different way of describing the same thing. We ask you brothers or we urge you brothers. The asking is in fact an urging and the urging is in fact not trying to be disrespectful in any way but trying to encourage them and spur them on to So the first question we want to ask ourselves as we examine who this command is given to in verse 14 is, well, who is the command given to? Is it given to the entire church? Or if it's or is it specifically given to the elders? Well, the evidence that it's given to the entire church is that we see the people addressed to are simply described as brothers. We ask you, brothers. And back in verse 12, that same phrase, we ask you brothers, was obviously referring to all of those under the leadership of the elders. And so it seems to be the collective body which is at view. So then in verse 14, we ask you, brother, seems to be that same group. of the collective body as a whole. But this time it would be in even more inclusive because it would include the elders as well. Because he's not specifically telling the congregation to honor the elders. Now he's just addressing the elders. uh unilaterally, just uh generically. Some have suggested, a few, that this is actually referring to the elders themselves. And the reason why is because the the very first instruction he tells these brothers, and of course an elder is also a brother, the very first thing he says to them is they are to admonish the idol. And that sounds a lot like what he says in verse twelve when he says that the elders are over you in the Lord and they admonish you. So the connection of admonishment. The elders admonish you, and the very first thing he says to these brothers are to admonish the idol. And last time I preached this text about the elders, their job to admonish, I pointed out that the elders don't want to admonish you. Unless they're a bully. And if they're a bully, they're not qualified to be an elder at all. So this is something that they have to work up and something that they have to do. They don't actually want to do because no one wants to admonish anybody And in some ways, as I preached that sermon, many of you maybe have felt, thankfully, I'm so glad I'm not an elder, and that way I don't have to admonish the flock. In some ways, I felt that way as well. But unfortunately, verse 14 comes at us like a truck. Because here it tells whoever he's referring to as brothers to admonish the idol. So this group is to admonish the idol as well. But this connection between admonish the elders admonish you and then these brothers to admonish the idol has led some to think that this instruction is referring to the elders. So now he's shifting over and and kind of doubling down on the elders and saying, yes, you're supposed to w the the congregation is supposed to honor you As you admonish them, but yeah, oh by the way, make sure you're actually doing that. Make sure you're doing the admonishment. The difficulty with this interpretation is there's actually nothing in the text that suggests it Besides the connection between admonishment, there's no reason to think that brothers here is limited to the elders. It's much more likely that brothers here refer to the entire congregation to include the elders And hence the somewhat bad news for all of us who set a sigh of relief as we thought we aren't commanded to admonish each other. But only the elders are commanded to admonish. But no, in fact, Paul tells us that we urge you to admonish the idol. We too are to admonish the entire body is to be one that is admonishing one another. Now there's a specific authority that comes with the elders, and there's a specific weightiness that comes to their admonishments, but even unilateral, even across the board. We should be able to admonish one another in both our lifestyle. We should be admonishing in the way that we live and that we live a godly, holy life. We should be able to admonish people with the truth of God and be able to speak truth in each other's life. And as we see people doing the wrong thing, we should be able to monitor them and remind them of God's promises and how the fact that their life is not living according to that. And that's what we see here in this text The admonishment specifically here is admonish the idol. That is someone who is not doing right, someone who is sinning in this sinful lifestyle that they are living. Before we dive into exactly what they're admonishing as the idol, just recognize that we are called to admonish. This is a task for all believers. So if we zoom out real quick of verse of what verse 14 is talking about, it's addressing the entire congregation, not simply the elders, and it's telling us how to conduct ourselves in the household of God. How to have these interchurch relationships. And these interchurch relationships are described with these three imperatives, these three commands. Admonish the idle, encourage the fainthearted, help the weak, be patient with them all. This is how we are to conduct ourselves in the household of God. Now notice the difference commandments based on the different circumstances and based on the different people. So we're not just to uh go around treating all people the same. There's a funny saying that says, to a man with only a hammer, everything looks like a nail. And that's true. If you only have a hammer, you go around looking for a nail and say, well, that's good enough, just whack. and start whacking things, but you do end up doing damage to things. You end up and even if you do somehow get it jimmied and somehow working, it's ultimately not working as it ought to be because instead of nailing the thing it was designed to be Screwed, and no wonder it breaks after a few weeks or months or so forth. Everything is not in fact a nail, and thus we need to have more than Simply a hammer. If you only have a hammer, you need to go to the store and get a bigger tool set. And so too, we need to recognize that different people in our churches are in different circumstances and thus they need different things. from us. Some people are living in sin. In this case in our passage, they're living in idleness. And as such they need admonishment. They need brothers and sisters to come around them and spur them on and tell them, hey, there is a better way. You are not living in step with the Spirit. You're walking in the flesh and not in the Spirit. You're supposed to be walking in the Spirit and putting to death the deeds of the flesh by the Spirit, and you are not doing that. For other people, they're faint-hearted. They're weak. They feel like giving up the Tao. They're full of doubt and concern. And they're just hurting folks. And what are we to do? Are we to hammer them over the head and just say, hey, stop doubting and throw the law at them? See, to admonish the ayo is Sisra Loh, right, we're telling them you're not living according to the laws of Christ Jesus said to love me and to keep my commandments. And you're not living in step with that. And the faint-hearted in some ways are also not living in step with the gospel, right? There's a sense that they're this is not the way that they're supposed to be. They're not supposed to be faint-hearted, but later in our passage we're supposed to be rejoicing. They're supposed to be uh praising the Lord. They're supposed to be full of Thankfulness. Not faint hearted. God's will for our lives is not to be faint-hearted and weak. But in that circumstance, notice it doesn't say admonish the fainthearted It didn't it even says it doesn't say admonish the weak. So some people will be tempted. We should admonish the idle, you're in sin. The faint-hearted, you're in sin. The weak, you're in sin. But that's not what our text tells us. It tells us to treat each individually differently. Yes, in some sense they are in sin. But our job is to help them, is to encourage them to come alongside them and spur them on to greater holiness. This idea that we're supposed to treat different Christians and different circumstances differently is not just found in this passage, but it's also found in Jude 122 and 23. There we read, have mercy on those who doubt Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy which be your hating even the garment stained by the flesh. See the differences. Right? Some people who are doubting, don't beat them over the head, but have mercy on them. Understand. Be around them to comfort them and to help them while they are doubting. Others, they need to be snatched out of the fire, a more aggressive approach with this admonishment to rebuke them and come at them stronger. You need to snatch them because they're heading in the wrong direction and that's appropriate during that time. And other people You have to show them mercy, just like the mercy with the doubting, but you're to do this with fear. Because now the things that they're that maybe the other person is maybe doubting uh y you know, uh a pregnancy that went wrong or or th there's all kinds of things that they could be doubting. But what their doubting isn't such that's going to be tempting you. So you can go in there with uh without your guard up as much because you're really just helping them to overcome their personal struggle. Yes, there's a theodicy problems and thinking about, you know, why would God allow these things, but those don't hit you nearly as bad when it's not you, but it's somebody else. But in this circumstance, where you're to show mercy with fear, hating even the garments named by the flesh, this is someone who's struggling with pornography. pornography addiction. This is someone who is struggling with drugs and alcohol. This is someone struggling with watching evil things on television. Okay Uh this is someone who's doing uh those kind of uh wicked things and it's saying that you need to be very, very careful as you try to have mercy on them and pull them out of the fire as well, but in a gentle and kind way. because you can be defiled too and you need to while you're having mercy on them continue to have pure hatred for the flesh and hating all of it and saying everything is contaminated, this is defiled, even the garment that this uh person is wearing in the senses the the flesh is so contaminated it's like a pusing sore. And just as a pussing sore would get all the the nastiness on the garment and you would want to stay away from it, so too you should look at their sin in that way and try to stay away as far as possible. But again, notice the idea though. Different people and different circumstances require different treatment for us. Not it's not a one size fits all approach Which admonish the idol, encourage the faint-hearted, and help the weak. And overall we are to be patient with them all. Let's dig in a little bit more closely to this command to admonish the idol. Notice that this is a a negative uh command if you want to think about it that way. This is saying what we shouldn't do. We shouldn't be idle and thus we should admonish those who are idle. So the law of Christ is to not be idle. uh but to work hard. So the negative command, do not do something, right? Do not commit adultery. Do not murder. That's that negative side of the command. But there's also a positive side of the plan. So if I'm not supposed to commit adultery, what am I supposed to do? I'm supposed to be faithful and sexually pure. If I'm not supposed to murder, what's on the positive side, right, to be helping and to try to preserve life and try to save life So there's always a negative and a positive, and some people seem allergic to the negative. A lot of people want to have a list of positive, love, do good, be kind, show mercy, these kind of things, but they seem to be kind of allergic to the negative. of that which we shouldn't do, but that's not the case. Paul would hit you with both commands, right? He'd hit you with the command, admonish the idol, do not be idle, and then hit he'd hit you with the command that you are to work hard with your hands as we instructed you. As we see. Paul says in 1 Thessalonians 4. 11, and we are to aspire to live quietly and to mind our own affairs and to work with your hands as we instructed you. So the things that we are to do is to work hard with our hands The things that we're not to do is to be idle. Both of these things are helpful. Sometimes we need to think, what should I be doing? I should be working hard. Sometimes we should be thinking, what shouldn't I be doing? I shouldn't be being idle. And so both commands are helping us. They're kind of the guards, and we're supposed to be in the middle of that. Don't be idle, work hard. Am I following God's command? in this way. The term idol here in our passage, the ESV has a a note here that says uh that it also can be translated disorderly or undisciplined. And I like that. I think idol is what it's getting at, but I like the nuance of the fact that idol can be thought of as connected to the idea of disorderly. God created the world in such a way that man was to work six days and the rest one. Man is meant to work, not work like a machine. The Sabbath is in fact made for man. Man was not made for the Sabbath. So man should d deserves a time of rest. But we are disorderly. The order was six days and one. But we are disordered when we are idle and instead of working when we're supposed to, we are in fact resting. And you can flip it the other way, right? Uh when you are supposed to be resting, you can be working. So we can fall in and become imbalanced in both of these ways. But it's disorderly God has created an order in such a way that there's cycles of work and there's cycles of rest. And we should work when we're supposed to be working and we should rest when we're supposed to be resting. ESB also says that idleness is connected with this idea of undisciplined. That's exactly what idleness is. It's a living and undisciplined life. It's allowing the flesh to take over. Nobody wants to work. Or most of us don't want to work. There's a sense that we want to sit back and relax and just chill. But that's an undisciplined life. We're supposed to be disciplining ourselves for godliness, the pulling up our bootstracks by the grace of God and recognizing it's time to work. It's time to get out there. It's time to cut the grass. It's time to get up there. And it's time to do something productive. We've got to kick this body into gear and we've got to get it into work. Ephesians 2. 10 says, For we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God has prepared beforehand that we should walk. in them. God has created us as these new creations in Christ Jesus and we're created for good works which God before the foundation of the world prepared that we do those very good works. And part of those good works is uh hopefully giving money, it's sharing the gospel, it's it's teaching, it's doing all the fancying good stuff, the stuff that you feel good about, clothing the naked and feeding the hungry. and giving a glass of cold water to a disciple of Jesus in his name. But part of those good works are also just your vocation. of just not being idle, of working hard with your hands, of tent making, of being an analyst in the government. We have a job you can't tell anyone about. It's all of those things. It's it's even the non-glamorous stuff. It's working at Chick-fil-A and making a great sandwich and being a light and salt at that place and making a place that we love to take our our family and friends and eat good food. It's all of that You are to make this world inhabited and filled with God's goodness. And God's goodness is not just in the spiritual, but it's the physical because the physical rightly applied and right and rightly um Rightly done is in fact spiritual because God the spiritual has created the physical for the good of the world and for his own glory So to be idle is not to be doing the good works that God has for us. And I want you to think about that. As you're tempted not to do the dishes, as you're tempted not to vacuum your house, as you're tempted not to do these things that you ought to do, Remember that these are some of the good works that God in fact wants you to do. And you are not to be idle, but you are to do and to serve Him and all that you do. Colossians 3. 23 says And whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not to men. This passage is one that I am practicing memorizing because It is so difficult. The flesh is always trying to make us idle and always trying to rob us of an opportunity to serve the Lord. I think about the passage. In the epistles that says, whatever you do, do it to the Lord, whether you're eating and you're drinking, do it all to the glory of God. And here we have an opportunity to do everything h uh to the glory of God, including working, but with to do it heartily, we're to do it with our spirit, with our person, and we're to do this as serving the Lord. So next time you're doing something that you don't want to do, you just want to be lazy, just want to kick in the town. In a time that you're supposed to be working, not a time that you're supposed to be resting, there's nothing wrong with resting. But when a time you're supposed to be working, you know what you should do? You should quote this scripture and say, Whatever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord. And not to men. This isn't just things that you get paid for. It's anything. We should do it for the Lord. We have an opportunity to serve God while serving our neighbor and even serving ourselves. Right? If you're supposed to be cooking and cooking even for yourself, do it not just for yourself, but do it to the Lord. So that's what it means to to not just be idle, but to work hard and to be people who work with our hands. So we have we're supposed to admonish the idol. We are to encourage the faint-hearted, people who need strengthening, and to give them encouragement and say, the Lord loves you. The Lord is for you. Keep going. Keep hanging in there, brother. Don't hang in the towel. We are to encourage the faint-hearted. And then we are here described as people who are to help. the weak. Now who are the weak here? It's not just talking about the the the elderly or or someone who's uh weak and feeble, but it certainly could include them, right? If there's someone who is weak and feeble and actually needs your physical assistance by all means to go out there and to serve them and help them and and and give them strength, the strength that they don't have. They might have wisdom or they just might have needs and we have strength and we should help them. But the the helping of the weak of that this passage is referring to It's talking about those who are weak in faith, those who haven't yet come to understanding the fullness that we have in Christ, that God is for us. A lot of people, they are weak and not understanding the law and the gospel. They they apply the law in times they should be applying the gospel. They apply the gospel in times that they should be applying the law. And so what should we do with these brothers who are not yet fully mature in their Christian thinking? This might be about doctrine. And this might be about practicing that long gospel divide. What should we do? Well, Romans 14, 1 through 4 gives us some background or some expansion on this idea of those who are weak in the faith We read in Romans fourteen, verses one and four, it says, As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him, but not to quarrel over opinions One person believes he may eat anything while the weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains. And let not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats, for God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servant? of another. It is before his own master that he stands or falls. And he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. So we have a task it tells us what what this weak brother is This weak brother is someone who hasn't yet fully understood all that God has for him, and such that he's he's uh such a weak person in the sense that he only eats vegetables. He he's not he doesn't uh eat meat. He's he thinks uh not exactly sure what's going on here. He either is trying to be like a Daniel who's uh trying to avoid uh possibly being contaminated with food that's unclean so much so he's so scrupulous that he says I can't possibly know so I'm only gonna eat vegetables. Interestingly enough, I actually fell into this myself for a small period of time. I read the instructions in Acts chapter fifteen about you should not eat an animal strangled or you should not eat blood and I thought that uh how could I possibly know if they completely drained the blood of my meat? And how could I know if it was Strangle it. I remember someone saying, why in the world would anyone strangle your meat today? Okay? This is not a very good way to kill an animal. It's just strangle it. This is the mass production and killing what kind of freak would go around strangling animals? I thought it was an interesting point, but who knows? I I can't possibly know. And then what about draining the blood? How do I know if they drain the blood? So I was a weak brother in that sense. We're only eating vegetables Well, my brothers thankfully they and they encouraged me that they were uh they were over here helping the weak. They helped me with some of those good words and and sowing those seeds of hmm, maybe I'm misunderstanding some of these scriptures, but thankfully they welcomed me not just to quarrel over opinions. We're to help the weak, not simply say, Oh, here's a weak guy, all right, come on over here. Now I'm gonna just beat you down. Now I'm here just to just to to take one action. Okay, that's not what we're called to do. We're called to um to help the weak, to encourage them, and to even encourage them to the point where we're not even passing judgment on them. We're just simply uh look down on them and and look down on their nose and or try to get them to become strong even if their conscience isn't ready. We try to inform them, try to help them, try to love them. And try to show them a better way, but not simply to fight and to beat them down. We want to see these people grow up in the Lord, but ultimately to serve him. And God says, listen, God accepts this person. Even if they're weak in their theology, even if they're an Arminian, even if they're someone who doesn't fully understand the doctrines of grace or whatever doctrine that you think is super important. We're not simply to beat them down. They're not necessarily an enemy. Okay, it can get so hostile that they become an enemy, but that's not the goal and you shouldn't be trying to make them an enemy. If you are stronger, if you think your doctrine is better than someone else. view them as we and and love them and help them help them primarily serve Jesus see uh Romans 14 it's not primarily about getting them to eat meat he's saying tolerate them The primary thing is to get them to serve Jesus and to follow Him and to live His commandments. These things are indifferent These things ultimately don't make a whole lot of difference. What ultimately matters is people serving Jesus and loving him and living out the Christian life. If you have your doctrine perfectly, that's good, that's better, but that's not the ultimate goal. The ultimate goal is to serve Jesus. and to be salt and light on this earth. And to snaps people out of the fire. The ultimate goal isn't to have all the mysteries of the world. That is good to to um to do, right? To have more knowledge is so that we can fuel our love and ultimately feel our hands. But we shouldn't get to the point where we're just trying to beat other people down. and be aggressive about our knowledge , let knowledge puffing up. That's exactly what Paul warns against. So all three of these individuals in the church, these are all people who are in the church, And these are how we're supposed to be treating them. We admonish the idols. There are times where you need to go and admonish individuals and say, come on, you're not living according to the commands of Christ. There are other times where you need to encourage people. They don't need your rebuke. They need you to sit there and to listen, to be like Job's friend. To sit there and listen to encourage them. Put your hand around them and say, I love you. I hear your pain. They don't need exhortation from you. They don't need rebuke. Maybe they need rebuke another day, but right now they just need a shoulder to cry on or someone to stand there and say, I love you. I'm here for you. They need they're faint-hearted and they need someone to love them. In other times There are people who are weak spiritually. There are weak people who don't understand the fullness that God has for them. And we're to help them. And to help them in not a way that's coarse. I'm not trying to beat them down But to say, okay, how can we help you? How can we how can we fix this? How can we work together? I'll give you an example. I have a friend of mine that for the longest time we just simply debated theology and at the end of the conversations we'd almost feel angry at us uh at each other And uh our friendship was being damaged. But this individual's biggest problem was not theology. They kept on switching their theology, which was a symptom of a problem. Because they thought that if they s simply switched their theology, then that their their heart would simply uh the problem was the theology. They would simply get the right theology, then all their sin problems would go away. But of course that's never the case So here I am, battling the theology, hurting the relationship, not realizing that there's something much deeper going on, and this person doesn't fully love Christ, is not fully transformed. into God's glory. And neither am I for that matter. I'm not saying I am. I'm saying that this person needed to get a greater vision of Christ and not just another theology lesson And here I am thinking that I'm just going to beat down on the theology. If they merely got held to the right theology, everything would fix. But that's not the case. Instead of beating them down, I was supposed to be helping the weak, and I finally figured that out. And now when I talk to this individual, I primarily want to help them And even though I disagree with their theology, sometimes I even say, okay, I disagree with this, but how can we make this biblically balanced? How can we self-correct this in such a way that you can still have the confidence that Christ wants you to have? I'm trying to help them. I'm not just trying to be right because for all I know I could be wrong. We're trying to help the weak. And at the end of our passage, it gives us a great summary. Be patient with them all. Isn't that what we're supposed to be doing? That's a great summary to summarize all of this. Be patient with them all. Christ was patient with you. Right? Even think about your theology. Think about your journey. A lot of us reformed types. We had a journey. We had a time where we most of us, maybe some of us, who didn't grow up in a reformed family or a form church. We grew up probably from the other side of the of the fence. And it was difficult. And there was there was problems and there was paradoxes and there was things that just didn't sound right. But aren't we glad that God was patient with us? Aren't we glad that brothers and sisters were patient with us and not just trying to beat us over the head? We need to be patient. And not just about theology. What about people saying? Admonish the idol. Hey, get get with it. They're not getting with it. Get out. No. We need to be patient with them recognizing that we still struggle with sin too. This person is struggling with idleness But we struggle with other sin as well. Now that doesn't mean that we don't exhort them to work on this and and push them to godliness. But let's be patient with them, not expecting them to turn over Just immediately. We had this interesting test in um in my counseling class, but we had to pick a like a besetting center or problem with us. And we had the whole semester, which I can't remember if it was eight weeks or sixteen weeks, it doesn't matter. We had either two months or four months to try to counsel ourselves and try to fix this problem And you know what the professor said? He said, this is designed for you to fail. It's designed so that at the end of this, you're actually going to fail and you're not going to be able to fix the problem. And the design was so that once you were to remember this, this experience, and then be patient to other people who too will you try to counsel and you try to exhort, they themselves would also fail. And you know what I thought? Not me. This is perfect. I've been waiting for this. I get credit. I get credit. College credit, seminary credit. To work on my own holiness. This is awesome. This is why one of the reasons I went to seminary and one of the reasons I got a degree in uh religion is because I was like, you gotta be kidding me I get to study theology, which I would do on my own and get college credit. This is a steal. I love it. That was the same way. I was like, ah, this is great. I get to work on holiness and at the same time get college credit. Wonderful. And I was like, yes, everyone else is gonna fail fine, but not me. Not Jamie. Jamie will get not only the grade, but he'll get better holiness at the end of it. You know what happened? I was not able to fix that problem within eight weeks, not within 16 weeks. The sin in my life that I am still trying to kill and to mortify is still there. Years later. We need to be patient with people. Again, I'm not talking about gross immorality being such that if your elders were to find out that you're committing it, you would be excommunicated from the church. that needs to be mortified and killed. You need to stop it right now. That's not what I'm talking about. But I'm saying that some of these sins that we have take a long time to fully kill. And sometimes we last and we need to have patience with people as they are becoming more like Christ. I've seen um a meme seeing seeing pictures that say, you know, be patient with me. Christ is at work here. Under construction. That's what's going on. Same thing with those who are faint-hearted. You encourage them once and they're down in the dumps again. You encourage them again, they're down in the dumps again. You encourage that's it, I'm not doing it anymore. Just get over it. No. We encourage them. Help the weak. help we people take a long time to come out of uh problems, things that their conscience are bothering them about. Wrong doctrine, all those things take a long time. Let us be patient with them all. Let us, as we do all of these things, let us Season our words with salt so that we can speak in life and not death into these individuals as we love them into the kingdom. Let us be people who are patient with other people as Christ was patient with us. And so that he did not strike us dead, but instead gave us his perfect righteousness. And so too, let us be self-sacrificing and loving towards others. and to point them to the Savior who is the ultimate one who is patient with sinners like us. Please join me in prayer