In this teaching, I want to do a follow-up teaching on my last teaching on the sons of God. And in that in that teaching, we went to Genesis 6. And I tried to argue that, um, while I'm very sympathetic to the view that the sons of God in that test are the Sethites, the godly line of Seth. and that they apostatize by intermarrying. I think that's definitely true biblically. Um as we go throughout the Bible, we see that this is constantly the sin of the people of God. You can think about Solomon. You can think about many, many examples. There was a lot of problems with in Nehemiah's day of this issue. Even in their journey in the wilderness, there was this problem. of of inner marriage. So there's always been a problem. This has always been a snare for the people of God. It makes a whole lot of sense for Genesis six that to be uh that to be the snare. It there's a lot of reasons why that That's uh very appealing to me. But ultimately I had to say that I think that this definitely a problem, it's definitely a sin that Christians um have have done that the people of God have done, something that we need to watch out for. But I don't think that that's probably not what's going on in that text. Probably that text is referring to uh evil angelic beings that are cohabitating with women. This produces the Nephilim, the giants. the giants. And so when we have this interpretation it makes a whole lot of sense of a of of a whole lot of the Bible. It makes a lot of sense of of Second Peter, of Jude, why the legion is terrified of going into the abyss Because it seems that they understand that some demons have gone into abyss, will they be tormented, it makes a whole lot of sense of why the Nephilim come out, makes a sense of of why the Nephilim are so huge. So that's that's a basic uh overview of and it also makes sense of of what's the the sons of God versus the daughter of men, that strong contrast seems to make most sense that the sons of God are angelic beings here um and and not just the the godly line of self. It seems rather ambiguous and and kind of hidden and it just doesn't uh doesn't immediately uh appear that the Sethites are uh are actually in view there. I want to uh address uh just another argument that that I think that uh strengthens the view that the sons of God are are most likely um uh evil angels and not the Sethites. And and that is the fact that the original audience, the original audience who would have read this Uh even many, many people um even in today that would have that would read this don't have a anti -supernatural worldview. They're not walking around denying the supernatural. That was not a problem for the Israelites. That wasn't a problem uh for the Jews. That wasn't even a problem for the the first century the first century church. Uh these people were soaked in belief of the supernatural. The problem wasn't that they believed um too little in the supernatural. The problem was they believed too much in the supernatural. And I mean by that is that they uh were tempted to fall into idolatry. They were tempted to worship these finite beings and and to think that they could get advantage by worshiping these idols. And so the major problem that we see in in the biblical era, and we see this in in places that Christianity hasn't spread to The major problem for most people is an unhealthy view of the supernatural, believing that that these supernatural beings can can help you and and worshiping these supernatural. These people are not uh walking around thinking that there are no supernatural beings at all. And so we understand that the original audience did not have a bent against the supernatural often like we in the West do, we have a bent against the supernatural. We're always trying to explain away it or or we're or fighting tooth and nail about it or we're wrestling over it. But the original audience wouldn't have wrestled over it. It wasn't a big deal for them to think that, you know, there's some supernatural activity going on here. And so we as the West are constantly trying uh to explain this away or we're wrestling through it or it's becoming a d it's a difficulty, it's a stumbling block for us. But that just wouldn't be the case with the original audience. And that doesn't just apply here in in Genesis six But it applies throughout uh throughout the Bible where we're so tempted to think that because something's supernatural with especially with the liberals that something supernatural must mean that it's false or or mythical or that it did not happen. But that's just not the case, especially considering the original worldview of the people, of recognizing, yeah, there is a supernatural being called God. Okay, and not only that, we have spiritual uh we have a spiritual component called a soul. And not only that, there's there's angels and and there's and there's demons. And and God does in fact in angels and demons and God does in fact interfere with the world. So it di I mean this is why I don't have a problem with the supernatural either. I believe in a supernatural God and There's supernatural angels and there's supernatural demons and and I have a spirit and these all are all operating in the world and there's no law that says that God cannot interfere with the world. In fact God constantly interferes with the world In fact, him sending his son to die for our sins and to rise on the third day is the greatest interference reward that you can ever actually conceive of It it's it's a it's a wonderful interference and that interference is uh our salvation. So um there there's nothing in the Christian worldview or or the Jewish worldview or any of that that uh is against the supernatural and we need to check ourselves and say, Why are we so against the supernatural? Are we have a biblical worldview? Or we've been eff affected by secular reality which denies the supernatural. But even the secular reality constantly keeps uh getting pulled back into the supernatural with with all this astronomy and and and the the the new paganism that's coming out and And you know, I d you go into a I went to a mall and and there's a tarot card reader and there's this person who reads your fortunes and people will pay them money to do those kind of things. Because the truth is, uh, even though uh some some of some segments of reality try some segments of society try to deny the supernatural, many people uh recognize there's supernatural, recognize there's power there, recognize there's things to be tapped into there and uh and and they do because they don't have that Christian worldview that says uh even though we do believe in the supernatural, don't go there, do not touch that unclean thing that is an abomination to the Lord. So it's just something to think of as you're reading the Bible and and looking at it. Again, we're trying to figure out what it would have meant to the original audience. not what it what what it means to me uh two thousand years plus removed. And so does the original audience have this skeptical nature of the supernatural? Or does the original audience believe in the supernatural and isn't this doesn't become a stumbling block at all? So something to consider as we look at the supernatural uh activity of the Bible, should we really have this skeptical view of the supernatural or should we accept it as as uh what what uh what as the original audience would have accepted as as this is what we would expect from a supernatural God. The Bible's a supernatural book. of supernatural activity, why would we expect anything other than supernatural uh phenomenon in this in this book that's capturing uh some of the most amazing things that's happened in all of history. It's not as if these things happen all the time, but the times that they did happen, they're usually recorded in the Bible because they're significant. So It's just something to think of as you as you study throughout the Bible. Do we should we have an anti-supernatural perspective or should we be open to the supernatural just like the original audience almost certainly would be