In this teaching I want to discuss a very controversial and a very difficult passage and unpack it and and tell you uh what I think this passage is saying and and how The interpretation of this passage doesn't just affect this passage, but helps explain the entire Bible. And the passage I'm referring to is Genesis chapter 6. And I'm beginning verse one. When man began to multiply on the face of the land, and daughters were born to them, the sons of God saw the daughters of man were attractive. And they took as their wives any they chose. Then the Lord Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever. For he is flesh, for his days shall be a hundred and twenty years. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man, and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old the men of for now. And so there's actually uh several complexities in this scripture. One, who is the sons of God um versus the daughters of men, and and what is this union that they had w who are the sons of God mostly is is the first question. The second question is what does God mean by him saying that he will only dwell with man for a hundred and twenty years? And the third, who are the Nephilim Well I'll just try to get the low-hanging fruit here first is what does this 120 years verse 3 again? The Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh, his day shall be a hundred and twenty years. There's two uh main interpretations of this. The first interpretation is this is God cutting down the lifespan of humanity. We see prior to this that You have all these uh, you know, Adam and Seth and all these people living nine hundred plus years, eight hundred plus years and and so forth. And and now we look at people now and they live you know, they live seventy, eighty, old really, really old people, hundred and ten, you know, really a hundred, not not much farther than that. Um and so it does match up uh decently well to think this is God limiting the explanation would be this is God limiting humanity's lifespan to a hundred and The problem with that is number one, very few people uh survive to 120. It seems odd that God is limiting the lifespan to 120, and yet people don't actually live to that point That that just seems that just seems very odd, especially without modern medicine. You know, even the Bible talks about uh seventy, eighty year life span, that's what we really still see today. So that's the first oddity there. The the second thing is even after God said this, there's still people living significantly past 120 years. So if God's cutting off man's lifespan to 120 years in this text, why is it that later on we still see people living significantly past 120 So that's why that interpretation seems to not be uh correct. More likely what he's saying is that he's giving humanity 120 years before the flood comes. And then the flood's gonna come, it's going to wipe out all of humanity. And so this this text being here seems to the the reason it's here seems to be connecting this event of the sons of God and the daughters of men as as one of the the the acts that causes God to say, that's it. Humanity is going to be wiped out in a hundred and twenty years. The flood is going to So that's the first of of the three difficulties. What's 120 years? And I think that it this is very likely referring to the flood. The the second question is who are these sons of God? There there are really two main interpretations that that are uh defensible. The first is the sons of God refer to the the sons of God as in the godly line of Seth. As we go through the book of Genesis, we see these two lines we see with the genealogy. We see the line of Seth, which is that godly line. Remember that Abel was slain, and Seth becomes the replacement for Abel. as that god line and and we see that you can go all the way from from Adam to Seth down to Abraham down to uh well down to Shem, down to Noah, down to Shem, down to Abraham, eventually down to uh down to Jesus Christ. So there's this godly line of of believers. So sons of God would be believers and we see that that phrase sons of God in the New Testament referring to believers. And so this is saying that the sons of God, the believers, saw the daughters of man, that's the unbelievers, the unbelievers, and they intermarried. And this intermarriage uh was the great apostasy of the sons of God and how they fell into um apostasy just like Solomon it fell into idolatry and and then eventually this This godly line of Seth uh dissipates and goes all the way down to just Noah and the flood happens. And there's some there's some uh advantages to this interpretation. One, it explains what happened to the godly line of Seth. You see these two genealogies And and then by the time we get to uh Noah, it's just him. Well, what happened to him? Well, this text will be a perfect place to explain what happened to the godly line of stuff. It just fits perfectly The same thing, verse three is talking about it seems to connect this event with the destruction of of man. It makes sense that this event is primarily to do with man's sin, not uh angelic demons sin. And that's the second interpretation that the sons of God refer to uh evil demons. And and and some of the strengths that go into that view is that sons of God in in these early chapters of uh of the book of of Genesis and Job, uh the sons of God refer to angels. We can definitely see the sons of God refer to angels. There's this deep contrast between sons of God and sons of God and daughters of men. Which makes most sense as the sons of God refer to angelic beings and the daughters of men, well, just that the daughters of mankind. There's this great contrast. which seems to be very strong, seems unusually strong if this is just referring to the godly line of Seth and um the ungodly line of Cain. And and so yeah, those are some of the the the underlying issues One of the problems though, if we're taking this as angels, is again verse 3, it seems to be that this act is is resulting in judgment upon humanity. This act was principally um the angelic the angelic activity then then why is this uh coming down upon upon man. And so there's there's different things you have to weigh and kind of look into this One of the things that I really like about the interpretation of the sons of God is this is the sin that we see popping up in the Old Testament uh continuously, like I said, Solomon. Israel, the the Moabite women. I mean this is something even in in Nehemiah's day, even in our own day, we're not supposed to as believers, not supposed to marry unbelievers. and we see all kinds of damage and destruction that comes from that. So it'd be it'd be really quite wonderful if that's if that's here because it just shows you that this is a a huge, huge danger throughout the Bible is this intermarriage. And and we see that uh all the way from Genesis six all the way to the the rest of the Bible. So that that creates a really good biblical theology of of warning of what happens to the what happens to godly people when when they intermarry. And again, the the another good thing about it is it explains what happened to that godly line of Seth and then you don't have to have any uh difficulty understanding how the sons of God and the daughters of men that just seems kind of odd for those of the angels you don't have that that difficulty There are some problems with this interpretation. But let me say one other difficulty. One thing that people constantly point to to say that the sons of God cannot be referring to angels Is when Jesus says that in the resurrection that the righteous will be like angels, that they'll neither marry me nor be given in marriage And people point to that and say, see the angels don't marry and they extrapolate from that. If they don't marry then they they don't have uh you know intercourse physical relations and if they don't have physical relations then they can't have physical relations and thus this can't be referring to the sons of God. And this should be something immediately that's shown fallacious about that argument, is that that passage is only saying that the angels do not marry. The fact that they don't marry does not mean that they cannot have physical relations. It doesn't mean that they can't take on the bodies of men, uh, because we certainly do see them taking on the bodies of men And, you know, we they can eat, well, we would assume that they have fully working bodies. And that fully working bodies, then they can they can procreate with those bodies. There's nothing in Jesus' statement. that suggests that angels cannot uh take on on human bodies and and do this kind of immorality. Others also have suggested maybe these uh sons of God, these demons possess human beings. and and it caused this. And and that's another possibility. But the bottom line is when Jesus simply says that the the resurrection will be in there'll be like a saint of angels and they won't marry, doesn't tell you anything about angelic capacity, uh especially demon demon angels uh doing certain things. That that just doesn't limit that possibility. The the biggest problem, there's two major problems with With with this being the men. And and the first problem is verse 4 again. Let's read it. The Nephilim, that means a giant. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. And also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man, and they bore children to them, these were mighty men who were of old, the men of renown And so the the major problem with this interpretation of these are the men is that the result of this this relationship between the sons of God and the daughters of men produces Nephilim. these giants and it specifically connects these Nephilim with with the action of the sons of God coming into the daughters of men and bearing children to them. And then it says these, the antecedent to these is the children that the sons of God and daughters of men bore. And it says these were mighty men of old, men of renown. The the the these is referring to the Nephilim, which referred to the children of the union between the sons of God and the daughters of men. This doesn't make very much sense that the sons of God here is merely apostasy of believers marrying unbelievers. Last I checked, believers marrying unbelievers don't produce these giant Nephilim who are these men of renown. You gotta ask, how big are these Netherlands? Well, to name two of them, we know Goliath was nearly ten feet tall. He was he was absolutely ginormous He's so big that people have a real difficulty time even imagining a man that big and they want to shrink him down. A 10-foot man, he's huge And he's not some kind of uh freak with giantism. He's unbelievably strong and and a and a great warrior, nothing like what we see uh today. He is humongous. And then there's this guy, Agav Bashan, and he's ginormous. He's at least 10 or 11 feet tall. He is ridiculously big, and again, he's unbelievably strong. uh figure. These people are are freakishly large and freakishly powerful. This is nothing like what we would expect to see if it's just merely uh apostasy, merely believers marrying. unbelievers. It's very, very difficult. Now some have tried to say that the Nephilim aren't connected with the sons of God. It's just saying, Oh yeah, there was this apostasy of believers marrying unbelievers and oh by the way there were also giants in that day and they were killing and destroying people and and just ferocious. But that just doesn't work. Look at verse 4 again. The Nephilim were on the earth in those days. And also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man and they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown. So the language clearly identifies the Nephilim as the children of the the the sons of God and the daughters of men. So you can't just simply say, Oh, this apostate happened and the Nephilim were there. These the Nephilim are clearly the children of the sons of God and the daughters of men. And so th this is one of the major pr uh problems with uh understanding the sons of God is not angelic beings. So that's the first major problem of of of the Nephilim and and how could this be just merely apostasy of believers. The second major problem is the New Testament has two passages that allude to this event. And the first passage is Jude. And Jude talks about in verse 6, he talks about, and the angels who did not stay within their own position of authority but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal change under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day, just as Sodom and Gomorrah in the surrounding cities, which likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire Serve as an example by undergoing a punishment of eternal fire. And so in this passage that what we have here is that Judas reminding, even in verse 5, it says, Now I want to remind you, and he gives these three examples. He gives the example of the people of the land of Egypt, the the Israelites who left the land of Egypt who afterward did not believe were destroyed. And then it mentions the angels who did not uh stay within their own position of authority, but left their proper dwelling, he has kept in eternal chains under gloomy darkness. Again, he's reminding them of something. Well who are these who are these angels? And then he also reminds them of Sodom and Gomorrah. And even even further, he then connects this event of s of the angels who did not uh stay within their proper position but are chained in these these these chains of gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day Then he connects them to Son of Gamor in this likewise indulged in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire. So he seems to be the most natural way to take this is that the angels also uh involved in themselves in sexual immorality and pursued unnatural desire, pursued this strange flesh And so there seems to be that connection. And the question is, uh, who w who is this group? Well, we don't have any Old Testament group uh that that did this Unless this is talking about Genesis 6. It seems to be referring to Genesis 6. These are the angels who minute the sexual morality who are locked up and chained. The fact that they're locked up and chained also preclude the ability to identify these as the demons who were part of the original fall because they're not locked up. They're freely roaming around uh roaming around the earth that that they're locked up. And even if he wanted to some have said, well, them being locked up in these gloomy chains of darkness means enslavement to their corrupt nature. Well, the major problem with that is look what it says. It says, he has kept them in eternal change under gloomy darkness until the judgment of the great day. So if that's in that's their enslavement to their corrupt nature, well is that how is that going to end at the judgment of the great day? Aren't they going to be continuously enslaved to their uh sinful nature after the judgment of the great day? See, it just doesn't work. This this clearly is referring to these angels who committed sexual morality who are now placed in Tartarus, now placed in and in the the pit, they're placed in Hades and locked up there until the judgment of the great day when they'll be cast into the lake of fire. And the fact that uh he expects us to know who these people are, he expects the original audience to know who these people are, all the more suggests he's he's not uh talking about some secret group that no one knows about, but he's talking about the the the group that everyone knows about, which would be which would be Genesis six, especially when you recognize that this was not some obscure interpretation that we have this in the book of Enoch explicitly that this is described as these these angels that that fallen by committing these sexual immorality. And then the the other part of that that makes real difficulty of denying this is that Jude quotes From Enoch, the very book that quotes Genesis six Sons of God as being the angels who had these sexual relationships with the women Well, it's very odd if he's quoting from Enoch, so he expects his audience to know the book of Enoch and they know that Genesis six is is in there and has that angelic interpretation, and then he seems to allude to that, but then he would expect the original audience to not associate these angels with those angels in the book without making that explicit and seemingly actually connecting with sexual morality. See it just it just seems uh extremely far fetched now that that that's what's going on there The other passage that seems to be alluding to this same idea would be 2 Peter 2 verse 4. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell, that's Tartarus. and committed them to chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment. Again, the same this is almost word for word for what's going on in Jude. But again, it's it makes it very clear that this place that they're cast into is Tartarus. It is the realm of the dead. It is Hades. It's that intermediate place. This is not the earth. And they're committed to these chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment. Who are these who are these angels that have sinned that are no longer on the earth? It's not some unknown group. And so in light of these two passages Uh it becomes very, very difficult to un interpret Genesis six as referring to anything else. And this also makes sense of other parts of the Bible. You remember when Legion is terrified of being cast into the abyss and he's terrified to be tormented into the abyss. Well where did he get the idea that angels are being cast into the abyss? That presupposes that angels had been cast into the abyss prior to that. Well what group would that be? Well it makes perfect sense to think that This is that Genesis 6 group, the the angels had committed sexual immorality. And so all of that really comes together and says, yeah, almost certainly that at least in my mind, almost certainly, that these angels, these sons of God, are angels, and that makes perfect sense of why it describes them as sons of God in contrast to daughters of men. It also makes sense of of why the Nephilim formed. Now, let me ask try to answer a few questions and so then what happened to the believers? We it just doesn't say. it just doesn't actually tell us what happened to the believers. Somehow, some way they hypothesized. It's it's assumed but not explicitly described. I mean it's just unfortunate that it that's that way, but if this interpretation is correct then it's just assumed and we're not actually told what happened to the believer. What it I guess the point is it's not uh relevant for us to know precisely what happened to the the believers. We just know that they apostasized through various through a very serious events and the only one who was left was Noah. The other question was, what about these hundred and twenty years, uh, for he is flesh and his his days shall be hundred and twenty years. How how can a an an act that happened with the angels uh caused the destruction of mankind. Well, if you look through the whole the whole section though, the main impetus is the fact that all the believers have gone uh g gone astray. You see in verse five it says the Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great on So it's not as if because that there's these Nephilim these these huge giants that are just wicked and extremely wicked that he's merely wiping out the earth because of the Nephilim. No, he's he's actually wiping out the earth because of the wicked humanity, but this this Nephilim act seems to be the straw that broke the camel's back. But the main blame isn't on the Nephilim. The main blame is on humanity. This there seems to be the straw that broke the camel camel's back. The other thing that we need to investigate that people have pointed to to suggest that the sons of God are not, in fact, the angels, is when it says in verse for the Nephilim were on the earth in those days and also afterward when the sons of God came into the daughters of man and they bore children to them. And they want to emphasize And afterward. Remember I said we know at least two of these Nephilim. That was that was Goliath and Og, King of Bashan. So we we know we know at least two of the Nephilim and those two Nephilim were actually after the flood. So you have uh this of this event if the Nephilim are the results of sons of God taking the daughters of men, then we have to deduce that this happened again after the flood. And and that's true, but I don't see anything that's that's problematic with that. We know that the the Rephium which which are just another name for the giants as well were around during Abraham's time. Again, that must have happened after the flood. So we know that the fact that the sons of God sinning in this way happened before the flood and happened after the flood. Now we don't have to presuppose that this continued to happen all throughout all the way up until, you know, the time of of David when he's wiping out Goliath and and his offspring. No, we just need that this has to happen at least sometime before the flood and sometime after because it there there's a genealogy. These Nephilim begat more and more Nephilim. They're related to each other, so it's not like every single Neph uh Neph Nephilim or Rephiam. N all these giants don't have to have a direct connection with the sons of God. They can have a a Nephilim dad or a Rephim dad, a giant dad. Um so while we just need this to happen a second time. And there's just no problem with that. The Bible doesn't m explicitly mention it, except here, right? It says that this happened uh when the sons of God came into the daughters of men. in those days and and and also afterwards. So it it tells us that this happened twice. I don't really see any problem with this. It seems that this happened before the flood. The flood came. It happened sometime after, very early actually. Like I said, the Refraim are already there by Abraham's time. very early and then God probably uh put an end to it and and then uh cast uh all of all of these demons into uh into Tartarus or you might even assume that he He at the same time he was judging the flood, he he uh judged the the demons that were involved in the first act, and then the demons continued to do this, the ones who were brave enough or whatever continued to do it after, and then they were judged, and God either there was no demons that are that were uh willing to do it after that or God just said that's it, I'm not going to allow this to happen anymore at that point. Again, we don't there's so much angelic activity that we just have no idea about. All we know is now there's no Rephim, now there's no Nephilim. And it doesn't seem that b there is going to be any more, so it seems that God put a complete stop to it sometime by the time of the end of these Nephilim. But I don't there's nothing actually uh problematic about uh understanding that the if the sons of God could do it once, they could have done it a second time So for all of for all of those reasons, I take the sons of God here as I'm I'm going to take the plain meaning of the text, which is the sons of God are the angelic these angelic beings that that sinned uh by lust. Now ultimately I'm not willing to split hairs on this. I'm very sympathetic to the sons of God being uh the the godly line of Seth. I really am. I just I just have a very, very hard time actually working through Genesis six and and finding that definition, finding that interpretation to actually work through this text. It almost feels like like I know what this text can and cannot say before I get to it and then I I just make it fit and even if the pieces don't fit then I just I just leave 'em there and and and just accept that my pre conclusion of that this can't be what it's saying i is right. I I don't see that. I also see the problem of of if that's the case and you really having to do some crazy stuff in Jude and some crazy stuff in and Second Peter to really make this thing. fit together. It just doesn't seem to fit together. This is an ancient interpretation. It's the plain meaning of the text. It's both ancient Jewish, ancient Christian. I don't see anything wrong with it. It seems to fit everything together quite nicely uh some people have some a been against the supernatural. I don't. The Bible says it. I believe it. I don't know uh about angelic capacity. I'm not gonna claim that I know what angels can and cannot do. I have no idea. There's so much I don't know about angels I'm not, you know, we don't worship them, certainly not. Uh they are amazing creatures, so so I'm not gonna tell angels what they can or cannot do. This seems to be the plain meaning of the passage It makes sense. It fits the whole Bible together. It allows me to not only interpret this text by its plain meaning, but the same thing about understanding why Goliath 's so big, why Og 's so big. With Jude talking about with 2 Peter, it all fits together. What why Legion is terrified of being in the abyss? It all fits together if we just take the plain meaning of the text