All right, let's open our Bibles to First Kings chapter nineteen , and we're going to be able to do that. Right, First Kings chapter nineteen. But before we jump in here, just thinking about that song, Standing on the Promises of God, what must we do to be able to stand on God's promises? We gotta know what they are. Amen. We can try to cash in promises that he didn't make. Mr. Allen? And we have to believe in them, right? They can't be somebody else's promises. They have to be our promises. So we need to know them and we need to have faith in them and then we need to faith Yeah. Faith is like a parachute. It's one thing to believe in a parachute, it's another thing to put it on and jump out. You see the difference? One's an intellectual agreement. Yeah, Jesus is Lord, Jesus is God, He's coming back. And another is actually living, true, abiding faith where you put on that parachute and jump out of that plane because you stand on the promises. So before we read, First Kings chapter nineteen. Miss Jan, can you open us in prayer? your words and and praise and songs and to know in our hearts that anything that we are troubled by and anything we need look Lord, we just need to humbly fall against you. And uh if it is within your will, we will receive it. But even if it isn't the time for those blessings to completely unfolded our lives that we know that if we stay faithful and we stay strong and we stay in the word that in your time um everything will be bestowed upon us to your understanding and and to your promise. Lord, we um opened this fi these Bibles and um delve deep into this morning tonight and um we just ask that uh whatever it is that you want to reveal to us is revealed in your time and um this is Thank you. Uh can I have someone read the first ten verses, please? Yes, nineteen one, two, ten. Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and how he had killed all the prophets with the sword. Then Jezebel sent a messenger to Elijah saying, So may the gods do to me, or more also, if I do not make your life as the life of one of them by this time tomorrow. Then he was afraid, and he arose and ran for his life, and came to Beersheba. which belongs to Judah, and left his servant there. But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness and came and sat down under a broken tr a broom tree And he asked that he might die, saying, It is enough now, O Lord, take away my life, for I am no better than my father's And he lay down and slept under a broom tree. And behold, an angel touched him and said to him, Arise and eat. And he looked, and behold, there was at his head a cake baked on hot stones and a jar of water. And he ate and drank and lay down again. And the Lord, sorry, and the angel of the Lord came again a second time and touched him and said, Arise and eat. For the journey is too great for you. And he arose and ate and drank, and went in the strength of that food forty days and forty nights to Horeb. The Mount of God. Um I think you guys all get the point though. So Interesting enough, uh, which is delightful. We have actually different people here in our evening service than we had in our morning service, which is awesome, which I'm super glad to have So can somebody kind of just briefly just remind us where we are in Elijah's ministry, in his life? How do we get to chapter 19? Somebody briefly bring us up to speed. We got the nineteen from eighteen. Okay. Okay, what's an eighteen? What's an eighteen, Mr. Dennis? Uh okay, so that was where um a a lot Elijah and I don't know how far back he goes, but he went on uh uh to Mount Carmouth Carmouth to to uh kind of do battle with Baal. Yes. Uh and and the uh the prophets of Baal, you know sang and they danced for their um offering uh for their god to bring down the fire. Uh And then Elijah took and made the altar, poured water all over it, and he called on God, the real God, and he torched the whole thing, burned up the licked up the water that he poured on it, the the wood, the stones, the dirt. He took everything away. And then It sounded like all the people around there said, There's the real Lord and God. So uh then off uh Well he killed all of the prophets of Baal. Was it four hundred, I think? Four hundred, yeah. Great, killed all those prophets, and uh and then uh uh the king Is it Ahab? Mm-hmm. Yeah. King Ahab. He's gonna go back to the to Jer Jezreel to see Jezebel, let her know what happened. And the Lord sent uh uh Gerald. Elijah. Elijah. Yeah. I have them all in my mind. Elijah. Ahead. I mean he was running the fastest man in the world, like you said. Okay, he's running ahead of the chariot. Uh and he got there first and he waited for uh the king to go in and tell Jezebel what had happened. Jezebel was really Upset. That's eighteen. All right. Amen. Hey that was great. Well, thank you. The rain. Okay. Hello, hello? Mine That's weird. Mine work. That's weird. Yours work and mine doesn't. Yeah, the only thing we missed was uh the rain, but yes, he also prayed for the rain seven times. And then Lord the Lord brought the rain. But but that was an excellent summary of first in the first time. Alright, let's switch mics. I'll take your mic and you can have fun. I'll just take off the car back. Alright, here we go. Um okay, so that's a very good summary. So um So we see that the Lord strengthens Elijah and he runs ahead of Ahab to go to Jezreel because everyone has seen the miracles except one very important person. And who is that person? Jezebel. And she's the one who's really the evil force behind Ahab. And just a just a quick just a quick aside here. Um wives have a profound impact. on their husbands. Is that is that not true? The husbands are called to be the leader, but that does not mean that the wife is just a doormat. And even if we wanted her to be a doormat, most of the time she's not going to be one. Does that make sense? Like like if you don't realize that, you just don't know reality. that women are profoundly influential on their family. They usually have way better social skills than than men do. In fact I was talking to a woman and um She it was a woman that I love actually very much so and she we're having a conversation and she told me once You know, kind of accidentally, you know, I always get my way. That's what she told me. I always get my way. I might not get my way at first But after a little bit of this and a little bit of that, I always get my way. And I said, Oh, maybe even getting your way with me too Again, I'm not trying to say all women are like that. Simply is this: use it for good. Amen. If you're gonna have that kind of influence, which you do, which you can't really help having, then God is giving you those social abilities and those ways to influence, and he wants you to use it for good and not for ill. But of course in the case of Ahab, not the case. She has a profound impact on Ahab, and it's not for good. It is for ill. So you have Elijah, he runs to Jezreel where Jezebel is, and then Ahab goes and gives the report to Jezebel. Now I want you to think about if you are Elijah, you've seen the miracles of God. You've seen him provide for you for the last three and a half years. He set the whole thing up. He ends in this climactical victory. All of Jezebel's prophets are dead. Ahab is at least not against you. At very least he's not really on your side, but he's not against you. And then The rain comes, and then God gives you the power and the strength and directs you to go where Ahab, to go where Jezebel was, running faster than any man has ever run before. Now, if you were Elijah, can you blame them for thinking God brought you to the gates of Jezebel for some good purpose? Is that reasonable? I mean, he he's been with you this whole time. He empowers you and causes you to run fast on any man all the way to her. You would expect God must be leading me in paths of righteousness for his name's sake. Psalm 23. Right? And does he lead him to still waters and green pastures? Not at all. I just want you to feel that tension a little bit. God is my shepherd, he leads me He empowers me. He's been guiding me. He's been directing me. Elijah is in the will of God, is what I'm trying to communicate to you. He hasn't gone astray from the will of God. He hasn't gone to the left. He hasn't gone to the right. He's been following God the whole time. God's been giving him nothing but victories. He empowers him to run to Jezebel to meet her. And then he doesn't get any more green pastures. He doesn't get any more still waters. Instead he gets the most powerful evil woman the world has ever really seen. Vowing that she will kill you before the day is up. Is that what you would expect? And to this I say, lean not on your own understanding, in all your ways acknowledge Him And truthfully, as I was preaching this and thinking about this passage, I was actually personally deeply convicted by this. And here's why. Now, God can do what he wants. But I thus far have been convinced that God has sent me here just to be a blessing. I'm committed to that. I hope that's the case, right? I hope that's the case. He's led me all this way, all these ways. He's been blessing me. I feel like Elijah. In the sense that God is taking care of me the whole way. Does that make sense? And so of course I think I'm just going to get another victory. And I pray that this would be in the midst of the victories. But but looking at Elijah's life it made me realize I have no idea what the future entails. He didn't either. Does that make sense? He fully expected I had so many victories in the past. God's been my God this whole time. I'm going to have nothing but victories ahead. Even when he faces his hardest challenge yet, Jezebel. And but because he's so resting on his confidence that he's going to have nothing but victories, that sets him up for a huge defeat. Do you see that? And I'm simply saying, I know the end of the story. I know the end of the story, namely that I will rise again in my flesh I will see God and I will praise him. And I know that's true for all of you who believe in Jesus. Is that amen? Is that true? But you know what I don't know and you don't know? What happens in between now and then. I have no money I have no idea if the next thing is going to be something that knocks me down or the next thing if I'm killing the prophets of Baal. I had just have no idea. And to me though, actually this is actually freeing Because if I think that I have control, then I can lose my mind. And then if something bad happens, I can immediately conclude I must have done something wrong and I must have fallen out of the will of God. But just apply that to Elijah's life and see how wrong that is. It isn't. What we need to do, Jesus said, do not worry about tomorrow. For tomorrow will worry about itself. Worry about today, for each day has its own trials. And so I'm just encouraging you. I'm not trying to discourage anybody. I still believe God has sent me here for a blessing, and we'll see it. I see nothing but blessings so far I'm just simply saying though. It has a put a little bit of reserve on my confidence and realized, hey, wait a second. Who knows what might be the next three steps, but I know who stands with me. Because even when we go through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. Your rod and your staff, they comfort me. You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies. You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows Does that make sense? Even when Jezebel threatens you and you're like, I can't believe it. I've done nothing but good. And Jezebel threatens to kill you. And you have to flee. But in this case, what we talked about earlier is should almost talk about that now. Should Elijah have fled? Should he have ran? Should he have run off? What are your thoughts? Anybody else agree with that? Would you have sought the Lord first? Lady says, I'm gonna kill you. She's the queen. She sends a messenger, you're dead. You're a dead man. And obviously the messenger knew what he was, so guess who's gonna find out where he was The messenger gave his message, he's going back, you can say, Did you deliver the message? Yeah, where is he? Well he lives off Clark Road. He lives on D ten, right? And then she's gonna send some people. So how do we deal with that? Any thoughts? Well I'm sorry. I I saw that it looked like you you matched back. No, I'm talking about the people on Zoom. I have the No So so during during the sermon you said okay, or I 've heard you match up Wait on the Lord. Okay. And you will rise like with wings on a That wait on the Lord, that's the part we don't like. You know, and and it's like we want it now. Uh and and so when Um a as as Maurice says, he didn't call on the Lord, but he kinda like you know, he ran right away. And he should have waited. But that's what people don't like to do. Not even AOL. AOL you know that remember that dialogue? Took forever. Now we have you click it and it goes and it's still not fast enough. Yeah. So so it's that waiting on the Lord that that he didn't do. But I and quite honestly This morning you were matching up, you were saying, you know, the Lord told him to this and there was success after success after success. And then when he didn't wait on the Lord, there was his failure. And it's like, wow, okay, so Waiting on the Lord seems like, okay, Lord, how long is it going to be? Okay, we need to have we need some more fire down here. But you you No, amen. Amen. I love I love that. I'm glad you're listening. I hear. I hear you're listening, praise the Lord. No, um I I I think the challenge is Under normal circumstances, and I'm glad we kind of circle back to this, if we just take day-to-day life If you're just living out here in 2026, normally evangelizing, day-to-day life, somebody Donald Trump says he's gonna kill you, you should probably go to Mexico. I mean, that just makes sense. And you probably don't necessarily need to Pray to God. But but but here's the key difference, and that's what I tried to show you in the text. Elijah's life doesn't look like your life. It just doesn't. Like the word of the Lord came to him specifically and gave him very specific directions. This is not, I feel led. To go down to Food Lion today. And you walk around Food Lion wondering why God felt I'm not saying that he can't do that. He does do that, right? But that's not what's going on here. He didn't feel led to hide by the brook. And he didn't just, oh look at that, look at that, the birds came. Check that out, right? I feel led to leave the brook, and I feel led to go down to the the widow's house. No, that's not what happened. It says specifically the word of the Lord said very specific details. Get out of here, go there. Go here, go there. Do this, do that. This is audible stuff. This is biblical stuff. This is the things that became later inspired to your Bible. And so when your life looks like Elijah, when he's giving you very specific directions , All throughout your ministry, and then all of a sudden we see him running without any direction from the Lord. It's very difficult not to think that he's outside of the will of God. And I think I think that's a a suspicion that then becomes confirmed by what happens to him. See if everything would have went well, perhaps you might have thought, maybe, you know, maybe it's implied but it didn't say it. But the fact that Elijah has this colossal failure The one time the word of the Lord does not come to him makes it very difficult not to see that this is him leaving the will of God and doing it on his own strength. Now the one thing I will back up though, backtrack from is, does God give us directions each step of the way? Yes. Our lives have to fit within his word. Yes. So when we come up with these crazy ideas, if we look at it in the scriptures and it's not there, then Yes, I I like it. So I so no in the sense that he's not giving us direct verbal inspired words That's the whole point I made in the sermon that we just talked about. But yes, which I'm glad you went there, is he actually does give us inspired words. They're just not directly to us. They're written in the scriptures for us. They give us direction each step of the way. Lord, what am I supposed to do now? He gave you the answer. It's in the book. And then if you follow the book. You'll be you'll be blessed. You'll be in the will of God, right? But what happens when you stop listening? And what happens when you go your own direction? I would say the same thing that happened to Elijah. And I really think I'm so glad that this happened to Elijah. I really think this is why God Withdrew himself a little bit. I think God knew this was gonna happen. Is that fair? I think God knew this was gonna happen, and he stepped back a little bit from Elijah and let Elijah be Elijah for a second. To show us even the greatest prophet. The greatest prophet without God is a fumbling mess. Isn't he? The greatest prophet is crying out basically, I don't want to be too harsh on him, but he's basically crying out suicidal thoughts and complaining to God on the eve of his greatest victory. And if that's him , what's gonna be you as you walk out and step outside of God's will and start doing your own thing? What what what do you think is gonna happen to you? Do you think you're fair any better? You won't. Now the good news is, and we'll talk about that next time, and you kind of read a little bit, God does not leave Elijah there though, does he? Does God say you failed me, you stepped out of my will, I'm done with you Does he meet him out there in the wilderness? He does. Now I'm gonna give you one more evidence that some of you I I think I seem like most of you are convinced that I'm probably right here, but I'll give you one more quick evidence that he stepped out of the will of God in his life. Now look at verse nine. Can someone read verse nine for me? And behold, the word of the Lord came to them and said to him, What are you doing here, Elijah? First time the word of the Lord shows up Nine verses N. He's run off. God has strengthened him at this point. He's run off. We haven't talked about this, but he's run off 40 days up into Mount Sinai. That's where he's at, where Moses was. His life is regurgitating or or imitating the life of Moses here. And he gets there and finally the word of the Lord shows up and it says, what are you doing here? Where is he supposed to be? See the Lord showed up, met him at least forty days, if not probably a month or two later, right? It's forty days, so but then the other stuff happened. So let's say two months later and says, What are you doing here? You're supposed to be back there, right? We're supposed to meet back in Jezreel. You left me behind. And see what's happened to you when you left me behind. So that's just an encouragement and the message to you this afternoon and this morning was don't leave God behind. But when you do, God might show up, or you most likely will show up two months later and say, Where'd you go? The scripture says it like this, draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. If you're walking with God and all of a sudden you look back and God's not there, who walked away? Is it God? The one who says I'll never leave you or forsake you? Did he leave you? Or have you stepped out of the will of God? And then the great hound of heaven comes chasing you down after you've been humbled a little bit eating with the pigs And then you're humble, you're breaking down like Elijah, and then you're ready to meet God again. And it's gonna be really fun when we talk about this. I don't I'm always tempted to just preach the next section when you got the fire. This is a really cool section coming up. Elijah's life is awesome He's a really exciting person in the Old Testament. And that's one of the reasons I wanted to go back here and look at it. And we're going to see some really cool stuff where Elijah meets God and that's still small voice. So any other thoughts on our passage or the sermon or anything we talked about uh this morning? I just I was thinking Obviously we don't know what what would have happened if Elijah would not have the wrong. What did God have in store for him? And we always think that it's something really, really good at that moment. It might not be at that moment, but it may be down the road is not starting thinking about Paul and how God led his life. And Paul went into some of these places knowing That he was probably going to be arrested. He wasn't well liked by the Romans and people like that. But he still went in in how his life affected and how he affected those around him. how he spread the gospel. Um and it ended up being good for him. I I guess later he's almost martyred or beheaded or whatever, he was killed. Yeah. Um but I just think, you know I'm just wondering what would have happened in life that would have saved him. I think about Paul and the good things that he did because he saved the track. Amen. What would have happened if? What would have you know the the biggest what we talked about this ready? The biggest what would have happened if in my mind is what would have happened if Adam First off, if Adam would have looked at Eve and said, You're crazy, right? God, get this woman out of here. I need a replacement, right? She has gone nuts. She's following the serpent Get out of my presence. And he ran off. I really wasn't what would have happened. I think he should have done that, right? I think things would have went a lot better for humanity if sin came through Adam, not through Eve. It would have went a lot better for humanity had he done that. I don't know. But even I'm somewhat teasing about that, but not really. But after Adam did sin, I wonder what would have happened. And instead of hiding from God, he would have ran out and cried out to God. And he would have wrote Psalm 51 And just uh cried out to God and said, I'm sorry I did this. I shouldn't have done this, God forgive me. What would have happened? I just don't know. Yeah, how I was just thinking because God still leaves Elijah after that. So I'm thinking well God wouldn't have let us without killing. We don't know. It's just it's just a good question about what would have happened. I it's really difficult to know, but but you know what? Let's go over to Isaiah. Isaiah forty. All right. This will be our next uh memory verse Isaiah forty eight. Isaiah forty eight. Can somebody read Okay, can someone read verse 17 through 18, please? Isaiah 48, verse 17 through 18. Isaiah forty eight. Isaiah forty eight verses seventeen through nineteen. your Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel. I am the Lord your God who teaches you what is best for you, who directs you in the ways you should go. What's up there, stop there? He teaches you what is best for you. That sounds like an old memory verse. Deuteronomy, what does the Lord require you but to fear him, love him, serve him, and to keep his commandments, which I'm commanding you today for what? for your good. Again here, right? I'm commanding you for your good, for your profit. Okay, keep going. Let's see what he says. What's best for you? If only you had paid attention to my commands, your peace would have been like a river, your well-being like the waves of the sea, your descendants would have been like the sand, your children would have Children like its numberless grains, their name would never be blotted out nor destroyed before me. Wow We sing songs about this, but we changed it. We say I have peace like a river. This says you would have had peace like a river Do you see that? We say we say the positive. I have peace like the river. This text says if you would have obeyed, you would have had peace like a river Your offsprings would have you would have righteousness like the waves of the sea. Your descendants would have been like the sand, your offspring of your body like the grains of sand. His name would not be cut off nor destroyed But instead you didn't obey. It didn't profit you. You did not have peace like a river. Your righteousness was not like the ri the waves of the sea. Your descendants were not like the sands of the sea. Your name was cut off, and you were destroyed. That's what happened to them. The Babylonians came and took them away. Now, watch this. Read verse twenty two, Mr. Dennis, please. There's no peace says the Lord for the wicked. Do you see the connection? You would have had peace, but there is no peace for the wicked. So the reason I bring it here is one it's fascinating. This is a great text. This this is this is fun to talk about this. But do you see that? So it's just not true that it doesn't matter what I do. You didn't say that this But I'm just simply saying it's not true, it doesn't matter what I would do because it the end outcome is the same. Not according to this passage. Had you done this, the outcome would have been a whole lot different. It'd have been a massive blessing for you and generations to come. That is what we want. But you did not obey, and so there was no peace for the wicked. Instead of this prosperity coming down, the Babylonians came and took you away. That's terrifying. That's I mean that's what it says. It it says go ahead, Mr. Dennis. You don't like this. Go ahead, Mr. Dennis. So so this they were under a conditional covenant. If you do this, then I will do that. And and this is kind of what we're hearing here. If you do this, then I'll do that. But if you don't Uh uh But now they took God threw that covenant out and brought a new covenant in, which in a way makes us feel the way you just said, you know, well we don't have to worry about that. And and and we know it's more than that in the new covenant. But we do we have to be careful I think we have to be careful about claiming the promises of the old covenant and holding God to those promises based on their covenantal uh requirements at that time. No, no, it's fine. Trying to figure out how much time we have. Um so there are definitely covenantial differences between the old and the new. You're right about that. Also There's nothing in here about you would have been saved. We're not talking about salvation by works at all. So any any thoughts of you know if I if I don't perform well enough, then I'm going to hell is crazy. It's not biblical, it's not true. Now we're not talking about easy believism, is it we can't keep slicing and dicing this. We're not talking about that. What we're talking about though is the fact that the the here very clearly that blessing was conditioned on obedience. Blessing was conditioned upon obedience, right? And so here is the question. Is that an Old Testament reality only? Or is that a New Testament? Does that carry over? Is God the same today, yesterday, and forevermore? That's the first thing. The second thing I'll simply say is this all the promises are yes and amen in Jesus Christ. Yes and amen. Jesus Christ instituted a better covenant established on better promises. So that just is like a big principle. If you you should never look at the Old Testament and say, man, it was good back then and think, well, we lost that. Do you see how that that says totally wrong? I'm not saying you're saying that, but you see how if if if we ever look at the old testament and say, Wow, I wish I had that promise, but it's gone. That's not true. The promises are yes and amen in Christ, and it's better. Better covenant, better promises, all of that. That's the first thing. The second thing is, just off the top of my head, James says, you have not. Because you asked not. But essentially they have not, because they did not. Right? And the Bible also says that God the Father will discipline you if you step out of his will. As a loving Father, he will discipline you if you step out of his will. So I'm simply saying that we are persons and God is a person and he interacts with as persons. And we should not be surprised as we step out of his will like I Elijah did, if God punishes us or withdraws himself and allows us to cry out. Kill me, Lord, because I'm so miserable apart from you. I'm saying that that is that is our current experience. That is our reality. That if we step away from God, then the blessings the blessings of God, let me put it differently. Where are the blessings of God found? Where are the blessings of God found? From God in Scripture. Okay, let me ask a different question. Who are the blessings of God found in Christ It's found in Christ, right? So as you dwell with Christ, you will be blessed in your union with Christ. You remember the Ark of the Covenant when it left Jerusalem and it went out into people were holding the Ark of the Covenant and they were blessed because they were in proximity to the Ark of the Covenant. Is everybody tracking this? Where the Ark of the Covenant was, there was blessing. What I'm saying is this, where Christ is, there is blessing. And even as Christians, as we walk away in fellowship with Christ, we should not expect the same blessings if we're walking with him. If I go out and start killing people or start stealing from people, I should not expect the same blessings if I'm not doing those things. Does everybody agree with that? Does that make sense? So I'm simply saying this is all really going back to uh Mr. Time was talking about as we don't know what would have happened, but I think it would have been better. Again, now now here's the scary part though. It being better might have been Elijah getting his head cut off. I mean, it's like, how could that be better? Because Elijah is not the hero of the story. Christ is the hero of the story. And that's part of the reason Elijah was so traumatized when the kingdom of God did not come down based on his efforts. Remember what he says? I'm no better than my father's. As long as you think you're the hero of the story, you're going to be traumatized when reality keeps smacking you in the face and saying you're not the hero of the story. But when you put yourself back and step back and say, God, I'm not the hero of the story. I serve him who is the hero of the story. And my place is to be in your will. And by the way, and this is a whole different, we're going to get there. But Elijah did come back. And his name was John the Baptist. And he did get his head cut off. Do you remember that? He did. And was he outside of God's will? Not at all. He was doing exactly what God told him to do. And our job is not to be the hero, our job is to do exactly what God wants us to do So you me you mentioned Paul. Paul was in God's will as he was being chased around town and beaten up all the way through. But he was filling up the suffering of Christ Our job is not to write our own stories. And again, beloved, you can try. But how is it then going for you? Has your story been the way you wanted to write it or how God has decided to write it? You don't get to decide how your story is written. You get to decide if you're going to walk in God's will for you. Even if that story leads you through a lot more valleys of the shadow of death than you ever wanted. If it was up to us, there would be no valley of the shadow of death ever Right? I don't want any pain, no suffering, I ought to be beautiful and I want to die in peace. Again, this has not been my story, and I don't expect it to become my story. Right? Again, I'm not trying to make it all doom and gloom. God does lead us to green pastures and still water. I'm just simply saying sometimes deliverance might be in heaven, not on earth. Now, interesting enough though. I do find it interesting. Again, he's Elijah. God protected this man. He was not going to die. He was going to come back. I mean I I don't think he probably would have died. The guy who didn't die probably wasn't going to die. Is that fair? Right? The guy who didn't die was probably not gonna die. Later on In Elijah's story, and I talked about this in the sermon, remember? You can see that at the end of 2 Kings. Later on, a situation like this happens again. Well, you have the son of Ahab trying to get Elijah sending out fifty men to grab him. Here he gets a messenger and he runs Runs for the hills, screaming and crying. This time he gets fifty soldiers with a captain, he needs on a hill. He's not running at all dog. He's just sitting there, you know. I was gonna say chewing on tobacco, but he probably wasn't do that. He was sipping his tea, eating hummus. Whatever he was doing up there, he was in total peace. Remember this? And he said, Man of God, come down. And his fire came down. The guy who just set down fire, I think had he stayed, God would have protected them, whether he sent down fire or some other means I mean he just ran faster than any man. God could have immediately, as soon as he came, gave him the speed and ran away. He could have sat down fire. God would have protected him. I think the point is that Elijah learned his lesson many years later Realizing I don't need to rely on my own strength. God can provide for me. If I'm a man of God, let the fire of God come down. And it came down. But to your point, sometimes God doesn't send the fire. Sometimes He puts us in the fire But we can trust him, even despite the fire, because when this body fails, we shall too rise again. Any any final thoughts on on our passage? I don't see him at suicidal. I have a pass. But most of the time I'm gonna preach preach and see the suicidal. And then it's because I'm Okay. Well how would you distinguish that? Well, how do you distinguish what you see in him and a suicidal person? I do just doesn't want to live anymore. Okay. I've been there. Yeah. On traditional day, they found a lot of that and I was I beg I bring me home. I don't I don't want to do this without him. I've been to where I didn't want to live. Never once did it enter my mind on what it's going Never once. But that I get thank God for bringing home? Yes. Yeah. But I was okay with him living here because it's a will. But so many Yeah. Yeah, yeah, I I agree. I agree with you. It depends on how we define what suicidal means. If somebody, and I actually use that word , but I don't disagree with you, here's what I meant by suicidal. Here's what I see in the text. If somebody walked in my office and said, I want to die, Pastor, I would someone said, What happened? He had some suicidal thoughts. That that's generally how I would communicate it However, if someone wants to distinguish a desire to die and a desire to kill themselves, and want to make that distinct, and I think there is a distinction, I want to die versus I want to die by my own hand, are not exactly the same thing, but they're very similar. Th there is a similarity. Namely, I want to die. Now some people take that further and say, I want to die so much I'm willing to kill myself. And if you you want to say that's a suicidal part versus just a a blanket statement to die, I don't I won't I won't have any quibble. with that. Right? But I I do agree. I don't see anything where he says, I want to kill myself. And that's kind of what I actually preached in the sermon. That he he wants to die, but he doesn't see killing himself as an option. Which is not an option. And it's not compassionate. Well, I'll put it this way. I have a firm and I do kill animals who are suffering. I do it all the time. Have I seen animals suffering? I kill it. But that's because it's not made in the image of God. Does that make sense? It's an it's an animal. It's suffering. I feel I have the right and the stewardship to kill it. Is my wife suffering? I'm not killing. But despite legality. Despite I you can see how the reasoning would go though. She's suffering. Again, despite legality. She's suffering. I gotta take Right? No. And the big difference is my wife or anyone else for that matter is made in the image of God You cannot lay hands on the image of God and be guiltless. That's the big difference. It's not about compassion. It's about this is a sacred object to God. And because of that, not doing it Not putting not I dare not put my hand against the Lord's anointing. Remember David was like that? I'm good. That's what I was gonna say. Okay, go ahead. Exactly. And and we are the Lord's anointed. So so again, we in fact I don't like this part of I don't like this message. I really do wish I'm just being honest. I really do wish that mercy killings or or or I I'm not against it for a compassionate reason. I I totally feel that person in pain and in suffering just wanting it to go. I I feel that. Nonetheless though. It's not about my feelings, it's about God's word. We are not allowed to do this. And we're going to face this in our culture. We're already facing this. And if you don't stand on the Word of God, you have nowhere to stand. But you have to stand on the Word of God and say, no, no, no, no, no. God is the definer of life and death. It's in God's hands, not in mine. Now I do want to put a caveat here though That does not mean that we can't alleviate suffering, even knowing that that means of mediation can lower life expectancy I hope I'm not revealing something that you guys do not know, but hospice and morphine will break many times will speed the person's expiration. You you should just know that. Like you have a very sick person and put them on morphine, very powerful drugs, does that make sense? Like that that's going to bring them closer to death. It just it does happen. However, what is the purpose of doing that? Is it to kill them or to relieve suffering? That's a whole lot different than someone doing assisted suicide of trying to kill the person. So we can relieve suffering even when we understand that that might be causing secondary effects, namely bringing down a life expectancy, but our intention is not to kill them. Our intention is to help them to relieve pain. That is totally different than saying mix me this concoction that will kill me on the spot. Because I'm in pain. Did I see that distinction? Totally different. Any final thoughts before we close this down? Yeah. That uh the big fall comes after the the big picture. It's terrifying. Isn't that terrifying? Well we should learn from it Yeah, yeah, probably. We we should we should be ready for it. In other words, we should be ready for this. It happens so much that we should be can anyone let's just real quick. We have it right here. Can anyone think of another example besides your own personal life uh where this has happened in the Bible? Noah. Noah. Noah 's a great example. He celebrates by getting drunk and humiliated by his family. How awful. Jonah? Okay. Anyone else could think of I'm thinking of a guy who thought we're an H. Hezekiah, remember? Through Isaiah extends his life and what does he do? Calls the Babylonians end and shows off his wealth only to be cursed by Only the Nebuchadnezzar is an interesting example. Um well yeah, he did he he became high and then he boasted, but then God humbled him and he brought him back I think the good story the good news about all of this is though all those examples for the most part God brought redemption afterwards. But it is a very and we will close here, it is a very good warning for us That right after the heels of victory, if you start thinking I'm such hot stuff, I'm so amazing, be very, very careful. He who thinks he stands, be careful lest he fall We are dependent on him, and uh you never outgrow that. That's really what ends the statement. Does anybody know how old David was when he slept with Bathsheba? How old do you think he was? Just guess. He was fifty He would think he was beyond those temptations. Apparently not. A 50-year-old man I'm just saying, he's not crazy old, but he's 50. He's a mature guy. He's been walking with the Lord for a long, long time. 50 years old. And what I learned from that is you never escape. Temptation. Some of you can probably tell me that's true. Anyone who's older than me, tell me have you escaped temptation? Is temptation gone? It just changes, right? Or sometimes it stays the same. Until we get out of this earth, temptation will be right at the door. And so we're going to have to walk with God the whole time.