You can open up your Bibles to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12 will begin. Reading in verse 3 for context. I'm gonna, uh just a total side note here, I'm gonna try to talk a little bit differently this time to so I don't walk off the stage feeling like Terrible. Sometimes I feel just absolutely terrible and my voice hurts really bad. So I'm going to try something a little bit different and we'll see if that works. Pray for me. So Hebrews chapter 12 Beginning in verse 3 for context, but we're going to be jumping down, so don't worry. Hebrews 12, verse 3. For consider him Who endured such hostility for sinners against himself, lest you become weary and discouraged in your souls. You have not yet resisted to bloodshed, striving against sin. And have you forgotten the exhortation which speaks to you as sons, my son, do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor be discouraged when you are rebuked by him. For whom the Lord loves, he chastens and scourges every son whom he receives. If you endure chastening, God deals with you as sons. For what son is there whom a father does not chasten? But if you are without chastening, of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate and not sons. Furthermore, we have had human fathers who corrected us, and we paid them respect Shall we not much more readily be subject to the father of spirits and live? For they indeed for a few days chastened us as seemed best to them. but he for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. Now, no chastening seems to be joyful for the present, but painful. Nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceable fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. Therefore Strengthen the hands which hang down and feeble knees, and make straight the path for your feet, so that what is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed Pursue peace with all people and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Looking carefully lest any one fall short of the grace of God, lest any bitter root spring up and cause trouble, and by this many become defiled, lest there be any fornicator or profane person like Esau, who for one morsel of food sold his birthright For you know that afterward, when he wanted to inherit the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it diligently with tears. That last little portion, which we most likely will not get to, is probably one of the most terrifying verses in the whole Bible. This figure, Esau, selling his birthright, crying and weeping, trying to repent, trying to restore what he had lost, but not receiving it. Like I said, most likely we will not get there, so your homework is to study that verse, to think about it, to meditate, and then we can come back together and meditate together. So here we have the context. Like I said, we've done a little bit of this before. I read that all so that we can familiarize ourselves back with what is going on. So here we see that we are told, right before this, I did not read, but hopefully you I refresh your memory, we were told to lay aside every weight. and every sin that so easily ensnares us, and then run the race with endurance, and to, as we're doing that, laying aside and running, we are to cast our gaze upon Christ. It's kind of interesting because right before that we're told about this great host of witnesses, this great crowd of witnesses that surround us. So we look to each other for encouragement and we look to be strengthened by the positive examples of others. I think of Paul when he said that follow me as I follow Christ. So we look to others to be encouraged by the positive attributes we ignore and disregard as the negative. But ultimately We cast our eyes on Christ. He is the author and finisher of our faith The Bible says that he who began a good work and you will bring it to completion at the day of Christ Jesus. So we fix our eyes on him who started this great work in our lives. None of us would have ever come to believe outside of the work of the Spirit. And who sent that Spirit? What did Jesus say at Pentecost? That he's been lifted up and now he sends the Holy Spirit, right? That he's the one who sends the Spirit, who's going to convict the world. of sin, righteousness, and judgment. A lot of debate about that. But shouldn't be too much debate about sending the Spirit to bring conviction. And that's what Christ does. He is the author of our faith. We would never believe without him. But he didn't just begin a work, but he will bring it to Completion at the day of Christ Jesus. So look to Him. The one who started your faith and the one who will stamp it and see you at that finish line and complete it. But not only is Christ the author and finisher of our faith personally, but he's also the perfecter of the faith. If you look at the saints, if you look at all these great men who have run this Christian walk before us, who is the principial example? Who is the one who puts everyone else to the dust? Who is the one who casts a shadow that everyone else is underneath? We were talking about just recently, uh even in the sermon, he's thinking about John the Baptist and Jesus as this very interesting and Challenging statement, but he says, He who has been born of woman, none have risen greater than John the Baptist, right? Whatever that means, it means he's pretty good. If if no one is risen greater than him Then that means, like I said, this guy's pretty pretty solid. Whatever you take of it, he's pretty good. He's a prophet and he's a great one Nevertheless, this man is mixed, isn't he? He thinks of some great things he did, but maybe some not so great things. I mean, what about this is kind of just side note, but what about this, you know, going out in the wilderness part? Any of you attempted to do that? Not me. I kind of like the suburbs. I don't like the city, I like the suburbs. But I'm not tempted to do that. What about this eating locust and wild honey? I like the diet, I don't want to be, you know, I like being kind of slum, but I don't want to do all that, right? Does that make sense? But it's not just that though, it's not just these idiosyncrasies, but he does these great things we saw today. He baptizes Jesus, even though he doesn't understand. He's a perfect example of faith seeking understanding. He didn't just say, I don't know, so I'm not going to do. He said, Okay, Lord, this is weird, but I'll do it. Great example there, right? This is wonderful stuff. But then later on, I know people try to soften this, but then he's thrown in jail for being a righteous man, calling out sin. And what happens to him? He's ultimately killed because some young girl dances and pleases hair. It's awful. It's terrible. But before that, though, you remember what he does when he's in jail? He's sitting there lonely and sad and something starts to creep in his heart. What was it? Doubt. Wondering. Now again, he's still a man of God. He's still an amazing man. Because what does he do with that doubt? He goes and sends someone to fetch the Messiah. And ask him a question. Are you really the one who we're looking for? So this is good stuff, but still though, there's some tells there. That's my point. It's not just all good. We we want to imitate Joe John the Baptist what to do with our doubts, but we don't want to be a doubter like John the Baptist. Can you think of an example would Jesus doubt it? No. See? Jesus is the principial example. He is the perfector of the faith. And so what we want to do is cast our eyes on him who perfected the faith. And as we consider Jesus' life, and we can consider his active obedience, and we consider his passive obedience. If you don't know what those terms mean, we consider his obey obedience to God's law. When God said thou shall not, he didn't do. When God said thou shall, he did. So we can follow that example. of how he prayed and all the positive things he did. But we can also follow the example of his passive obedience. I'm just throwing out these theological terms, but they're helpful to understand. And his passive obedience is when he continued to Be steadfast. And he didn't buckle. And he didn't shudder when the temperature came up, right? When the heat of the world came upon him, he didn't cower away, but he set his face like flint toward Jerusalem, even though he knew that he was going to die there. He didn't chicken out. He pressed on. Passive obedience of Christ. Or as our text said Consider what hostility from sinners he had against them. He had so much hostility And he resisted to the point of bloodshed. And not just a little bit of blood, but rivers of blood flowed out of his body. How did Christ do it? How was Christ able to not buckle? It wasn't just simply because he's God and God can't sin and so forth. That's not what the text says. You might believe that it might be true, but that's not what the text says. The text specifically says the way that Christ was able not to buckle under the pressure and the thing that we're supposed to Imolate. We can't immolate his deity. We can certainly emulate what he actually did in this text according to the text, which is what? That he looked past the Shame. He looked past the misery. He looked past the cross. He disregarded these things for what? For the joy that was set before him. And now he is seated at the right hand of the Father So in light of this, we should look at ourselves, and as we feel like we are being tortured or we are being disregarded, or they're just killing us everywhere, or whatever. This sense of just gloom and doom. It's all bad. We should cast our eyes on Christ and then reconsider our situation. Does that make sense? It's all coming against us. We're losing everything as you sit in your wonderful house. And we sit in AC and peace, and we haven't resisted to the point of bloodshed. Again, that's not really to disregard your pain and misery, but kind of. It is at least to put it in perspective. Right? That it's not nice what they're doing to us. It's not nice the feelings that we have. It's not nice how they mock us. But before we get just this, woe is me, doom and gloom, I'm ready to throw in the towel, maybe we should look over to Christ and say Oh well, this isn't too bad after all. And that God's grace is sufficient. So that's the first thing. We are to, as we run this race, as we cast aside every weight, as we remember Christ, who is the author of perfection of our faith We should also remember his sufferings, and in light of that, look at our own sufferings and say, I can yet endure more. He did this for me, I can do this for One of the things that our culture just has completely forgotten, parents, you need to inulcate this into your children. It's very important. It's very important if you understand this. Gratitude. Our culture doesn't have it. It has no sense of gratitude. You would do something kind for someone and they won't even bother to say thank you. It's a small thing, but it's an important thing, right? Please and thank you. This is our job, parents. We need to interrogate in them. Please and thank you. Why? Not because they're words, but we're trying to create an attitude. of gratitude. And for them to not just take things for granted. They don't deserve these things. They deserve hell. That's all they deserve. And so if someone's showing something kind to you, you should respond in gratitude. What do I bring that up? Well, we should respond in gratitude for the God who su who died and suffers for us. And as Paul wrote that wonderful treatise in Romans, He concludes, well, sort of concludes, with after he writes all the doctrine, he tells us, therefore, we should l put ourselves as living sacrifices for God. If he suffered so much for us, we can suffer a little for him. Does that make sense? Hope it does. Okay, that's the first thing. The second thing, so get a grip on your tribulations, your trials, your afflictions. It's not really as bad as you probably think it is. The second thing is you're not to forget This exhortation found in Proverbs chapter 3 that calls you a son. Recognize that the trials that you're going through is ultimately a form of discipline. All the trials, all the pain, all the frustration, all the gripe is some form of discipline. I didn't talk about this too much last time, but I'll briefly mention this. All the trials, every pain, every nick, every misery is some form of discipline. There's two types of discipline. There's formative discipline and there's corrective discipline We're much more familiar with the idea of corrective discipline. That is, you do something wrong, here comes the rod. You do something wrong, I'm taking this away from you. You do something wrong, you're acting like a fool, stop acting like a fool. Does that make sense? This is corrective discipline. This is me correcting you in some way. But there's also this concept of formative discipline. Again, I don't want to go too long into this, but I think a picture of formative discipline will etch this in your mind so you never forget it And the best picture I have of formative discipline, which has no idea of correction, there's no sense of you did something wrong, but it's to form something in you. It is to craft a character in you, and the best picture I can give of that is joining the army. Or navy or Marines or whatever thing like that, right? I don't want to leave any of these branches out. I'm not sure if we might have done the SpaceX things, or whatever that thing is called now But if you join the armed forces, they will take you and form you into a soldier. From whatever you or a navy man or whatever you call it. Does that make sense? You go from Soft to tough. Undisciplined to discipline. Not obeying to obey. Not sleeping at normal hours to sleeping in normal hours. Right? You say, Oh, I like to sleep at two o'clock in the morning. You won't make it through basic training sleeping at two o'clock in the morning. They have a perfect solution. They will keep you up for a long, long time. They will run you into a pure exhaustion and then you'll pass out. It happens. Right? It's a formative discipline. They're forming you. So what's the point of this? The point is this. As you're going through trials, you can know that they fit in one of these two categories Either God is foreign to disciplining you, he's trying to build character and strength and faith and endurance in you, or potentially, and you need you need to look around in your own life to figure out which one is going on, you're just being a knucklehead You're just being a sinner and God is correcting you. Did that make sense? You're being foolish. And God is lovingly applying his discipline to you And all that should motivate us as we're going through these trials, which are not that bad, number one, less than what Christ did, and for our ultimate good, we should strengthen the weak knees. You can just see the knees like chattering against each other, banging against each other, this person shaking in fear and so afraid. And it's like, get a grip. It's going to be okay. What God is doing is fine. Stop biting your nails. Get hands out of your mouth. Wipe your sweaty brow off. And continue to press forward. That is what the Lord is telling us here. Now, look at verse 12. What if we decide, instead of getting a grip, instead of strengthening the hands which hang down and the feeble knees that are shattering against each other and not making straight paths for your feet. What is the warning in verse 12 and 13? If you don't do that, he says See that that which is lame may not become dislocated, but rather healed. So this is important To understand, and we see this all throughout the book of Hebrews, is that these aren't just normal Christians just doing normal things, but these are feeble Christians. These are Christians who have not matured as they ought to. This is why I think that our text, primarily when it talks about discipline, is actually talking about corrected discipline because these people deserve correction. Remember I said when something bad happens to you, it's okay to look around and say, Am I Job or am I Peter? Do I deserve this or do I not? Because sometimes we do deserve this. Sometimes we are acting foolish and sinful, and we do need the loving correction of the Lord. And that's what he describes here. They're lame. They're sick. These are people that he earlier describes in Hebrews chapter 5. He calls them spiritual babes. He says, you ought to be teachers. You ought to be able to lead. You ought to be able to inform the simple, but you're still simple-minded. You ought to be able to consume meat and to give out meat, but instead you are a simple babe who can only consume milk You know and enjoy the most basic truths of the Word of God, which is a good thing, but you cannot consume more difficult things. You don't like that which is more mature. You're uninterested when people go into deep theology. Your mind shuts off. You might even chastise sometimes it's one thing for you to be a sinner is one thing for you to be doing wrong and know you're doing wrong. You know you should just turn it turn it off. Right? Or you're desk scrolling. Anybody done the desk scroll And you're like, what am I doing here? And you feel bad. That's good. It's not good to be desperating, but it's good to feel bad about it. It's another thing to justify it, and not even realize that you're doing wrong. Well same here. It's one thing to know, you know what, I I need to grow. You know what? I need to fill my mind with things of the Word of God. It's another thing to justify our ignorance and think it's some kind of virtue. And I've seen that. Maybe you have too That I'm just simple minded. I just love the pure things of the Word of God. Well, true. But he wrote 66 books. He wrote the hard stuff and the easy stuff. And he wants you to understand all of it. Why? Because he wants you to love God with all your heart, your soul, and your mind, and your strengths. He wants you to use your time to learn about him because he's worthy of your mind and your time. Right? He didn't just give you all this time and all this money and all these resources just to mindlessly entertain yourself hour after hour after hour after hour. Don't just take it from me, Matthew chapter 22, verse 37. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and what Oh, your mind. Right? He means that. He wants you to love him with this. He gave you this amazing intelligent brain, not to just fill it up with facts about celebrity or football or ways to make money. Does that make sense? But he gave you a huge book, not just for the pastor or the theological nerds to learn about it, but for you to learn about it. He wants you to know about God and that which he has done. So there's two paths here. There's the path for the weak Christian, and this is so important. Because when you see a weak Christian, you need to understand there are only two paths. I'm going to repeat that. When you see a weak Christian Not all of us are strong. Some are weak. Just because they're weak doesn't mean they're not a Christian. But some in fact are weak. They're feeble. They're questionable. You start looking at them saying, what's something's not right here? I'm worried about you. You ever feel that way toward one someone else? I'm worried about you. Something's going on here. The world is filling your heart. Your church attendance is not very good. Whatever it is. I'm seeing sin. I'm concerned. And you ought to be, by the way. Remember you have Cain says, am I my brother's keeper? Yes, Cain, you are your brother's keeper. We are to watch out for one another So you should be out there looking. And if you see a feeble Christian, you should understand there are only two paths. And here they are. One, that which is lame can be strengthened and healed. The weak Christian can become strong. The one about to be crushed can be unburdened and released. The immature can become mature But there's another possibility. That which is lame can become dislocated. That which is weak can become destroyed. That which is bent over can be smashed into oblivion And that's what we see right in Hebrews chapter 6. So right after he chastised them for being these immature Christians who don't love God with their minds and can't handle the milk, can't handle the meat, only can handle the milk, he says this in Hebrews chapter 6. Therefore, leaving the discussion of elementary principles of Christ, let us go on to perfection. Let us go on to maturity. We're going to leave the milk now. Come on. Let's leave the milk. Let's go on to maturity. And we're not going to lay again the foundation of repentance from dead works and of faith toward God and lists and other things. But we're leaving them out. We're leaving the basic pure gospel message. There's God, He loves you, He died. So forth. Not that that's bad. That's it's foundational. But we're leaving it behind, and we're gonna talk about some meat here. Okay? And then he says this in verse 3. And this we will do If God permits. We'll leave behind the elementary. We'll go on to maturity. We'll do this. If God permits. Now, why might God not permit you to go on to maturity? Anybody have any ideas? Why might God say you're not going on to maturity? If you don't go on to maturity, what are you going to do? Stay immature? No. No. You either go on to maturity or if God does not permit. I want you to turn that. Hebrew chapter 6. I want you to see this. Look at verse 3 with me. So you see this, you don't think I'm just making this up Hebrews chapter 6 verse 3. And this we will do if God permits. Now look at verse 4, right after that. And there's this little word called for. It's a little tiny word, but it's important because it connects what comes prior to that. He says, for it is impossible For those who were once enlightened, and tasted the heavenly gift, and have become partakers of the Holy Spirit, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come, if they fall away to renew them again to repentance, since they crucify again for themselves the Son of God. and put him to open shame. And I'll stop reading from there. But you see the idea. Right after, if God permits, we have this most terrifying passage about it's impossible to restore them onto repentance. Why might God not permit? Because they might go on to this state described here, which they would not be permitted, to go on to maturity, because instead they'd be stuck in their unbelief and their lack of repentance. So again. When you see a feeble, immature Christian, you need to recognize that this is an inherently unstable condition. They will not continue in this condition forever, outside of some strange incidents like they die or something like that. But if they continue on this path, they will either go on to maturity or go on to what? Apostasy to death. So two things that we should recognize. Number one, look at your own heart and see, am I talking about you? Or forget me. Is the Holy Spirit talking about you? Are you that immature Christian? Are you that spiritual babe who needs to go on to maturity? If you are, be warned. The book of Hebrews is all about warning to recognize I need to go on to maturity. This is unacceptable. I need to strengthen. Strengthen the feeble knees, make straight the past, lay aside the sin that so easily ensnares in all these weights. Recognize I need to go on to maturity is not an option Now what about for those of you who are mature? Be your brother's keeper. Look around. If you find the immature, pray for them, encourage them, exhort them, beckon them on. You're trying to save a soul. You're trying to keep them from destruction and apostasy. Right there in verse, back to chapter 12, verse 13. So that make straight, pass through your feet, so that that which is lame may not be dislocated, but rather be healed. Two paths, two destinies, that which is lame. It can be dislocated, further destroyed, useless Or it can be healed. Now, let's press on to the next verse. We're quickly running out of time. Verse 14. So we're to make straight our paths, we're to get our paths clear from sin and evil so that we can walk this path without tripping up and falling. We are to recognize that that which is lame needs to be strengthened unless it be dislocated, but rather healed. And then we're told here in verse 14, pursue peace with all people and holiness. without which no one will see the Lord. So these are our positive commands. Number one, we're to pursue peace. Peace with who? Peace with just believers? Peace with your clique? Those believers that you get along with most? Peace with those believers that you agree theologically with. Your confession agrees with them. I'm not talking about heresy here. Talking about every Reformed Baptist. You're Reformed Baptist, therefore, Baptist, these are the people you 'd have peace with. But not those Lutherans. Not those Anglicans, not those Southern Baptists. Right? Does it say that? What's it say? Pursue peace With all people. This isn't just even believers, really, if you think about it. It's everybody. We're called to be people of peace. What did Jesus say? Blessed are The peacemakers, for they will be children of God. They will see God. God has called you to be a peacemaker in a world full of war. The world loves war. It loves instigators. It loves people with drama. It's really sad. There'd be some horrible thing happening, someone getting stabbed, someone getting beat up, something, right? Nobody will go through the help anymore. What do they do? They just pull out their phone and watch. We have a world a world full of war and death and pain, and you're called in the light of that darkness to be light. And instead of pulling out your phone Instead of instigating, instead of getting the sick, disgusting joy and the misery and the violence of others, you're to pursue peace with all people. You are to be a peacemaker. Something that we pray for constantly is that we remain the bond of peace and the unity of the Spirit. That's what we're called to do as Christians. We're to do that. But the way that we do that is not by kicking out everyone who's not like us. I can I can have peace. If you're not my friend, you're out of here. If you get on my nerves, you're out of here. Right? If you don't agree with me politically, you're out of here. If you don't agree Does that make sense? It's so easy to pursue peace by just eliminating everyone who disagrees with you. But that's not what we're called to do Instead, we're called to bear with one another with all lowliness and gentleness, with longsuffering. Bear with one another in love, enduring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace. It's to endure, not to remove everyone who disagrees with you. Love covers a multitude of sins. The only way you're going to be able to be a peacemaker is you're if Every time that you are offended, every time that somebody says something to you that's unkind, every time you get that little flame, you ever get that little flame in your heart? Somebody does you wrong, you feel this little fire come up, right? And you're just like, mmm, mmm. Every time you get that, you have to be willing to grab some of that water and pour out that flame. You have to be willing to cover some of that with love. Does that make sense? That's the way you're going to be a peacemaker is to say, you know what? Love covers a multitude of sins. I'm going to love you despite our disagreement. I'm going to love you despite that offense. I'm going to love you despite Does that make sense? You don't just kick everyone out that you don't agree with. You don't just eliminate everyone who's a little quirky and weird. But we have to be able to walk with each other and to love each other. We have to pursue peace With everyone, the godly and the ungodly, those who are saying things they should be saying, and those who are saying things that they ought not to be saying. We have to cover a multitude of sins and be able to pursue peace. Now I'm gonna spare you. I don't have time to do this next verse. I just don't have time. And so we're gonna end on that note of peace. We'll pick up that next time. But let's be peacemakers Let us pursue peace. Let us be willing to know when we should overlook an offense and when we need to step up. Sometimes we do. Sometimes we need to publicly rebuke. Sometimes we need to say enough is enough. But let us be reminded of this verse and really understand that our Christian life calls us to be people of peace. Encourage that. Promote that. Be a child of peace because you've been saved by a God. Let's close in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, I thank you that you are such a wonderful God to us, that you have saved our soul. That you redeemed us from the pit of hell, that you were not a God of wrath and war, otherwise we would be destroyed long ago. But you are a God that pursued peace with us, and Lord help us to be people of peace. that we would uh spread peace, be people of love and peace, that we would overlook offenses, that we would promote righteousness and kindness, and we would protect. The the unity that you have given us, Lord, but as we've seen in this verse, it's not just about pursuing peace with ourselves, but even peace with a hostile world. Help us, Lord, not to be so political that we hate our political enemies. Help us not to be people of wrath. That spew hatred. But let us be people of love. Let us be known not by what we hate and what we're always against, but what we're for. Help us be people of peace. We pray it in Jesus' name. Amen.