Hi, my name is Jamie Martin. Whenever one gives a testimony, one must be careful to give God the glory. So I hope as you hear my testimony, you will see it as a witness to the greatness of God. He is alive and is powerful to save. The God who appeared to Abraham is the God who appeared to me. The God who removed the scales from Paul's eyes is the God who rescued me from the deadness of sin and showed me his beauty. Jesus Christ is the same yesterday, today, and forever. My journey to God begins when I was young. One of my very first memories was going to church with a little suit on. I was probably about three to five years old. I don't actually remember church itself, I just remember the suit that I had. It left an indelible mark on me because I always felt like a church kid based on that experience. Even though my family stopped going to church when I was around six or seven. During that time, those early years, my parents used to read me the little picture story Bible And they also used to meet read me these gospel tracts with pictures. This taught me about God and the fall of humanity. I'm not sure how far my parents yet though with reading that little story Bible, because I don't remember anything past the Old Testament. My dad also used to teach me about the Trinity, one God, three persons. When I was around six or seven, all of this instruction stopped since my parents fell away from the church. We never talked about God, and I for the most part completely forgot about God. From the ages of eleven to fifteen, even though I still believed in God, I did not know him. I only knew about him. I almost never thought about God, and my belief in God made no effect on any of my actions. As a result, I became a juvenile delinquent. I got into countless fistfights, drugs, immorality, gangs, and crime. I was flunking out of high school and in the process of being expelled from my school. All this came to a climax when I was fifteen and I was nearly beat to death by a group of thugs I don't have time to share all the details about that event, but I can tell you that to this day I still believe I was miraculously saved that night. And as I laid in the hospital I thought this was going to be my testimony. God saved me that night from death, so in a response I was going to give my life. But as soon as that thought came into my mind, it was repugnant to me. I could not do it. I could not become religious even for a moment. At this point, I realized that I was going to hell. This was terrible because I always thought that I was going to be like the thief on the cross. I was going to live like the devil until the eleventh hour and turn my life over to God. But that night I realized that God could not be mocked For if I died quickly, I would have no time to repent. And if I died slowly, I could not muster up repentance, just like I couldn't muster up in the hospital room This bothered me, but I pushed it out of my mind. Shortly after this, my life continued to unravel. I was being evicted from my neighborhood and I was going to live with my grandmother. Also, my relationship with my dad had completely fallen apart And at this time he had become a Christian again, so in order to rebuild our relationship, he asked me one night if I was willing to read one chapter of the book of Matthew a day and then discuss it with him. I read the first chapter and I suffered through a genealogy And I read about the Christmas story. Chapter two was more about the Christmas story. Chapter three, I was introduced to John the Baptist, and he preached that the axe was laid at the root, and every tree that does not bear good fruit will be cut down and thrown into the fire. At this point the fear of God came upon me. I already knew I was going to hell, but now I saw the flames. I knew I was going there, but now I really didn't want to go there. The next night I read chapter 4 and chapter 5. I was introduced to Jesus. I realized while reading this section that I never had read Jesus before I knew about him, but I did not know him. And as I read, I first thought that this was very interesting. These wise sayings that I heard all my life go all the way back to biblical times. And then it was like someone slapped me in the back of the head and I realized that these things didn't go back to biblical times, these things originated from Jesus Christ himself. At that moment I realized that Jesus was wisdom incarnate. In him, wisdom was to be found. I saw him as beautiful, and I knew he was all that I needed. At that time I got on my knees all alone in my room and prayed to God. I told him that I was a sinner, that I believed in his son, I repented of my sins and asked for forgiveness. I ended my prayer by saying, I think exactly, if you'll take me, you can have me When I opened my eyes, the world has never looked the same again. It was like scales had fallen off my eyes, and it was like I lived in a black and white world and for the first time I could see an all color. My life completely changed from that moment. It's never been the same. It's never been the same since. I know that my Redeemer lives because I've experienced the saving power of my life. I know what it's like to be a sinner completely dead in sin and then come to alive in Christ. He is alive, brothers and sisters. He has power to save. Come Lord Jesus come.