Recap, um, we saw that the world is not the way that it's supposed to be. Uh our original parents, as Tim kind of alluded to in his prayer, our original parents committed evil, that's Adam and Eve, they sinned. And that was the root of moral evil infecting our universe. They sinned and they transferred a sin nature upon us, as the psalmist does in Psalm 51, in iniquity did my mother I was brought forth in iniquity and sin did my mother conceive me. So we come out as sinners, right? Anyone that has children they see that they they have that sin nature from the very beginning. You have to teach them to do right. You don't have to teach them to do wrong. So the origin of moral evil is coming from our parents both by uh the same nature that they transfer to us and just by actions. Right. The Corinthians says that do not be deceived. Bad company corrupts good morals. So we're just influencing each other. And so Adam has been influencing Adam and sinful humanity has been influencing each other to do wicked ever since. And then of course they pass that sin nation. So that's the origin of the moral evil. We also know that that very act of committing that first evil also cursed the world. We saw that in both the text of Genesis and then in Romans. And elsewhere in the Bible, but those are explicitly. that the curse of the natural evil, the pain, the suffering, the misery, the death, that could all be traced to the curse. So the biblical narrative shows a correlation between suffering and sin. Before Adam and Eve sinned, there was no suffering And after uh sin is eradicated, right, we get new bodies, and all the wicked are thrown into hell, into a different dimension, a different realm, not part of this new heavens and new earth reality, suffering won't exist anymore. So there's a definite correlation between suffering and sin. But we need to be careful to recognize that correlation doesn't mean causation. Right? Or when I'm that actually works better for other things. Correlation doesn't me cause Asia. In this case, actually, in fact, uh The original sin did cause the suffering. But what I'm getting out here is while the original sin caused all the suffering And while sin causes much suffering, the fact that you are suffering, the fact that your neighbor is suffering, doesn't necessarily mean that you can trace that back to a particular sin that they did. You can trace it back to sin, but it doesn't mean that you can trace it back to a sin that they did or that you did. So we need to be very, very careful about that. We discovered three truths from the early chapters of Job. So that's what we transitioned last time. We were looking at the earlier chapters of Job and seeing what does the Bible say about suffering. These are the things three things that we saw. We saw one that suffering is real. Suffering is objective reality. It's not merely an illusion. Now some Eastern religions, uh Christian science also. uh which is a cult, by the way, that's not Christian of science. Um, they would try to deny uh that uh suffering is real. In fact this kind of thing is kind of affecting our society with this positive thinking and just simply trying to to block it out, okay? That's not a Christian perspective. Suffering is real. It's not just something that's in your mind, but something really truly out there. And by the way, we don't want to uh we don't even want to believe that. It's not true. Uh it's illogical at many levels, but we don't want to believe that as Christians anyway Because if suffering is simply a subjective state of the mind and not objectively real out there, then we don't need faith to overcome it. Right? What we need is enlightenment. What we need is to to go beyond suffering instead of dealing with suffering through faith. And so as Christians, everything we live a life of faith, right? And so we want to we want to have faith, we want to trust Jesus, we want to go through suffering, believing that Jesus Christ is going to hold us through and purposing the suffering. We don't want to simply deny it. And as we talked about last time The suffering is is a reality you just can't deny. You can deny some minimum suffering, but not a lot of suffering, right? And I call it the chamomile effect. Chamel, if you're tired, if you get a little bit tiny aches, that kind of thing, it can calm you down, it can soothe you, but as very little ability. Okay, if you if you lose an arm. The doctor's not going to prescribe you chamomile. It's not going to work. And that's kind of like this this positive thinking. It has a little bit of effect. It can minimize some, but it can't erase all of suffering. Suffering is very much real The second thing that we saw about suffering, oh, let me back up a little bit. We're all most tempted to deny suffering, not usually when we're suffering But usually when our neighbor is suffering, because we know all things work out for good, we're almost like get over it's not real. And we could do that to our neighbor that's not loving Right. So we don't need to deny suffering in our own lives and we don't need to deny suffering in someone else's life and saying, Okay, because we have this Christian perspective, then your suffering isn't really suffering, and you need to get away. Now there is unhealthy suffering, we talk about that later. And so there's a Christian way to suffer and to overcome suffering and rejoice in suffering And so you know, you so and if they're uh suffering in an ungodly way, you might be able to encourage them, but we shouldn't deny suffering in somebody else. That's not good ministry, that's not loving. So suffering is real. The second thing we saw is that God is sovereign over suffering. And you would call the story of Job, right? He was this righteous man, he's holy, and then there's conversation between God and the devil. And so we we saw that the devil could not harm Job. That's part of his complaint, if you remember. That was part of the reason uh the whole event happened. is because the devil said that Job had this hedge of protection around him. The devil was no he couldn't get in, right? The doors were locked. And the devil's not stronger than God. But God opens the hedge, allows Satan to come in, and allows Satan to wreak havoc in Job's life. But even the havoc that he's able to do is eliminate. Right? So at first he's able to just destroy everything, uh, but not affect his health, flesh for flesh. Then he comes back and accuses them more and says, What will a man give for his flesh? You know. So let me affect let me uh disrupt his flesh and then uh let's see what happens then. But you get what I'm saying here, that the devil keeps having to ask permission from God to allow him to do anything. And I gave it I said it like this, that the devil is the the scalpel in the hand of God. Right? When he intends for evil, God intends for good. He tries to destroy you, but God uses that scalpel to do the surgical procedures that he wants to do in your life And so God is good. That suffering is under the sovereign hand of God. Alright, number three. Third thing that we saw was innocent suffering does exist. No what I'm saying. Innocent suffering does exist. Good people do suffer. No, there's a little caveat about who's good. Oh, suddenly no one Except those in Christ. But you get what I'm saying? Innocent suffering does in fact exist. And that's what I was saying in the beginning of the class. Just because someone's suffering, you shouldn't immediately think this person obviously deserves this. By the way, this is one of the main problems with Eastern religions, especially Hinduism, because they have this idea of karma. And so this is again a radical thing that Christians are saying is innocent suffering does exist For uh Eastern religion, they would say innocent suffering cannot exist. Innocent suffering does not exist. Everything, uh every suffering that you deal with isn't a direct result of karma. If you actually believe that, you have all kinds of problems. One of your problems is you can't really help anybody. You can't have any pity on anybody, right? Because they're getting their just desserts. Even if it doesn't seem that way, because you have this this grand scheme of reincarnation, where they're getting their justice errors for something in the past. That that's a uh that's a fal obviously a false religion and a false view that the Bible rejects. Job was suffering not because he was a sinner, but because he was righteous. So it's very possible in someone's life that you could be suffering because you're righteous, not because you're a sinner. Innocent suffering does exist. Recall the episode when the disciples asked Jesus about the blind man. This is what they said. Who said, this man or his parents that he was born blind? Neither this man nor his parents sin, said Jesus, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. So again, they thought this guy is blind, I'm not blind, right? All these other people are not blind. This guy must be especially wicked. And so either he sin, strange thing is Well, how did he send if it was born blind? So they must have had some kind of view, kind of like Mormonism, that there was like this pre-existent reality that you somehow send before you existed? I I don't even know what that even means Uh but but they they they leave that as a possibility. Maybe this guy sinned even before he existed, or maybe his parents sinned, but God uh Jesus Christ explicitly says, No, this guy didn't sin, neither did his parents that he was born blind. Why was he born blind? To display uh that God might be displayed in his life. That the glory of God might be displayed. You know how did how did uh the glory of God be displayed in that guy's life? God healed him Right? Now sometimes people are born blind and they stay blind. And God is still glorified in that event. So we saw that innocent suffering does in fact exist. Now, this is not to deny that people do in fact suffer for their sins. The Bible is full of examples of God punishing people for their sins, and this is not limited to unbelievers, but also includes believers. The difference is when God's wrath comes down upon the wicked, it is a punishment for their sins, and God's wrath is coming down as a judge. See what I'm getting at here? That that God's wrath, the the punishment for sin happens to both believers and unbelievers. But the but the disposition, the relationship between God and that individual is different. So for the wicked, when they sin and God's wrath comes down upon them, God is judging them as a judge, as a holy judge, coming down and condemning them for their sins. It's punitive. But when God's wrath comes down upon us, or God's anger comes down on believers, it comes down as anger, not as this punitive wrath. This is kind of like the difference between uh a judge executing someone and a parent spaking the trial. It's totally different, right? I mean it doesn't feel good either way, and and there's anger involved in either way, but the but the the disposition, the relationship is totally different And so we we see this kind of reality of God's wrath, God's punishment coming down on believers for their sin in Hebrews. Here's what it says. My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him, for the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastens every son whom he receives. It is for discipline that you endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? It's kind of interesting, isn't it? I mean that's a high that's a that was a tourical question. It's like there is no son that a good parent would would discipline. Strangely we have in a society that would say what kind of parent would discipline their children It's completely backwards. It's just weird. Let God be true and every man a liar. Verse eight. If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons Besides this, we have earthly fathers who discipline us and we respect them. Shall we not much more be subject to the fathers uh to the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplined us for our good, that we may share in his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness for those who've been trained by it. Again, this is the argument. The argument is simple. It's saying that all good parents, all legitimate parents, discipline their children And we respect them for it. We don't hate them for it. We're not bitter about about them for it. We actually are thankful for it, right? So if that's how earthly parents do, how much more will God treat us the same way? He's going to discipline us and look, it's for our good And this is the thing I've been trying to hammer down the whole time, and I'll continue to hammer this down. God's glory and your goodness, or God's glory and the good of us, are not different. That's really the the radical. If you get that, you'll be fundamentally given forever. If you understand that when God is uh trying to gain his glory, he's not trying to get it despite you or over you or against you It's not that's how we are, right? It's it's like uh i i if I get glory, you don't. I'm trying to be put up and I'm trying to put you down. That's not God. God doesn't need to put you down and put himself In fact, God gets glory by putting you up. up See, that's the thing. God is looking out for your good. So this discipline that God is doing, it says it here. It's for your good. But it doesn't feel that way, right? In the moment, it feels terrible. It feels like what's going on here How could God do this? And yet he says that he loves me, or that and yet he is good. But in fact he is good. Because we know that ultimately, the text says, that God is doing this for our good that we may share in his holiness. For at the moment, all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness for those who have been trained by it. God is in fact doing a good in our lives. What's interesting, um what 's interesting to observe about this uh this this idea that we 're thankful for discipline is I've heard many children, usually they're a little bit older, they're kind of parents reflecting upon their childhood and they usually like brag about being disciplined. You know, they're like, I used to get spanked all the time. It's kind of like a like a badge of honor. And usually these kind of conversations happen when they're looking at some other kid or some other adult who didn't get disciplined, or at least they think that they didn't get disciplined, and so they're saying like, yeah, that's the problem. You're gonna be like that if you don't get disciplined. But I was disciplined. I've seen this happened multiple times. Kids will actually brag about, yeah, my mama used to whoop me I'll say that. I I've heard them say that. Uh you know what I've never heard though? I've never heard a child in the in the act of being disciplined or right after say, I'm so glad I've been disciplined. My pa my parent looks at me. She's wonderful. See what happens Right? In the moment it seems painful, but after you look back, you can say, I'm so glad that I didn't grow up being able to do whatever I wanted. That my parents disciplined me because I can now see that they were achieving something good in my life And it's the same way with God, right? Nobody in the moment says, I'm so glad this terrible thing happened in my life. This is the most wonderful thing that ever happened. And you shouldn't expect anyone to say that But after they see the result in the end, they can say, yeah, I see what's going on here. God was in fact training me for righteousness. God had my best interests at heart Alright, so those are the three lessons that we saw in Job. We saw suffering is real, God is sovereign over suffering, and that innocent suffering does in fact exist. So let's continue to look at the early chapters of Job and see if we can find anything else about suffering. So another lesson we learned about suffering from these early chapters of Job is Yeah, that we need to trust God in our suffering. Right? So we don't always know what's going on in our suffering. We're called not to know, but to trust. And so when you read the early chapters of Job, it makes a lot of sense because you're getting the behind-the-scenes perspective of what's happening. But you can just think of it from Job's perspective. He has no idea what's going on. I mean one day he's showing up to church. Right? The next day everything just ruined. He can't make any causal connection. Right? He's he's looking back in his life and saying, okay, did I sin? No No. In fact maybe he maybe he just preached the sermon of his life. Maybe he was just he just helped out. He did some great work beforehand. We don't know. But the fact is he can't bring any causal connection of between the suffering that he's experiencing uh in any sin in his life. Everything went from good to terrible all in a moment. And you can just imagine that that happening. It's just absolutely terrible. First Peter 412 tells us To not be surprised at the primary trial when it comes upon you to test you. The fact is it will happen. Right? We all, this happens to all of us. We all have had that experience Where uh yesterday seemed exactly like today. And yesterday everything was fine, and today the storm comes. And it just doesn't seem to be the any reason. And we're all just shocked. I can't believe this happened. I don't understand And in those moments we're called not to understand, but we're called to trust. Because that's the way it always will happen. To illustrate this idea of uh well, let's let me back up What I'm what I'm trying to say here is that when we suffer, we're called to to trust, not to to understand. And we should also recognize that suffering will come and we need to have the right perspective So much of suffering, additional suffering happens because of the surprise factor. And that's what Peter is telling us that do not be surprised. Why? Because expect this. This will in fact happen. It's not just going to happen to your neighbor, but it will happen to you. So one of the ways that we are not surprised is being prepared and knowing that it will happen beforehand. And so much pain happens to us because we have uh unmet, unspoken expectations. Or just the fact that we're not prepared for it And to give an illustration of this, has anyone ever had the unfortunate experience of walking up the stairs or walking down the stairs and thinking there was another step? Right? It's painful. I if if you knew this step was there, you uh or wasn't there, you'd be fine. But since you don't prepare for it, right, your knee locks back It is just it's uh I think you feel like your knee is gonna break. It just feels absolutely horrible because you thought that there was something there that wasn't And you get that snappy feeling. But if you knew that the step was there or wasn't there, it doesn't hurt. I mean stairs usually we don't have any problems with it, right? So if we have the right expectations, we can seriously lower the pain factor in our lives If we fully expect it to go through suffering, we're in a much better place to handle it. This is not to say that we will not become uh uh sad or we won't be shocked that we won't go through the initial shock. We're always gonna be going through that initial shock of why did this just happen? We d we just don't usually expect it, right? But the question is how can we recover So much of uh what I'm trying to uh give you guys and trying to talk about here is how to recover. How how to how to heal that initial suffering, how to process all of that and how to have that those kind of right expectations. So uh when suffering happens, we'll all go through that initial shock, but then how do we react Do we say, aha, I've been waiting for you. I've been expecting this day to come, and I've prepared for this hour? Or do we just completely fall apart? Who say I don't know what's happening and and and and just completely have no refuge. Right? We should we should be people who say I'm waiting for that day. And in fact, in some ways I'm waiting for that. All my parents are still alive. I'm waiting for the day that I'll bury one of my parents I know it's gonna happen. Right? I will be shocked when it happens. But I know it's going to happen I'm preparing for that day. And I'm saying that there's all kinds of things like that you need to prepare for. Right now Some of us may be in the crucible of suffering, but probably most of us aren't. And I'm saying that we need to prepare for that crucible of suffering. So moving back to Job, how did Job respond after his initial shock of going through suffering? He asked questions. Here's what he said: Why was God doing this? What is going on? At one point, Job wanted an interview with God. He said, Oh, that I had someone to hear me. I sign now my defense. Let the Almighty answer me. Let my accuser put this indictment in writing. So what was going on here? Job is demanding that God explain himself. Why am I suffering? You need to tell me. He's searching for answers. In fact, he's demanding answers. God, you need to explain yourself to me. So what happens? Well, God actually does meet him. He demands God to meet him, and God shows up. But it doesn't go exactly the way that Job planned it Job wanted to sit on, uh sit as the judge, and here's God trying to be his own defense uh attorney. Well this is why I'm doing this job and trying to defend himself, right? That's what he expects. But that's not what happens. What happens, ends up that Job is on trial. God is not on trial. You can try to put God in trial all you want. God's never going to be on trial. God is God and you're not. And here's what happens. Here's what God says. Who is this that darkens my counsel with words without knowledge? Brace yourself like a man. I will question you, and you shall answer me. God doesn't need to be on your uh to defend himself to you. You need to defend yourself to God. I love what he says here. When he says, Who is it that darkens my counsel with words without knowledge? We're ignorant. We're finite. We don't have the whole picture. So why do we think that we can accuse God? Right? And this kind of goes back to the very first class. That we should have faith-seeking understanding. I know my Redeemer lives. I know God. I might not understand this circumstance, but I know God. And I know that God is infinitely greater than me, since knowledge is too great for me, and I can trust them. Hopefully you can trust them with your problems as well. God continues to uh give Job a long list of questions. Each of these are reminding Job that he is merely a finite creature and he is not God. Here's the sampling of those questions. And this is from Job 38 and 39, a little bit of 40. Here's where it says, Where were you when I laid the earth's foundations? Tell me if you understand. Have you ever given orders to the morning, or shown the dawn its place? Have you entered the snorehouse of the snow, or seen the snorehouse of hail, which I reserve for times of trouble, for days of war and battle? Can you bind the beautiful Pilates? Can you lose the cords of Orion? Can you bring forth the consolations in their seasons or lead out beer with its cubs. Um excuse me. Or lead out the bear with its cubs. There we go. Will the one who contends with the Almighty correct him? Let him who accuses God answer him. Would you discredit my justice? Would you condemn me to justify yourself? Right? Those are really and and I just encourage go go to Job 38, 39, 40 and just read it. And guess what? Job is no different than you. You haven't figured out these things either You're fine that just like Job, right? And and really when you're going through your problems and you're demanding God, just God already he doesn't need to show up to you. He's already shown up to Job and He's recorded it for you. Right? And he's already it's the same thing is true. You read that and recognize Wow, I am finite. Well, I don't have the full perspective. I don't know everything. Right, God is God and I am not. Why does God respond this way to Job? Notice that he does not call Job. Rather he puts him in his place. Job may not have cursed God throughout his trials, but he did wrongly think that God must explain himself to him Job forty puts it this way. And the Lord said to Job, Shall a fault finder contend with the Almighty? He who argues with God, let him answer it. So what's Job's response? Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am of small account. What shall I answer? you. I lay my hand on my mouth. I have spoken once and will not answer. Twice, but I will proceed no further. Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Dress for action like a man, I will question you, and you make it known to me. Will you even put me in the wrong? Will you condemn me that you may be right? Again, and then what's God do? He probes him again. Right? This is a long and belaboring point and really trying to get the point down. That when Job finally stands before God and demands answers, he realized that he is just a man of dust. And that in fact he he doesn't know. He just doesn't know. And what we don't what we what do we do with our ignorance? Well we don't know. I mean this this is one of the biggest problems uh w with people. Have you ever talked to atheists or anything like that? It's one of the biggest problems. It's not the gospel, the good news, uh the i i the the biggest stumbling block is getting people to recognize That they in fact need it. That they in fact are sinners, or even if they admit their sinners, to give up their righteousness. They got nothing before God Right? This is the same way. One of the biggest problems with unbelievers is getting them to recognize that they don't know, that they are just simply ignorant of these realities. And the answer lies in God, and they just can't trust them They just can't put their trust in God. Let's not be like that. Let's put our trust in God. What is Job's response to this revelation of God's awesomeness in his own finitude? Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that you can do all things, and that no purpose of yours can be thwarted. Who is this that hides counsel without knowledge? Therefore I have uttered what I did not understand, things too wonderful for me, which I did not know Hear and I will speak. I will question you and make it known to me. I have heard of you by the hearing of the ear, but now my eyes see you. Therefore I despise myself and repent in dust and ashes. Job comes to see that God is infinitely greater than he is. Job is not called to demand all the answers from God, but to trust in the character and the person of God. Job simply did not know all the circumstances of why he was suffering, the same way that we don't know all the circumstances of why we are suffering. We learn from God's refusal to give Job an answer that He does not, that we don't need to know. He doesn't need to know, and we don't need to know. We need to trust. We too on this side of eternity do not know why we are suffering. And we do not need to know. God is God and we are not. God is in control and he's working out all things according to the plan, to his own good plan. And this plan will result in his ultimate glory and our ultimate good. So this is the critical insight of the book of Job. There are some things we will not understand because simply we are not God. And again, I give that illustration of the parents. There's some things that children just don't understand why their parents are doing this. You can't understand. Why are they making me eat the broccoli? Song of them. Don't they know that broccoli and carrots and all this green stuff is just unhealthy? Why w it's that good? Why would they give me such a disgusting uh substance? I just can't possibly understand it. But then they eventually learned that I really needed these things. And eventually they're thankful for it. And oftentimes they repeat the cycle. Sometimes I tell that to my son, that you don't understand this, but one day you will repeat this. You'll get it. And you're gonna make your kids do this Right. And in fact, and i i I constantly go through this the discovery of of like, aha, I understand what was going on here. You know, with my parents. I remember my parents were uh forced me to eat all of my food. I just felt it felt totally malicious. See what and what's their problem? I get to choose how much food I eat. Sit here for hours and make such a big deal about it. And now I find myself fighting the same battle. Right? Because I finally have come to understood understand that my parents have the best interests uh at heart in the end. Right. And that's the way that we will uh eventually understand when we come to see that I understand what you're doing, God I did not like it at the moment and in fact in some ways I didn't even trust you in the moment. But now I know that this was the right thing for me. And in fact, this ultimately will result in your glory and my ultimate good. Now, a skeptic might claim that not having all the answers is an intellectual cop-out. But this is far from being the truth. Rather than being a cop-out It is a recognition that we don't worship a God that we can put in our little box. , He is a God whom heaven and the highest heaven cannot contain. We can afford to be in the dark about our circumstances when we are not in the dark about our God. The Christian life is a life of faith. We are not called to become omniscient beings, but to trust in Him who is omniscient. We're insufficient in ourselves, but we know the one who shepherds us, and he is sufficient in all things. And being someone who really loves knowledge and trying to grow and understand You know, I recently found the book of Ecclesiastes so helpful. It's just so helpful. Why is it so helpful? Because he was the wisest man that ever lived. This is great. I don't have to be the wisest man. I know the wisest man. Here he is, his name's Solomon. And guess what? He wrote this wonderful book telling me all his great discoveries. It's actually quite small. Right. Profundity is bringing the the profound into the simple. He was able to crunch it down. And he talks about that much studying is weary to the soul. You know? You get exhausted. You have so many books, so many stuff. But then he gives us the conclusion of the matter. And what's the conclusion? Trust God. Follow him. We obedient to him. Right? So we're not called to become omniscient, but we're called to trust in him who is omniscient, and we're called to trust them even in our sufferings. If we're only going to trust God in the good times and we're not going to trust God in the bad times, we might as well pack up our bags and leave. Because as we discussed before, suffering is bound to come. But so is glory. So let's hold on and let us recognize that glory is on the way. And that God has purpose and meaning for all of this suffering. And that's the central uh message of the book of Yoke. God is God. You are not. He's working something here. We can trust them. Our redeemer lives, and he's bringing it for his glory and for our good. We don't need to know all the answers. We will not get all the answers. You just won't. You won't be able to say, I know exactly something. Well sometimes. Actually sometimes You want to know all the answers, but sometimes you can't see some things, right? Just look in your own life and think about some of the suffering that you've gone through. And then look back at it and say, Oh, I see that. I see why I was being treated like a criminal in basic training It actually makes a little bit of sense. If anyone's ever in the military, it's a terrible experience. You don't know what happened. You thought you were doing something good? You join the army like, yeah, I'm good. And then they treat you like you've done something terrible. It's just crazy. Doesn't make sense. After you get out of the army though, you're like, oh I see what's going on here. I actually somehow needed that. Somehow I needed that. I'll give you just one example of that. Um I made the terrible mistake, horrible mistake, uh before uh basic training. Um I was married at the time and I desperately I knew I was going to be away from my wife. I wanted to spend as much time with her as possible. So that what they do is when you go into the training, you go to maps, you're supposed to sleep, wake up. They want you to get it to map, sleep, wake up uh go to the med station, sign the papers and and and head off, right? Anyone that's been in the middle state they know what I'm talking about. That's what you're supposed to do. What I did instead was hang out with my wife that whole night so I didn't get any sleep that night Right? Then went to meds. Then I drove all the way to basic training, right? And so I'm like, oh man, I'm so tired. I'm ready to get some sleep. So I get there at like midnight. Guess what? They didn't let me get any sleep. Because why? They're trying to reset your body So now I'm like going on like forty-eight hours of no sleep and they like almost hit you with rods if you tried to go to sleep. So now I'm like seventy-eight hours still not sleeping. I was hallucinating, it was a horrible, absolutely horrible experience. I couldn't understand at the time why they were torturing me in this morning of not letting me get sleep and I've added to that torture by already going twenty-four hours without sleep. Well again I recognized later on why they were doing that, right? They were trying to reset our bodies. It was actually kind of a shock and all kind of experience of of just waking up and realizing, hey you join something serious here and it's called the United States military. The point being is, at the moment I thought they were torturing me, it didn't make any sense. Now I absolutely know why they're doing it and I recommend everyone get a nice sleep beforehand. Because this is this is coming. And so what I'm saying is now I'm able to process some of that stuff. At the time I couldn't process it, but now I'm able to process this. And certainly that's just one example. I'm sure in your life you can see, I see why my high school sweetheart broke up with me. It was so that I could find meet my spouse. It now makes sense. But you can you can trace some of this stuff. But sometimes you can't. You just gotta wait. Because one day you'll be able to trace it all. So let me stop there and ask if there's any questions, comments, or concerns about anything we talked about. So far. So it's it's funny because I haven't been here the last couple of weeks and working through Waiting on God by Charles Staley and literally what you said is sort of where I am in that book. And he talks about the biggest struggle that we have really is learning how to trust God. Because like you said you always want to know what the inner self is. Wanna know we think we know all the circumstances, but we don't. And ultimately when we suffer We f we find ourselves going, well, I know best because I can see what's around me. When in reality we only see the small microcosm of what's actually going on. When we learn to trust God truly and say, you know what? There's something I'm supposed to learn. What is that I'm supposed to learn? It it doesn't make the suffering any less painful, but it gives you a purpose behind it, helps you to guide you through that. Yeah, and that's that's something kind of we I mean that's something we kind of talked about um last time. Is Oh well. Again we kinda hinted at this. The initial shock is so painful. It's gonna hurt just pretty much like anyone else, right? When when you get that call, it's gonna be it's gonna be painful But how are you going to process that? What's the healing process? How are you going to uh to go through that? And some of the worst parts of a terrible event is that after effect. Processing uh weeks and days and years later Right, and just knowing that God is doing something here and I can trust Him and I can be silent. And one day I will actually somehow be able to say, Praise God, that didn't happen. Right? To me it makes the whole difference versus saying this is gratuitous, this is meaningless. I'll give you just one example. Assistant suicide. Or just suicide in general. Right? To me, as you're going through some pain. It it's just totally it makes perfect sense if there's no God. There's no there's no uh your life is miserable, right? There's no God, just get it over with. I mean it makes sense to me. But when you understand that there is a God and your life isn't meaningless And there is and God is doing something here, it makes all the difference. Right? How you process. The pain is still real. The pain that would cause someone to commit suicide is both for the Christian and the non-Christian. But having that hope is all the difference. Makes the difference between pulling the trigger or not. What's the relationship between trust and action? Uh I would say the difference is kind of the difference between uh belief and and action is trust is just a kind of a belief, right? That the fact is all of our actions are uh uh they they run through the filter of our beliefs. Right. So the way that we respond to things is based on it is based on our beliefs. And the way that we that I was talking about the healing is that that processing of of how do I how do I do this? What how do I respond? Right? Do we do we and I'm glad you're gonna say um if we would go through suffering, what are we gonna do? Are we gonna run away from God? Because we don't trust him? Because we don't believe that he's actually in control And we think that somehow this suffering proves that God doesn't exist? Right? So we believe, we we disbelieve God until we run away from him, and our faith is harmed, if not destroyed? Or if going through the suffering and going through the pain, we trust God until we run to him And so somehow, through the misery and through the pain, we actually get a better relationship with God. Because we recognize that we're not in control. We need Him. And that's one of the things. One of the beautiful things about uh some of the rough times and some of the the hard times is if you run towards God, he shows up in ways uh that he hasn't hasn't showed up before. And actually I've heard uh haven't experienced obviously myself, but I've I've heard um from Christians on on their deathbed very same thing. God shows up in ways um that in wonderful ways. Right. I and and the same thing with sometimes I I read these books about like Christians being tortured and harmed and it's just absolutely terrible in some ways. And I'm thinking how in the world could I how could I go through something like that And I might I might ditch. I might I might I might fail. But be I don't have the grace to deal with that situation of being tortured and and and and and being being asked to deny Christ. Right? God hasn't given me the grace to handle that, but the testimonies of the believers and and I think the biblical theology says that when you're in that situation, God gives you everything you need and he'll give you that grace. Right, so um so that that's how I would say the the course the relationship between uh of of belief and action, that that your actions are a result of your belief. And that's why even James he says that faith without works in dead. Right? It's like the husband who beats his wife and constantly tells her he loves her. And everyone else is around like he doesn't love you If he loved you, he wouldn't be doing this. His actions are a clear indication that he does not love you. Because the out of the uh our actions, our words, our actions are come out of the overflow of our beliefs, the overflow of our hearts. How you uh talked about our attitude and our our response to the suffering and like how in this world everybody is gonna suffer. But um In Second Corinthians, Paul writes yet always teachers into that suffering. And that's where you can see the difference of our faith and our trust. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah. And and we haven't pressed on that too much, but um but I'm glad you mentioned it. And it's almost it sounds like an oxymoron doesn't it? That we suffer yet rejoice. Because that rejoicing isn't like a glee. Isn't like, yeah, I'm so glad my mom died. This is wonderful. Like, no It's not like that at all. But the rejoicing is being able to trust and to know that that mom that God is good and that God's handling this situation Right. And that we have that that that rock, that foundation that we can hold on to. Um but no, we haven't we haven't pressed too much into um looking at looking at how we we can process the suffering. Good question. I'm going to press on a little bit. So that's the central message of Job. So now let's look at the account of Exodus to kind of understand more of what the Bible says about suffering. So we all know the story of the Exodus. We have the people of God, they've migrated to Egypt. They migrated there originally for food. Now they've built they've created this great civilization there, right? They haven't left The Pharaoh has forgotten about Joseph. He's seen, oh, there's a bunch of people that aren't like us. It's in great slave labor. And they enslave them for years and years. The people of God then become victims of unimaginable injustices, and they cry out to God. God responds dramatically by rescuing his people from Pharaoh's grip To fully understand the significance of these events, we must recognize that Pharaoh is the most powerful man at that time. He is the superpower, right? Nobody can topple Pharaoh. Pharaoh gashi, you ain't getting out of his grip Right? And what does God do? He takes the strongest man and demolishes him. Why? What's this supposed to illustrate? That the most powerful man is nothing compared to the power of our Lord So the Exodus could be thought of is God now stepping on the international scene. Everyone knew about God, but they've all rejected him and traded him for false gods, those who aren't God. So here's God now about to step in internationally and make his name known. God is going to destroy Pharaoh, save his people, and fully manifest his glory. Exodus 9 tells us. For by now I could have put out my hand and struck you and your people with pestilence, and you would have been cut off from the earth. But for this purpose I raised you up, to show my power To show you my power so that my name may be proclaimed in all of the earth. What's Exodus 9 telling you? Well, what it's saying is kind of obvious, right? If God wanted to, he could just simply wipe out all the wicked Put his name in the sky or or raise up a hundred billigrams out here, right? Get everybody's name in history. But that's not what God wants to do. God is doing something else. Right? That's your play. You can write that play. You can write that story. God has a right to write his story And this this is what history is. It's his story. And his story is way better than your story. Because that wouldn't be interesting at all. Right here are the people of God. Oh here's God. He killed him in one moment and they're out of there. This is not really interesting. It's not nearly as good as his story of him breaking the back of Pharaoh step by step, uh curse by curse, plague by plague. So now we see the r the real reason why God has allowed all this evil and all this wickedness is so that He can make His name glorious among the nations And isn't the Exodus one of the most glorious stories in all of the Bible? I actually know a guy. His favorite book is Exodus. He loves it. He also loves comic books and action films. and all that stuff. But it makes sense. It's exciting. Who doesn't like Exodus? Right? In your Bible plan, Genesis is great. Exodus is just as good, if not better. And then it gets sent to the desert. Right? Isn't that what we all do? We get excited. We're going through Exodus. No one I don't know anyone who's failed their Bible plan in Exodus. How could you? It's exciting stuff. It's wonderful. God is really showing his glory And I would say probably one of the most glorious events in the whole Bible is the book of Exodus, is the Exodus accounts. And there's a reason why Israel year by year celebrates this, right? Passover. It's exciting. It's wonderful. God is really showing his glory. I can only think of, personally, in my own personal opinion, one account that's even more glorious than Exodus. And it's Jesus Christ's exodus. You know it's actually called that too. The exodus of Jesus. It's Jesus, is what God did in Jesus. And him destroying Satan. And then him sending out the people of God to grab the nations. That's the only other definitely the high points of the Bible. God is doing all of this to show his glory. So what does God do? God leads his people out of Egypt. And then by destroying Pharaoh with all these plagues and eventually making Pharaoh give up, he even uh seems to allow Pharaoh to be as wicked as he possibly could uh could be so that he continues to uh not give up the people in the face of all the plagues. Actually incredible. Pharaoh was totally out of his mind. Well really he was just as wicked as uh uh as he really was In fact, it isn't kind of amazing to think that uh that God's hardening, God letting Pharaoh be as wicked as he uh would be, would cause a man to continue to resist God when everyone's saying this is the hand of God, you're destroying Egypt What are you doing? These slaves aren't worth it. Let them go. Right. That really shows you how depraved that we really are. Right? That's saying the brave heart that was a pharaohs in us. So so God uh hardens Pharaoh's heart, allows him to continue to be as wicked as possible, continues to uh rot uh Egypt with these plagues. Eventually Pharaoh's uh after the death of his son, he realized there's no way I'm gonna be able to stop the all-powerful God. So he lets him go. But then God does the totally surprising. He leads out his people, and he leads them to a dead end. And then worse off Now Pharaoh's gone insane again. And now Pharaoh's chasing us. And you can can you imagine a scene? Like this is ridiculous. Like you would expect, okay. I can expect like someone who makes the map to mess up Even more likely is user error. So I can imagine the person trying to follow the map would mess up. Right? But why in the world would God mess up here? Why in the world did God do all of this only to lead me to a dead end so I can die in the desert? This certainly is not a glorious story. This don't seem right. So, what does God do? He does the impossible, he opens up the sea Right? He doesn't do it immediately though. He lets you freak out. Then he opens up the sea. The people walk through. But then, again surprisingly, now, okay, thank you for letting me through, but now they're getting through too That that that beats the purpose. They got cherries. I don't. They're gonna kill me on the other side. Again. They try to get through and God does not let them get through. God wipes out He does the impossible, he wipes out the Egyptians. God is glorious. God promises to be our shepherd, and he in fact is our shepherd. And when we look at the uh Exodus account, we realize that this is just a parable of our own lives Right? There are times in our lives that we feel like the Egyptians in slavery. Excuse me. The Israelites in slavery to the Egyptians. What is God doing? Why am I suffering all of these injustices? Right? And there's other times where we finally see, hey look, there's a Moses out there. Looks like God's doing something. Something is stirring up. Right? But you remember actually I didn't even mention this. When Moses finally showed up, things got worse. You're like, yes, no. Right? Finally God gets up out of gets us out of Egypt. Yes. Now he led me to a dead end. No. Right? And then finally we get to the other side. And so this is the parable of our lives. This is exactly the same thing God's doing in our lives. We see God's hand and He leads us to dead ends. And we'll call it to trust. And this is the life of faith that we're constantly going into this up and down, but we know the end of the story. We know that we're going to get through those waters. If you ever read Pilgrim's Progress, you know what those waters represent They represent death. We're getting out past those waters into the celestial city. God is doing the wonderful deed, and guess what? Everyone's gonna want to read it. There's books of all of our lives in heaven, I'm convinced. And I'm gonna read and I'm gonna be fascinated to see how what God was doing in your life. And God will get the glory, and you will get the good. So we see in the Exodus account that uh even national evil. This is huge. I mean imagine you can't even calculate the amount the amount of suffering that occurred in the Exodus account. Right? I don't even want to think about all the the terrible things that happened to uh the Israelites while they were enslaved. But we know that ultimately God was working all of that for his glory and for his good. So that's so we can look at national disasters and national uh like Stalin and Hitler and all of these things and see and process them the exact same way. That even all this national gratuitous it seems like gratuitous evil that is actually in fact transferring it to good. I I mentioned that the actual the the Hitler and and the Nazis. It's really interesting to see how the Jews have responded to this. Right? At first they thought that this was uh Some kind of great jud uh uh judgment upon them. But now everyone can trace the Holocaust to the re-establishment of Israel. Right? And they process it differently now. They see that this was uh God doing something in in the Jewish community. And again, this is all this this is constantly what God's doing, right? He's this international evil, this international suffering, God has his subject. It's a long projection we have to wait to see what exactly not is doing. In the little bit of time we have, let's now transition from we saw that God can do uh take massive global evil and transform it to good, but what about localized evil? What about small suffering? And we can look at that through the book of of of groups. You remember the story? Here's Naomi, right? She has a husband and she has two sons. And there's a terrible famine in the land. So what do they do? They go to a foreign land. And in that foreign land, within ten years, her two uh sons get married off, and then her husband dies, and her two sons die. And then she says, and then she hears a report that finally now, after everyone's dead, now we can go back to Israel because now there's some fruit there again, right? So she's getting ready to go back. And she talks to her daughter or her daughter-in-laws and says, Hey, I'm a broken woman. I got nothing for you anymore. Okay? You guys just head off that way, we'll head off this way. No harm, no foul. And one of her daughters says, Cool, I'm out of here. See ya. The other daughter, which is Ruth, says, no, no, no. We're together. We're gonna be together. We're not going anywhere. Your God will be my God. I'm following you every go. So here they are. They travel back to the land of Israel. When she gets there They say, hey Lucas Naomi, how you doing? How's it been? So don't even call me Naomi anymore. Okay, Naomi means pleasant. Call me Mar. That means I think it means bitterness. Yeah, bitter. Don't even call me Naomi. That's insulting. My life is terrible. She even says, the Almighty has done this terrible thing to me. The Almighty's hand has been hard against me. My life is horrible. I'm one inch from suicide. This is just absolutely terrible Right? So, but we know the end of the story. What happens? She ends up meeting Boaz, the kinsman redeemer, and everything changes from that moment. Boaz marries Ruth. Now Naomi now has financial stability. Now she has this whole family. Everything's starting to get a lot better. And this is what they say to her after the first after Ruth's first son, which is which would be Naomi's grandchild. Then the woman said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has left you this day without a re who has not left you this day without a redeemer, and may his name be renowned in Israel He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher of your old age. For your daughter-in-law, that's Ruth, who loves you more than who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to this boy. So what's going on? She's having this grandchild and they're blessing her. May God be glorified in you. Right? And the boy's name's Obed. Obed. Obed. Obed. These Hebrew names are weird. Obed. I didn't even recognize that name. Do you guys recognize that name? Who is that guy? Well he has a son and his name is Jesse. Oh my the son that looks I recognize Jesse and Jesse has a son and his son is named David David. Everything is turned around. Now Naomi 's influence on the world is global because David has a profound impact on the world. Psalm 23. If he didn't write Psalm 23, he'd have a huge impact. But he did so much more than that, right? So here, now this woman who starts off saying, God has given me just the worst fate. I am the worst of all people. God has really given me a bad hand. Now she has influence in the whole world, the whole history of the world. God has taken her suffering and transformed it into good. We saw it on the global level with the activists. We saw it on the individual level with Naomi. That's your life. You are Naomi. God is doing that. And guess what? When Naomi died, she could not know that David was coming. She didn't know it. She just got this weird guy named Obed. That guy. He's he's cute and all that, but who's this guy? She could not possibly know that David was on the way. And you could not possibly know that your David's on the way, that God is in fact transforming your suffering into God He can do it in a national level, you can do it on a local level. We have a God that is truly almighty. He can do anything and everything. So I'm going to stop there and ask, is this any comments, questions Person with testimonies. Hey there. I just want to check a little bit real quick. We don't want to go out of bed yes, but I'm gonna follow the bed. And uh one of the kids I think Alan asked, you know, why did how you know? Yeah at some point why didn't my dad die when I was too? And uh we talked for a few minutes, but one of the things I said was, I know a couple people who wouldn't have done wouldn't be alive if my dad wouldn't have died, and I said, you know, ask the own in that box And then then we talk about that for a couple minutes. And then there's actually a few other people that I know that wouldn't be alive today. And then we talk about sleep. Like my kids have wouldn't you know so the the very kid who were asking this question wouldn't you know wouldn't even be there to ask this question. And um it's been over 30 years since my dad passed away. So I think we've gotten by gossip various people in my family with countless see these things threads well in kind of amazingly and uh I think it's just really cool that we were talking about this yesterday. Um Yeah, yeah, absolutely. When I what I'll I'll say this real fast. Um one of the things that I think um that changes everything about the Joseph story about Job Right, one of the wonderful things about Job is not only did everything not only did everything work out at the end of his life, but the ripple effect Right? Because we're talking about Job now. Job becomes an encouragement to so many other people. And so I I don't think that I think that not only can you trace these people's lives, which as the eternal souls of infinite value. But even the suffering that that I see that you've all gone through encourages me, encourages countless other people and say, look, here's a man who loves and trusts God, even though tragedy is life. And I'm just saying it's just ripples, just like Job, right? Job his effect isn't just uh the the things that happen at the end of his life, but encouragement that it encourages other people. And I'm saying that all you your suffering as well has a massive impact on other people. Right in an abosite way. So take it in the birth.