I want to look at this man, Philip, the evangelist, and do a quick trace of his life. So we first find him recorded in in the Bible in Acts chapter 6. when there's this issue with the Hellenistic Jews and those are the people that don't live in Jerusalem, the people who are uh Greek speaking, and and you also have the the Hebraic Jews, those who are from Jerusalem that are uh that they that they speak Hebrew. And so there's uh you know, racism and difficulties and problems and the Hellenistic Jews, their widows are being uh mistreated, they're being overlooked in the in the rationing of food, and so there's this this uh original conflict in the church. And and what's so wonderful about this, it it's not wonderful that there's conflict in the church, but it's wonderful that there's conflict in the true church. This is the true church under the apostles. um under the rule of the Holy Spirit, under the rule of the apostles and and the teachers and the prophets, and all of this, and nevertheless we see problems So if you have problems in your own church, you shouldn't go to see another church. This is the true church. Now we're talking we're not talking about heresy. We're not talking about being in an occult place But it is interesting that the true Church of God had conflict from the very, very beginning. But nevertheless, the root conflict there is godly solution. So the the same Holy Spirit that leads that church and allows the church to get into conflict is the same Holy Spirit that's that's ultimately going to find a solution and help the church to work out of that problem. And the solution that becomes apparent to the church is to appoint these seven men, the the very first deacons uh to to handle this issue so that the women are all being uh treated uh correctly. And in some ways we thank God for this problem because that seems to be what the Holy Spirit used to create the office. of deacons so that the the apostles could labor in in prayer and the teaching of the word. So they pick out these men, these seven men, one of them are Philip, and here's the qualification. Here's what the apostles say. Therefore, brothers, pick out from among you seven men of good repute, full of the spirit and of wisdom. So they're looking for qualified men who have this good reputation, they're full of the Holy Spirit, and they're wise. And the apostles are telling the people to do this. And so one of the people they pick is Philip. What this tells us is that Philip was known by his local congregation. He was a godly man and he was recognized by other godly people or and by the congregation. And so what we can learn here is as we want to be used by God, let us be people who are known as as what? Of of good reputation. Full of the Holy Spirit and of wisdom. Let us serve in our local church and so that people can can recognize us and see our giftings. And and so then what we then have is that we have Philip now functioning as one of the seven and exercising this uh deacon role in in the church and he's serving there and he's ministering there and God can use a man such as this. And that's exactly what God in fact does. Because as we know, as the book of Acts continues, we have Stephen, another one of these seven. original deacons full of good reputation, uh full of the spirit and of wisdom. He ends up he ends up preaching and he ends up being killed by Saul. And so then there's this great persecution, everything looks like it's it's falling apart, everything looks bad, uh the people of God are scattered and and instead of that being a bad thing that now evangelism explosion happens and now this the the gospel is is spreading forth throughout uh Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and now to the uttermost parts of the world. That all happened even through tragedy. So that can be encouragement to us as we see persecution, as we see tragedy, we think it's the end of the world, but we should recognize that God is still on the throne. Jesus is at the right hand of the Father. And so then in Acts chapter 8, we have uh we again hear about this man Philip and now he is spreading the gospel to Samaria. He's crossing uh ethnic boundaries, even cultural and religious boundaries. And now he's going to a despised people. He's following the way of the Lord, the way of the master, who also went and talked to the woman of Samaria at the well. And so now he goes and crosses these these boundaries and and racism and all of that and preaches the gospel. The Holy Spirit is with him and and they hear and they believe Of course, they don't get manifestations of the Spirit, so he sends back for Jerusalem, and then that whole episode uh happens where the apostles come and then a repeat of Pentecost happens as Sumerian Pentecost where the Holy Spirit is poured out on the Sumerians for the apostles to see that God is in fact saving. uh the Samaritans just as Jesus said to be my witnesses to Samaria now is the manifestation of the fulfillment of that happening here in Acts through Philip. Now, uh remember who is Philip? He's that man of good reputation, full of the spirit and of wisdom. He was that man who was known for his godliness in his local congregation Then he gets appointed to be this deacon and then he serves in that local congregation. Then as the as the persecution happens, God is still using such a man as this And now he's blessing him. And through his preaching, a whole people group is being saved. Do we want to be someone who God can use in in wonderful and good ways. And if we do, well let us be people of good reputation. People who are full of the spirit. People who are full of wisdom, who are serving in our local body so that t that the the church can recognize us. And then when they ask us to step up and fulfill some office, some role, deacon, pastor, elder, whatever it be, let us do that. And this is the kind of man that God can use to bring a whole people group of whatever he wants to do. In the case of Philip, it's the people group of Samaria coming to know the Lord. But it's not over. Philip's story is not over. In Acts chapter 8, we have that famous story of Philip being told to go by the angel of the Lord Toward the south, toward the road from Jerusalem to Gaza in this desert place. So God tells them to do the crazy. He tells them to to go in in in into the desert. Why? Well, there's a man there, and he's the Ethiopian eunuch, and he just so happens by this by the work of God's providence and by his spirit to be reading from the book of Isaiah and God is directing Philip to his path and overhearing him and and God is telling him to go and witness to this man and he has a divine appointment. and through a series of events and through evangelism and faithfulness that the Ethiopian um that that the Ethiopian eunuch comes to believe get baptized and then Philip's taken away and there's now there's this African man who now believes in the gospel of Jesus Christ going to win the Africans in Africa in the very beginning of the story. Before the gospel ever went to Europe, it's heading down to Africa through the work of Philip. How wonderful do we want, again, do we want these divine appointments? Do we want the Holy Spirit being able to move us and direct us to the people that God would have us to go? If so, let us be like Philip, a man of good report, full of the spirit and of wisdom, serving in our local body, being open to the spirit. When the spirit tells us to go and do the crazy, go to a desert place. We say, Here I am, Lord, send me. When we find an Ethiopian eunuch, a perfect person in our path, that we can give the gospel, we can give a gospel tract. We can share and witness Let us be ready to share the gospel. Because remember, Philip was he was there in the right place at the right time, gave the gospel, and bam, he is gone out of his life. Will you be a Philip? Will you be someone that God can can use like that? That God will direct you into divine appointments. You give a gospel tract, you give a presentation of the gospel, and bam, you're out of there. And and yet God is is God is at work in that person's life. But guess what? There's one more time that Philip is mentioned in the Bible. Philip seems to drop off the scene here. The the the the Arthur, not that he died, he's still alive. But now the author is moving on and focusing on Saul and his ministry. But we find Philip showing up at the end of Acts at Acts chapter 21 and verse 7. So here you have Paul, and he's traveling to Caesarea. And when he comes to Caesarea, he makes this interesting note. He says that we enter, so it's not just Paul, it's the Apostolic team, we entered the house of Philip. the evangelist who was one of the seven and stayed with him and he had four unmarried daughters who prophesied. So we see this guy Philip. He's still alive. He's still ministering twenty years later after these events in the early chapters of Acts happen. And what is he called? He's called the evangelist. No one else in the Bible is given this name. Paul tells Timothy to do the work of an evangelist, but no one has this title, the evangelist. This is like John the Bapt John the Baptist. He's known to be the person who would have baptized. Now Philip is known as the evangelist. He's the person who evangelizes. Are you known as an evangelist? Put your name in here. Are you James the Evangelist? Timothy the evangelist? Whatever your name is, are you the evangelist? Let let it be that we would be people who would known to be called the evangelist because we evangelize. This almost certainly isn't just simply saying he was famous just simply for his evangelism that he did in the past. in in that episode with the Samari the Sumerians and in the episode of Philip the Eunuch. He's not living some past legacy. This is Philip the Evangelist because he is currently still known as someone who is Evangelizing who is sharing the gospel. How wonderful 20 years later the fire has not burned out He's not one of those people that said, yeah, I remembered when I used to give out tracts. I remember when I used to be on fire for the Lord. I remember when I used to try to evangelize. That's not Philip here. Philip is still known as the evangelist all of these years later, twenty plus years later. And look, there's one more detail that's so awesome about Philip. This man is a married man. This is a man who has children, but not just children. He has these four unmarried daughters who prophesied. These are godly women. These are women. Who believe in the Lord, and they are also serving the Lord just like their father. That is what we expect in a godly man's life. That is why Paul gives the stipulations for an elder that they need to be able to rule their household well and that their children need to be disciplined and faithful. And that's exactly what we see in Philip's life that a godly man he he listens to the commandment of God. He listens to Deuteronomy A six, six, and and seven, where he's to have God's commandment on his heart, and he's the diligently teach his children, and he's to talk to Talk about uh the things of God as he's laying down, as he's walking by the way, and all of his life with his children. He's thinking about Well he's obeying God's uh God's command for that parents to raise their children in the fear and admonition of the Lord, and the Lord is blessing such a man with these daughters who prophesy, these daughters who believe. There is something wonderful here for us in the story of Philip. Let us be like Philip, people who are known in our local church, people of good reputation. full of the Spirit, wise, willing to serve in our local congregations and being able being willing to serve people, to serve the tables. Philip was obviously a gifted evangelist, a gifted teacher, but he was not too good to serve his people at his local congregation. When the time came, God used such a man to win a people group, the Samaritans, to win an individual, the eunuchs. It doesn't matter if you're trying to win a people group or trying to win individu individuals, we should be faithful. And not just outside of the family. But inside of the family with these four unmarried daughters that he evangelized. Philip the evangelist evangelized his family. God can use such a man as this, and he did not give up. He was still the evangelist 20 something years later. So let us be encouraged. by the witness and the story of Philip the Evangelist and let us do likewise. These stories are written for our example. God bless.