Today we begin our study in the little epistle of Jude. This little epistle has been called by some uh the most neglected book of the entire New Testament. And it's neglected for probably a uh several different reasons. One, it's very, very small. It's only twenty five verses long. Um it's toward the end of the Bible. So it's real easy to just kind of skip over it. and actually just end up landing in the book of Revelation. The other the other thing is it's a little bit strange. It quotes from um books that are not canonical. And so exactly what we do with that it becomes a little bit difficult and challenging for individuals And then the last reason is just a really hard-hitting book. Um it calls Sin for Sin. It attacks false teachers, it it calls Christians to fight for the faith, and um And so this is certainly not a book that false teachers or people who want their ears uh tickled are going to read uh or going to preach from. And so for all those reasons this book has uh fallen on hard times, but it's something that we desperately need to hear. Ultimately God inspired. All scripture is inspired by God to be profitable for teaching, for correction, for reproof. And so we need to hear all of God's word, and I think we today especially need to hear this message as we see that there's a threat. of of hostile forces coming from outside of the church and we we can see that but so so often as we look out and prepare to battle one enemy we become blindsided by another enemy And so since there are always these two forces, one without, the enemy outside and the enemy within, we need to prepare ourselves to battle both enemies. And this book, this little book of Jude, helps us to prepare ourselves for that battle within. And we can we can look out for those who would claim to be sheep, but truly are wolves. in uh in sheep's clothing that come to seek and devour and destroy all of those whom they can. So in light of that, let's turn over to the little book of Jude. And consider what this little epistle, this most neglected epistle, but nevertheless the Word of God has to say for us. So please open up your Bibles to Jude, and we're going to read the first two verses. Jude chapter 1, verse 1. Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ, and brother James, to those who are called beloved in God the Father and kept for Jesus Christ. May grace, peace, and love be multiplied to you. So the first question we're going to ask ourselves is, who is the author of this little book of Jude? Now, the name Jude is a very common Jewish name. This was an extremely common Jewish name that there was all these tons of different Judes within the Bible. But there are actually only three candidates that could potentially or have even been put forward by various commentators as the author of this book. The first Jude would be the apostle, one of the twelve, named Judas of James, or Judah James. The other would be a Jude or Barsabas, and then the last would be Jude, the half-brother of Jesus. But before we look at these three candidates, let's back up a little bit and uh take note of what this name Jude actually is. So in the Hebrew, this name Jude would be Judah, which of course was one of the sons of of Jacob. and one of the twelve patriarchs. There was also a man named Judas Maccabeus. This was the one who was during the intertestamental time where he was uh used by God to um break the people of God free from Antiochus Epiphanes and all the atrocities that he was doing to the people of God. And this is actually what was prophesied to happen in the book of Daniel. And this happens right in between the ending of the Old Testament and the beginning of the New Testament. So because of this This name Judah was very, very popular among Jews during Jesus' day. And so in Greek though, the name Judah came over to us as Judas. Now, when we think of Judas , we think of a particular individual who is infamous, who has caused this name Judas to go on hard times. And this is the reason why nearly every translator translates our book as the book of Jude and not the book of Judas. because we would be shocked to potentially see that Judas had wrote had written any of our scriptures, which of course he didn't. And so in order to avoid that confusion and just because nobody really wants to be called Judas, then Our book is titled Jude, which is a shortened form of Judas. So there there are, like I said, there are three candidates for this Jude here. The first would be the one of the twelve, whose name uh was Judas of James. Now, this Judas of James, that's how the literal Greek is rendered, uh, was translated by the Geneva Bible first. And then also the King James Bible as Judas, brother of James. And so they interpret of James as referring to that this was the brother of James in harmony with what we have here in Jude chapter 1, leading some people uh are leading people to conclude that this was the apostle who is in fact the brother of James But the most prominent advocate of this view would be John Calvin himself. But nearly all commentators reject this view for several reasons. One Judas of James most naturally refers to Judas, the son of James, not the brother of James. That's what that construction most naturally conveys. The other issue is that we have no uh the other issue is the fact that if this is one of the apostles, one of the twelve apostles then you would expect him to mention that he was one of the apostles. You'd expect him to say, Jude, an apostle of Jesus Christ. I mean that's the way uh the other apostles refer to themselves as especially because The name was so common that simply saying Jude wouldn't immediately identify which Jude he was referring to, and that's precisely why he says brother of James. And so if this was one of the twelve, you would expect him to say that The other issue is that statement, brother of of of James, that this um very well seems to be referring to James the brother of our Lord. So it seems that this apostle Judas of James is that's a different James, uh, and that's a different Jude. The other individual is named Judas Barsabas. He's mentioned in Acts 15, 27, kind of an obscure figure. He's referred to as a prophet and one of the leading people. of of the leading brothers in the Jerusalem church. He was sent out with Silas to uh go and deliver the Jerusalem the decision of the Jerusalem Council to the churches. Not m much else is known of this individual. There doesn't seem to be any reason to select him as the author of our letter. Uh there's also the problem with the fact that He's described as the brother of James. There's no indication in Acts uh 15 that Judas Brasabus uh has any relationship to James, namely or that he is in fact his brother in any respect. So um this Judas Brosava seems to be excluded. There seems to be absolutely no good reason to pick him. The last one, which is what the vast majority of commentators select is actually Judas, the blood brother of James and the half-brother of Jesus. Now it was uh this James, uh this Jude, should I say, that is listed in the Gospels when we have the the names of the brothers of Jesus, he is listed as either the third or the fourth brother. James is always uh selected as the first brother, which suggests that he is the oldest. And then like I said, this Jude is either the third or the fourth, which tells us he's one of the youngest brothers of Jesus. He's potentially at the time of Jesus' death, anywhere from fourteen at kind of the youngest I guess he could be a little bit younger, but he's, you know, potentially around 14 to 26 at the oldest, uh, but most people will pin him about the age of twenty by the time of the crucifixion of Jesus. And so this almost certainly is the author of our book, who's also the brother of James, and James is the prominent leader that we see all throughout the Acts. He's actually leading the uh Jerusalem Council back in Acts 15. Uh in Galatians, Paul identifies him as one of the pillars of the Jerusalem church, right along Peter and John. So this is a uh his brother James is the very prominent uh leader of the Jerusalem church who's also wrote the little epistle of James. So this is his brother and the half-brother of Jesus. uh Jesus Christ himself. So it's interesting though, if this is in fact the half-brother of Jesus, then why does he not identify himself with that title, right? Instead of saying Jude, the brother of Jesus, he instead says Jude, a servant of Jesus. So instead of being a brother, he describes himself as a servant. Now this is certainly unusual uh for siblings to refer to their sibling as their Lord and they themselves as their servant. Usually siblings battle each other back and forth. You're not that good and they're always trying to tip each other off and there's this civil sibling rivalry that happens. I mean you can see this throughout the scriptures. You have Cain and Abel. You have Leah and Rachel. You have uh Jacob and Esau. There's always this rivalry that goes back and forth. You have Joseph and his uh his ten brothers. And yet in this case, instead of a rivalry, we have a servanthood. And so this is a strong testimony, one, of the of the deity of Christ. Who would call their brother their Lord, especially their brother who had died? Um, who would call them their lord unless something majorly had happened in their thinking? Some major transformation had happened in this person. And that's exactly what happened to Jude, to Jude and our text. Jude had gone through a transformation where he once was an unbeliever and then had become a believer. Or he once simply saw his brother as his brother and he would have put him he'd call him Big Brother Jesus. and next big brother, James. But but now something has happened in his thinking where his big brother James is his brother and now Jesus is in fact his Lord and he is his servant. So let's think about and let's let's unpack what what happened to this man Judan. How did he come to see that Jesus was his Lord? But the first thing we have to kind of prove and try to argue a little bit is that Jude actually had this transformation and he didn't simply just recognize Jesus as his Lord from the earliest stages. I mean it's possible to conceive that just being around Jesus for all of those years had led him to see He is perfect. He is godly. He is righteous. Surely this must be the Messiah. Even mom told me about the virgin birth. This is the Messiah, right? You could perceive of that possibility. But you could also perceive him a different possibility. He's perfect. He's always making me look bad. He's always They're always he's always showing me how I am a failure in comparison to him. And so that his perfection, instead of driving him to um to recognize his true identity could actually cause him to have nothing but s sibling jealousy and rivalry and hatred. And it actually seems that that's what happened. Not I shouldn't say seeing that is in fact what happened. And we know that is because as we search through the scriptures and we go into the Bible, we see in fact that it describes the brothers of Jesus all the way up to the end of Jesus ministry in John chapter 7 as not believing in him. There's this scene in John chapter 7. Where the brothers of Jesus uh confront Jesus and tell him in kind of a condescending way that if he wants to If he's really doing these things, he needs to reveal himself or no one does these things and and and doesn't show themselves to the world. And you need to go show yourself to the world and and go to Jerusalem and do these various things at at the um the annual festival that's coming up. And of course Jesus is not going to go up there and do these things or not going to go up there publicly because they're trying to kill him. And he has this conversation and he says, Listen, it's not my time, but you can go in any time Because you are of the world, but I am not of the world. In fact, I testify against the world, and that's why the world hates me And then John, the the writer of the gospel, writes this little comment. It says, For not even his brothers believed in him. So by the time of the end of Jesus' ministries, Not even his brothers believed in him, but in fact were remaining unbelieved and were worldly people who did not recognize the Messiah because they had no relationship with God in the first place. And so what happens to Jude from John chapter 7 at the end of Jesus' ministry to ultimately finding him here, writing this letter and describing himself as a servant of Jesus Christ. What happens to this man? Well, the answer seems to be really if you just follow um the kind of the trajectory of John's gospel himself Because when Jesus goes up into uh this Passover event, he describes himself as the one whom, if you believe in him out of you will come this living water. And then the Gospel of John says this. It says that Jesus was speaking of the Holy Spirit. who was not yet given, for Jesus was not yet glorified. It's kind of a kind of a difficult text. And of course that text is not denying that the Holy Spirit was not given in any respect. But what it's saying is there is some way particularly that the Holy Spirit is going to be given when Jesus is glorified that had not yet been given prior to that. A little bit later on in the conversation, Jesus says that when I be lifted up, then you will know that I am He. And then in chapter 12, he says, if the Son of Man be lifted up, he will draw all people to himself. And you put all this together, and what you come to realize is this, that until Jesus was crucified, the ministry of the Spirit was not going out in the same way that it would go out after Jesus was crucified. And then after he was crucified, then the Holy Spirit would draw people to Jesus and people who formerly did not believe in Jesus would come to believe in Jesus. And it seems to be one of those individuals who were actually going to come to believe in Jesus through the work of the Holy Spirit was in fact the brothers of Jesus. Now this this awakening to who Jesus was by his death and his spirit sending and drawing people can be seen even at the very death of Christ. You remember the centurion. He says, surely this was the Son of God, a Gentile coming to recognize the identity of Christ. Surely he did not say this outside of the Holy Spirit. For the Bible says that no one can say that Jesus is Lord outside of the Holy Spirit. So surely this was already a fruit of the Holy Spirit drawing that centurion to recognize the true identity of Jesus Christ. And we see the same thing happening in in Acts. In Acts chapter 2, you remember that Peter preaches that Pentecostal sermon and he says that Jesus Christ has been exalted to the right hand of the Father and the Father has given him the promised Holy Spirit and he has poured this out on the church the very Holy Spirit that you yourselves are seeing And then he tells people you can receive this spirit too. The promises to also to you if you believe and repent of your sins And it says that their hearts were cut and 3,000 individuals were added to the church that day. This was the work of the Holy Spirit. These people had formerly not believed. In fact, these people had crucified Jesus Christ. just prior to that. And but after Jesus was lifted up and the Holy Spirit was sent out, these people were cut to the heart and drawn to the very Savior that they had crucified just prior to this event. And so it seems that this explains the transformation that happened in Jude's life. It was because ultimately Christ was lifted up, the Holy Spirit was sent, and it convicted them, and they ultimately came to saving faith. in their Lord and Savior, who turned out to be their very brother. So that seems to be the theological explanation of what happened, the transformation that happened in Jude's life. But there's also a on the ground scene, there's actually another event that happens that most likely is what caused Jude to actually hear the gospel and was able to convince him to put his trust in Jesus Christ. And that's the event that is recorded in 1 Corinthians. 1 Corinthians records a resurrection appearance that happened specifically to the brother of Jesus, which happened to James. Now we don't have any any details about this event, but we certainly know it happened because it's in the scriptures and the Bible tells us that it happens. And so it appe i it it seems or it's certainly it's certain that Jesus actually made an appearance to his brother James which transformed his life, converted him very similar to what happened to Paul, and then James went and testify of the fact that he had seen the risen Lord. He told people. And one of the people he tells is his brothers who become believers based on that testimony. And so what you what you have there And something very similar to what Jesus says to Thomas. See, remember, Thomas did not believe until he saw the risen Lord. And when he sees the risen Lord, he shouts out, My Lord and my God. And what does Jesus reply to him? You see, and that's good, but blessed are those who believe who have not seen. Which would be really everybody else, right? Very few people. You have the five hundred, you have the the apostles, but really Jesus appeared to people in order for them to be the the people who proclaim his name and his fame to the nation. And we were all converted based on their testimony of seeing the risen Lord. And so that's the same thing that happens to Jude, the same thing that happens to to us. And so what happens to Jude's life is he submits to the testimony of his brother. He comes to see that Jesus' perfection isn't something to despise, but is something that testifies that he truly is the Son of God. He comes to see himself truly as a sinner who needs the the the work of that happened at the cross to forgive him of his sins. He humbles himself under the mighty hand And we are also called ourselves to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God throughout the proper time God may exalt us. And so the way that we do this is submitting to the Lordship of Christ exactly like Jude submitted to the Lordship of Christ. We must recognize ourselves to be servants and Him to be Lord. Or ourselves to be slaves. The actual word here is Jude, a slave of Jesus Christ. Now I'm not I'm fine with the word servant here because the word slave has kind of this connotation that we don't want to be in this position, and that of course is not the case with Jesus Christ. But the the thing that we miss by when we translate this as servant versus slave is that we do not belong to ourselves, but we have been bought with a price. that Christ owns us and that we are on the very bottom and and Christ is at the very top. We are slaves. We are nobodies. But based on our relationship with Christ, we can be a somebody. Think about a normal slave of a normal common person. A normal slave was a nobody. And if his master was a nobody, then he was an utter nobody. He was Barely even a human, if people would even consider him human. Now before God, he was always in the maiden image of God. But I'm talking about before men, he was barely even perceived as as nothing more than a dog. But imagine if that same slave was sold and bought by Caesar. That same slave who was a nobody now becomes a somebody. Not in and of himself, he's still a slave. But based on his union and based on his relationship with Caesar, now that's Caesar's slave. Now if he says something, he has an audience with Caesar. If I mess with Caesar's slave, I'm messing with potentially Caesar. Caesar. And and Caesar could send out this slave as his ambassador. You don't mess with Caesar's slave. This is what I'm getting at. Caesar's slave becomes of somebody, not in himself, but based on his relationship with Caesar. that owner with the Lord Caesar. So too we are nobody in and of ourselves. So you need to humble yourself and realize you ain't nobody. You are a slave to a nobody. And that slave ultimately, that nobody is Satan. You are a slave to Satan. In fact, that makes you even worse than a nobody, right? You are a nobody in yourself and you're associated with a vile, evil taskmaster. You are absolutely at the very bottom of the bottom. But you can be transferred out of that slavery to Satan and go to a slavery to a king who will treat you as a son. And in fact, as you become his slave, he takes off those shackles and says, Well done, good and faithful servant, you are my son. This is what we are offered in Jesus Christ. But the only way we can receive this is if you humble yourself under the mighty hand of God. If you recognize I am a sinner, I am in fact a nobody, and I want to become a somebody. And I can only be a somebody by being bought with the blood of Christ. that he already poured. He already shed that blood and he offers that to us and we can accept that blood and be free from the slavery of Satan and the freedom of the slavery of sin and become a slave of righteousness and a slave of Christ. and become a somebody based on that union with Christ. But then in order to do this, we must confess with our mouth that Jesus is Lord and believe in our heart that God has raised him from the dead. And we too will become a somebody based on our relationship with Jesus Christ. And so that's something I call you today. If you have never done this, if you have never placed your trust in Jesus Christ, would you place your trust in him? Would you become no longer a nobody attached to Satan, but become a somebody attached to the Lord Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ calls you and invites you to become his child and to become his servant. This must have been difficult for Jude. It must have been challenging for this man who grew up hating his brother To only find out that he himself was wrong the entire time and Jesus was always right. He had to humble himself. He had to submit to the mighty hand of God. But when he did do this, It transformed his life and changed them forever. Will you do this today? Will you submit to the hand of God to be transformed? Call out on his name, confess your sins, get down on your knees and say, God, I'm a sinner. I want to be saved. I want to be redeemed. I trust in you. God, take my life. You can have it. Let me serve you. I submit to your Lordship today. If you pray this, if you cry out to God, if you do these things, God will most certainly answer you. God will not resist you. God wants to hear from you, and he's calling you today to repentance and to believe in his son.