Okay, so this is the third session on holiness. For those who haven't been here, I'll just give a brief recap. So the first uh session was holiness defined and we looked at the three types of holiness. By the way, I'm gonna use the term holiness and sanctification synonymously And that's because uh one they really mean the same thing, you know, um holiness and sanctification to be sanctified is to be like a saint, which is to be holy. Um and also because they they translate the same Greek word hagiasmas is translated uh holiness or sanctification and really it just seems to be a stylistic difference. We just use the word holiness, that phrase differently than sanctification based on the structure of the sentence. Alright, so there's three types of holiness or sanctification. There is positional holiness or positional sanctification, and that's our holiness that's derived from our relationship with Christ. We are unholy. We are placed in Christ. This is were baptized into Christ's body, and based on that relationship of being in Christ, you see that uh from Ephesians, you'll see that being in Christ is a big deal. It's called the union with Christ. Based on that relationship, we are made holy. And the more common term for this would be justification. There is a slight difference. Justification is being reckoned non-guilty. Positional holiness is the robes of Christ wrapping around you. Okay. That's positional sanctification. The the next type of sanctification is progressive sanctification. Again, this is the most common use If you just say to be sanctified or to grow in sanctification or to grow in holiness, you're probably talking about the progressive idea of sanctification. That's growing in Christ, being more conformed to his image. And then the final type of sanctification is final sanctification, and there's two steps of this. When you die, your soul is made perfect. And we see that in Hebrews, right? So there's not going to be any sin in heaven. You're not going to be gossiping about other people. I like to joke when I get to heaven, first conversation I'm going to have is Adam, I'm going to take him to the corner and beat him up. It's not going to happen, right? Because I'm going to be perfectly thankful. The second phase of that sanctification is when Christ comes back, those who are with them will be resurrected, and those who are still on the earth, they likewise will get a resurrection, and they'll meet Christ into the sky. Guy, and that's called final sanctification. In that class, we saw the importance of keeping these categories separate. So if we think of progressive sanctification as positional sanctification, if we think our striving after holiness is what makes us holy in God's sight, we have fallen into heresy. That's the heresy of Galatians. We have completely lost the gospel. So keeping these categories are very important. Likewise, if we think our final sanctification, whether body or soul, is right now our progressive sanctification. That's like complete holiness models, right? And you see that in Wesleyan and some others Then you have two problems. One, you'll go around and say that you know that you are perfectly sanctified when you're not, so you'll be deceiving yourself and you'll be a liar. The second proving that you're not perfectly sanctified. And and more damaging, um, what you start doing is redefining sin. So sin is the really gross stuff. Sin is go you know, beating your neighbor but not thinking bad about your neighbor Sin is committing adultery but not lusting and so forth, right? It has to become this willful act of complete um apostasy essentially to sin. And of course that is really damaging because one, you have a false view of yourself, and two, you're not repenting of sin. And we're going to talk about that uh today. About when we when we do sin, we're gonna well let me back up. Uh today we're gonna look at um holiness. We see that Excuse me. That was the first lesson. Second lesson is holiness required. Okay, so we saw the distinctions. Second lesson was holiness required, and that was uh we saw the three types of holiness and we zoomed into progressive sanctification And we then looked at do we need holiness? Is holiness an option? Can that be something like, you know, the super spiritual Christians get, but I don't need Is it just an option? And we saw that it's absolutely not an option. If you claim to be a Christian, but your life completely uh denies that fact, you have denied the Lord. And the Lord says that He will deny you. And we saw the most scary scripture in the Bible, which is Matthew chapter seven, verses twenty one, which you have the people that say, Lord, Lord, have we not done all these wonderful things? And Jesus says, Depart from me, you workers of iniquity, for I never knew you. And so we saw these ugly scriptures all throughout the corpus of the scriptures that clearly say, if you live in darkness and profess Jesus Christ, you are a liar, and the truth does not end you. And we saw at the end of Revelation that says all liars will have their part in the lake of fire. Okay, so progressive sanctification is absolutely essential. The way that I like to remind myself of this fact is that God that justifies is the God who sanctifies. If God has placed you in Christ, that same God will lead you through the His Spirit to follow after Him. Okay, so we're not talking about being saved by works. We're talking about that all true faith will produce works. And you can see uh James' famous uh statement that faith without works is dead. So that was the last class, okay? And so this class that we're going to be talking about today is practical steps for personal holiness. Again, we're talking about progressive holiness. We we saw that we need it, so now how do we get it? How do we better gain through that? So we're going to start off reading first Peter two, verses one through three. And I'm going to get for those who are new here or whatnot, um you can just kind of plant there because I'm going to go some other scriptures, but it'll it'll take too long for you to get it. So uh first Peter two, one through three. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander, and like newborn infants Long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation, if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. I 'll make a few comments about this and just off to the side here. In verse 3, I love how verse 3 ends. If indeed you have hasted that the Lord is good. Now, I've read some commentators that try to suggest that the word if there should be translated sense. And this is actually quite common. You'll see this all the time, that if should be translated in a sense I can tell you that the word if really should not be translated as sense. It almost never should be translated as sense. Um what 's going on here, the the reason some try to say um that the word if should be translated as sense is because They're trying to you know the they say that the Arthur Peter isn't trying to deny anyone salvation. He obviously if you read the whole corpus of the letter, he assumes their salvation, which which is absolutely true But why does he actually use the word if? There's other words in Greek because and so forth, thus. Why does he use the word if? Because he's trying to get you to plug in. He's trying to get you to think, Well have I? And that's really you constantly will see this all out throughout the scriptures is you'll say things that make you say, Well have I tasted? How do I know? Again that goes back into our second lesson, so I won't talk much about that. But we we do know that we have tasted that the Lord is good if again we are walking in the Spirit, if we're following after Jesus Christ. But back to the main reason that I went to here, which is in verses 1 and 2, our passage provides the answer of how we can be holy, how we can gain that holiness. Notice that we have two central commands in our passage. To put away all evil and to long for the pure spiritual milk. Now there is a little bit of debate about what the pure spiritual milk is, but I'll just make this a little interactive. Does anybody have any idea or guesses of what the pure spiritual milk is in this passage? I know somebody knows. Just those on that bin. So one of thank you. Absolutely. Yeah. Different translations, different things, right? And and it's interesting if you some of you have ESV or some other translation, you won't actually have the word word there It's too long to tell you why. I'm not going to tell you why. There's a debate on the Greek word there of whether it's reasonable, spiritual, it refers to the word. I did tell you something. Um but so there there is a debate on that. Most most translators or interpreters will actually take it as the word, and I agree that it is the word of God, the pure spiritual milk of the word. And so again, you have this two contrast, right? You have put away all evil and desire the pure spiritual milk of the word. Desire the word of God. And we're going to try to unpack that There is a connection though between these two commands. We cannot put away all evil unless we are filled up with the word of God. Psalm 1 illustrates the same reality when it says, Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. Nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night Notice that the psalm has both positive things that the godly man does and negative things that the godly man does not. We need to be balanced people. We cannot just remove things from our lives, but we need to add things in their place. To illustrate this, imagine a man wanted to go on a diet. Okay? And he looks at his food and he looks at his eating and he's eating, I don't know, I'm not going to take on McDonald's. He's eating McDonald's for breakfast, lunch, and dinner. a show uh super size me that was about this premise and he gained all this weight and McDonald's in response decided we're not gonna do supersized anymore which I'm a little upset about because I used to get the supersized fries and give it to all my kids. It just I just really upset about that movie. But anyways the point being is he sees that he's eating all this unhealthy food, okay, is what I'm getting at And he realizes like I can't just eat McDonald's all day. I'm gaining all this weight. So he decides, you know what I'm going to do? I'm going to just cut out food altogether. Reference Monson Jr. is ruined, so I'm just not going to do it at all. How long do you think this man's diet is going to last? Maybe if he's really strong, maybe a day, maybe two, probably not too long. He's just gonna end up quitting and then going back to his his regular diet. And even if the man is like super stubborn about this and just refuses to give up He's just gonna shrivel up and die. So it's like a lose lose. Most likely he'll quit in a couple days and if he's super stubborn he will die. Interesting enough, uh I actually watched a documentary There's actually a practice in India where uh certain people actually will starve themselves to death and the whole community will gather around them and uh watch them die. So actually a horrible reality. So the point is it it's not unheard of for people to actually just refuse to eat and not The point that I'm trying to get at though is we can't just if we see that we have bad stuff, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, just saying I'm not gonna eat is not gonna work And likewise in our own lives, we can't just remove the counsel of the wicked. We can't just remove the scoppers and so forth. We need to replace it with something positive. You cannot just remove influences from your life, but you must replace them with positive influence. You cannot just refuse to walk in the counsel of the wicked, nor stand in the way of sinners. Nor sit in the sea of scoffers, but you also must meditate on the law of the Lord day and night. You cannot just get rid of bad influence in your life, but you must replace them with good ones. One practical reason this um this is the case Is how will you know that you're following the counsel of the wicked unless you know first who the wicked are? Okay? So again, Psalm 1. Blessed is a man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. wicked. How do you know if you're receiving counsel from the wicked if you cannot identify who the wicked are? And how do we identify who the wicked are? It's not our subjective opinion. Because we we there's all kinds of things that each one of us may be inclined and see in our flesh that we like. And we're willing to justify that kind of stuff. Okay. So wickedness someone once said that if morality is just the gross factor, your own gross factor, your yuck factor, that's obviously deficient because everyone's yuck factor is different. What might be yuck for you is not yuck for someone else So we need a way to be able to identify the wicked. And that's where the law of the Lord comes in. It's not our own standard. It's God's standard that says, okay, even if I were as inclined to think that's okay, God tells me it's not So the the the first thing that the law of the Lord does is help us identify the wicked. The second thing that the law of the Lord does is help us identify if that wicked person is in fact telling false things. Because we know that godly people, still being sinners, still needing that progressive sanctification, can say wicked things. Right? Who here has not received you don't have to raise your hand, this is a hypothetic rhetorical question, but who has not received False counsel by godly people. Godly people in fact telling you worldly things. We've all experienced that, right? We all need to sit through. Just because someone's a godly person doesn't mean everything they're always saying is godly. Likewise, if someone's a wicked person It doesn't necessarily mean that everything they say is in fact wicked. Wicked people can in fact give good advice sometimes. Actually oftentimes. Most of the people out there that you're going and talking to, whether you're getting advice about your car, whether you're getting advice just all kinds of various things, professional advice, so forth. Most of your textbooks, most of the things that we have out there is from wicked people. And wicked people in fact. can give good counsel at times. We actually see a wonderful character in Pilgrim's progress called Mr. Worldly Wiseman. I love that name. It's one of the my favorite parts about that book, uh, because that's what I always call people who are are worldly but in fact are wise. Right? They know the system. They know these are the steps to be successful. And so there are many worldly wise men out there. So we uh let me back up a little bit. Um how can we explain this reality? Why is it that there are Mr. Worldly Wise Men out in the world How come that all truth is not just reserved for believers? The reason is because of God's common grace. He gives all kinds of gifts to believers and unbelievers alike. In fact, we see this from the beginning of Genesis. Kind of a pop quiz here. Do you know who the first people to create music and instruments were? It's according to Genesis. It's one of the early genealogies. In fact, there's only two genealogies really in the early chapters of Genesis. There's the godly line of Seth, and then there's the wicked line of Cain. I think you know where I'm going with this. If you actually look who was the first person to create music and who was the first person to create instruments, it's not the godly line of sets. It's actually the ungodly line of Cain. So even from the very beginning, we have been benefiting from the ungodly line of people. Again, if we actually look out there, most of the things that we benefit from, most of the medicines Most of the technology, most of the electricity, all these inventions are primarily designed by unbelievers. It's just absolutely wonderful. It's like we're plundering the Egyptians all over again. God is constantly allowing us to benefit from wicked people. And it's just a real blessing. Now, you have to ask yourself, though, why is this? Why don't believers create more uh or behind more of the Nobel Prizes and and the great inventions and all of those kind of things? Why is it? I think there's a couple of reasons. One, that God primarily fixed the poor, the weak, the the lowly. We see that in in Corinthians, right? We have a God who elects people, and he usually elects It even says this. He elects the weaker to shame the greater. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of God. So God often picks these more lowly people. And if you're lowly, um, it this doesn't just mean intellectually, but even just financially and so forth, if you're lowly, you don't have the leisure to go around, you know uh flying kites in the middle of stormy nights with with keys and stuff. You just don't have time to do that kind of stuff. You're working, you know, hand to mouth. You're trying to provide for your family. And when you're not trying to provide for your family, you're trying to provide for your neighbor. You just usually don't have time for that. kind of stuff. So God in His grace allows unbelievers to create these wonderful inventions and these wonderful things that we can benefit from. So we don't just shun unbelievers, but we do need to be uh discerning. We do need to say, okay, this person is an unbeliever, but it are what they say right now currently wicked Psalm 1 tells us: not only do the blessed not walk in the counsel of the wicked, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. The law of the Lord that we are commanded to meditate on is perfect. Through it our souls can be revived, the simple can be made wise, our hearts rejoice, and our eyes enlightened. It is only through the meditation of the Word of God that we'll be able to know the right from the wrong, good counsel versus evil counsel. It is only by setting our minds on the scripture and meditating on it That we can resist being conformed to the world. But as a godly man once said, you cannot meditate on what you have not seen memorized. And and that I actually first heard that in a seminar class. It was a guy who was writing a book on meditation. He called it the Lost Art of Meditation. And apparently in the past, that many, many Christians would take Psalm 1 very seriously and they would actually meditate on the Word of God. And they would meditate on it by memorizing it. and then just going over it over and over like a cow as it eats its food and it regurgitates and brings it back. This is the last art of meditation. We need to get back to this idea of meditation. And again, he said that really thought-provoking statement, which I wasn't really sure if it was right, but I tried it and I think he is right. Again he says, you cannot meditate on what you have not memorized. It really is it doesn't sound right, but again as you actually memorize God's word and see how it just rushes through your body, you'll realize maybe it is an overstatement. But it certainly has some truth in it. The psalmist puts it this way How can a young man keep his way pure? By guarding it according to your word. He also says, Your word I have hidden in my heart. that I might not sin against you. My teacher might have been right. You cannot meditate on what you have not memorized. An interesting note. Why does he say how can a young man keep his way pure by guarding it according to your word? Why a young man Why not just a man? Why young man? Why is that modifying? Well, I think a couple of reasons. Maybe the psalmist himself was young when he was writing this. So he just in he's just adding himself there. right? Or maybe I like to think if a young man can be pained by God's word, then anyone can be pained. Right? Because he's probably on the bottom. I don't know, either one. The point is, how can a young man keep his way pure by guarding according to your word? Your word I've hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you The question is, have we hidden God's word in our heart that we might not sin against him? If we haven't, why have we not? Why would we think that the psalmist would have to memorize scripture in order to avoid sin, but we somehow wouldn't need to? Why would we think that Some might argue that they are simply too busy. But isn't it true that we find time to do the most important things? How many of us regularly miss dinner? Not me. I'll sh I'll make time. I'll run out and get some fast food back to McDonald's. I'll hit me, you know, I'll get a quarter pound or something I'm not gonna regularly miss donor. I think I'd probably miss like very few donors. And even if I did miss it, I'd probably get like a late night snack or something. I'm just not gonna miss many donors. How many of us regularly miss skipping, brushing our teeth? I was gonna say flossing, but money don't floss, so that's not a good example. But how many of us regularly miss brushing our teeth? And if you do, please do not confess Right? We don't want that. And rather you should repent and brush your teeth. It'll be loving for yourself, and it will be, of course, loving for your neighbor. Likewise, if we don't brush our souls on a regular basis, should we not be surprised if we give off a foul odor or show signs of sickness, weakness, and decay? As Christians, we constantly struggle with the same sin over and over again. Do we not? Is it not is it if the devil keeps like surprising us all of a sudden we're getting tempted by this new thing we've never seen before? And then tomorrow's another sin? No. We usually know the same sin keeps coming after us, right? I think the King James Bible says besetting sin. I love that phrase. The besetting sin that clings so closely to our soul. So as we struggle with the same sin over and over, what are we using to strike the enemy with? Are we using our own words? Are we using the word of God? Are we trying to pull ourselves up by our bootstraps? And if so, is there any wonder that we fail so often? Ephesians 6 puts it this way. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. But we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We do not wrestle against flesh and blood. Our enemy is the ancient serpent, and our enemy is so great that he destroyed two races. What are those two races? Both angels and men And the crazy thing about this is they were both in the presence of God. They could look at God. They could see God. There was not faith, faith that wasn't sight. There was reality. They could see it. Right? And yet the devil was able to destroy them. This should show you what kind of enemy we're dealing with. He has a much better resume than we do. He's been around for a long time If that is the case, why would we think that we would why would we try to resist the devil, this great enemy of ours, with our own words? Our own words do not have power. They are empty and hollow. God said, Let there be light, and there was light. God gave me this great illustration. I can say, Let there be light, no light coming on. We gotta call BG<unk>E. We just have absolutely no power with our words. Which one of us would try to fully attack a soldier with a paperclip? It'd be preposterous. It'd be crazy. You wouldn't even get near him, right? He would take you down. None of us would be that foolish. But it is even more foolish to try to fight the devil with our empty words. Let us never forget Peter's warning. Be sober-minded. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. I love what he says here. Be sober-minded. He's not talking about not being drunk. He's talking about think clearly here. If the devil is like this roaring lion, which one of us are going to try to attack him? None of us are Samson. We don't have the power to rip the the tiger with our bare hands And even when he were Samson, how did Samson have the capacity? Was he hitting the gym all the time? On a massive diet? No. It was the power of God that gave him the strength. So even if we were Samson, we would still depend on God to allow us to be able to feed the the lion of the devil. One of our biggest problems is we don't view sin properly. We view sin as something that we can dabble with. And are not people always asking how close to the line they can go without crossing it? How far is too far when dating How much nudity, violence, or cursing and blasphemy of God's name and all sorts of other vileness that are on TV is too much before I have to turn off my favorite TV show or movie What beliefs can I accept that while they are untraditional, they have the advantage of being socially acceptable and yet not be a heretic, and yet still be in the camp of evangelical or Christianity or even remain into your own local Baptist church. All of these are the wrong question. Instead of asking how much nudity we can watch, we should be asking how do we best fulfill the scripture that says, I have made a covenant with my eyes. How then can I gaze at a virgin? Instead of asking how far is too far before marriage, we should be asking, how can I best honor this woman or man of God while we are still considering marriage? Instead of asking how many Christian beliefs can we discard before I become a heretic, we should be saying, Lord, speak, for your servant hears. The reason we so often are asking the wrong questions is because we have the wrong perspective on sin. Now imagine that we went out there and saw a ferocious beast running around. Okay? We would probably all stay at a distance and and and try to get away from it Unfortunately actually nowadays you probably all take our phone and try to get as close as we possibly can trying to upload this to Facebook. That kind of ruins the the the but still you would still try to be in a safe distance. You see what I'm saying, with your phone doing this Most of us would not try to get as close to the ferocious beast as possible. And if we did we try to at least sneak up on it or something like that to take off pictures. The point that I'm saying is, why do we try to do that with sin? Why do we think we can get as close to sin as possible and not be devoured? It's a totally wrong perspective. We should see sin as what it is and try to get away from it As the old saying goes, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure. Or as a wise man once said, you win every fight that you never enter. Is our vision correct? Are we seeing clearly? Do we see sin as a ferocious beast seeking to devour us, or do we see it as a tame cat that we can get as close as possible to Before and and these these two sayings, uh ounce of prevention is worth a pound of cure and you win every fight that you never enter actually mean a lot to me. me because before I was a believer, I don't know why, I kind of do, but I constantly got into fist fights all the time. I was always getting into fistfights. And um after I got saved, I haven't gotten to a single fist fight in my life Why? Because I I prevented those fistbites. I just avoided them. One one way to avoid them, I I figured out why. My wife helped me figure out why. So apparently I would always mean mug people all the time And walk around extremely proud, and if you mean monk people and walk around extremely proud, then people like to fight you a lot. The point being though is I used to think I couldn't avoid fights, but now I have, by the grace of God, not been able to get into them. A pound of an ounce of prevention is really worth a pound of cure. God warns Cain, so back to this idea of sin being this ferocious beast that we should view it as and not as a tame cat. God warns Cain with these words. Why are you angry? And why has your countenance fallen? This is God talking to Cain. If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin lies at the door, and its desire is for you. But you should rule over it. You see that? It's this is not me coming up with this analogy that sin is this ferocious be beast trying to devour you. That's the word of God saying that sin is lying and crouching and and stalking you. So get away from it. Run away from it. Sin is not your friend, it's your great enemy. It's a wild beast stalking you with prey, waiting to devour you. We are in a cosmic battle for our very lives. But many of us are hanging out here like we are on vacation Is there any wonder that we often end up in the mouth of the lion being shaken this way and that way, when instead of putting on the armor of God, we have our beach shorts on, right? Sipping our our our beach drink. We have the wrong gear on. We have the wrong perspective. So many of our struggles are self-imposed. We do not take God's word seriously when it says, do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. It does not say do not be deceived vainly. It says this because so many are in fact deceived about this very matter The question is not about someone else, but are we deceived? Do we see sin as extremely contagious, a contagious disease that we need to avoid at all possibility? Do we think that some Christians may need to watch their exposure to evil, but we who are spiritually superior do not? We we were beige, we couldn't handle it, but now that we're mature, we can do whatever we want We can play whatever we want. We can hang out with whoever we want. We can watch whatever we want. One of the saddest statements that I uh that I constantly hear just in the Christian community is, yeah, I once did that I remember back when I used to do that, but not anymore. And and and I wish they were saying something like, I remember when I used to watch evil things, but but not anymore. I remember when I used to go out and evangelize but not anymore. I remember when I used to be but not, you know, I wish it was like that, but it's usually something good. It's usually like, you know, I used to remember when I used to be scrupulous about what I watched. But not anymore. I remember when I used to be on fire for the Lord and would give out uh tracts or whatever. It would share the gospel with whoever and however, but not anymore It's an absolute tragedy when I hear that. And I just want to say, why? Why do you go back to your first love? Return. Come back Do not be deceived. Bad company ruins good morals. The person who thinks that they are above a certain sin is the most dangerous person of all. Paul says of this man, therefore let anyone who thinks that he stands take heed. lest he fall. I think I shared this story, but I'll share it again 'cause there's something facing. When I first got saved and I was I would say probably on fire in the wood and so that uh so forth. Um I I was all by myself and and kind of um in Kentucky all by myself and I had a little church and so forth, but I I left this area. And um I was able to get rid of some some gross and egregious sins in my in my life and I was feeling really good. In fact, in arrogance I I really thought like okay I've I'm finished with the sanctification process, I'm ready to go. Right. That was totally wrong. But but that's what I thought because this was the major sin in my life and it was gone. So I was like, yes. And I remember a godly man, um he was in seminary at Sullivan actually, and he you know, he kind of just You know, nudged me and kind of said, you know, don't ever turn your back on sin because it can come back like a like a raging raging lion. Don't ever think that you beat this Don't don't turn your back on it. It can always come back. And I remember thinking like that's his problem. Don't try to put your struggles on me. Okay? I beat this thing, it's done. But but sure enough, it's never done Right? It's never done. You can you can close the door, but it will always remain cracked. And you always need to set a guard there and watch it. Right? And watch it and be ready for it to come back. Do not think that you rebuff any sin, nothing. Are you in fact above? Therefore let anyone who thinks he stands take heed lest he falls. The root uh the root sin behind this attitude is pride. We think more highly of ourselves than we ought to. We think we can handle that which we cannot. Again, no one thinks that they can kill a lion, but why would you think that you can destroy sin, which is so much greater than a lion? Because lions have killed very few people. But sin has destroyed two entire races of humanity, or or two entire races, both angel and men God resists the proud, but gives grace to the humble. So, in light of this, if we can avoid sin, we should absolutely avoid sin. If you're seeing unnecessary sin in your life, avoid it. Just don't do it. And some of this stuff might be pretty radical. I have a good friend of mine who says um that we were just talking and he recently uh told me uh that There's the gym here and there's a whole food here. I'm not gonna tell you why, but he no longer wants to either go to the gym or the whole food. That's that's his I'm not I'm not saying you have to do that, but that's what he did. Because he's trying to avoid sin in his life. And that is a very helpful thing, at least for him in that situation. Paul tells us, flee youthful lust, but pursue righteousness, faith Love, peace, and with all those who call upon the Lord out of a pure heart. Flee youthful lust. If you can get out Just don't ever enter the situation. Get out. Get away from it. And again, notice the contrast It is not just flee youthful lust, but also pursue righteousness, faith, love, peace with those who call on the name of the Lord out of a pure heart. I I think I find that just humanity in general is so inclined to imbalances. You know, there are there are really like two kind of mainstream churches. There's churches that purely preach the gospel Pure I mean that's just amen. I'd much rather be in this kind of church. Purely preaching the gospel in hopes that they'll just figure out the other stuff. You know, they'll figure out the stuff that they need to avoid and not do And then there's other churches that purely preach about the things that you simply should not do, things that you should avoid, and just hope that you'll get the gospel. These are both deficient, right? We need the gospel, that gospel, that spirit, the one who leads us into righteousness and holiness. But we also need to be warned about the very true pitfalls that are out there. That are trying to destroy our very soul. We need to be balanced people. Bad company does corrupt good morals, but the opposite is true, and this is the beauty. Not only do bad company corrupt good morals, but good company reinforces good morals. It's one of the wonderful things about being in church. Being around of God Evil that can influence you for good. Friends, we need to cut off the enemy's access in our lives, and we need to replace it with the Holy Spirit's access in our hearts. If we simply try to take out evil things and don't replace them with good things, Jesus tells us what will happen to us in Matthew chapter 12. He says When the unclean spirit has gone out of a person, it passes through waterless places seeking rest, but finds none Then it says, I will return to my house from which I came. And when it comes, it finds the house empty, swept, and put in order. Then it goes and brings with it seven other spirits more evil than itself. And they enter and dwell there, and the last state of the person is worse than the first. See what's going on here? Jesus cast out all of these demons. He he cleansed people's lives. He showed them the right way. Right? And so the demon's gone. They're not insane anymore. And they sweep the house. And it's all clean. It's all nice. Right? And they think that they're good. This is that self-help stuff. They're happy. They're good. But then the devil comes back with seven more demons more powerful than ever. And the last state is worse than the first. And this is actually, in context, I'll make a quick aside here. This isn't just talking about individual people, which it is, but it's also talking about the state of Israel as a whole. When Jesus came back, he he swept some things up, he made some reforms, John the Baptist and so forth, he made these great improvements, right? But they didn't replace When when they they they got better at least a little bit and they didn't fill up with the Holy Spirit. They didn't become followers of Christ. So what happened? 70 AD. Israel was worse off after Jesus Christ came than before. One because they killed the Messiah and they did not repent. And so what did God do? He sent the Romans to destroy them But again, you see the same problem. We can't just kick bad stuff out of our life, but we must fill it with good stuff. What they these people should have had in their life was the Holy Spirit. Because he who is in you is greater than he that is in the world. If the Holy Spirit is in your life, the devil ain't getting in. Right? And that's true on the macro level and the micro level. If you're filling yourself up with God's word, you're filling yourself up with God's people, you're filling yourself up with spiritual fruit, the devil is not going to get a foothold into your life. So too, we cannot just remove things from our lives, but we need to replace them. We cannot just stop listening to secular music or music that entices us to sin, but we must replace it with music that makes our heart sing praises to our Lord. We cannot just stop watching films that have all kinds of violence and inmodesty and inappropriate things going on there But we must replace it with spending time with our family, memorizing scriptures, doing family devotions, combating the schemes of the devil. Are we getting the vision We not only take the fort back and destroy the enemy within, but we must rebuild it and build a castle for the Lord to reign in. Now some of you might be thinking, this sounds like legalism. Secular TV and secular music are being spoken against. What is being said is not that everything that is secular is, in fact, evil. But many things are. And we need to take heed. We need to guard ourselves. We need to avoid sin when possible So the question is, what in our own lives is enticing us and keeping us from growing up in the Lord as we ought to? We can look at that Wh where has the devil and I really I really encourage you to do this? Where has the devil has a foothold in my house? Where has the devil have a foothold in my children or whatever else And if it's unnecessary, we need to take it out. Hebrews describes his congregation in this way. The author of Hebrews. You have become dull of hearing. For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you need someone to teach you again the basic principles of the oracles of God. You need milk, not solid food. For everyone who lives on milk is unskilled in the word of righteousness, since he is a child. But solid food is for the mature, for those who have their powers of discernment trained by constant practice of distinguishing good from evil. I hope that this doesn't describe any of us. But since it is recorded in God's word, it is telling us that this is a problem very near to the church. This is a real problem that affected a real church and recorded for all time for us to be on our guard and to be warned. Whatever sin isn't staring us, we need to cut it off and to throw it away. Jesus says, You have heard that it was said, You shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone looks at a woman with lustful intent, has already committed adultery with her in his heart. If your right eye calls you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell. If your right hand cards you sin, cut it off and throw it away, for it's better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body go into hell We all need to take a long and sober look at the lives and ask the question of what is causing us to sin. And whatever it is, we need to cut it off and to throw it away. Jesus' language here is extreme. And it's extreme because he wants us to be extreme about our sin. He wants us to be violent. He doesn't want you to cut off your real hand. He doesn't want you to pluck out your real eye. Because if you do, you got the other eye and you got the other hand. In fact I when I was take I tried to you know I was looking at this and trying to take it very, very seriously And I was even thinking, well maybe that will work. I thought it won't work. Because even if I'm blind and lame, I still have my mind. The only way this would actually work literally would be to me to kill myself. Of course that's not the case. But what Jesus is saying is be violent. Find those things that are causing you to sin and take them out. Remove them. This is very serious business. For it is better that you lose one of your members than that your whole body be thrown into hell. What is Jesus warning of? Is he warning of the loss of rewards? Is he warning of physical unhappiness in this life? Family problems? The loss of self-image? Those are true consequences of sin, but that is not what Jesus points to. Jesus points to the punishment of hell, where the worm does not die and the fire is not quenched, a place where the smoke of the torment goes up forever and ever, and there is no rest day or night. I actually heard this scripture preached, and instead of preaching hell, as the scripture clearly teaches, they preached physical consequences of what would happen if you fall into this kind of thing. It's very clear that Jesus is warning about hell. We need to take our Lord's warning seriously Do we recognize that sin is trying to drag our very souls into hell? As the godly man once said, be killing sin, or it will be killing you. Peter describes killing sin in this way. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul So the idea that sin is waging war against your soul, it's not a preacher tactic, it's not a nice uh analogy that it's not found in the scripture, the Bible itself says that sin is waging war against your soul. It is trying to take you captive. It's trying to take you to the pit of hell. The Bible tells us to abstain from sin. Flee from it. Cut it off. Don't be around evil company. Turn away from it. Sin no more. All of these commands are telling us to distance ourselves from sin. So let's obey it. I'm running a little bit short of time. So we talked about avoiding sin. Let me talk about real quickly of what if you cannot avoid sin. Not all sin can you avoid, right? I go on uh I'm I'm on the metro I'm going into Union Station, okay? And as I go into Union Station, I try to find people to evangelize and get tracks and so forth. Okay. But one of the places that I go to, I have to, I just I unless I do something extreme I pretty much have to walk by Victoria's Secret every single day. I really just can't avoid it. Right? And even if I can avoid that, I can't avoid going in public. I just there's someone something that you just simply cannot avoid What do we do? First, again, main part of this was a lot of stuff we can avoid. Just stop it. Get it out of your life. But if we can't avoid it, what should we do? That goes back to that memorizing scripture. What do you have to combat the devil? Are you just simply saying no, no, no, as you're feeling the pull of temptation, whatever it is? Is that what you're doing? Are you quoting scripture? Are you quoting Thessalonians? For this is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one knows how to control his own body and holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles, who don't know God at the dawn. Are you gonna quote that in that circumvent? And that's what I'm encouraging you to do is to quote those kind of things. Quote Jesus was saying, if a man looks at a woman with less, he's committed adultery in his heart. Right? Quote Job that says, That I've made a covenant in my eyes. How can I No temptation as overtaking, that's not common to man. God is faithful, he will not let you be tempted beyond your ability, but with the temptation he will also provide the way of escape that you may be aventure. Have these scriptures ready. So when the devil is coming at you, you can combat him. And this is actually what we see our Lord Jesus Christ do Right? Do you remember that when he was tempted by the devil out in the wilderness and the devil was using uh scripture even against Jesus? What did he do? Did he say God is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob? In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God? No. He actually used scriptures that matched the circumstance. And that's what I was saying about besetting sin. If you know that there's a certain sin that keeps getting at you, like how about just being lazy at work? Right? Whatever you do, work as from the heart, not uh work as from the heart, ask for the Lord and not for men. Have scripture ready that the Holy Spirit can use and you can combat the devil with those scriptures. Prepare in the meantime. If Jesus Christ found it necessary, I mean We often think of Jesus Christ in the wrong way. He was truly God and truly man. Okay? So Jesus did not just use his omniscience to just pull out these scriptures. Jesus, as a man, studied the Word of God. And memorize these scriptures so that when he would uh bite uh battle the devil, which it wasn't just that one time if you look at it, it's that the devil left them for a more opportune time. The devil was constantly tempting Jesus Christ, and we wrestled not against what The devil is constantly tempting us. What scripture have we memorized and stored in our heart ready for the devil in those situations? If Jesus Christ, Son of God, found it necessary to spend the time to memorize Scripture for those situations, how could we not? And if we don't, again what the psalmist said, your word I have hidden in my heart that I might not sin against you. If you don't do this, right, there's a very likely that you will be your word I have not uh stored in my heart. So I sin against you. You can see the obvious connection. The second thing that you should be doing is the Bible tells us to pray without ceasing. We should be praying without ceasing. So not only should we be combating the devil with these scriptures that we have memorized, even if you paraphrase them, that's good enough. Just something. We should also be uh a step away from prayer. Right? When you feel that that temptation coming at you. We should be praying to God, quick to pray. God, help me. Save me. That's not to be a long prayer. God, I want to find you more beautiful than this sin. Preach to yourself. Pray to God. Be one step away from God. Another thing that we should be doing is I love the Lord's Prayer. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. I I I really cling on to this part. Why? Because it tells me that this prayer is meant to be prayered daily. I'm not saying this exact prayer, but this is the model prayer for all prayer, right? It's a daily prayer. And what does it say after that? Forgive us of our debts as we also forgive our debtors. We talked about that. We'll always be sinners. But here's the part that I'm getting at. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Many people have always had all kinds of theological problems with this. Why would God lead you into temptation? Of course he's not going to lead you into temptation. Psalm 23, you lead me in paths of righteousness for your name's sake. God's not going to lead you in paths of wickedness. But the reason that God has us saying this prayer is because we need to recognize that we are weak. That we cannot do it. That we need our great shepherd to lead us in paths of righteousness. What this tells me is every day we should be realizing that we are weak. The Christian life is a life of repentance. Every day we should be recognizing that we are poor in spirit. So that means when we wake up in the morning, we should be praying something like this: God, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. And maybe you can slap your besetting sins in there. God, I you know that I'm prone to laziness. Please help me be diligent at work. And on the very small time that we have left. We talked about avoiding sin. Please avoid it. We talked about combating sin. Quote scripture. Be one step away from prayer. We talked about dedicating your your your day before the Lord by praying in the morning, recognizing your weakness, and asking God to keep you from sin. But guess what? You will in fact sin. This is not a recipe to avoid all sin. You will sin. That's why the Lord's Prayer says, forgive us of our debts as we also forgive our debtors. That's a daily prayer. You will sin. So what should you do when you in fact sin? Well, you should also have scriptures memorized that tell you that you will be forgiven. Right, first John 1 9 is a great one. If you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins and cleanse you from all unrighteousness. We should be have other scriptures that will will tell us that God will forgive us. One person once said the spiritually mature man or the spiritually mature person is not the person who avoids sin, but the person who repents of it quickly. See what I'm saying? Not only you're showing your spiritual maturity and that you have grown in the school of Christ, isn't just avoiding sin and combating sin, but repenting of sin quickly when you commit it. Listen to your conscience. And I say this to you as a fellow sinner. Listen to your conscience. If you think, I wonder if this was sin, just repent of it anyways. Your conscience is most likely telling you the right thing. thing. Listen to it. And guess what? It's much better to confess and repent of things that weren't sinned than to not confess and repent of things that were. Again, first John 1 9 and I'll close with that. It's so wonderful. If you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive you of your sins. Amen. Don't stop there. And cleanse you from all unrighteousness. The confessing of sin is part of the cleansing from all unrighteousness. It's part of the sanctification process. Last thing. This is really it. If you don't have the strength to confess your sins, at least have the strength to ask someone else. to pray for you. Because through other people's intercession is a means of grace and it can channel forgiveness for you. So again, if you don't have the strength to confess your own sin, confess it to someone else. And have them pray for me. In the little time we have, I'm asked if there's any comments, questions, personal testimony? Anything? Go ahead. Is there a danger of losing our salvation or is it just more uh the idea that God knows if we were really sincere in our confession? And uh uh you know, we need to be diligent about trying to walk the walk. Yeah, excellent question. Um I'm firmly convinced that you began a good work in you. We'll complete it until we'll bring it to completion at the day. Christ Jesus. I'm I'm thoroughly convinced that true believers will be uh have the downs uh the down payment of the Holy Spirit and He will in fact bring them into uh the kingdom. I'm also thoroughly convinced of something called speech act theory um or just the plain meaning of the scriptures. And what speech act theory and a very simple m meaning is There are words written in Scripture that are meant to convey something to you. They're meant to elicit some kind of emotion out of you. Okay? Sometimes it's comforting. Sometimes it's fear. Sometimes it's so forth and so on. So if we read Hebrews, just Hebrews for example, if you read Hebrews and you don't come out of there with some fear and trepidation and concern. about the state of your soul, your theology is wrong. You missed the boat. Likewise, if you see God promises about that he will bring you to completion. Right? That no one will be able to snatch you out of his hand. There is no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus. And you come out there fearful and temptment that God's not going to bring to you in. You have mis the boat. So there's so much more I can say about that. But to say very simply, I think that God uses his warnings and his scripture to accomplish his mean of keeping you. So we are secure in Christ, but not by ignoring the warnings, but by the very fact that God has us to take the warning very seriously and recognize that if I abandon Christ, I'm done. Right? That is itself a means of God's grace to keep me from leaving Jesus Christ. But no, we are absolutely um secure in the hands of Christ. We probably have time for one more question or comment. Um earlier you s you said um you know we're we should do our best to avoid sin as possible, but there's something that we can avoid. I think we just need to be clear that um God has provided avoidance I think a lot of times though the way of escape is to avoid him But but sometimes that you're right, that we we are in fact uh we can't avoid it. In the sense that we we they're just they're there, right? We just can't avoid it. Uh but even in that situation he has to provide us a way of escape And I think a lot of that is prayer. A lot of that's quoting scripture. A lot of that's talking and confessing and all that other stuff that we talked about. And probably many more. Going to church would be probably another way he's provided a way of escape. and so forth. Um let me go ahead and close this down and go to the moon in prayer. Dear Heavenly Father God, that I have spoken much And much could be misunderstood and misapplied. I pray, God, that that would not be the case. I pray that you would use this. Um this class, this session, to encourage your people to make no one think that they have to work out their own well um well work out our own salvation in fear and trembling, but it's for you who works and will So I pray that no one would uh would take this as a workspace salvation or that we're not secure new. But I pray that everyone would take this as uh um encouragement and ways that we can avoid sin, ways that we can combat sin, and ways that we can trust you to live holy lives which you demand and which you require and which you produce in your people. I pray all these things in Jesus' name.