I originally was going to preach a sermon on uh Malachi but uh I did not feel that that was most appropriate today Sorry, scrapped the whole message. It's not really scrapped, it's saved for next time when we come, Lord willing, in person, and decided to write an entirely different message for this occasion. And I am labeling this message, Why I Hate Zoom I'm teasing. That's somewhat of a joke. Uh I said that tongue in cheek. I really don't hate Zoom, and this message won't be about Zoom. But rather it will be about the importance and the need to spend personal and intimate time together. Regarding Zoom, I'm actually quite thankful for Zoom. There's actually a reason why we're meeting on Zoom today instead of not meeting at all Uh for many of us, my most immediate experience with Zoom was over COVID. And I can say that Zoom helped me hold on to God or God to hold on to me. It helped keep me spiritually alive For those uh many months. I remember at the beginning of COVID I was very optimistic and I prayed and I think I even told others that I am praying that after COVID I will be spiritually stronger than I was prior to COVID. And to my shame I have to say that that is not what happened I actually was spiritually weaker at the end of COVID than when I entered it. I was still thankfully spiritually alive. and my heartbeat was still beating, but I definitely was not stronger coming out of COVID than I was entering in COVID And I think one of the principal reasons for that was because of the extended isolation from one another. We we were spent so much time away from each other that that actually affected me spiritually and I noticed the difference Just a little bit else about how I've used COVID in the uh how I use uh Zoom in the past. For for several years after COVID even ended, I continued to lead a personal Bible study with friends that I had known from various churches. around the United States. So I have extensive use of of Zoom, extensive experience of Zoom, and in fact I think a lot of good ministry came out of Zoom. Nevertheless, I've labeled this park or this message or this sermon why I hate Zoom more to shock you and more to uh be teasing with that. Again, Zoom is fine, it has its purposes, but my main point and the thing we're going to talk about today is the need or the special reality of embodied existence. When I was nineteen years old I married the most beautiful woman that's ever walked this earth. My wife had no money Uh I had a job but it wasn't a good job and quickly I realized um wife, future kids need a better job. So I went and joined the army And I was actually only recently married at the time, about six months. I would have joined sooner, but they required it just took six months to finally get shipped off to basic. And so then when I went off to basic, uh this was really my honeymoon stage of my marriage. I'm deeply in love. I want to spend every moment with this woman, and prior to that I literally spent every moment with this woman from basically sun up to sundown. We even had the same classes. In fact at my job I worked at the movie theater and I didn't want to be away from her so much that I even would I was gonna say sneak her in, but that would be sinful, not that I've never sinned, but actually was allowed to bring uh a person or two into the theater, so I would bring her into the theater and so I was an usher, I would sweep And I would still see her. This is how much I got to spend time uh with my wife. And it was glorious and lovely and I would have spent more time if I could possibly have squeezed out any more Well all of that came to an abrupt end when I went off to basic training. They cut off my hair and I felt like I was in some kind of prison or some kind of concentration camp for several months And my basic experience of basic training was this. I was hungry, I was sweaty, I was sleepy, and I wrote letters to my wife You can almost get my entire experience of basic training and that quick summarization, and I still have somewhere I have to ask my wife uh these terribly handwritten letters with all these spelling errors, I'm ashamed, so don't ask me uh to look at those and they're probably pretty intimate anyways. But but I wrote and I wrote and I wrote and I don't even know how my wife was able to decipher. That was my experience of basic training. I missed my wife, and I would write her over and over and over again, and she would send me letters. I think people were getting jealous because, you know, whenever they gave the mail I would have a ton of mail, a few from my dad, a few from my mom, and boom, all of these from my uh glorious wife. But the reason I'm sharing the story with you is You know, those letters were precious, but there was something missing. I was not fully satisfied with those letters. I wanted more, I wanted to be with my wife and then I remember as I graduated basic training my best friend at the time came down. He was half blind. I don't know what I was thinking. I I think I just wanted to see my wife So a half blind guy and a a teenage boy and my wife drove several hours to come see me and and they by the grace of God somehow survived um that that travel And then I saw my wife and I just remember seeing her and the joy that I felt was truly indescribable. Uh it was so wonderful. We only got to share about a day together and then I was off to AIT, which is advanced individual training. It's not it you're no longer in like a concentration camp per se but you're still away from your loved ones. And there I had a cell phone and I had a computer and we might have had some primitive form of Zoom or or some kind of some kind of Zoom communication. But the same thing happened. I spent so much of my time becoming an analyst and and studying and hanging out with soldiers. Not really. I spent most of the time just doing my schoolwork studying and r emailing or or instant messaging or zooming my wife. But the exact same thing happened. We it I was longing for my wife. I I so missed her. It was so un satisfying that when I finally got out of basic training and came home, I thought I was on Cloud9 and it was just so glorious to be in our presence. Can anybody Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Does anyone know, can anyone imagine your loved one, your your your darling, your your spouse, and being forced to just use Zoom? It's just not fully satisfying. And the point that I'm trying to bring out is that there is something about being embodied together, something about embodied life in bodied fellowship. And that's why during all those months of of COVID and I don't think it was just me At some point in in the evening service, when we have it, I will love to hear from you and find out if I was the only one that was lonely and sad and missed people. Because because that's how I felt. I I loved the people of God. I loved my church. And I I was so longing to be together. And the first thing we actually did was we we we met outside behind the church and it was only like ten of us and and it was really just the pastor and maybe his family and and maybe one other family and my family and oh what what how glorious it was just being out there with him. And then I still remember when we were able to finally go from that complete isolation of Zoom only and then and then backyard of of Andover Baptist Church with uh my beloved pastor and in his family and one other family and then finally even with the mask and I hated the mask but nonetheless we we were finally able to get to the building together And we were we came together again. And it was so special and it was so wonderful. I don't know what you guys did, but that's how we had it. And and I just want to invite you to remember what it was like When we finally got to be together again. Remember what it was like for being so long away from each other and how great it felt To be back together. And that feeling of specialness had nothing to do with COVID It had everything to do with the reality that embodied presence with one another is important and is valuable. And so what I'm going to do is explore more in this message of the biblical basis for that. And I was taught in the Bible, and it's not just my opinion, that there is something special about breathing the same air with one another. And smelling the same smells of one another, even when the smells aren't always so good Right, sometimes we kind of wish we weren't spelling the same thing, but there's something about that. There's something about voices unfiltered through media, but going from mouth to ear and ear to mouth. And here's the Bible if you're wondering. Where's the Bible? Here's the Bible. 2 John chapter 2 verse 1 says, having many things to write to you. You could you could scratch that out in our modern translations that and many things to email to you because nobody writes anymore. Many things to zoom you. I have many things to zoom you, to call you, to text message you But I do not wish to use paper, ink, Zoom, or text messages, but rather I hope to come to you and to speak face to face. That my joy may be full. For the apostle John, his his joy was not going to be full, merely using these means of communication, but he did use them. Do you see that? He wrote this letter, and thank God he did because I could preach this sermon. Uh and we have this letter to record that. But but John says that he was not satisfied with writing to them. In fact His letter is actually quite small. He said, I I just can't write anymore. I I really need to get in your presence and to be with you. The literal Greek, and and I don't like doing this, I don't like pointing to the Greek for unnecessary reason, but but I think it's important here. It's actually interesting. The literal Greek here is samas ta samas. It is mouth to mouth He says, I I want to be with you mouth to mouth. That's almost creepy, right? Mouth to mouth to be that close to you. That's intimate. That's what John wanted. Now, in the Bible All it has to do is say something once, and that's good enough for us. But but actually, John says it again. He wrote another letter. It's called 3 John And at the end of that letter, which is also short, is written to Gaius, very short as well. He says, this, I had many things to write to you. But I do not wish to write to you with pen and ink, but I hope to see you soon shortly and wait we may speak, here it is again, face to face And I hope that we shall be able to be reunited. So the Bible says it not once, the Bible says it twice. Now these little these little closing, we can just ignore them and say, uh-huh-uh-huh, that's nice But but really they're also the Word of God. This is written here for a reason. This isn't just John's personal preference, but rather the Bible is telling us something that there's something inadequate about written communication, about non-physical, non-embodied communication. And in fact It's not just John. The Bible throughout its pages talks about this. I'm going to read you a few more passages so that nobody after this sermon or this talk or this message or this Zoom thing, whatever we're doing here can come to me and say that wasn't a biblical message. It actually is from the Bible that ultimately embodied communication is preferred and there's something that we can't capture via non-embodied communication. So 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Paul, now not John now, now Paul. Paul says, but we brethren, having been taken away from you for a short time in presence, so we physically had to leave your presence But even though we left your physical presence, we never left you in hearts. And we are endeavoring more eagerly to see your face with great desire. Therefore we wanted to come to you, even I, Paul, time and time again, but Satan hindered us. Very similar to what we have in John. He's writing them a letter But in that letter he's saying that this is not adequate. This is not satisfying. I was forced to be away from you. I was forced to be on Zoom. I tried not to beloved. I really did. But um Yeah, there's no way we could have made it. He says despite that, I have this great desire to see your face, and I want it to come to you. Beloved, is that your desire? I mean, honestly look at your own heart And ask yourself, when I sent out that email saying that all in-person services were canceled, did your heart leap and say, yes? Or did you feel this dissatisfaction and think, oh no, that means that we can actually see each other that we can actually spend time with one another, that our Lord's day service will be diminished unless God does some kind of special miracle. It ought to have been the latter and not the former Paul doesn't just say this to churches, but he says this to individuals as well. We see that Paul wrote to Timothy, his young protege. And he says, I remember you in my prayer night and day. This is 2 Timothy 1, verse 3, and I long to see you that my joy may be filled. I long to see you, Timothy, because that will bring me fullness of joy. And then finally, we look at that passage in Romans chapter 1, which is the passage I had our deacon Brother Alan read. And it says, and this is probably the most theological one of them all, Romans chapter 1, verse 11, it says, For I long to see you. You catching the catching the drift, you catching the repetition There was a longing. I long to see you. Why? That I may impart to you some spiritual gift to strengthen you. But Paul, you were already writing a letter, aren't you doing that? Yes, he did, in fact that book of Romans strengthens us immensely But even the Apostle Paul still says, this isn't sufficient. I really want to get to you that I may impart some spiritual gift to what? To strengthen you. Your spirituality is diminished unless I get there because I want to give you something that will build you up. Beloved, that is how I felt for those months. When we were in isolation doing nothing but Zoom, I felt the reality of this passage. I felt the need for my pastor and my congregation to impart to me some spiritual gift to strengthen me, and I just wasn't getting it. And then he goes on. Not only does he want to give you some spiritual gift to strengthen you, but that is that we may be mutually encouraged by each other's faith. Both yours and mine. So the the thing, the spiritual gifts he wanted to give them was this mutual encouragement by each other's faith. Not just not just them receiving, but but the Apostle Paul receiving an encouragement by seeing their faith and they seeing his faith. And then he goes on, I don't want you to be unaware. I did not see you, and I'm not writing this letter because it was my intent, but I was hindered and prevented. So I hope you see the point. This isn't just Jamie's preference against Zoom or against written letters, but ultimately it's the biblical pre preference of saying that these things are good, hence they're used, hence the Bible. but they are not altogether adequate. And there is something missing, some spiritual strengthening that is not received when we only do this And do this in exclusion to meeting together. To give a the a better example, I gave this last time with the WWJD, the bracelets. What would Jesus do? Well, that's always a great question. What would Jesus do? And I said last time, and I'll say again, the best way to know what would Jesus do is to ask the question or search the scriptures and discover what has Jesus done What would Jesus do? It's a speculation. What has Jesus done is a revelation. So what did Jesus do? Did Jesus simply write us a letter and say, God bless you, hope it all works out? Well he did write us letters to call it the scriptures. Amen. Again, no despising these means. These means are wonderful But did Jesus simply write us a letter? No. Did he send us a text message? Absolutely not. Did he leave us a voice message? No. Did he send us a Zoom link? No. We didn't look at a Zoom link and see the pixels and and block them on social media. The crucifixion wasn't a ghosting of social media accounts, was it? No, no, the crucifixion was Jesus coming down in the flesh, the sarcasm. He came from heaven into the womb of his own creation named Mary. And he dwelt among us and we beheld the glory of God, and he smelled like us, and he smelled our smells, and he walked with us, and he rebuked us, and we killed him because we were sinners. And we did not like what he had to say. The point is that Jesus came in the flesh, not in the zoom link. And there's a reason. There's so many reasons, and we need to see that. Now beloved, I suspect that we all kind of feel and understand that we need to be present with one another, that there's something special about that, there's something intimate about being there together. But I wonder if sometimes we're afraid to spend time with one another I wonder if that's the case sometimes. Sometimes we actually don't want to spend time with one another, even though we know we ought to want to spend time with one another. Now, one of the reasons that I am a huge advocate of lingering at the end of services is not because I have nothing better to do. Believe me, there's something at the end of every Lord's Day that I really love to do. It's actually quite wonderful for me. It's called a nap. I rarely ever get naps. Many days at work, I want to get a nap, but no naps are allowed. And on Saturday, it's the time I gotta get everything else done, like write this sermon, and there was no maps allowed So on Sunday, it's my one time that I can usually carve out enough time to take a nap. So I have plenty of things to do, but many times I find myself being one of the last people out of the church. I find myself lingering, fellowshipping and targeting and counseling. And I do that because I genuinely love the people of God, and I generally want to get to know people It's just something wonderful that happens after we worship together. There's this koinomia, there's this fellowship, there's this union, and people naturally want to talk, and the best time to talk to people is when they want to talk. Anyone knows that? Just on a side note, the best time to talk to your kids is when they want to talk to you. Just find those special moments and carve out that time. Not when you want to talk and they want to go to bed or or whatever, they want to go play with their friends. No, when they want to talk is when when you should be there. And I've noticed that people often they're already there, they linger, they want to talk and and so standing there and and talking is such a blessing because it allows me to get to know them. Now a couple years ago, I remember talking to a brother And I was telling him about the blessing that happened in my life when I started to attend All of the services that the church provided, namely Sunday school, Sunday morning, which we're here doing right now, Sunday evening, and Wednesday night. That that at first I wasn't doing I was doing most of them, but not the Sunday evening one, and then actually with a kind rebuke of my a former pastor named Pastor Shane, he he kindly maybe it wasn't so kind, but he rebuked me, he encouraged me, he exhorted me to start coming to uh the evening service. Now at first I was slightly offended, but then I ended up doing it. And it was just such a blessing in my life. So I was I was telling him about this habit of attending all of these services. And he shot back to me And he said, you do that because you're the pastor. And I was a pastor at the time. And I shot back to him, no, you don't understand. The reason I'm a pastor is because I do that. Because there's something special and there's something that happens when we get together and when we spend time with one another. When the Word of God is saturating us, when we're praying together, when we're hanging out, when we're spending that time, we receive what Paul says is that spiritual blessing of strengthening of mutual encouragement. I want to give you a thought experiment. Imagine I said to you, we're going to have a competition. I want you to find me Ten of the godliest Christians that you possibly can. Now forget how we would discern that. Just say that we could somehow objectively determine the most godly Christians that we could possibly find. But here's the stipulations Stipulation number one. They can't be anyone that you know. Stipulation number two, you cannot use the internet. Stipulation number three, you have two weeks go. So imagine we had that thought experiment Where would you find, where would you go gather these mature Christians that you have no idea who they are? Where would you find them? Would you go to Walmart? Would you go probably not Walmart. Would you go to Target? Probably not Target. Would you go to McDonald's? Would you go to the local restaurant? Would you go to the mall? Maybe Bass Pro Shop, maybe getting warmer, I'm joking. Would you go to Chick-fil -A? Maybe some of you. Would you just go to a church? That's why I would recommend finding the mature Christians with the other mature Christians at church. But would you just pick any church at random? Would you just randomly find a church? What about the church that has the BLM flag on the outside of it or the rainbow flag? Would you go to that church? I certainly want it. Here's what I would do to find the strongest and the healthiest Christians as fast as possible. I would tailor my search to evangelical, biblical, conservative churches. So no BLM flag, no rainbow flag, no thousand different interpretations. um Genesis or any of that other stuff. I want Bible believing, faithful Christian church. And then what I would personally do is I would go into the Wednesday night meeting, I would go to the Sunday evening meeting, and if I really was bold, I would go to the prayer meeting and I would pick out the saints that are there. No. I'm not saying that there is no mature Christians that don't go to those meetings. That's not what I'm saying. There are all kinds of reasons why people potentially could not make it to those services, and I'm fully aware of that. People could be sick and all sorts of things. But what I've noticed is there's a correlation, if not a causation, is a chicken or an egg, and I'm still confused of which one. I think it's both, to be honest. That the more time that we spend at God's house with God's people, fellowshipping together, the stronger we become spiritually. There is something about spending time with one another. There is something about dwelling in the presence of God with his people. that strengthens us again back to Paul's word that mutual encouragement and that's really what I'm trying to exhort you and encourage you to do is to spend time to love the saints and to dwell with one another. What saddens me sometimes is when the church becomes a movie theater. Now again I worked as a movie theater. I fully am aware how movie theaters work. Here's how they work You buy your ticket, you get your popcorn, you're entertained, your ears tickled. This is all very interesting. Sometimes it isn't, but it's all very interesting. You know no one You don't talk to anyone besides maybe a few comments here and there. After the service is over, you pick up your trash, pick up your kids, walk out of the building and know nobody and never look back That is not the purpose of the church. The church is not to be a movie theater. And sadly, many times churches are like that. Especially megachurches are like that. They're designed like that. In fact, they have multiple services back to back to back to back and they just shuffle the people out because they figured out that people will give whether they linger or not. Whether they stay or not, and whether they come to any other service other than Sunday morning, so as they can get people in to hear the sermon, get out, get more people in, get hear the sermon, get out, they can make more and more money quickly That's not the way that the church is to be. The church is more to be like a body or a family To put it differently, the church is more of an organism than an organization. It is an organization, but it's more of an organism. It's more of a living entity, a family, a body, a people of God. And so what we must do is walk together and walk together with knowing one another. And we must not be afraid to get to know one another. And sometimes I wonder if that really is the case. That we put up these barriers. I get that some people you just gotta go. That's fine, no problem. But sometimes we put up these barriers because we don't actually want people to get to know us We we don't want to be transparent. And here's the question of why. If you're going to come back to the Sunday evening service, I would love to explore with you and hear back and get some feedback. of of why that is. Is that just my speculation or or is that am I onto something? I think I am. I think there's a sense that sometimes we we actually don't want people to get to know us. We we don't want to be transparent. And and I think it's because we're afraid of what they might discover if they make it past the barrier If they make it past the presentable form, if they make it past the politician, they might see the real person behind all of that. And beloved , that's not good. We should not be afraid to be transparent. In fact, we need to be transparent. We need to get to know one another. I want to know the real you, and I'm not so interested in knowing the polished politician form of you, and likewise I want you to get to know the real me. and not the polished politician form of me. And I'll give you an example. Maybe this is something that many of us have experienced, especially with kids. Sunday morning starts off And whether you think it or not, you're hoping that this is going to be a good Lord's Day. And everything's going to go perfect. And the moment you say that, to the end of the day, nothing quite goes that way. It doesn't quite go as perfect as you thought. Things are already stressful. You're trying to get people t to to shuffle off to church. You want to be there on time. You want to look your best. You're dressing up and and and nobody's cooperating the way that they ought to. that schedules are are are not happening, that that things are rushed and and kids aren't getting in the car like they ought to and you're frustrated and you're mad and and you yell at the the kids and and you yell at your wife and you walk out the door and you kick the dog. And and you finally get in the car after you honk the horn five times, right? And and things are real tense. You might even speed the church and talk to Mr. Dennis. He'll get on your case. He doesn't like that. Right, Mr. Dennis? And you get to church and you're fuming mad and there's tension in the car and there's hurt feelings. And then you get into the parking lot. And then you glue on a fake smile. And then you fix everything and everything becomes perfect. You take all the attention and throw it in the trunk and you're all picture perfect. You walk hand in hand, gliding in the church, and people say, How was your day? And you say, Wonderful. God bless you, brother. D do you see what I'm saying here? This is not the way it ought to be. And of course, when you get back in the car, you take out all the tension and all the tension shows up once again. This is not the way it ought to be for a multitude of reasons. Number one, you shouldn't be yelling at the wife, yelling at the kids, kicking the dog. Okay It 's it's better not to do that in the first place, but if you do do that, instead of bottling it up and and ready to unleash the anger the second you get out of church, why don't you just repent Why don't you listen to that nagging of the Holy Spirit on your heart, that tugging of your heart, saying that you're wrong? Turn to your kids, turn to your family, turn to your God, confess your sins. 1 John 1. 9, if you confess your sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us of our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Isn't that so much better? Or when you do get to church and things are struggling and challenging, you don't have to tell everybody, but but maybe that person who's your friend, they say, How are you doing? Said, I'm struggling, brother. Right? Wouldn't that be so much nicer to be honest with one another, to be transparent with one another. I remember I was having a conversation once uh with with a Christian. And they told me that they were not convinced that any Any relationship, particularly a marriage, was actually happy, even though it appeared to be happy. And they weren't trying to be mean. What they were saying is that they had grown up in the church and they had seen so many couples smiling in each other's faces. And I've seen some of this too, by the way, and it's awful smiling in each other's faces only to go back home and see the terror that that husband or spouse treats one another How horrible. How terrible. What a nightmare to be a fake To be a pretender, to be somebody who pretends for the appearances of others. They don't care about God. They don't care that he sees all. It's only about what other people in the community think about them. That's awful. That's that that is truly terrible and it's the way it ought not to be. So what I'm trying to say is I think one of the reasons that people don't want to get deep in one each other's lives in each other's lives and and to be radically transparent is because we're afraid of what they might discover back there. They might discover some things that aren't so good Now there are two categories of the things they might discover. The first is they might discover that you are a fake. That you are a pretender. That you actually don't love God. That you don't actually care about God. That you are have the faith of a demon. The faith of a demon was someone who believes orthodox things, but that faith has not transformed them. Demons are not crying out, God forgive me, a sinner, save my soul, are they? No, all they do is profess the trueness that there is one God and three persons and that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, but they never receive it for themselves. That's the faith of a demon. And so perhaps maybe some of you, I hope this isn't the case of any of you, but at least some people in the church may not want to Have that radical transparency, may not want to be known and to know because they're afraid that their true colors will be revealed Jesus warns about these people in Matthew chapter 7. He calls them false prophets and he says that they are wolves in sheep's clothing. And he says, you will know them by their fruits. Do you gather grapes from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? Know every good tree that bears good fruits. is a good tree. And every bad tree that bears bad fruit is a bad tree, therefore you will know them by their fruits. I remember a brother once said to me Christians are not to be fruit inspectors. And I thought, not according to the Bible. The Bible says you will know them by their fruit by inspecting their fruit. I mean, really? Who goes around on a thorn bush looking for Figs, nobody. And who goes looking for thorns on a fig tree? Nobody And then Jesus later on says that in that day, in that final great day, many will come to me, saying, Lord, Lord, did we not do these great things? And he will say, Depart from me, you who practice lawlessness, for I have not known you. So the point is, maybe one of the reasons that we don't want to get to know each other, or we don't want to be known Or to know is because we're fake. And if that is your case, that's not the right answer. The right answer isn't to remain a fake. Isn't to remain a pretender. The right answer is to repent. If you are a wolf, come become a sheep. If you are full of dead men's bones, come to the Savior who can raise those bones and transform you into a child of light. God resists the proud but gives grace to the humble. The first thing is to realize there's a problem. You don't want to be known because there's nothing but deadness there Recognize that and repent and turn so that there is now life. The other reason that we may not want to be known or to know is not that we're fake, but just That we are immature in Christ and we're afraid how people will treat us when they discover that we're not perfect Well beloved, that's okay. Because I am your new pastor. You will discover that I am not perfect. If you haven't already discovered that and somebody say amen, you probably have And as your new pastor, as I get to know you all, I will discover the same thing about you. And that's okay, because we're all sinners and saints. It's one thing to have a bunch of dead bodies back there. It's another thing to realize that we all struggle in various ways, as James puts it. And so we don't need to be afraid to get to know one another because we're afraid that they will discover that we're not perfect because we're all not perfect. Our unity, our connection, the reason that we love each other is not because we're perfect and we never get on each other's nerves, but because we have that unity and that fellowship in Christ. That is what joins us. The reason, beloved, that we don't have to worry about discovering things about each other if we're true believers that will destroy our relationship with one another. is because of a s a doctrine called regeneration. It's because God has taken our heart of stone and replaced it with a heart of flesh so that now we love God and love our neighbor. And we especially love those who are in the fellowship of Christ. And so we don't have to be afraid. We we will overlook the faults and we'll love the person not because they're so lovable, but because they belong to Jesus Christ. And this is where I was I wish I was in the together with you so you could say amen. Because I know you would. Our unity is in our faith. Our unity is because you love God and I love you because you love God. And you love me because I love God. And so beloved, we we we don't need to be afraid to get to know each other. We need to get to know each other. We need to walk together. We need to hold each other's hands. We need to get into each other's lives. And so how do we do that? We all would agree with that, I hope, that we need to grow in our relationship with one another, but how do we do it? We don't do it by me bullying you into doing it. No. We do it simply by time. Relationships take time. They take experiences, they take many moons and many days and many hours and many conversations and many sermons and many all of these things to get to know each other. And Lord willing, we will do that thing. And I feel the few weeks that I've been here already that I that I've got to know you. I've got to know you in the service. I've got to know you after the service. I've got to know you before the service. I've got to know you in another day outside of the service. And this is what it looks like. For example, I've got to know Dennis, which uh Dennis, which is kind of funny, is I learned your name really the first day I got there, and someone said, Dennis the Menace, and I never forgot that. And I'm sure you're smiling and laughing. He said, Dennis the Menace, he loves to joke. And that's true, he does. He's hilarious. He's a great guy. Get to know him. Spend time with him. He knows his Bible well. He serves our church in Sunday school. He's a great guy. And and then I I've got to know Mr. Jem and his his lovely voice and and the fact that he he's been here forever. Praise the Lord. He's one of the founding members. He he knows so much about our church. And I really look forward to continuing to meet him. And I and I could go on and on, but I'm not gonna list everybody. I hope you get the point. That we we spend time with one another, we talk to one another, we will grow to learn one another But that's all going to take time, and it's all going to take us being willing to lay down our barriers and the things that would cause us to pull back. The truth of the matter is, beloved, and I know this church has been hurt, the truth of the matter is, the way that I will gain your trust is by spending time with you. is by spending many, many hours in many, many days. Here's the reality. I can only hide , you can only hide the true you for so long. Isn't that true? And again, that's why we rush out. Because we can put the fake on for only so long and then we need to go back and put the makeup back on and have the appearances looking all right again But if you spend a lot of time with me, if you see how my kids behave before church, during church, After church and at your house and at my house, we're gonna get a pretty good idea. Do you see that? See, I can make them look real nice. Not that I try to, because I honestly don't care I I don't care about those things, to be completely honest. But but but if I wanted to, I could try to make them look real nice for about an hour during church. Amen. But good luck getting them to behave well before, after, during, at your house, and my house, and everything in between. Okay. The way that we're going to develop those relationships is by embodied relationships and time. And we need to do that. And we're going to do that. And then trust will naturally flow. You will naturally come to see who I am and I will naturally come to see who you are and we as we do that will come to appreciate each other more and grow to love one another more and more and I look forward to that so greatly So unfortunately, usually I have a little clock that tells me how much time I have. I don't know how much time I have, and I feel like I preached a little bit, so uh I better end this quickly. So let me let me say one more point As I've come to a close here. When I encourage us to be transparent, to let the guard down, to take off the makeup, to put down the hair, to be able to spend time with one another. I am not encouraging us , I don't know any other way I say this, but to be a jerk. I'm not encouraging us to just speak our mind and speak every crude, every rude, every nasty thing that comes to our mind. I'm not encouraging that at all. The Bible says the heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it The Bible says that for out of the heart perceive evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, and blasphemies. Proverbs twenty-nine eleven says, A fool vents all his feelings, but a wise man holds them back. So that I'm not encouraging us to do that. If you have something mean and nasty and terrible and horrible to say to somebody, I would advise you to follow not the golden rule, the mama rule. The golden rule is to treat others like you like to be treated. Mama's rule is this, if you don't have anything nice to say, what congregation? Don't say anything at all. Okay? So again, radical transparency is being vulnerable and letting the true you come out, but the true you isn't the evil you. The true you isn't the flesh you. The true you isn't the demons that live inside But rather the demons that live inside, you are to put to death the deeds of the body, of the flesh, by the spirit. We ought to be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God So as I come and land this sermon down in conclusion, the reason that we can get to know each other deeply and intimately is because and have nothing to be afraid of. It's because everyone in Christ is a new creation. The heart of stone has been replaced. With a heart of flesh that now beats. And that beating is, I love God. I love my neighbor. I love the people of God. Now when people get to know us, yes, they will see imperfections, but we don't have to worry about rubbing each other raw because Now coming out of us is the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, self-control. The person that they will meet is the person that loves God. Not a perfect saint, but a true and authentic saint. That's who they will see, because that is who we are. True gold fears no fire. Because fire does not destroy gold, it destroys impurity. And a true believer fears no transparency, because you will find a sinner and also a saint. Because that's who we are. We don't have to worry about who we will see on that other side because what we will see is a true Christian And true Christians love each other. I will end with a quick parting story I had the absolute pleasure of Miss Lisa and Mr. Allen taking me to see Miss Helen. For those of you who don't know, Miss Helen is uh one of our founding members of our church. She's a uh an older lady. She has like six kids, like I have six kids, but that doesn't matter. The the fact is she's a godly woman Who's in a nursing home, coming to the end of her life, that's still a member of our church, he's a shutdown. And when I met Miss Helen And again, we'll talk about this if Miss Lisa's there, she can testify at this. When I met her, it wasn't awkward It wasn't strange and it wasn't a painful experience. Why? Is it because I'm just so outgoing? No. Is it because Miss Helen's so amazing? She is, but but no. The reason it was such a immediate Bond of fellowship is because this was my grandma in the faith. Because she loved God. And because I love God. And the true people of God have that immediate connection with one another. And it was just so amazing spending time with her. I say it was like walking on holy ground, because this was a woman who had walked with the Lord for so long. And as we talked together, and really it was more me talking and me trying to understand her, there was just such a connection of love. And I'll never forget as we as we walked, Miss Lisa asked Miss Helen if she would vote for me to be the pastor here. And Miss Helen said, you now have 101 votes. And that was so special to me that she would cast her vote for me. The point that I'm trying to say is this We as the people of God don't need to fear each other. Our connection isn't in football. Our connection isn't in even just friendship. Our connection is in Christ. We need to get to know each other. We need to spend time with each other. We need to counsel each other. And beloved, that will take time. And that will take embodied time. Again, I joke and say, label this message, why I hate Zoom. But it's not about that. It's not about Zoom. It's about the need to spend time with one another and to get into each other's lives. Because that is how we will grow together and impart that spiritual blessing that Paul says to the Romans that he wanted to give them by seeing and experiencing That mutual encouragement that only comes when we spend time with one another