Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we we love this story. This story of redemption, the story of a God who sought us Loved us, died for us, conquering death, and now reigns in heaven, conquering his enemies until one day he comes back. But help us never to be so evil So cold-hearted that we grow tired of this old, old story of glory. Let us proclaim this story as long as we have breath and life And be vessels of grace for you and your great victory over the earth. Lord, now as we move to the preaching of your word, I pray that you use me, your unworthy vessel, to be your mouthpiece You have empowered men of God from since the beginning to speak for you, and I pray that you would use me. I also pray, Lord, that you would send down your Holy Spirit So that our hearts would be pierced, that we would not be hearers of the word only, deceiving ourselves, but we'd be doers, and that we'd walk out of here inflamed With hearts of love and hands motivated to move mountains in faith for you. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen. So we are rapidly coming to a close in the life of Elijah. We are in 2 Kings chapter 1 And for those of you who know your Bibles very well, or those who want to just peek over, Elijah will be taken up in only one chapter. So Elijah's life has been amazing and spectacular and it is rapidly coming to an end. But I ask for you to stick with me as we finish the story of Elijah and I think what you will see is that just as Elijah lived a flamey life, he will end his life with A blaze of glory. Quite literally. We will see that over the next two chapters. So in light of that, let's turn to 2 Kings chapter 1, and we will pick up in verse 2. 2 Kings chapter 1, beginning in verse 2. Hear the word of the Lord. Now Ahaziah fell through the lattice in his upper chamber in Samaria, and he lay sick. So he sent messengers telling them, Go inquire of Baal Sabab, the god of Ekron, whether I shall recover from this sickness. But the angel of the Lord said to Elijah the Tishvite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say to them, Is it because there is no God in Israel that you are going to inquire Of the Elzebab, the God of Ekron. Now therefore, thus says the Lord, you shall not come down from the bed which you have gone up, but You shall surely die. So Elijah went. The messengers returned to the king and said to them , And he said to them, Why have you returned? And they said to him, There came a man to meet us, and he said to us, Go back to the king who sent you And say to him, Thus says the Lord, is it because there is no God in Israel that you are inquiring of Beelzebub, the God of Ekron? Therefore, you shall surely not come up down from your bed which you have gone up, but you shall surely die. He said to them, What kind of man was he who went to meet you and told you these things? They answered him, He wore a garment of hair with a belt of leather about his waist And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite. Then the king sent to him a captain of fifty men with his fifty. He went up to Elijah, who was sitting on the top of the hill, and he said to him, O man of God, the king says, come down. But Elijah answered the captain of the fifty, If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. Then fire came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. Again the king sent to him another captain of fifty men with his fifty. And he answered and said to him, O man of God, this is the king's order, come down quickly. But Elijah answered, If I am a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty. Then fire, the fire of God came down from heaven and consumed him and his fifty. Again the king sent the captain of a third fifty with his fifty. And the captain of the fifty went up and he came and he fell on his knees before Elijah and entreated him, O man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty servants of yours be precious. and your sight. Behold, the fire came down from heaven and consumed the two former captains of the fifty men with their fifties. But now let my life be precious in your sight Then the angel of the Lord said to Elijah , Go down with him, do not be afraid of him. So he arose and went down with them to the king, and said to him Thus says the Lord, because you have sent messengers to inquire of Beelzebub, the God of Ekron, is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? Therefore You shall not come down from the bed to which you have gone up, but you shall surely die. So he died according to the word of the Lord that Elijah had spoken. Jehoram became king in his place in the second year of Jehoram, the son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, because Ahaziah had no son. Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah that he did, are they not written in the book of Chronicles of the King of Israel? So today we continue our exploration in the exciting and amazing life of Elijah. Who is like this man? Who is this kind of person? And the answer is very few. In fact, even in the Bible, there are very few like this One thing that we have to recognize that there are basically three epochs of miracles in the Bible. You have miracles surrounding Moses And they confirm who Moses is. You remember that his whole question was, who will listen to me going to Pharaoh saying Let my people go. And God said, I will essentially give you these signs so that it will be undeniable that I am with you. And that's exactly what happened. God sent Moses, gave him signs And Pharaoh, even Pharaoh's advisors, eventually said, This is the finger of God. Let these people go. Same thing when he went on the mountain to deliver God's holy law of what was right and wrong. God did this amazing manifestation so people would know this actually came from God. The epoch of miracles surrounded Moses. to confirm Moses, God's messenger, and the revelation that Moses brought, which was the law of God. The next epoch of miracles is what we have here, surrounding Elijah and Enoch. And they confirm Who Elijah was. He shut up the rain, he sent down the fire on the altar. He saw God. All of these various things. He was fed by the raven, so forth and so on. All of these miracles confirm, without a question of a doubt, who Elijah is, and ultimately his successor, Elisha. And this was to confirm not only them, but their office. And what was the office of Elijah and Elisha? Church. The prophets. You see? God confirmed Moses, the lawgiver, and the revelation that came from him. Now God is confirming Elijah. And his office, the office of the prophet, and the revelation that came from them. We have the law and the prophets. And this summarizes the Old Testament. Those are two epochs. And we have another epoch, and that is the epoch of Jesus and his miracles. And of course, no one ever taught the miracles of Jesus. Who is like this man? He could cast out demons. He raised himself from the dead. He raised others from the dead. He caused the blind to see, the deaf to hear, the lame to walk This confirmed Jesus as being the Son of God. And then ultimately Jesus commissioned twelve men called The apostles. And then with the apostles there were all these wonderful miracles. Sometimes it was a little, you know, a tissue, essentially, it was a handkerchief, but a tissue that was thrown on the ground and someone picked it up and was healed because it was associated with the Apostles, or they would walk into the temple, see a man lame for years. And they would say, Get up and walk, and they would walk. And no one could deny these things. This was the epoch of The third epoch with Jesus and the apostles. And this was to confirm the identity of Jesus first, and then the authority of his apostles to bring us revelation from God. And what was that revelation? That Revelation was the New Covenant, the New Testament, the Bible. So we have the law, the prophets, and the New Testament. Are we waiting for any new revelation? Are we waiting for any new office? We have the law giver, Moses. We have the prophets. Elijah, Elisha, and all the ones that come in their stead, and we have Jesus and the apostles. Are we waiting for any new revelation? No. Unless you're Muslim or you're one of those Mormons that think that Joseph Smith brought new revelation. But they're false because Hebrews chapter 1 says God at various times and in various ways spoke in the times past to the fathers by the prophets, Old Testament. He has in these last times spoken to us by his son. New Testament. We are in the last days. This is the final revelation of God. God's word is complete. We have 66 books That revealed God's word to us. And so what I'm saying to you is this: the Bible is complete. It begins in Genesis and it ends in Revelation. It begins in a garden and it ends in a garden. The first command to man was to be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, and subdue it. The plan was to extend the Garden of Eden throughout the entire earth and fill it with image bearers reflecting God's glory. The book of Revelation ends with a new heavens and a new earth, where the Garden of Eden has extended throughout the entire earth full of image bearers, reflecting God's glory. There is no new revelation. It's complete, it's over, it's finished. And because of this, we have no future revelation, we have no future office, we have no future need for any more confirming signs. To confirm God's officers or to confirm God's new revelation, because we don't have any new revelation. Does that make sense I stand before you not as a prophet, but really more as a priest, to reveal God's word and to say, This is what God has said, and not to bring you new revelation. Hence, I don't need to confirm any signs to you, because I just point back to the people whose signs God did confirm. This is why 1 Corinthians 13 10 says But when the perfect has come, that which is part is done away with. And if you study, and we can come back this evening if you want and talk about this further, but if you study in context, the partial is prophecies, tongues. and the gift of knowledge. Those are all partial to reveal that which was not yet complete. But when the perfect comes, the perfect revelation of God, the partial will disappear And this is why today we don't see these amazing signs and miracles like we once saw, because there is no one to confirm and there is no new revelation to confirm. So as we study our passage today, and you're going to see, and you've already seen in part, these amazing miracles of Elijah, don't think that you have the ability to go cast out fire from heaven. If you haven't figured this out yet, you are not Elijah. And yet, this passage still relates to you, but it doesn't relate in that way. Let me remind you of the context of where we are in 2 Kings. Remember, Elijah's life is really interwebbed with this wicked king Ahab. He comes on the scene out of nowhere to confront Ahab, the most wicked king. The most wicked king arises and the greatest prophet arises to confront that wicked king. And we've been going for weeks now of this This episode of back and forth of Elijah confronting and rebuking and God confirming through miracles Elijah's ministry and the confrontation of wicked Ahab who married the daughter of a foreign god who is bringing Baal worship into Israel. Israel is being contaminated by their leadership with Baal worship, and God says this is unacceptable, and he sends his prophet Elijah to confront this. Well eventually, Ahab, like all wicked people, their wickedness catches up to them. God said, multiple times you're going to die for this. And finally, God strikes Ahab dead. And does anybody remember how Ahab dies? He's in a battle. You remember? There's some guy Shooting celebration or fire. More or less. Ah shooting fire and a bullet comes down and strikes a head right in the top of the head Not quite. But there's somebody out there shooting an arrow randomly and it shoots, and it just so happens to land right there perfectly between Ahab's armor, and he gets struck and he dies. Who guided that arrow God. God struck down wicked Ahab for his wickedness. Well, in his place, another man arises, his son. And we're told that he, just like his father, walked in the ways of Jeroboam and walked in the ways of Ahab and Jezebel. They too are wicked. He reigns for two years. And what we see is the record of his death. He continues, dislike mom and dad, continues to perpetuate evil and promote Baal worship instead of worshiping God. Jeremiah 2. 13 says, For my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of the living fountain of living waters, and hewn for themselves cisterns, broken cisterns that hold no water. Ahab follows in the ways of his father, and Ahab gets what his father gets. And as you remember, Ahab's up there in his upper room. He's not in battle. Like Ahaziah is not in battle like Ahab. He's up there in his palace, the home is your palace. He's safe, and yet he's not safe from the power of God, is he If God says you're gonna die, you can be at your home, you can be on your Pilates, you could be on your diet, you could make sure that you have the safest Tesla vehicle with all the safety features, and guess what? Those safety features will fail and you'll run into that tree. with your smart car and you will pass out of the scene. You understand? You cannot protect yourself from God. No dieting, no safety features, no vehicle. No medication will separate you from the hand of God when he comes for you. And so that's what happens to Ahaziah. He's in his upper room. And he's on the lattice. We don't know what it was. It could have been a staircase. It could have been a railing. It could have been a shutter on the window. I think it was probably the ladder. He leans over on his window and he comes tumbling out of the window and he becomes severely injured. And so what Ahaziah does is then he goes to Beelzebub, the god of flies, the god of medicine, and inquires of the god of Ekron, Will I heal? And God says to him, basically, why would you go to this false God? Does not Israel have a God? Am I not the true God? Have I not blessed you time and time again? Why would you inquire a false God to be healed instead of coming to me? And church, why did he do that? The answer is because he didn't want to face the true God, because he had sins that needed to be taken care of. And he, like his father Adam before him, decided rather to put on his little fig leaves and hide from God and seek his own solution. And because of this, God curses them and says, Because you have done this, had you come to me, I would have healed you. But because you have done this You shall surely die. And so what we have today is the messengers coming back in such a quick time period. They just sent out. Elijah meets them, tells them this message, comes back to the king And he says, well, wait a second. Ekron is miles away. I was expecting you next week. You come back 20 minutes later with this message of death from me. What is going on here? Who told you this message? And they tell him, look at verse 8, who told you this message? So they answer him. A hairy man wearing a leather belt around his waist. And then Ahaziah said, It is Elijah the Tishvite. Ahaziah knew about this man. He had probably heard stories about Elijah and his battle with his father Ahab. In fact he might have been there. He might have been there during the drought. He might have remembered when there was no water. He might have remembered when all the prophets of Baal were killed. He might have remembered when the fire came down and consumed He might have remembered all of these things, but he certainly what we know is he remembered Elijah. He knew exactly who this man was. Now, how did he know Well, he gets this description. He's described as a hairy man wearing a leather belt around his waist. Now, we're told here this mysterious man has this distinctive dress. We're told two things. He has this, he's hairy, and he wears a leather belt. Now, when you hear this phrase hairy, what do you think about? You think about like a man with all this chest hair and all this back hair and his arms are all hairy and gr right? Is that is that kind of the the man that you think of? Maybe. There was a man like that. His name was Esau, Genesis chapter 25. And Esau came out and he was red. He's red haired. And he says he was hairy like a hairy garment all over him. So they called his name Esau Right? He's red, he has red hair, he's hairy all over, looks like an animal. And he acts like an animal too. Maybe that's true of Elijah. Maybe he was just like buffed, tough guy with chest hair all over and just, you know, that kind of image That's possible, but I think it's less likely than the alternative. Namely, when it says that he was hairy, it's talking about the garment that he wore and not his actual hair follicles on his body If you have the ESV or the NIV, it probably says this. Elijah wore a garment of hair And again, the Hebrew itself is somewhat ambiguous. It can go either way. But I think actually that this is the correct interpretation. And the reason I think this is a principle of biblical hermeneutics which says this The Bible interprets the Bible. If you ever come to a passage and you think, what does this mean? The best interpretive guide is not the commentaries. The best interpretive guide is comparing scripture with scripture because scripture does not contradict itself. The law of the Lord is perfect and true. And you're never going to find a contradiction in the scriptures. So when we study this garment of hair, what we discover is that we see other places where we have the same dress. Let me remind you of what John the Baptist wore. Matthew chapter 3, verse 4. Now John himself was clothed in camel's hair, with a leather belt around his waist. And his food was locust and wild honey. So the outfit of John the Baptist is remarkably similar to the outfit of Elijah. He has this hairy thing on, camel's hair, and he also has this leather belt. And I don't think you're supposed to imagine Elijah out there with no shirt full of hair all over with just a belt on. This would be totally inappropriate. But rather he has this garment of hair And so why does John Baptist, besides just trying to point back to Elijah, look like this strange character with this hairy garment with a leather belt on? And I think the answer is is this was the uniform after Elijah of a prophet. This distinguished a prophet. This is how you knew a prophet had come to town. He didn't have a nice outfit, he didn't look smooth, and if a little cologne on and s look like a some kind of car salesman. No, he had this distinct outfit and it looked kinda weird. And kind of uncomfortable because he wasn't like everyone else. The whole point is, this is a man of God, not a man of the world. He's distinct, and he comes to tell you about what God thinks about the world In Zechariah 13, verse 4, we hear more about this hairy garment. It's a prophecy of a future day, and it says this. It shall come to be in that day that every prophet, every prophet, will be ashamed of his vision when he prophesies. They will not wear a robe of coarse hair to deceive. Now again, we don't get into that, but the point is there's a future prophecy that there won't be any new prophets anymore. And the false prophets who wear this garment of hair will be ashamed of that. Again, the point of all this is to say that this garment of hair seems to be the robe of the prophets, the distinctive dress of the prophet. Now I will make one application for you. I said you were not Elijah and you're not Elijah and you're not a prophet of God. But it is interesting the man of God wore a unique outfit to distinguish himself from the rest of the people And one point of application I can tell you is this. We as the people of God are also called to be holy, are we not? We're called to be distinct. We're called to be, we're taken out from the evil world to be God's holy people. And so we too, if we study the Bible, are called to have distinct dress. Now that does not mean that you get some camel hair and get the most uncomfortable, most ugly and hideous outfit you can possibly find, so you look like a weirdo. That's not the proper application. But it does mean this. If you stand with God and you're part of God's people, your dress ought to be distinct. Based on the principles of God's word. And the principles of God's word say this: you are to dress modestly. You are to dress in a way that represents holiness. and purity primarily through modesty. Now what does modesty mean? Well it's the opposite of flashiness. It's not just sexual. It can be But it's this idea that look at me. I want to show, I want to draw attention. Modesty conceals glory. But is the culture modest? Not at all. The culture is all about being flashy and drawing attention to oneself. So the one application I will draw from this outfit is that if you try to look like the world You will be like the world and you will be condemned with the world in their dress. You as the people of God should be distinct and you will look different because you have principles based on God's word and not based on the culture. Let's keep going. This mount this mantle of Elijah actually is a prominent piece of uh equipment or an outfit piece in the story of Elijah. If you recall, Elijah when he meets God in chapter 19 and God tells him to come out and meet with him, he grabs his mantle and he covers his face So that when he's meeting with God, he's covered from the glory of God. Because a sinful man, if he stands in the presence of God, will be destroyed That's the first time we hear about this mantle, this robe, this cloak of Elijah, this garment, this hairy thing. The second time is when Elijah is called to appoint Elisha as his replacement. What does he do? He walks by Elisha, he grabs his cloak and does what He tosses it on Elisha, indicating that the prophetic ministry was to go to him. He takes his prophetic outfit and says, here, it is yours. You will be my replacement. We haven't seen this yet, but coming up, when in chapter 2, when Elijah is about to be taken up to heaven, he goes to the Jordan, this river, and it's full of water. We were talking about this in Sunday school. God likes to repeat himself First time the people of God had to cross this, what did he do? He sent Moses to part the water. Then Joshua, the representative, the future Moses, the next Moses, the next leader of God's people, he encounters the same body of water. And what does he do, Mr. Dennis? It spreads again. Well now Elijah, he's about to be taken up the same body of water. He swims across. No, he doesn't. He grabs his mantle, he rolls it up, he hits the water, and the water spreads, and he walks across his dry. God is repeating his miracles to confirm his ministers. Then as Elijah's being taken up, here's Elisha. Seeing Elijah taken up, he's on the chariot, and what falls out of the chariot? The mantle of Elijah. And who grabs it? Elisha. He grabs it, and now he has the prophetic ministry of Elijah. And he walks over to that same body of water. He rolls up the garment. He strikes the water. He says, Where is the God of Elijah? And it spreads. Showing that the same empowerment of Elijah has spread to Elisha So this is all here in our passage. He recognizes Elijah based on this hairy garment, this distinctive dress. And so what does he do when he realizes that this man has spoken the word of God to him and told him essentially that you are a sinner and you are going to die in your sins? What does he do? How does Ahaziah respond? How should he have responded when he's rebuked by God's word When God essentially tells him, You were wrong, you ought not to have done this. He ought to have responded in repentance and in sackcloth and ashes. But instead he responds by sending A captain with his fifty men. Now what do you think those captain with those fifty men were going to do to Elijah? Give him a pep tart, tell him how wonderful he is, and I appreciate the message. Why don't you come and say this to the king's face? He would love to hear more about his condemnation and his death. No. He sent those men to shut up the mouth of God. He didn't like the message, and so he wanted to punish the messenger who spoke the message of God. And I wanted to tell you this, beloved. This is how the world will always respond to the message of God when you confront its lie. They will not praise you and tell you how wonderful and thankful they are for your message of clarity about God's word. But instead they're going to send their captain with their fifteen men to shut you up and to punish you for dare speaking God's word. Truth. And that isn't just true back here with Elijah. That is true in our day as well. And what we're tempted to do is to take our light and put it under a basket. If the culture will respond with such hostility, we start to think the problem is us instead of thinking the problem is them. How often is it that a man of God will speak the truth of God and then the world will come with anger and then will blame the man of God for causing this bad reaction? But this is unbiblical. God is the one who put the word of God in the mouth of Elijah to confront wicked Ahazia God is the one who put the word of God in the mouth of John the Baptist to confront Herod. God is the one who put the word of God in the mouth of Jesus to confront the evil Pharisees, and God is the one who's going to put his word in your mouth to speak out against the evils of this world. I'll give you an example. In our day-to-day, the world says something called choice They believe in choice. The world loves to euphanize that which is evil. We are pro-choice. But we are the Bible speaks differently about that. Is that not true? We're not pro-murder We're pro-life. Because no matter what the world says, you cannot kill the sick, the elderly, the mentally disturbed, or the tiniest among us in a mother's womb. And when you say that, people will get angry and people will try to shut you up. But the truth of God remains the truth of God. Another reality is God's word says there is one way between God the Father for salvation. It says this in John chapter 14, verse 6. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. And yet our culture says that is oppressive. That is sounding imperialistic. That is sounding like we are superior. We are not superior, Christ is superior. There's one God and there's one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. The world will not like this message, but we must continue to repeat this message. despite the reaction of the world. Another reality is our culture is pornographic. It's perverted and it is sick. But God never told you you can do anything with your body or anything with your eyes, did he? That's what the culture says. But what does God's word say? 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 3. For this is the will of God. Your sanctification that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one should know how to possess his own vessel in sanctification and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. The culture rejects this message. The culture hates this message. The culture will say, you're a bigot and leave people alone. Just control yourself and don't worry about others. But the reality is God's word says something very, very different. And we are to stand on God's word. I could go on and on. I'll give you one more example. The culture says that male and female is a construct of culture and society. And that someone can just simply decide subjectively that they are now a man or a woman. What does the Bible say Genesis chapter one verse twenty-seven. So God created man in his own image. In the image of man he created them. Male and female, he created them. You don't get to decide if you're a male or a female. God decided that you're male or female, and your own personal thoughts about that are completely irrelevant. The point of all this is simply to say the truth of God has always been unpopular and it remains unpopular, but we are called to preach his word. And to speak his truth, not to be hateful, not to be nasty, not to go beat people over the head unnecessarily, but truthfully, no matter how nicely you say some of these things, you will get What Elijah got, which is the rage of the world. Wicked Ahaziah sent fifty men to shut him up And the world will send fifty men to shut you up. Has that ever happened to you out there preaching against abortion? Have they come for you? And they will come for you as well. You can talk to Jonathan back there. He he does that. And he had the world come after him because he spoke for God's truth. The world will come after you if you speak for God. Ahaziah sends his fifty men to silence and punish the man of God Let's look what happens to them. Verse 9. So the king sent the him a captain of 50 with his fifty men. So he went up to him. And there he was sitting on top of the hill, and he spoke to him, saying, Man of God, the king has said, come down here. Come face the punishment for daring to defy the king. You should not see this man as an innocent bystander. He is part of the evil apparatus of the king. He's in continuity. He's an evil accomplice. This is like When you think of Hitler with the Nazis, these are not merely people just irresponsible for their actions, but they are contributing to this evil, to persecute the people of God. So what happens to them? Verse ten. So Elijah answered and said to the captain of the fifty, If I'm a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men. And fire came down from heaven, and they consumed his 50. Can you imagine? Can you imagine this is again one of those things I have these little books where you go back in the Bible and you go into like a time machine and you get to see things happen I would love to have seen this scene. Just imagine it. Here's a hill. Here's 51 men, one captain, 50 men coming to punish the man of God. Man of God, come down here. If I'm a man of God, let fire come down and consume you. And all of a sudden, the fire of God, like it came out with Sodom and Gomorrah, comes raging down and burns them up and obliterates them. This is what happens when you mess with the people of God. Sometimes, if you spend enough time with me, I will probably mention my overreactive angels And I'm somewhat joking about this, but it is somewhat interesting that I've noticed in my life when my enemies have come to me, bad things have ended up happening to them, and not because I did anything. I wasn't out there stabbing their tyrants or anything like that. But Bad things that end up happening to them many times. And I was listening to the history of a stick one of these mics on, brother. I was listening to the history of the Free Presbyterian Church And what I found interesting about it is they were talking about how this was only back in the 1960s, and they were starting their church. in Scotland and Ireland and all that. And they mentioned that their people were being mass murdered by people. People were killing them. People were threatening them with guns and trying to burn their buildings down. And he mentioned in this documentary about the history of the church that strange things were to happen to their great opponents. The man who threatened them, for example, was later killed in an altercation by another man with a gun. And all these various things. What I'm saying is this idea that God will protect his people is not an Old Testament concept. This is a continuous reality that God often does protect his people. And the truth is, you don't even know all the times that God has done this to you. All the time that someone were to try to harm you or try to destroy you and that God is protecting you. Does God always do this? No. John the Baptist got his head cut off. But does God do this at times? Yes. Eliza had fire come down from heaven to protect him So what happens next? You think the king would get the message? He sends out fifty men with their captains to apprehend the man of God to destroy him. Does he stop? No. He does not stop. Just like they won't stop coming after you. They'll come after you, they'll persecute you, they'll slander you, it will not work. Will they get the message? No. Instead, look at verse 11. Then he sent another captain of fifty with his fifty men. This is unbelievable. It's crazy. Why would someone do this? And the answer is this. Because sin is fundamentally irrational And sin will cause you to do that which is totally irrational. Think about Satan. I've often wondered this. Why would Satan try to lead a rebellion and a takeover of heaven? Could he not see that this was utterly futile and that he would be defeated? And the answer is because sin is insane and causes you to do that which is totally and completely irrational. The truth of the matter is, not only is Satan insane, not only is Ahaziah insane, but so are we when we continue in our sin and think that we will get away with it Do you not know that there is a God in heaven who will bring every work into judgment, including every secret thing, whether good or evil? And if we're honest, how often do we do secret things thinking that we will get away with it? See, Ahaziah is not just insane, he is also oftentimes like us in rebellion against God and somehow thinking that we will be able to win the next time. But you will not. You will be defeated just like Ahaziah was defeated if you walk in the ways of Ahaziah. Another example of this is Pharaoh. You remember Pharaoh? All of these signs All of these acts of God, and Pharaoh continues to fight against the hand of God until ultimately his son is killed And finally he wakes up and says, We're all gonna die if we don't let these people go. And he finally listens and lets them go. But is Pharaoh done? No. He has a momentary repentance, only to go back to his own ways like a dog returns back to its vomit. He regrets immediately letting these people go, and he sends out his armies to recapture what he has lost. And of course, what ends up happening to Pharaoh is he loses everything. This is what happens to the enemies of God when they fight against the kingdom of God. Well, will the wicked ever learn? No, they won't. 2 Kings chapter 1, verse 11. Then he sent him another captain of fifty with his fifty men. And he answered and said to him, Man of God , Thus has said the king, come down quickly. Well If it didn't work the first time, maybe we should shout louder. Maybe we should stomp even more harshly. Come down quickly. Right now. It's kind of reminds me sometimes. It's kind of humorous. You see, sometimes uh A parent telling the child something, right? Come over here. It doesn't work. Alright, I'm gonna count to ten. Ten, nine, eight. They're not moving. Seven, six, five, five and a half, five and a quarter. Come on. Come on. Okay. Come on. Okay. It's not working. It isn't working. And this is what's going on here It didn't work the first time, so let's just say it louder. Come down quickly. But just like the other guy, he too suffers the same fate. Look what happens in verse twelve. So Elijah answered him, If I'm a man of God, let fire come down from heaven and consume you and your fifty men. And the fire came down from heaven, and he consumed him and his fifty. How many people are dead? Math question. Guess how many people are dead? You got 50? A captain? Times two What am I saying? Oh, good. Okay , 102. 102 people are dead, 100 soldiers, two commanders. Shortly after 102 people that are dead, more than that's probably in this congregation right now Surely the king would get the idea. These aren't just little kids either. These are strong strappy men. They've been obliterated by God Will they get the message? No. Look at verse 13. Again he sent a captain of fifty and his fifty men. We talked about this a few Sundays ago. Will the wicked ever learn based on the miracles of God? No. What they need is a heart change. What they need is a miracle of God's grace Miracles, external miracles, will not convince the wicked, just as they did not convince Ahaziah. It had no effect on him. He continued to fight against the kingdom of God. And look what happened. Again he sent a captain of fifty men. This is verse thirteen. And the third captain of fifty went up and came down, and he fell on his knees before Elijah, and he pleaded with him, and he said to him, Man of God, please let my life and the life of these fifty servants of yours be precious in your sight. Look, fire has come down from heaven and burned up the first two captains of the fifties and with their fifties Now let my life be precious in your sight. We have an amazing difference here between what happens to this captain and what happens to the rest. He doesn't shout, he doesn't yell, he doesn't threaten. Rather, he sees the power of God, he sees the futility of the king, and the futility of trying to apprehend The man of God against the message of God. And what does he do? He gets on his knees and he pleads for mercy. He begs God. To forgive him and to spare his life. And beloved, what we have here is a picture ultimately of the gospel. When you stop fighting against God, and instead that you get on your knees and ask for God's mercy and forgiveness, what will God do for you? He will do for you the exact same thing that he did for this man right here. He pleads and begs and asks for mercy. And what does God do? God spares him. His life was seen as precious in the sight of God. And what God does is he tells Elijah to go down with him, for I am with you. Do not be afraid. And what I want you to see here is that this is really the message of the gospel. The message of the gospel is this that if you try to fight against God You too will burn up, just like the hundred and two men who tried to fight against God and his messenger. But instead, if you're struck By their wayward example, and if you bow the knee to Christ and repent of your sins, you too will be spared from the wrath to come. If you plead for mercy, God will hear you and he will forgive you. This scene right here in the Old Testament reminds me of a parable that Jesus gave of two men in the temple. One was a Pharisee and one was a taxcorn. One was a man who looked righteous and one was a man who looked very wicked. One was a man who had external righteousness and another man had external wickedness. But truthfully they were both wicked because the wage of the sin is death And the Pharisee was in the temple and he said, I thank God that I'm not like this man and all these other men. I fast all the time and I do all these righteous works. I thank God that I'm not like them. And Jesus says Through this parable, that that man went down condemned. But the tax collector, and he was standing afar off, and he was too ashamed to even look up to heaven And he cries out to God, have mercy on me, a sinner. And God says that that man went down to his house justified. And so when we see this last man, this last captain of the 50, begging for mercy, what I want you to see is yourself. And I want you to ask yourself, have you ever been this man who's laid down his weapons and begged God for mercy? And if you have, you will find mercy at the cross of Christ. And you will find mercy in his son. And just as this man was spared, so too will you be spared. And so this is what happens. Elijah is told to spare this man. He goes down with him. He meets the king. And what does he do when he faces the king? He repeats the same message. He says, Thus says the Lord, because you sent to the messengers to inquire to inquire of Beelzebub, the God of Ekron, is it because there is no God in Israel to inquire of his word? Therefore you shall not come down from the bed which you have gone up, but you will surely die. It's the third time this message is repeated, and nothing has changed. God's word will not change based on your opposition to it. And I really want you all to hear that. No matter how much you fight against God, no matter how much you resist, it does not change. There remains one way to heaven, and that is through Christ. And there remains one way for you to gain access to that salvation, and that is by repenting of your sins and trusting in Jesus. That is your only way of salvation. Ahaziah didn't get it. The 102 men who came to get Elijah did not get it. Ahaziah at the end of our chapter, he dies based on the word of God. All these 102 men, they all burn up. There's only 51 men who get it. The remnant who surrender to God and receive forgiveness by the word of God And so I just simply ask you today, have you done this? Have you repented of your sins? Have you turned to God? Have you laid down your arms and begged Him for mercy? And if you have You will receive forgiveness and you'll walk away saved while you see all the rest burned up to a crisp because they remembered, they trusted in their own works, and they fought against God. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, I pray that there be no one in this room that would end up like these 102 men and and the king that sent them, unbelieving people. The fire of God coming from heaven, burning them up, destroying them, Ahaziah, wicked man, heart in heart, fighting against God, only, all in vain. Only to get the same word all over that you will die and you will not come up from your injuries. But I pray that we would all repent, that we would all find peace at the cross. And that we'd all make peace with you by the blood of Jesus. I pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.