I don't know if it's just me or my family, but this whole week I have been so excited about this particular Lord's Day I think it's just something so wonderful about realizing that God's work here specifically has been going on this long. But it kind of strikes me to think for 59 years God has been moving and working and shaking through this congregation, but you really need to step back and say, really God has been working for the last 2,000 years. when he raised his son. And you can go back beyond that. God's been working the last six thousand years when he created this world. And even though he allowed it to fall, he had a plan to redeem it And God's unfolding plan is to bring all of creation back into order and peace. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, God, we thank you for the work that you've done in this church. And this building and these people in your Holy Spirit and your gospel as it's been prayed from this pulpit, from this stage Already that you've done 59 years here, Lord, we ask for another 59 years. We ask that we would be useful to you. That you would never take our candlestick because we don't deserve that. Really? Because we're useful to you, that we're people that are spreading your kingdom and spreading your love in a world so in need of love and hope and youth Fill us with your spirit now as we hear this sermon, use me to be your messenger, to be your preacher, to be your proclaimer of your truth be with the people as they try to hear, as they try to leave behind the distractions, the pain, the sufferings. Lord, you've given us such a beautiful day. Now shine not only out there through the sun, but shine through your Holy Spirit and through your Son, Jesus Christ, and be the true preacher today. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. So have you ever wished that God would show your loved ones undeniable miracles? Think about the miracles of Moses. You ever wish they could they could you could put them in a time machine and get them to see all that Moses had done, especially that Red Sea event where the sea spreads open And they walk through dry ground, dry ground, and it collapses and destroys all of Pharaoh's armies. Or what about the the miracles of Jesus? Could you imagine seeing Jesus Multiply the bread, make the blind to see, the deaf to hear, to raise the dead. What if your unbelieving loved ones could see that Well even if we, you know, those are really high. What about just the miracles of the apostles? Wouldn't it be nice to have to see the miracle and the healings that the apostles could do? Would that have a meaningful effect on our loved ones that we so desperately wish would come to know Jesus Christ? Well, today we're going to see a man who saw miracle after miracle after miracle. And we're going to explore the question, did those miracles actually do anything positive for him? And hopefully you can make the extrapolation about your loved ones. Is the the issue with your loved ones fundamentally a lack of sight? A lack of miracles? Is that the problem? They just don't have enough evidence. They don't see the miracles of God enough in their lives. Or is the problem fundamentally a heart issue such that all the miracles in the world would do nothing for their stony hearts? Again, we're going to look at that today and examine how miracles have an impact or lack thereof on the hard hearts of men. Let's go to 1 Kings chapter 21. 1 Kings chapter 21. And we'll read through the whole chapter. We almost certainly will not get through the whole chapter But we'll read it for context and then we can come back in the afternoon service and discuss further. 1 Kings chapter 1 First Kings twenty-one, verse one. And it came to pass after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel, next to the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. So Ahab spoke to Naboth, saying, Give me your vineyard, that I may have it for a vegetable garden, because it is near next to my house. For it I will give you a vineyard better than it, or if it seems good to you, I will give you its worth in money But Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid that I should give the inheritance of my fathers to you. So Ahab went into his house sullen and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him. For he had said, I will not give you the inheritance of my father's. And he lay down in his bed and he turned his face away and he went and he would not eat any food. But Jezebel his wife came to him and said, Why is your spirit so sullen that you will eat no food? And he said to her, Because I spoke to Naboth the Jezreelite, and he said to him, And I said to him, Give me your vineyard for money, or else, if it pleases you, I will give you another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give you my vineyard. Then Jezebel his wife said to him, You now exercise authority over Israel. Arise, eat food, let your heart be cheerful, I will give you the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. And so she wrote letters in Ahab's name and sealed them with a seal and sent the letters to the elders and the nobles who were dwelling in the city. with Naboth. And she wrote in the letter saying, Proclaim a fast, and seat Naboth with high honor among the people. And seat two men, scoundrels, before him, to bear witness against him, saying, You have blasphemed God and the king, then take him out and stone him, that he may die So the men of his city, the elders and the nobles who were the inhabitants of his city, did as Jezebel had sent to them, as it was written in the letters which he had sent to them They proclaimed the fast and seated Naboth with high honor among the people, and two men scoundrels came in and sat before him And the scoundrels witnessed against them, saying against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth has blasphemed God and the king. So they took him outside of the city and stoned him with stones so that he died. Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth has been stoned and is dead. And it came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth had been stoned and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite. Which he refused to give you for money. For Naboth is not alive but dead. So it was when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab got up, And went down to take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezrelite. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying, Arise, go down to meet Ahab, the king of Israel, who lives in Samaria. There he is, in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to take possession of it. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, you have murdered and also taken possession. And you shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where dogs lick the blood of Naboth Dogs shall lick your blood, even yours. So Ahab said to Elijah, Have you found me, O my enemy? And he answered, I have found you, because you have sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. Behold, I will bring calamity on you, I will take away your posterity. And will cut off from Ahab every male in Israel, both bond and free. I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Neb. Nibeth, and like the house of Basha and the son of Ahijah, because of the provocation which you have provoked me to anger, and made Israel sin. And concerning Jezebel, the Lord also spoke, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel. The dog shall eat whoever belongs to Ahab and dies in the city, and the birds of the air shall eat whoever dies in the field. But there was no one like Ahab who sold himself to do wickedness in the sight of the Lord, because Jezebel his wife stirred him up And he behaved very abominably in the follow in following idols because of all that the Amorites had done, whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. So it was, when Ahab heard these words, he tore his clothes and put saffcloth on his body, and fastened, and lay in saffcloth, and went about mourning. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishrites saying, See how Ahab has humbled himself before me? Because he has humbled himself before me, I will not bring the calamity in his days In the days of his son, I will bring calamity in his house. Thus ends the reading of God's Word. That was a lot. But it's certainly a grand story, and it's all cohesive and all fits together of what happened to Ahab. Now some of you may have noticed, maybe not, that the last time I was up here, the last time we were here, we were in chapter 19. Well today we are in chapter twenty-one. So children, what is between nineteen and chapter twenty-one? Somebody say it. Chapter twenty. Okay. So we have skipped chapter twenty. Have you noticed that bravo? If not, just please ignore the next ten minutes. Um no, just I want to remind you of why we're in 1 Kings in the first place. We were in Malachi, we ran across this man, Elijah, this great man who's coming back according to Malachi. And it came to my mind that maybe not many of us know the story of Elijah the way that we ought to, or at least the way that the Old Testament saints would have known about this This was one of their big guys. And they would have been very excited and saw so much in those little words that Elijah is coming back. So I wanted to go through. the uh the story of Elijah. Now the issue with the story of Elijah and I think the reason we know a little bit less about him than we ought to is because all of the events of Elijah is found in 1 Kings and the beginning of 2 Kings. If you've ever tried to read 1 Kings and 2 Kings, you might discover it's not the most popular books in the Bible Because it's more dense reading, and it's more difficult to unpack how these things relate to us. So we broke into 1 Kings to explore the life of this man, Elijah. Now what you already probably have noticed is you really can't know who Elijah is without knowing who his chief opponent is, namely Ahab. So what I'm saying to you is that the life of Elijah is interwoven with the life of Ahab. And so if we were to read, but I'm going to summarize, chapter 20, it shifts from focusing on Elijah to focusing on Ahab. So instead of going through all of chapter 20, I figured I would summarize what happens in chapter 20 to show you how this picks up in Ahab's life, which is going to directly interrelate with Elijah. So what this what did we miss in chapter 20? Well in chapter 20, we pick up in Ahab's life, and the last time we had Saul Ahab, Ahab was back in Jezreel. He had just seen all the miracles of Elijah, and his wicked wife Jezebel had threatened to kill Elijah. And that's when Elijah flees, and that's all of chapter 19, where he has the encounter with God on the mountain. So wicked Ahab does nothing as his wife threatens to kill Elijah, this great man of God who had done all of these things. Well, when you get into chapter 20, there's this man named Ben Hadad, and he's the king of Syria. And now Ahab, who used to be chasing the prophets of God, is himself being chased. And the king of Assyria has amassed this huge army with thirty-two kings with him, with these chariots and these horses. And they're coming to destroy the capital city of Israel, which is Samaria. So here you have Ahab surrounded by all of these armies about to be destroyed utterly and entirely. And bin-Hada, the king of Syria, sends a message to Ahab and says, give me your loveliest wives, your loveliest children, and give me your money. And what if somebody said that to you? You're walking down the street, somebody says, give me everything you have. Empty your pockets. We'd call this being mugged. Right? That's essentially what's happening here is Ahab is getting mugged by the king of Syria. And you would expect him to say No, not going to do it. But actually, Ahab says, sure, my lord, all that is mine is yours. Take what you want. And so bin Hada says, really, I'm going to send servants and they're going to search your pockets, they're going to look under your bed and in the closet and anything you are hiding, I'm going to take that as well. If you value it, I value it and it's mine. And Ahab says, whoa, whoa, whoa. I thought I was going to give you $25 and you know my old cell phone. But now you want everything. You're going to take my shoes too? You're going to take my jacket? I'm going to walk around with nothing? No, can't do it. And so he calls a council with all the elders of Israel, and he tells them of what this crazy bin-Hadad, king of Syria, has demanded. And they tell him, don't Don't go along with this. This is outrageous. It's better to fight and die trying than to just let this man come and just obliterate us entirely like this. And so then they tell them, no, we're not going to comply. And then here, Ahab actually says the wisest thing he ever says. Because Ben Hadad is infuriated. He says, I'm going to obliterate you. There's not going to be enough dust for the people who are left to even have a little dust in their hand And so Ahab says to bin Hadad, let not the one who puts on his armor boast like the one who takes it off. You have to actually win. You actually you actually have to beat us before you start bragging about how you're going to destroy us. But again, they're greatly outnumbered, they're greatly outgun, and from all earthly perspective, they're going to be obliterated. And at this time, one of the prophets come to Ahab and say, the Lord is going to deliver the Syrians into your hand. Nothing to fear. You will know who I am because of the great deliverance that I will accomplish Right now, with the king of Assyria. And that's exactly what happens. The people of God go out, and they have this miraculous defeat of all the Syrians. You would think that Ahab, in light of all that God just did, would respond in belief. But he doesn't. He just goes back to being Ahab. So then another prophet comes to Ahab and tells them, Don't get too comfortable. The king of Syria is coming back. He's going to amass an army just as big as the last time, and he's going to attack you again. You only defeated them last time because of the miracle of God, and now you're going to need him again. And that's exactly what happened. And what ends up happening is the king of Syria concludes, based on his counselors, the reason that we lost It's because Yahweh is a God of the hills. So God they they had home you know they had this advantage because they were in a hill, and so as long as we attack them on the plane, we'll be stronger than them because we have more cherry and more power Just Yahweh is the God of the hills. And so that's what happens. And so they bring this huge army and now they decide to fight them in the plain. And it describes the people of God as these two tiny little flocks, and the whole courtyard, the whole countryside is full of these Syrians. Just imagine the picture. These tiny little two little flocks of Israelites and the whole Area is surrounded by the Syrian army. But once again, God's prophet comes to Ahab and says, do not fear. God is going to deliver the Syrians into your hand. And that's exactly what happens. A hundred thousand foot soldiers in one day are killed. Then they flee. Twenty-seven thousand of the foot soldiers flee into a local town. A wall comes and crushes them all. God has done it again. God has saved. The Israelites and his saved King Ahab. But does Ahab start worshiping God? Does he repent of his sins? No, he doesn't. In fact, instead of doing the right thing, the king of Syria who's hiding in that city Ahab decides to make a treaty with him and say, let's make a political deal where I will spare your life and then we'll start trading. We'll start selling back and forth. It'll be prosperous for both of us And because of this, God sends another prophet who curses Ahab and says that you were supposed to destroy this man, but because you did not destroy him, I am going to destroy you. And so that leads us up to chapter 21. What we see here, essentially in chapter 20, is that despite God's miraculous deliverance of King Ahab, he's no better off because of it. He's still just as hard-hearted as he ever was, and he's cursed by God. And he comes into chapter 20 upset and sullen that God has cursed them because of his disobedience. So that picks us up to chapter 21. So now let's look at chapter 21. And let's I'll summarize to you what we see in verses 1 through 3. There, in these first three verses, we're introduced to a man named Naboth, and he is a Jezrelite. And the text emphasizes this six times. That this guy Naboth, he is a Jezreelite, meaning that he's from Jezreel. He lives there. This is the place of his ancestral home. His family and his family and his family going way back has always lived here. This is in contrast. to Ahab. Ahab primarily lives in Samaria, which is about fifteen miles away. But Jezreel is his the place where his other palaces. So you can think of this as his vacation place. This is this is the place that he likes to go when he wants to relax. This is his second home And so Ahab, right next to his palace, he notices that there's a nice vineyard there. He says, oh, this is a beautiful place, and it's right next to my palace. And he decides that he wants it. That that it it belongs to him, that he's the king, that he deserves this. Now remember, Ahab is the king. He's rich, he's powerful, and he's popular. He's the kind of guy that he makes jokes and everyone pretends to laugh. Because he's the king. Essentially, if we're honest, he has everything that our flesh wants for ourselves. We want riches, we want power, we want popularity. He has it all And yet, is it enough for him? Is it enough? Is all the money, is all the wealth, is all the power, is being king enough? And the answer is no. Proverbs twenty-seven twenty says, As hell and destruction are never full, so the eyes of men are never satisfied. Even if you became king and queen and had everything you wanted, your problem with desiring other people's stuff would not end. In fact, the richest man in the world, or at least one of them, was named Rockefeller, and he had all the wealth. He had so much money. He had he had more money than everybody could buy. And someone once asked Rockefeller Do you have enough money now? Have you achieved all of your financial goals? And does anybody know what Rockefeller said? Just a little bit more. He just needed a little bit more. Because the sad fact of reality is this You will never be satisfied with your possessions. You always need more. I'll be satisfied when I get this, and the second you get this, you need something else If only I could have a house. God gives you your house, you look at your neighbor's house and say, their house is better than mine. If only I could have that house. You get into that house and you need another house. If only I could get this job And you're thanking God for that job, but then you realize someone else makes more money. And all of a sudden you're coveting their job. What is this this desire for other people's stuff? What is that sin called? Greed. It's greed. It's called coveting. God gave his perfect law, he gave the Ten Commandments, and the final of those Ten Commandments is this sin coveting. Here's what God says in Exodus chapter twenty He says, You shall not covet your neighbor's house. You shall not covet your neighbor's wife, nor his male servant, nor his female servant, nor his ox, nor his donkey, nor anything that is your neighbor. So what are you allowed to covet from your neighborhood? Nothing. Not his wife, not his house, not his male servant, not his female servant, nothing that belongs to your neighbor. Are you to covet? Well is the vineyard part of your neighbor's stuff? Yes. And that's what we have here. We have King Ahab coveting the possession of his literal neighbor Naboth. He sees his vineyard and he wants it. Now we have two tablets of the law, right? We have the first four commandments and we have the last six. Now what does the first four of the Ten Commandments deal with? The vertical. Our love for God. Jesus summarizes as the great commandment that we should love the Lord our God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's the greatest commandment. And then the next six relate to what? Man, that horizontal, that you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The second greatest commandment is like it, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. So have you ever wondered though, how does the tenth commandment about loving your neighbor, how does coveting have to do with loving your neighbor? If I covet my neighbor's stuff, am I actually hurting them? Am I actually not loving my neighbor? It's just an internal desire, right? If I want their stuff, how am I hurting them? Does that make sense what I'm asking? How am I not loving my neighbor by coveting their stuff? Well Look what happened to Naboth when his stuff was coveted. The fact of the matter is, sin are like cockroaches They spread. You can't just have a little bit of few cockroaches that you go and visit in your attic. You just go in and you feed the few cockroaches and you say you stay here and don't spread anywhere else. What do you think is going to happen? They're going to multiply and multiply and all of a sudden you're going to go downstairs. You're going to go into the kitchen, you're going to flip on the lights, and you're going to scream because it's going to be all over your kitchen floor. Is that natural? That's sin in your life. We try to self-contain our sin. We want to feed sin over here. This is the sin that we like. What's a little coveting? What's a little just zooming through Zillow at night, wishing I had everybody else's home? That won't be a problem. I'm just driving through the neighborhood. I'm just admiring other people's stuff. There's it's not going to be an issue, right? But the problem is, if it only stayed there, maybe it wouldn't be a big deal. But sin spreads. It starts with coveting and not being content, and it ends with quite literally the murder of a man. You see what happens? He first desires his stuff, and then he says, I'm going to get it. And then he, unlike us, before we think we're so righteous, he could do what we could not do Namely, he had the power and authority to get rid of this man. But we don't. So before we get too big on our high horse about what we would never do, recognize that you're not in the same situation. You're not in the same same situation as steal. And so because we're not in the same situation of stealing, we often do not steal. I'll give you an example of this. You remember a long time, does anybody know what lime wire was Anybody remember the program LimeWire? It was a peer-to-peer sharing program. This is back in the early days of the internet where people could have music and then you could peer-to-peer share and download their music Well, let me tell you, line wire basically destroyed the music industry. Because when people realized that they didn't have to pay for music and all of a sudden they could take it for free, you know what happened? Everybody did it And the entire music industry had to completely change to streaming because everyone would just take the music instead of paying for it. It's amazing what people will do or not do when they can do it. I would never steal music until I can. And I do it all the time. Well that's what happened in Ahab. Ahab had the power, he had the authority, and so he tells And when the king tells you something, by the way, he's not really asking you, Yeah, let me get your stuff. No. Well, we saw what ended up happening to Naboth when he refused the king. He coveted his stuff, which ultimately led to murder and led to theft. Now let me ask you this question though about Naboth. Should Naboth have simply been a peacemaker? Should Naboth have simply gone along to get along? When the king tells him, give me your stuff, should he simply say, Yes, Cain, it's all yours. In fact, some might even have quoted Matthew chapter 5, verse 39 to Naboth. Here's what it says. But I tell you not to resist an evil person. Sounds like Ahab. But whoever slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. If anyone wants to sue you and take away your tunic or vineyard, let him have your cloak also. And whoever compels you to go one mile, go with him the second. Give to him who asks of you, for and from him who wants to borrow from you, do not turn away. So you can see maybe somebody would quote this verse and say, really, Naboth got what was coming to him. He refused to give up his stock. He should have been a peacemaker. So Naboth has simply given the stuff to Ahab. And the answer is no The proper application of Jesus' words isn't that anybody at any time can just come and ask for the deed to your property and to take your property. and to steal from you. What Jesus is telling us is as a general rule, we should be people who are peacemakers and people who are giving and people who do not resist. Your first reaction should not be doing kung fu on people as they uh encounter you in hostilities. Does that make sense? Your first reaction shouldn't be getting even and going eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth. That's the general rule of your life. You should be a person who de-escalates and seeks peace instead of seeking war. But in the case of Naboth specifically, the law of God told him not to sell his property. In Numbers chapter thirty six, verse seven, we read this The inheritance of the children of Israel shall not change hands from tribe to tribe, for every one of the children of Israel shall keep the inheritance of his fathers. So God's law actually told Naboth, do not sell your property. And so it wasn't an option for him. And that's actually exactly what happens. When Ahab asks Naboth for his property, he responds, Lord forbid that I sell you my property. I cannot do this. God told me, no, I cannot give my ancestral property to you. God's law specifically told him not to do that, and so he had to obey. And so what does Ahab do when he hears that God's word forbids him from getting what he wants? Does he say, oh, you're right. I didn't see that in God's law. God in fact told me that that belongs to you, not to me. I can't take it. I repent. I'm sorry. Is that Ahab's reaction? Well look at verse 5. So Ahab went to his house sullen and displeased. And then if we look at verse, excuse me, that was verse 4. If we look at verse 5, we found out that he will not eat. And he's turned his face away and he's in his bed and refused to get out of bed. Now what do you call someone who's sullen, displeased, hiding in their room, refuses to eat, and crying under the covers I will call this a grown temper tantrum. Ahab is not getting his way, and he's on the floor and he's crying and he's kicking the door. And so his wife comes in and she says, what's wrong? And then Ahab tells the story. Now, beloved, is this your reaction when God's word forbids your evil desires? In Wednesday night we were talking about James chapter 1, verse 19, that says, to be quick to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath, for the wrath of man does not produce the righteousness of God. And we talked about people having negative reactions to God's word, and this is exactly that kind of scenario. He wants what he wants And when he hears that God won't allow him to get it, instead of being humble and repenting and realizing that his desires are corrupt and they need to be changed, he gets mad at God's law. He doesn't respond properly to God's word. And then, to make matters worse, he then communicates the situation to others. Now let's look at how he tells others about what happened between him and Nabod. Look at verse 4 again. So Ahab went into his house sullen and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him. For he said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. Okay? Now look at verse 6. Now he's talking to his wife Jezebel, and Naboth said, He told me, I will not give you my vineyard. Now beloved, is there anything missing in his recounting of what Naboth told him? Did Naboth simply say, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers? Or did he even with Jezebel is even shorter? I will not give you my vineyard. The king asked for the vineyard. He said, nope, not giving it to you. What is missing from Naboth's recount of Ahab's recounting of what Naboth had said There's no mention of the law of God. Do you see that? There's no mention that the Lord forbade me from doing this And so what we learn from this is we need to be very careful about how others portray what happened to them, about the events or their accounting of the facts. Because did Ahab actually say anything that was false. Is this what Naboth has said? It is actually what Naboth has said. The problem isn't the fact that he flat out lied, the problem is that he spun the facts To only emphasize the things that he wanted to emphasize and to de-emphasize the things that he did not want to bring out And what I'm simply saying to you is this, be very careful deciding who's right and who's wrong about any situation from a one-sided account, because there are ahabs that exist out there Some Ahabs just flat out lie. They tell you things that just did not happen at all to make themselves the hero or the victim of the story. Other times, people act like Ahab and actually don't technically lie, they just distort the facts in such a way and leave out certain things to give you a certain impression of what happened when It did not happen. Proverbs 18, 17 says, the first one to plead his cause seems right until his neighbor examines him. Ahab seemed to be reasonable, and it seemed that Naboth was the bad guy, but the truth of the matter is he left out the most crucial fact that God had forbid Naboth from doing this in the first place. So here we have a perfect concoction of sin. We have evil, wicked Ahab, who is committing the tenth A violation of the tenth commandment, he is coveting. We have Ahab's hard-heartedness toward the Word of God. When he hears the Word of God, he's not tender to the Word of God. He responds with a sullen, displeased attitude. He kicks against the goats So you have his coveting, you have his refusal to hear the word of God. You have Ahab's slanderous half-truth lies. He goes around and slanders people. And then you have Ahab's evil wife, Jezebel, the daughter of a foreign god, he never should have married. And you add all this together, and what happens? You get Morsen. You get an innocent man Falsely accused, in the name of religion, murdered. And so they concoct the plan. Jezebel decides First she puffs up her husband and says, Are you not the king? Can you not get what you want? Then she writes letters. She tells the people to proclaim a fast, to find these accusers, to set them next to Naboth, and to accuse them, saying they blaspheme the king. And so after these accusers come in the name of religion, they take this man out and they stone him outside of the camp. Now let me stop here. Does this sound familiar to you? A righteous man was somebody coveted what a righteous man was doing or what a righteous man had. And so in the name of the religion, they conspired with others to set false accusers, saying that this person had blasphemed and violated God. Then they took him outside of the camp and killed him. Does this sound familiar? Because if it does, this is the story of Jesus Christ. That's what happened to Christ. The religious leaders were jealous of him. He was more popular than them. They coveted his fame, so they decided they wanted to take it And since they couldn't get it themselves, they just figured we'd take him out of the way, and then they'll go back to liking us. And so in the name of religion, they conspired with others, Pontifire, Herod. They set false witnesses to falsely accuse them, and they took them outside of the camp to kill him. This is the gospel message. And it's not because Naboth is Christ. Naboth is not Christ, but this is a common pattern of what happens to the righteous. The righteous are often slandered They're often accused, they're often blasphemed, they're often accused of being violators of the truth, violators of love, violators of God, and they're taken out of the camp and they are killed. Beloved, this is the path of the righteous. If we follow God, do not be surprised if people come up against you, falsely accuse you, and try to get rid of you. This is the path of Christ. This is the path of Nabod. This is the path of Paul. This is the path of all the apostles. This is something that will often happen to us. Do not be surprised when the friary trial comes upon you as something strange were happening, recognizing that this is the pathway of the godly. And so they murder him. They kill him. Then Jezebel hears of the news. She tells Ahab, and Ahab doesn't ask any questions. Are you that kind of person? I don't want to know. Oh. Glad my problems is I didn't kill him. It's not on me. Oh, he's done. And he goes to take possession of the property. Now let's pick up in verse 16. Verse 16. So it was when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab got up and went down to take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezrelite. Such injustice, such evil has happened. The question arises, does anybody care? Does anybody see? Is anyone going to speak out against this grave injustice that has happened in the land? I think of Exodus chapter 32 that says, Moses stood in the entrance of the camp and said, Whoever is on the Lord's side, come to me. Will anybody stand up for the truth of God? Well that question is answered in verse 17. Then the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite. Saying, Arise and go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, who lives in Samaria. There he is, in the vineyard of Naboth, where he has gone down to take possession of it. When God needed a man to speak against the corruption of the land, who did he go back to time and time again? Was there anyone on the Lord's side? There he was. Elijah the Tishvite. Here's my question for you, beloved. Are you that person who is faithful to God when God needs a person to rise up and speak the truth, live the truth, proclaim the truth to a lost and dying world? Will God come to you or will he pass you by? Because guess what? If you yourself are compromised with Ahab He's not coming to you. , You can't speak against the world if you are in the world. If you are of the world. If you are a friend of Ahab, the Bible says he who makes himself a friend of the world makes himself an enemy to God. Friendship with the world is enmity to God. Of all people, why Elijah? Why this guy? He's already had so many encounters with this man Ahab. I can only imagine Elijah saying, why me? Don't you remember, Lord, it wasn't that long ago that I was running for my life from these couples. Do you remember that? He was just in Jezreel was the place that we last saw Elijah getting that death threat from Jezebel. And you remember, he ran for his life. Now, several years later, Naboth is back up to his evil ways, and God tells Elijah, go back to the place so long ago that you ran away from. Now you're going to confront the man that you previously ran away from. There's so much that we can learn from this. But one thing is if we don't learn it the first time, maybe God will come back around and teach us again the second time. You see that? The same exact person, the same exact couple, God knocked on Elijah's door once again, and he went over there to confront him. And so let's see what happens when he confronts him. Look at verse 20. Elijah goes up to Ahab and he confronts him, and look at the response. Have you found me, O my enemy? Ahab has learned absolutely nothing. All that God has done in Ahab's life, the droughts, the fire, the water, the running of Elijah. The two miracles of saving him from the Syrians. All that God has done, and he has learned Absolutely nothing. In fact, this reminds me of what happened in 1 Kings chapter 18. You remember when he saw Elijah after the drought? What does he say? First Kings chapter 18, verse 17. Is that you, O traveler of Israel? No difference. Same response. Now you are my enemy. Beloved, let me ask you this question. Are the people who speak the truth of God to you view to you as your enemy? You have that person in your life? That person, that Christian, that person who's always speaking God's truth to you? Is that person your friend or is that person your enemy? And if it's your enemy, it's probably because your heart has abandoned the Lord. Your heart is not right Elijah should not have been the enemy of Ahab. In fact, what does Elijah say? I'm not your enemy. I don't come over here just thinking of ways to confront Ahab. The reason why Elijah went to Ahab is because God sent him, and he sent him because Ahab had sold himself to do evil. He came to speak to him because of his wickedness. And we have to recognize that it's not like the people of God are looking for confrontations with the world. If Ahab would stop his wickedness, Elijah would stop coming to him, and God would stop sending him. But the problem is, 1 Kings chapter 21, verse 20 Elijah answered, I have found you because you sold yourself to do evil in the sight of the Lord. You are the king of Israel. You are among God's people. You are the leader of God's people. You have sold yourself to do evil The prophet of God has to come and confront him. He's not picking a battle. Ahab is the one who's picking a battle with the Lord, and Elijah is speaking out against it. Many times from this open and many times in the teaching I've mentioned about the need for church discipline. When someone refuses to do God's will. The church has to speak out, call them to repentance, and if they won't, they have to eventually remove them from membership. I don't say that because I'm in some kind of desire to do that That there's some kind of power trip where we just have to do that. I'll tell you this: no church ever wants to discipline any of its members Ever. And that's why many churches just don't do it. Because it's a painful and difficult process. Well, in the same way, do you think Elijah was sitting here thinking, I want to go and confront King Ahab? No, he didn't. But God told him to do it, and he had to do it. When you stand with God, you have to stand against evil. You cannot stand with God and also stand with evil. To stand with God means to stand against evil. Now the last thing I want to point out as we wrap up this sermon. And I want to look at the message that Elijah gave to Ahab. And I want you to notice the severity of the punishment. We often emphasize the grace of God, and we ought to, because the grace of God is what saves us, and the grace of God is so wonderful. But I sometimes fear that if we always emphasize the grace of God, the mercy of God, the love of God, we start to transform meekness into weakness. And we start to think that God is so gracious and so loving that his judgment is non-existent. But that's not true. God is both gracious and loving, but he's also holy, and his wrath is great. against sinners. In other words, God is merciful, but at the same time, he is not to be trifled with. And you can see that at the cross. If if God's justice wasn't what it was, would he have to have sent his son to die for our sins? Think about that. God took sin so seriously that the price for the redemption of our sins was the death of his son. God is a consuming fire. He is not to be trifled with. What I'm saying is do not take God's kindness as a sign of his weakness. Because if you do, you'll be greatly mistaken. Now let's look at what The wrath of God was on Ahab's life. Verse 19. You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, have you murdered and also taken possession? You shall speak to him, saying, Thus says the Lord, in the place where dogs lick the blood of Naboth, dogs will also lick up your blood, even yours. And then skipping down verse 21. Behold, I will bring calamity on you, I will take away your posterity, I will cut off from you every male in Israel, both Bond and free, I will make your house like the house of Jeroboam, because of the provocation which you provoked me and made Israel to sin. Concerning Jezebel, the Lord spoke also the dog shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel. The dog shall eat whoever belongs to Ahab and dies in the city, and the birds of the air whoever is in the field. That's pretty severe. What is he saying? He's saying, Ahab, you're going to be killed and eaten by dogs He says, Jezebel, you're going to be killed and eaten by dogs and all of your children. And he had lots of them. All of your children, and everyone who names the name of Ahab and associated with Ahab at all, is going to be eaten by dogs. or they're going to be eaten by the birds in the field. Now you might be tempted to think, yeah, but that's just hyperbole. God is God wouldn't actually do that to King Ahab. Well, does anybody know what happened to Jezebel? Jehu came in. Jezebel put on her eye makeup. She's blinking out of a window. She says, have you come? Who are you? She just upset Jehu and mocks him from a window. And Jehu looks up there and says, Who is with me? Two eunuchs, look out. And he says, Throw her down. And they threw her out of her tower. And then Jehu grabs the chariot and runs her over Then he's eating and feels bad and says go bury her. When they try to go bury her, they can't find her because dogs have eaten her alive. Well she was dead probably. They've eaten her completely. You know what happened to Ahab's children When Jehu became king, he said, Okay, choose one of Ahab's children and make them king and fight against me. And they said, No, we're not doing that. So he said, Bring me The heads of all of his children. They had seventy baskets of all the heads of Ahab's children. What happened to Ahab? He was killed, and dogs licked up his blood. Exactly what God said was going to happen to Ahab is actually what happened to Ahab. Why am I telling you this? Because that's what God's word tells you. God is not playing around. God's justice is real. God was very merciful and kind to Ahab. He even rescued him time and time again. He sent him prophets. He told him to repent Over and over again he had mercy on him, even at the end of the chapter, which we'll probably talk about in the afternoon service. Even he says at the end of the chapter, because you have repented I'm going to not do these things in your day. God was so merciful to him, but in the end of the day, Ahab never got it. All the miracles. All God's grace, all God's mercy. Ahab never got it. And so the full wrath of God came upon Ahab. But here's the sad reality. So too will the full wrath of God come upon you if you never get it. If after all God's mercy, after all God's grace, after all God's kindness, after God has said messenger after messenger, track after track, people have been praying for you day in and day out. If you never get it. then ultimately the wrath of God will fall upon you. Christ, the one who who preached to us John 3. 16, for God so loved the world Also says this in Matthew 23 verse 33, serpents, brute of vipers, how can you escape the condemnation of hell? Same Christ. Same God of mercy is also a God of wrath. Now what's the answer? You you brood of vipers, you serpents, how will you escape Being condemned to hell. What's the answer? Romans chapter 8. There is now no condemnation for those in Christ Jesus. But the question is this, how do you get in Christ Jesus? How do you become a son of God? And the answer is, believe on Christ Jesus, and you will be saved. Beloved, God is so merciful, He is so kind, He is so forgiving, but He is not to be trifled with Hell is a long time to be wronged. Christ suffered for our sins, and you can either accept him and accept the punishment he received. Well go your own way and receive your own punishment. And I hope as you look at the life of Ahab, a man who squandered every gift that God ever gave him. I hope you do fear. And you shudder and realize God is truly a consuming fire. Hell really is hot, but heaven is even better. is so much better. It's grace conquers judgment. But you have to receive, you have to believe, you have to Repent. Anyone out there has not repented of their sins, I plead with you to run from the wrath of God and run into the arms of a Savior. Matthew 11, 28, come to me, all who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I'm gentle and lovel And lowly of heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy and my burden is light. Come and be saved. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father God, we thank you for your mercy. We thank you that mercy conquers judgment. We thank you that even at the end of the chapter, we didn't talk about this too much. That when Ahab repented, even even a a a somewhat false repentance, even a somewhat temporal repentance, he even had mercy on him. If you would have mercy on a man who even At temporal repentance, how much more will you have mercy on us if we truly repent? Believe and receive The wonderful gift that you have for us in Christ. But I pray that everyone in this room would one day spend eternity together with you. That we would not we would hear about the wrath of God, we would fear, and we would flee into Christ. We pray these things in Jesus' name. Amen.